<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618665</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Feedback limited duty cycle switched mode power supply
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M3335	H02M328	H02M324	H04N563	H04N563	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	H02M	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M3	H02M3	H02M3	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A switched mode power supply includes a modulator 
(U4150) that has an input for receiving a sense signal and an output 

for developing a pulse modulated signal. An output switch (Q4100) 
is coupled to the modulator and is switched in accordance with the 

pulse modulated signal. A generator (D2, WS2, C5) develops a 
supply voltage responsive to operation of the switch. A feedback 

circuit (FBS) coupled between the modulator output and a modulator 
input limits the duty cycle of the pulse modulated signal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHUTTS BRUCE WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHUTTS, BRUCE WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to switched mode power supplies.In television receivers having run and standby modes and
using switched mode power supplies, an unregulated DC voltage is
derived from a bridge rectifier coupled to a mains source. The
unregulated DC voltage is then supplied to a primary winding of a
power transformer that isolates the hot ground side of the chassis
from the cold ground side. A standby regulator, such as the SGS
Thomson Microelectronics TEA2260 or TEA2261, is located on the
hot side and controls a switching means such as a chopper transistor
to apply current pulses of variable pulse width and amplitude to the
primary winding. Regulated voltages are developed on secondary
windings of the power transformer. The standby regulator is
powered from the unregulated B+ voltage when the television
receiver is first coupled to the mains, and thereafter provides the
regulating action in a standby mode of operation until the apparatus
is switched into the run mode, whereupon the standby regulator is
controlled by a run regulator located on the hot ground side.Loads other than the standby regulator, including the
standby loads and run mode loads such as the horizontal deflection
circuit, are coupled to secondary windings of the power transformer.
The run mode loads are inactive in the standby mode. Run mode
loads may be coupled to regulated voltages, but switched off in the
standby mode by a signal from a controller such as a microprocessor
responsive to a remote control. Alternatively, run mode loads may
be coupled to secondary windings of the horizontal flyback
transformer, and are unpowered in the standby mode because,
although the flyback transformer is coupled to a regulated B+
voltage, no voltages are generated in the secondary windings of the
flyback transformer in the absence of horizontal scanning.The standby regulator operates at a stable frequency and has
a pulse width modulator that regulates voltages on the secondary
windings of the power transformer by adjusting the pulse width or
duty cycle of the voltage pulses applied to the chopper transistor.
In the standby mode, the standby regulator is made to free run at
its local oscillator frequency, and regulates by sensing the voltage on
a hot ground secondary winding of the power transformer. The
sensed voltage is coupled to an input of an error amplifier having a 
second input coupled to a voltage reference. Regulation of the B+
scan supply voltage occurs indirectly, because the voltages on all the
secondary windings go up or down
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A switched mode power supply, comprising:

a transformer with a primary winding and secondary windings for
supplying loads with controlled voltages,
switching means (Q4100) connected in series to said primary winding,
a regulator (U4150) comprising an error amplifier (61) and a pulse
width modulator and having an input (pin 5) for receiving a sense signal (Vin)

and an output (pin 3) for developing a pulse modulated signal (Vmr),
dependent on said sense signal and whereby said signal (Vmr) is responsible

for the duty cycle of the switching of said switching means (Q4100) coupled
to a further regulator (U4100) coupled to said regulator (U4150),

characterized by

   feedback means (FBS) with an integrator coupled from the output of
said regulator (U4150) to said input of said regulator (U4150) for changing

the duty cycle of said pulse width modulated signal (Vmr) in a limiting sense,
in response to a predetermined value of said pulse width, to prevent said

pulse width from going beyond said predetermined value. 
The power supply according to Claim 1 characterized by a
first feedback circuit (FBR) responsive to said supply voltage for generating

said sense signal to provide regulation thereof, said limiting means
comprising a second feedback circuit (R5003, R5004, C5001, CR5001)

coupled to said modulator which opposes said first feedback circuit.
The power supply according to Claim 1 characterized in
that said limiting means comprises means (R5003, C5001) for developing a

signal representative of the duty cycle of said pulse modulated signal and
means (CR5001, R5004) for applying said duty cycle representative signal

to said modulator when said duty cycle goes beyond a predetermined
threshold. 
The power supply of Claim 3 characterized in that said
applying means is responsive to the duty cycle representative signal and to

the sense signal.
The power supply according to Claim 3 characterized in
that said applying means comprises a diode (CR5001) coupled between

said modulator output and said modulator input.
The power supply according to Claim 3 characterized in
that said duty cycle representative signal developing means comprises

means (R5003, C5001) for averaging said pulse modulated signal.
The power supply according to Claim 6 characterized in
that said averaging means comprises an integrator

(R5003, C5001).
The power supply according to Claim 7 characterized in
that said integrator has a time constant which removes the fundamental

frequency component of said pulse modulated signal.
The power supply according to Claim 8 characterized in
that said applying means comprises a diode (CR5001) coupled to said

integrator and to said modulator input.
The power supply according to Claim 1 characterized in
that said modulator is responsive to an ON/OFF command signal generated

by a controller (30), said controller generating the OFF-state of said
command signal responsive to a reset signal generator (34) which generates

a reset signal upon detection of a power loss, and wherein said limiting
means, upon occurrence of said power loss, provides limiting of the duty

cycle of said pulse modulated signal prior to detection of said power loss by
said reset signal generator.
The power supply according to Claim 1 characterized in
that said modulator includes a duty cycle limiting circuit (65) operating

independently of said limiting means. 
The power supply according to Claim 1 characterized by
a switch control circuit (U4100) coupled to said modulator for supplying

said switching signal to said switching means, and means (R4107) coupled
to said switch control circuit for developing a signal representative of main

current in said switching means to disable normal operation of said
switching means under excessive main current.
The power supply according to Claim 12 characterized in
that said switch control circuit includes a first duty cycle limitin
g circuit (40)
operating independently of said limiting means.
The power supply according to Claim 13 characterized in
that said modulator includes a second duty cycle limiting circuit (65)

operating independently of said limiting means and of said first duty cycle
limiting circuit.
The power supply circuit according to Claim 14
characterized in that modulator is operative during a run mode to provide

voltage regulation and is disabled during a standby mode, with said switch
control circuit thereafter being operative to provide voltage regulation.
The power supply according to Claim 15 characterized in
that said modulator is cold ground referenced ("COLD GROUND") and said

switch control circuit is hot ground referenced ("HOT GROUND").
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
