<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642624</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING DEPTH OF DRILL CUTTINGS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B2100	E21B2106	E21B4704	E21B4704	E21B4900	E21B4900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B21	E21B21	E21B47	E21B47	E21B49	E21B49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for identifying cuttings (20) from a wellbore (18) are provided. The cuttings are segregated through a screen assembly (33) where they can be identified by measuring emissions such as alfa, beta, or gamma particles which emanate from the cuttings via a collector or storage vessel (40). A continuous wellbore profile of the emissions from cuttings can be constructed by measuring the emissions taken from different locations in the wellbore, and by documenting such emissions. The effects of cutting dispersion caused by differing particle sizes can be reduced by collecting cuttings of an intermediate size (68) for analysis. The profile of the intermediate size cuttings can be compared with a well log to identify the original elevation of the cuttings within the wellbore.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKS MARK S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGI DANIEL T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON HOMER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANKS, MARK, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGI, DANIEL, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTSON, HOMER, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING DEPTH OF DRILL CUTTINGSThe present invention relates to a method and apparatus for assessing cuttings from a wellbore. In particular, the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for collecting cuttings and for measuring the emissions from the cuttings so that the original depth of the cuttings within the wellbore can be determined.To determine the mineralogy of a well, cuttings from the wellbore are collected and analyzed. The cuttings are cut by a drill bit and are transported to the well surface by a drilling mud. The drilling mud is pumped into the well through the drill string and is returned in the annulus between the drill string and the wellbore. The cuttings are typically separated from the drilling mud by screens or sieves, gravity settling, centrifuge, or elutriation techniques. Before the stratigraphy of a well can be assessed, the original depth of the cuttings within the wellbore must be determined. This correlation of a cutting sample with the original depth within the wellbore is difficult and is affected by numerous factors such as the volume of the wellbore and the mud pumping rate, annular velocity, and profile. In addition, different sized cuttings are transported by the drilling mud at different rates. Smaller cuttings move at a velocity close to that of the drilling mud, while larger particles are slowed by gravity and by other factors. The terminal velocity of a cutting particle within the drilling mud depends on the particle size, shape and density. The velocity is typically expressed as a cuttings transport ratio defined as the velocity of the cuttings divided by the velocity of the drilling mud. Differences in the transport ratio for different size cuttings cause the cuttings from a particular wellbore elevation to be dispersed across a range within the drilling mud. This dispersion further causes cuttings from one wellbore elevation to overlap with cuttings from a different wellbore elevation. 

 The size of the cuttings from a wellbore elevation depends on the formation hardness and other physical properties of the formation, on the style of drill bit, and on the rate of penetration. For example, polycrystalline diamond compact (PDC) bits shear and fracture the formation without regard to grain boundaries. Consequently, PDC bits create small cuttings which do not represent the original texture of the rock. The rate of penetration also affects the transport of cuttings. A high rate of penetration by the drill bit releases
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
- ll -
CLAIMS
1. An apparatus for removing cuttings from a fluid which transports the cuttings from a wellbore, comprising: a large-cutting removal screen having a first selected screen dimension, said large-cutting removal screen adapted to remove from the fluid cuttings which are larger than the screen dimension of said large-cutting removal screen; an intermediate-cutting removal screen having a second selected screen dimension, said intermediate-cutting removal screen adapted to segregate cuttings of a selected intermediate size by passing cuttings which are smaller than the screen dimension of said intermediate-cutting removal screen; a cleansing separator, in communication with the fluid and said intermediate size cuttings segregated by said intermediate- cutting removal screen, adapted to cleanse said intermediate size cuttings by removing the fluid from said intermediate size cuttings; and a collector for retaining said cleansed intermediate size cuttings.
2. An apparatus as recited in Claim 1, wherein said large- cutting removal screen is connected to said intermediate-cutting removal screen so that said large-cutting removal and intermediate-cutting removal screens are integrally moveable.
3. An apparatus as recited in Claim 1, wherein said collector is capable of continuously retaining said intermediate size cuttings in the order that said cuttings are transported from the wellbore.
4. An apparatus as recited in Claim 1, wherein said collector is at least partially transparent. 


 5. An apparatus as recited in Claim 1, further comprising a detector for measuring emissions from said intermediate size cuttings.
6. An apparatus for measuring emissions of cuttings removed from a wellbore, comprising: a collector for retaining the cuttings in a sequential position which correlates with the removal of the cuttings from the well; a detector for measuring emissions from said cuttings at different positions along said collector; and a recorder for documenting the emissions measured by said detector.
7. An apparatus as recited in Claim 6, wherein said detector measures alpha emissions.
8. An apparatus as recited in Claim 6, wherein said detector measures beta emissions.
9. An apparatus as recited in Claim 6, wherein said detector measures gamma emissions.
10. An apparatus as recited in Claim 6, wherein said recorder is capable of documenting a continuous graph of emissions measured by said detector at different positions along said collector.
11. An apparatus as recited in Claim 10, further comprising a wellbore log which can be compared to the continuous graph of emissions documented by said recorder.
12. An apparatus as recited in Claim 6, wherein said collector is at least partially transparent. 


 13. An apparatus as recited in Claim 6, further comprising a screen mechanism for segregating cuttings of a selected intermediate size for retention by said collector.
14. A method for measuring emissions of cuttings removed from a wellbore, comprising the steps of: retaining the cuttings in a sequential position within a collector which correlates with the sequential removal of the cuttings from the well; measuring the emissions from the cuttings with a detector which is capable of measuring the emissions of the cuttings at different positions along said collector; and documenting the measurement of said emissions with a recorder.
15. A method as recited in Claim 14, further comprising the step of segregating cuttings of a selected intermediate size from the fluid.
16. A method as recited in Claim 14, further comprising the step of retaining said intermediate size cuttings in a sequential position within said collector.
17. A method as recited in Claim 14, wherein the alpha emissions of said cuttings are measured.
18. A method as recited in Claim 14, wherein the beta emissions of said cuttings are measured.
19. A method as recited in Claim 14, wherein the gamma emissions of said cuttings are measured.
20. A method as recited in Claim 14, further comprising the step of preparing a continuous graph of emissions measured at different positions along said collector. 


 21. A method as recited in Claim 20, further comprising the step of creating a log of the wellbore.
22. A method as recited in Claim 21, further comprising the step of comparing said continuous graph of emissions to said wellbore log.
23. A method as recited in Claim 21, further comparing the step of correlating said continuous graph of emissions with said wellbore log to identify the wellbore depth of a selected cutting retained by said collector.
24. A method as recited in Claim 14, further comprising the step of measuring the ultraviolet fluorescence of said cuttings.
25. A method as recited in Claim 14, wherein said cuttings are automatically retained within a collector sufficient to retain a continuous selection of cuttings removed from the wellbore.
26. A method as recited in Claim 14, further comprising the step of automatically measuring the emissions from the cuttings before said cuttings are retained within said collector.
27. A method as recited in Claim 14, further comprising the step of automatically measuring the emissions from the cuttings after said cuttings are retained in a sequential position within said collector.
28. A method as recited in Claim 15, further comprising the step of filtering the fluid after the fluid is segregated from the intermediate size cuttings.
29. A method as recited in Claim 28, further comprising the step of injecting the filtered fluid into contact with said cuttings . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
