<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recovery of volatile organic compounds from gas streams.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D500	B01D500	B01D5300	B01D5300	C07B6300	C07B6300	C07C1700	C07C1738	C07C1900	C07C1903	F25J306	F25J306	F25J308	F25J308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C07B	C07B	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	F25J	F25J	F25J	F25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D5	B01D5	B01D53	B01D53	C07B63	C07B63	C07C17	C07C17	C07C19	C07C19	F25J3	F25J3	F25J3	F25J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Volatile organic compounds and water vapor are recovered from a low-boiling 
gas by compressing the gas to an elevated pressure and cooling the 

gas in stages to condense volatile components and water while avoiding 
freezing in the system. Operating the system at an elevated pressure 

increases condensation efficiency, reduces the number of stages required, 
and minimizes operating problems to avoid freezing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR PROD 
&
 CHEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR PRODUCTS AND CHEMICALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREFULLACHANDRA VORA JAYESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANOMMEREN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREFULLACHANDRA VORA, JAYESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANOMMEREN, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed towards the removal of volatile 
organic compounds and water from low-boiling gases such as air or nitrogen. The removal of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from air or nitrogen 
is an important step in many industrial manufacturing processes in order to 
meet emission regulations, recover and recycle valuable reactants or 
solvents, and reuse gases such as nitrogen in the manufacturing process. 
This procedure is widely used for example in the petrochemical and 
pharmaceutical industries to treat dry streams containing one or more VOCs. Volatile compounds can be removed from gas streams by several 
different methods. Among the oldest of methods is to compress and cool the 
gas stream, and expand the compressed stream for further cooling by 
autorefrigeration as disclosed by U.S. Patents 575,714 and 1,040,886. 
Condensable components are removed therefrom at appropriate temperatures to 
avoid freezing. Removal of volatile compounds by adsorption on solid adsorbents or by 
absorption in suitable liquids, followed by regeneration or distillation to 
recover the volatile components, are well-known methods as summarized for 
example in the Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Third Edition, Volume 
21, John Wiley & Sons, 1983, pp. 355-376. Cooling by ambient cooling water 
or mechanical refrigeration can be used to supplement these methods.  Liquid nitrogen is used as a refrigeration source for volatile 
component recovery in a number of processes. Indirect cooling, in which 
the gas stream containing the volatile compounds is cooled by indirect heat 
exchange between the gas stream and vaporizing liquid nitrogen, is 
disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,150,494, 4,237,700, and 5,214,924 and French 
Patent Publication No. 2,349,113. Another type of indirect cooling is 
disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,545,134 in which vaporizing liquid nitrogen 
indirectly cools a recirculating stream of an intermediate heat transfer 
fluid such as toluene, which in turn cools a process stream containing 
residual volatile components. U.S. Patents 4,444,016 and 4,545,134 teach 
the use of direct contact refrigeration using liquid nitrogen which is 
contacted with condensed vapor, which is used in turn to contact and cool 
the gas containing the vapor components. Mechanical refrigeration is used 
to precool the gas. All of the methods described above which use liquid 
nitrogen as the refrigerant are characterized by operation at pressures 
slightly above atmospheric. Similarly, all of the methods
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for recovering volatile organic compounds contained in 
admixture with low-boiling gas which comprises: 


(a) compressing a gaseous mixture comprising said one or more 
volatile organic compounds and one or more low-boiling gases to a 

minimum pressure of at least 30 psia; and cooling, partially 
condensing, and separating the resulting compressed mixture at a 

first temperature to yield a first vapor and a first condensate 
stream; and 
(b) further cooling said first vapor stream to a second temperature 
to yield a second stream containing mixed vapor and condensate, and 

separating the mixed stream into a second vapor and a second 
condensate stream, said second vapor stream comprising said one or 

more low-boiling gases having a substantially reduced concentration 
of said volatile organic compounds; 
 
wherein said second temperature is controlled at a temperature above the 

initial freezing point of said second condensate stream, whereby operation 
of steps (a) and (b) at or above said minimum pressure allows condensation 

at higher temperatures than those possible at a pressure below said minimum 
pressure, thereby reducing refrigeration requirements for said cooling and 

the probability of freezing in said second condensate stream. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said cooling of the resulting 
compressed mixture to said first temperature is achieved by indirect heat 

exchange with ambient cooling water. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said second temperature is between +40° 
and -40°F. 
The method of Claim 3 wherein said second temperature is achieved by 
indirect heat exchange between said first vapor stream and a refrigerant 

supplied by an external refrigeration system. 
The process of Claim 1 which further comprises (c) cooling said 
second vapor stream to a third temperature to yield a third stream 

containing mixed vapor and condensate, and separating the mixed stream into 
a third vapor and a third condensate stream, said third vapor stream 

comprising said one or more low-boiling gases substantially free of 
residual volatile organic compounds; wherein said third temperature is 

controlled at a temperature above the initial freezing point of said third 
condensate stream, whereby operation of steps (a), (b), and (c) at or above 

said minimum pressure allows condensation at higher temperatures than those 
possible at a pressure below said minimum pressure, thereby reducing 

refrigeration requirements for said cooling and the probability of freezing 
in said third condensate stream. 
The method of Claim 5 wherein said third temperature is between -40° 
and -100°F. 
The method of Claim 6 wherein said third temperature is achieved by 
indirect heat exchange between said second vapor stream and a first cold 

recirculating liquid. 
The method of Claim 7 wherein said cold recirculating liquid is a 
chlorofluorocarbon refrigerant. 
The method of Claim 7 wherein said first cold recirculating liquid is 
cooled by indirect heat exchange with a first stream of vaporizing liquid 

nitrogen. 
The process of Claim 5 which further comprises (d) cooling said third 
vapor stream to a fourth temperature to yield a fourth stream containing 

 
mixed vapor and condensate, and separating the mixed stream into a fourth 

vapor and a fourth condensate stream, said fourth vapor stream comprising 
said one or more low-boiling gases essentially free of said volatile 

organic compounds; wherein said fourth temperature is controlled at a 
temperature above the initial freezing point of said fourth condensate 

stream, whereby operation of steps (a), (b), (c), and (d) at or above said 
minimum pressure allows condensation at higher temperatures than those 

possible at a pressure below said minimum pressure, thereby reducing 

refrigeration requirements for said cooling and the probability of freezing 
in said fourth condensate stream. 
The method of Claim 10 wherein said fourth temperature is between 
-100° and -310°F. 
The method of Claim 11 wherein said fourth temperature is achieved by 
indirect heat exchange between said third vapor stream and a second cold 

recirculating liquid. 
The method of Claim 12 wherein said second cold recirculating liquid 
is a chlorofluorocarbon refrigerant. 
The method of Claim 12 wherein said second cold recirculating liquid 
is cooled by indirect heat exchange with a second stream of vaporizing 

liquid nitrogen. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said one or more low-boiling gases are 
selected from the group consisting of air, nitrogen, light hydrocarbons 

having up to three carbon atoms, and CO₂. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said gaseous mixture further comprises 
water. 
A method for recovering volatile organic compounds and water 
contained in admixture with low-boiling gas which comprises: 


(a) compressing a gaseous mixture comprising one or more volatile 
organic compounds, water, and one or more low-boiling gases to a 

minimum pressure of at least 30 psia; and cooling, partially 
condensing, and separating the resulting compressed mixture at a 

first temperature to yield a first vapor and a first condensate 
stream; and 
(b) further cooling said first vapor stream to a second temperature 
to yield a second stream containing mixed vapor and condensate, and 

separating the mixed stream into a second vapor and a second 
condensate stream, said second vapor stream comprising said one or 

more low-boiling gases having a substantially reduced concentration 
of said volatile organic compounds and water; 
 
wherein said second temperature is controlled at a temperature above the 

initial freezing point of said second condensate stream, whereby operation 
of steps (a) and (b) at or above said minimum pressure allows condensation 

at higher temperatures than those possible at a pressure below said minimum 
pressure, thereby reducing refrigeration requirements for said cooling and 

the probability of freezing in said second condensate stream. 
The method of Claim 17 wherein said second temperature is between +40° 
and -40°F. 
The method of Claim 18 wherein said second temperature is achieved by 
indirect heat exchange between said first vapor stream and a refrigerant 

supplied by an external refrigeration system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
