<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REVERSE DOT BLOT HYBRIDIZATION USING TANDEM HEAD-TO-TAIL MONOMERS CONTAINING PROBES SYNTHESIZED BY STAGGERED COMPLEMENTARY PRIMERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of detecting the presence or absence of nucleic acid sequences, comprising binding to a substrate polymers of selected oligonucleotide probes which are complementary to a region in a nucleic acid sequence which is to be detected; contacting said substrate to which said probe polymers are bound with an amplified test DNA sample containing unknown oligonucleotide sequences, wherein a reporter moiety has been incorporated, such that complementary nucleotide sequences anneal; washing said substrate to remove unannealed amplified test DNA from said substrate; and detecting the presence or absence of reporter moieties retained by the oligonucleotide probes on said substrate. The polymers bound to the substrate contain multiple tandemly repeated copies of a specific oligonucleotide probe and may be synthesized using enzymatic amplification techniques. The described method may be used in reverse dot blot procedures and can be used for HLA molecular typing.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV PITTSBURGH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDERT WILLIAM A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRUCCO MASSIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUDERT, WILLIAM, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRUCCO, MASSIMO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
REVERSE DOT BLOT HYBRIDIZATION USING TANDEM HEAD-TO-TAIL MONOMERS CαWAI ING PROBES SYNTHESIZED BY STAGGERED COMPLEMENTARY PRIMERSACKNOWLEDGMENTThe present invention was developed in part with government support under grant number AI23963 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to methods and materials for facilitating the detection of specific nucleotide sequences. More particularly the present invention is directed to the use of enzymatic amplification techniques to generate polymers of oligonucleotide probes for use in reverse dot blot procedures which may be used for detecting the presence of disease associated genes and particularly for HLA molecular typing.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe human major histocompatibility complex (HLA) encompasses three classes of molecules that control nearly all aspects of human immune response including immunological rejection of organ transplants. The HLA genes are found on the short arm of chromosome 6 and encode a set of highly polymorphic integral membrane proteins that bind antigen peptide fragments. The expressed class II molecules, DP, DQ, and DR, each have defined sub-regions that are also highly polymorphic. In general, HLA typing is useful in tissue typing for 

 transplantation and analysis of genetic susceptibility to certain autoimmune diseases. See Duquesnoy, J.R., et al., CRC Critical Reviews in Immunology 8:103 (1988), the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.The exponential expansion of tissue transplantations being performed has resulted in increased requests for donor-recipient HLA matching by HLA typing. Id. Additionally, HLA typing is also being performed to ascertain the risk of developing certain HLA-linked autoimmune diseases. See Bertrans, J., et al., Histocompatibility Testing Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag pp. 348-356 (1984); Todd, J.A. , et al., Nature 329:559 (1987); and Morel, P., et al., P.N.A.S. USA 85:8111 (1988), the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. In the case of autoimmune disease assessment, HLA class II typing appears to be more important than HLA class I typing. Trucco, M. , et al., Critical Reviews in Immunology :201 (1989), the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. For these purposes, however, the characterization of the alleles of HLA class II molecules by serological typing clearly has significant limitations: there are limited amounts of the most
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WB CLAIM:
1. A method of detecting the presence or absence of nucleic acid sequences, comprising:
binding to a substrate polymers of selected oligonucleotide probes which are complementary to a region in a nucleic acid sequence which is to be detected;
contacting said substrate to which said probe polymers are bound with an amplified test DNA sample containing unknown oligonucleotide sequences, wherein a reporter moiety has been incorporated, such that complementary nucleotide sequences anneal;
washing said substrate to remove unannealed amplified test DNA from said substrate; and
detecting the presence or absence of reporter moieties retained by the oligonucleotide probes on said substrate.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein said substrate is a nylon membrane.
3. The method of Claim 1, wherein said substrate is a nitrocellulose membrane.
4. The method of Claim 1, wherein said polymers of selected oligonucleotide probes are synthesized by the steps of:
a. annealing two oligonucleotide primers which are oppositely oriented and share complementary at their 3' ends and which together either directly or in the .form of complementary nucleotides define the sequence of a 


complete monomeric unit which incorporates the selected oligonucleotide probe sequence as well as a sufficient number of the nucleotides of the adjacent monomeric units such that the primers anneal at their 3' ends and that the 5' ends of the primers are not annealed and function as templates for synthesis of first extension products;
b. treating the primers with a DNA polymerase in the presence of deoxyribonucleotides such that a first extension product of each primer is synthesized which is complementary to each template;
c. separating the complementary first extension products by denaturation to produce single-stranded molecules;
d. annealing complementary strands of said first extension products at their 3' ends in a staggered arrangement such that the 5' ends are not annealed and function as templates for further extension of the previous extension products;
e. treating the annealed strands using a DNA polymerase and deoxyribonucleotides such that double- stranded extension products are synthesized;
f. separating the complementary extension products by denaturization; and
g. repeating steps (d) through (f) using the extension products of step (f) to produce successively longer extension products with each repetition. 


 5. The method of Claim 4, further comprising after step (c) the steps of:
(c*) treating the single-stranded first extension products generated in step (c) with the primers of step (a) under conditions such that additional molecules of the first extension products are synthesized using single strands of the first extension products as templates; and
(c") optionally repeating steps (c) and (c
1
) to further increase the quantity of the first extension products.
6. The method of Claim 4, wherein said denaturing is caused by heating.
7. The method of Claim 4, wherein longer starting oligonucleotide primers are used which are substantially equivalent to said first extension products such that steps (a) - (c) are deleted.
8. The method of Claim 5, wherein the products of each step are not purified such that the step (g) repetition occurs simultaneously with the repetitions of steps (c) and (c') when there is a sufficient concentration of first extension products that step (d) annealing occurs.
9. The method of Claim 4, wherein said DNA polymerase is selected from the group consisting of E.coli DNA polymerase I, Klenow fragment of E.coli DNA polymerase I, T4 DNA polymerase, and T7 DNA polymerase.
10. The method of Claim 4, wherein said DNA polymerase is a thermostable DNA polymerase selected from the group consisting of Thermus aqaticus DNA polymerase, 


Thermococcus litoralis DNA polymerase, and Pyrococcus furiosus DNA polymerase, and the repetitive cycles of step (g) are achieved by cycling the reaction temperature successively from temperatures suitable for annealing, extension, and denaturing.
11. The method of Claim 4 further comprising the step of:
cloning the final double-stranded primer extension product in a suitable vector.
12. The method of Claim 11, wherein said cloned primer extension product is repetitiously duplicated within said vector by directional cloning to further increase the quantity of probe sequence inserted in the vector.
13. The method of Claim 11 wherein said vector has been derived from pUClδ, pUC19, or the bacteriophage M13mp series.
14. A vector derived from pUC18, pUC19, or the bacteriophage M13mp series into which is cloned double- stranded primer extension product.
15. The vector of Claim 14, wherein said cloned primer extension product is repetitiously duplicated within said vector by directional cloning
16. A bacterial culture transfected with the vector of Claim 14.
17. A bacterial culture transfected with the vector of Claim 15. 


 18. A method of producing large quantities of primer extension product polymer comprising:
culturing the bacterium of Claim 16;
recovering the vector containing the polymer; and
excising the inserted polymer with restriction endonucleases.
19. A method of producing large quantities of primer extension product polymer comprising:
culturing the bacterium of Claim 17;
recovering the vector containing the polymer; and
excising the inserted polymer with restriction endonucleases.
20. The method of Claim 1, wherein entire vectors containing polymers of selected oligonucleotide probes are bound to said substrate.
21. The method of Claim 20, wherein said vector is modified by removing non-essential segments to further increase the proportion of the bound DNA probe sequence.
22. The method of Claim 1, where said polymers are single-stranded DNAs.
23. The method of Claim 1 wherein said reporter moiety is selected from among 
32
P, biotin, and digoxigenin, wherein said reporter moiety is attached to 


one or both of said primers prior to synthesis of said amplification products.
24. The method of Claim 1, wherein said amplification products are modified by attaching a reporter moiety after said products are synthesized.
25. The method of Claim 1, wherein said reporter moiety is an enzyme which is covalently attached to the test DNA and wherein said enzyme functions as part of the detection system.
26. A substrate to which selected long polymers of oligonucleotide probes are bound which are complementary to a region in a nucleic acid sequence which is to be detected.
27. The substrate of Claim 26 wherein the monomer unit of each of said polymers contains between about 12 and 20 nucleotides and each polymer contains between about 200-2000 base pairs.
28. The substrate of Claim 27 wherein said selected long polymers are comprised of specific oligonuclotides from HLA DQ, DR and DP Class II α and β alleles.
29. A method of detecting the presence or absence of nucleic acid sequences, comprising:
contacting the substrate of Claim 28 with an amplified test DNA sample containing unknown oligonucleotide sequences, wherein a reporter moiety has been incorporated such that complementary nucleotide sequences anneal; 


 washing said substrate to remove unannealed amplified test DNA from said substrate; and
detecting the presence or absence of reporter moieties retained by the oligonucleotide probes on said substrate.
30. The method of Claim 29 further comprising the step:
analyzing and interpreting the results of said detection. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
