<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623805</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF MANUFACTURING REFERENCE SAMPLES FOR CALIBRATING AMOUNT OF MEASURED DISPLACEMENT AND REFERENCE SAMPLE, AND MEASURING INSTRUMENT AND CALIBRATION METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23F100	C23F100	G01B2130	G01B2130	G01D2100	G01D2100	G01N100	G01N100	G01N128	G01N128	G01N1310	G01N1310	G01N1316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23F	C23F	G01B	G01B	G01D	G01D	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23F1	C23F1	G01B21	G01B21	G01D21	G01D21	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N13	G01N13	G01N13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An object of the present invention is to provide a reference sample 
for easily and accurately calibrating a region of recesses and projections 

of several ten angstroms to several angstroms for the observation of 
which an inter-atom force microscope displays its performance. The 

method of manufacturing reference samples according to the present invention, 
wherein an object to be measured and a probe are placed in an 

opposed state with a minute clearance left between the surface of the former 
and a free end of the latter, to manufacture a reference sample used 

to calibrate an amount of displacement measured with an inter-atom force 
microscope formed so as to convert an inter-atom force which works 

between the atoms constituting the object to be measured and probe into 
mechanical displacement, is characterized in that etching is carried out 

with an etching agent of an extremely low etching speed as a rate of etching 
a stepped portion of a pattern is accurately controlled. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRYNICKI WITOLD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KRYNICKI, WITOLD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRYNICKI WITOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRYNICKI, WITOLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a manufacturing 
method for reference samples for calibrating an amount of 
measured displacement, as well as to a reference sample, a 
measuring instrument, and a calibration method. In greater 
detail, the present invention relates to a manufacturing 
method for a reference sample which is capable of 
calibrating an amount of displacement resolvable by means 
of an inter-atom force microscope, to a level of 10 Å or 
less, as well as to this reference sample, a calibration 
method using this reference sample, and a measuring 
instrument for calibration. Conventionally, the following technologies have been 
known as inter-atom force microscopes. In such technologies, when scanning is conducted while 
causing a probe and a sample surface to approach one 
another, the very small inter-atomic forces operating 
between the atoms constituting the probe and the atoms 
constituting the surface of the sample are detected, and 
thereby, it is possible to observe with high resolution the  
 
extremely fine surface topography on a metal sample or an 
insulator sample. The operating principle of the inter-atom force 
microscope is as follows. In Fig. 6, reference numeral 601 indicates a probe 
having an overall size on the level of a few microns and 
having a pointed lead end; this probe comprises a material 
such as, for example, silicon nitride or the like. This 
probe 601 is formed integrally with a thin spring 602. 
Reference numeral 603 indicates a sample; such samples 
include metals, insulators, semiconductors, or the like. 
The forces operating between probe 601 and sample 603 vary 
as shown in the graph of Fig. 7 when the distance 
therebetween is altered. Here, the X-axis indicates the 
distance between probe 601 and sample 603, and taking the 
point at which this force is 0 as the origin, the direction 
in which the probes moves away from sample 603 is the 
positive direction. The Y-axis indicates the force 
operating between probe 601 and sample 603; the positive 
direction indicates a repulsive force, while the negative 
direction indicates an attractive force. An attractive 
force operates between the probe 601 and the sample 603 as 
they approach one another at a point at which the extreme 
surfaces thereof are at a distance of less than 
approximately 100 Å, and a repulsive force operates 
therebetween when this distance is reduced to a few Å. The 
size of the force is within a range of approximately 10⁻⁷ 
to 10⁻¹² N. The repulsive force is converted to a 
displacemen
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A manufacturing method for a reference sample for 
calibrating an amount of displacement measured by means of 

an inter-atom force microscope, wherein an amount of 
displacement is calibrated, said displacement being 

measured by means of an inter-atom force microscope which 
is structured so that a surface of a substance to be 

measured and a lead end of a probe are placed in opposition 
with a very small gap therebetween, and a force operating 

between atoms constituting said substance to be measured 
and said probe is converted into a mechanical displacement, 

characterized in that etching is conducted while accurately 
controlling an etching rate of a stepped portion of a 

pattern using an etching agent having an extremely low 
etching speed. 
A manufacturing method for reference samples for use in 
calibration of an amount of displacement measured by means 

of an inter-atom force microscope in accordance with Claim 
1, characterized in that a concentration of the etching 

reactants (etching species) is adjusted so as to be 
sufficiently low, so that a speed at which said etching 

agent etches at least a material is capable of producing 
and controlling a stepped portion of a pattern in 

accordance with Claim 1 to a level of 10 Å or less. 
A manufacturing method for reference samples for 
calibrating an amount of displacement measured by means of 

 
an inter-atom force microscope in accordance with one of 

Claims 1 and 2, characterized in that a material for 
producing said stepped portion of a pattern comprises at 

least a thermal oxide film formed on a silicon wafer. 
A manufacturing method for reference samples for 
calibrating an amount of displacement measured by means of 

an inter-atom force microscope in accordance with one of 
Claims 1 through 3, characterized in that an etching agent 

in accordance with Claim 2 which etches a thermal oxide 
film in accordance with Claim 3 uses at least hydrogen 

fluoride as etching reactants (etching species). 
A manufacturing method for reference samples for 
calibrating an amount of displacement measured by an in
ter-atom 
force microscope in accordance with one of Claims 1 

through 4, characterized in that in an etching agent in 
accordance with Claim 4, aqueous ammonia is further added 

to an ammonium fluoride solution in which at least a 
concentration of free hydrogen fluoride is suppressed at a 

low level, and thereby a concentration of free hydrogen 
fluoride is adjusted, etching speed is limited, and etching 

is conducted in a sealed vessel. 
A manufacturing method for reference samples for 
calibrating an amount of displacement measured by an inter-atom 

force microscope, characterized in that in a 
manufacturing method for reference samples in accordance 

with one of Claims 3 through 5, an etching rate of an oxide 
 

film is determined directly or indirectly by means of a 
film thickness measurement means for said oxide film. 
A calibration method for conducting calibration of 
measuring instruments using a reference sample produced by 

means of a manufacturing method in accordance with one of 
Claims 1 through 6. 
A measuring instrument for conducting calibration using 
a reference sample produced by means of a manufacturing 

method in accordance with one of Claims 1 through 6. 
A reference sample for conducting calibration in a 
measuring instrument in accordance with Claim 8. 
A calibration method for conducting calibration of a 
measuring instrument using a reference sample in accordance 

with Claim 9. 
A measuring instrument for conducting calibration 
using a reference sample in accordance with Claim 9. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
