<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650465</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONVERSION OF FULLERENES TO DIAMOND
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1626	C23C1627	C30B2510	H01J902	C30B2302	C30B2302	C30B2510	C01B3106	H01J902	C30B3300	C23C1406	C01B3100	C30B3300	C23C1406	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C30B	H01J	C30B	C30B	C30B	C01B	H01J	C30B	C23C	C01B	C30B	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C30B25	H01J9	C30B23	C30B23	C30B25	C01B31	H01J9	C30B33	C23C14	C01B31	C30B33	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of forming synthetic hydrogen defect free diamond or diamond like films on a substrate. The method involves providing vapor containing fullerene molecules with or without an inert gas, providing a device to impart energy to the fullerene molecules, fragmenting at least in part some of the fullerene molecules in the vapor or energizing the molecules to incipient fragmentation, ionizing the fullerene molecules, impinging ionized fullerene molecules on the substrate to assist in causing fullerene fermentation to obtain a thickness of diamond on the substrate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRUEN DIETER M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRUEN, DIETER M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUEN DIETER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUEN, DIETER M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to methods for the
conversion of fullerenes to diamond or diamond-like films. More
particularly, the invention is concerned with the manufacture of
nonhydrogenic fullerenes as precursors for the synthesis of diamond or
diamond-like films. Because of their thermodynamic instability with
respect to diamond, the conversion of fullerenes to diamond has
significant advantages over presently used methods for producing
synthetic diamonds.The prior art methods of manufacturing diamond can be divided
into two main approaches. In the first or high-pressure method, graphite
powder is heated to about 1500°C under 60kbar of pressure in the
presence of an iron catalyst. Under this extreme, but equilibrium,
condition of pressure and temperature, graphite can be converted to
diamond. About 75 tons of diamond are produced industrially each year
in this way. The second or low pressure method of producing diamond
artificially involves producing a mixture usually of a few percent of
methane in hydrogen gas. A hot filament or a microwave discharge is
used to dissociate the methane molecule to form the methyl radical, CH3,
and the hydrogen molecule is dissociated to form hydrogen atoms.
Diamond or diamond-like films can be grown this way epitaxially on
diamond nuclei. Such films, however, always contain small
contaminating amounts (0.1-1%) of hydrogen which are undesirable for
many applications.The usefulness and novelty of fullerene precursors for diamond
synthesis stem from several of their properties: Fullerene precursors are
thermodynamically unstable with respect to diamond and, therefore,
stable only in a kinetic sense. In addition, since the fullerenes are
molecular entities, they are volatile with C60 having a vapor pressure of
10-4 Torr at 500°C. Fullerenes are also allotropes of carbon; that is, they
contain no hydrogen; and therefore, diamonds produced from fullerene
precursors are hydrogen-defect free. Another useful characteristic of
fullerene is the chemical bond in C60 is intermediate between graphite
(sp2) and diamond (sp3). Furthermore, fragmentation involving carbon-carbon
bond breakage occurs via the elimination of C2 groups. Recent 
scanning tunneling microscope studies have shown C2 groups to be
intimately involved in the growth of epitaxial diamond films, particularly
of the "dimer rows" of the 2x1 reconstructed <100> surface. It has also
been determined both the positive C60+ and negative C60- ions are stable
entities that can be accelerated to kilovolt energies
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming synthetic diamond or diamond-like
films on a substrate having a substrate surface covered with

a coating selected from the group consisting of fullerene and
diamond, comprising the steps of:


(a) providing a vapor of fullerene molecules;
(b) providing means for imparting energy to said
fullerene molecules;
(c) exposing said vapor of fullerene molecules to said
means for imparting energy;
(d) transferring energy from said means for imparting
energy to said vapor of fullerene molecules;
(e) ionizing said fullerene molecules having received
energy from sa
id means for imparting energy;
(f) applying a bias voltage to said substrate;
(g) impinging said ionized fullerene molecules on said
substrate and causing fragmentation of said

fullerene molecules; and
(h) continuing said steps (a)-(g) to obtain a thickness
for said diamond or diamond-like film on said

substrate surface.
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said means for
imparting energy comprising at least one of a hot filament,

an RF plasma discharge device, a DC-thermoplasma device, a DC 
plasma jet device, a high intensity photon source and a

microwave discharge device.
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said step of
ionizing comprises performing electron attachment on said

fullerene molecules.
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said step of
ionizing comprises carrying out electron emission on said

fullerene molecules.
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said bias
voltage applied to said substrate comprises 10-100 volts.
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said step of
transferring energy causes incipient or actual fragmentation

of said fullerene molecules.
The method as defined in Claim 6, wherein said incipient
or actual fragmentation involves absorption of at least 40-50

eV of internal energy per molecule.
The method as defined in Claim 7, wherein said step of
impinging said ionized fullerene molecules on said substrate

involves accelerating said ionized fullerene molecules to
10-100 volts energy to cause fragmentation. 
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said vapor of
fullerene molecules comprise C60 molecules.
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said coating of
fullerene comprises a fullerene prepared by heating fullerene

containing soot.
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said step of
transferring energy plus said step of impinging said

fullerene molecules on said substrate provides at least 250eV
internal energy to said fullerene molecule.
A method of forming synthetic diamond or diamond-like
film on a substrate having a substrate surface covered with a

coating selected from the group consisting of fullerene and
diamond, comprising the steps of


(a) providing a vapor of fullerene molecules;
(b) providing means for imparting energy to said
fullerene molecules, said means selected from the

group consisting of a hot filament, an RF plasma
discharge device, a DC thermoplasma device, a DC

plasma device and a microwave discharge device;
(c) imparting energy to said fullerene molecules using
said means for imparting energy;
(d) accelerating said ionized fullerene molecules to
impact on said substrate causing fragmentation of

said fullerene molecules; and 
(e) continuing said steps (a)-(e) to obtain a thickness
for said diamond or diamond-like film on said

substrate.
The method as defined in Claim 12, wherein said
fullerene molecules comprise C60 molecules.
The method as defined in Claim 12 further including the
step of applying a bias voltage to said substrate.
The method as defined in Claim 14, wherein said bias
voltage comprises at least 10 volts.
The method as defined in Claim 14, wherein said step of
imparting energy to said fullerene molecules comprises

transferring 40-50eV energy to said fullerene molecules.
The method as defined in Claim 14, wherein said step of
biasing comprises at least one of (a) applying said bias

voltage by at least one of RIF and DC biasing of said
substrate and establishing a plasma potential about said

substrate.
The method as defined in Claim 12, wherein said step of
accelerating comprises accelerating said ionized fullerene

molecules to at least 10eV. 
The method as defined in Claim 12, wherein said coating
of fullerene comprises a fullerene prepared by heating

fullerene containing soot.
The method as defined in Claim 12, wherein said steps
(c) and (d) result in providing at least 250eV internal

energy to said fullerene molecules.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
