<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648295</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MINIMIZING AND RECOVERING FLUID CARGO SPILLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02B1504	E02B1504	E02B1510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02B	E02B	E02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02B15	E02B15	E02B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for preventing or minimizing spilled fluid cargo in a marine environment, and for recovering that fluid cargo which does spill, is disclosed. The apparatus consists of an air pump (12) that can be connected with each hold of a marine cargo vessel (16) and used to evacuate the holds after they are filled with fluid cargo, thereby preventing of minimizing fluid cargo loss due to a breach of the holds. Also disclosed is the use of an air pump (12) which is connected to a substantially airtight enclosure (14), typically a tank or a hold (19) of a marine cargo vessel, and a pickup mechanism (20) with a pickup passage (22) that has one end connected to the tank or cargo hold (14) and a second end connected to at least one pickup nozzle (30) to recover spilled fluid cargo. The apparatus may be permanently installed on a marine cargo vessel, or it may use a port seal which fits over a port in the tank or hold, i.e., butterworth port, with at least two apertures to provide connections with the air pump (12) and the pickup means (30) only when the apparatus is needed to recover materials. Methods for minimizing fluid cargo loss and for recovering spilled fluid cargo also are disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINT CHRISTIAN L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINT, CHRISTIAN, L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINT CHRISTIAN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINT, CHRISTIAN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionA METHOD AND .APPARATUS FOR MINIMIZING AND RECOVERINGFLUID CARGO SPILLSTechnical Field The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for preventing or minimizing spilled fluid cargo in a marine environment, and more particularly, to a method and apparatus for preventing or minimizing spilled fluid cargo in a marine environment by entrainment of panicles of the spilled fluid in an air flow.Background of the InventionThe use of vacuum sources for recovering materials in a marine environment, particularly spilled fluid cargo on open water, such as crude oil and associated debris, is well known. An example of a typical device is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,813,887, to Kruger et al. Such devices typically use displacement pumps which pull the materials to be recovered through the pump itself.Recent experience at the oil spill in Prince William Sound, Alaska, shows that devices using conventional pumps are unsuited for such recovery work. The material that is to be recovered includes a great deal of debris, such as wood, dead animals, and pieces of cloth, as well as the spilled crude oil. Pulling this type of debris through a displacement pump causes frequent mechanical breakdowns, with the attendant expense and time loss of repair. It is critical to recover the spill materials as soon as possible to minimize environmental damage as well as direct cost. Also, spilled petroleum products can develop into a material called "mousse" and clot as time passes, making recovery more difficult. Thus, these frequent breakdowns cause delays when time is critical.Another problem is that devices for recovering fluid cargo spills are usually not near the spill site and must be transported to it, causing delays in the initial recovery of the spill materials.Of course, the most efficient way to limit damage from a fluid cargo spill is to minimize the amount of cargo spilled in the first place. Marine vessels 

transporting fluid cargos such as crude oil typically do not have systems to reduce the amount of cargo spilled that function very effectively. Examples of such systems are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,859,944, to Warner, and U.S. Patent No. 4,241,683, to Conway. Warner discloses a system for transferring cargos from one hold to another, lining the holds with a puncture-resistant liner, and automatically pressurizing a hold that has been breached to minimize the extent of a spill. Conway discloses the use of a three-dimensional grid of bulkheads and a system for transferring cargo from one
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for recovering materials in a marine environment comprising: a air pump; a substantially airtight enclosure; a substantially airtight passage coπneαed between said air pump and said substantially airtight enclosure; and a pickup mechanism, said pickup mechanism forming at least one substantially airtight passage between said enclosure and said materials in said marine environment.
2. An apparatus for recovering materials in a marine environment as claimed in claim 1, wherein said substantially airtight enclosure is a hold of a marine vessel.
3. An apparatus for recovering materials in a marine environment as claimed in claim 2, wherein said apparatus further comprises: a port in said hold; a port seal, said port seal having an upper surface and a lower surface, a sealing assembly attached to said port seal, said sealing assembly forming a substantially airtight seal when said port seal is placed over said port; and at least two apertures in said port seal, with at least one said aperture conneαed to said air pump, and at least one other said aperture coπneαed to said pickup mechanism,
4. An apparatus for recovering materials in a marine environment as claimed in claim 3, said sealing assembly comprising a substantially resilient material at least partially covering said port seal lower surface, said resilient material forming substantially airtight seal when said port seal lower surface is placed over said port.
5. An apparatus for recovering materials in a marine environment as claimed in claim 2, wherein said hold incorporates an overpressure relief device.
6. An apparatus for recovering materials in a marine environment as claimed in claim 3, wherein said pickup mechanism further comprises: 


 at least one pickup nozzle, each said pickup nozzle being substantially cylindrical and having a conneαor end and an intake end; and at least one pickup mbe having at least two ends, with at least one said end of each said pickup mbe conneαed to one said port seal and each remaining said end of each said pickup mbe conneαed to said conneαor end of one said pickup nozzle with all said conneαions being substantially airtight so that when said air pump is engaged, the materials are entrained in an air flow and carried into and through said pickup nozzle and pickup mbe into said enclosure.
7. An apparatus for recovering materials in a marine environment as claimed in claim 6, wherein said air pump is a high volume air flow pump.
8. An apparatus for recovering material in a marine environment as claimed in claim 6, wherein each said pickup nozzle further comprises a plurality of apertures arrayed around said pickup nozzle a predetermined distance from said open end.
9. An apparatus to prevent or minimize the fluid cargo lost on marine vessels with one or more cargo holds used to carry fluid cargos in the event of a breach of one or more of the cargo holds where each cargo hold is substantially airtight and has a port opening, said apparatus comprising: a air pump; and a manifold system forming a substantially airtight passage between each said cargo hold and said air pump.
10. An apparatus for minimizing fluid cargo loss as claimed in claim 9, wherein said apparatus further comprises: at least one port seal for at least one cargo hold, said port seal having an upper surface and a lower surface; a sealing assembly attached to said port seal, said sealing assembly forming a substantially airtight seal when said port seal is placed over said port; at least two apertures in said port seal, with at least one said aperture conneαed to said manifold system; at least one pickup nozzle, each said pickup nozzle being substantially cylindrical and having a conneαor end and an open end; and at least one pickup mbe having at least two ends, with at least one said end of each said pickup tube connected to one said port seal and each remaining said end of each said pickup mbe connected to said conneαor end of one said pickup nozzle with 


all said conneαions being substantially airtight so that when said air pump is engaged, the materials are carried through said pickup nozzle and pickup mbe into said hold thus recovering any fluid cargo lost in the event of a breach.
11. An apparatus for recovering material in a marine environment as claimed in claim 10, wherein said pickup mechanism further comprises: at least one pickup nozzle, each said pickup nozzle being substantially cylindrical and having a conneαor end and a collection end with a wide mouth and a drum transversely and rotatably mounted in said wide mouth, where said rotating drum also has an outer surface covered with a recovering means; and at least one pickup mbe having at least two ends, with at least one said end of each said pickup mbe coπneαed to one said enclosure and each remaining said end of each said pickup mbe conneαed to said connector end of one said pickup nozzle with all said connections being substantially airtight so that when said air pump is engaged, materials are carried onto said rotating drum, through said pickup nozzle and pickup mbe into said enclosure.
12. A method for recovering materials in a marine environment, said method comprising: using an air pump to αeate an air flow through to a substantially airtight enclosure conneαed to said air pump by a substantially airtight passage; αeating a massive air flow through a pickup nozzle by connecting one end of a pickup mbe to said airtight enclosure and connecting a second end of said pickup mbe to said pickup nozzle; and entraining said materials to be recovered in said air flow through said pickup nozzle, through said pickup mbe, and into said enclosure.
13. A method for preventing or niimmizing the fluid cargo lost on marine vessels with one or more cargo holds used to carrying fluid cargos in the event of a breach of one or more of the cargo holds where each cargo hold is substantially airtight and has a port opening, said method comprising: connecting a air pump to each said hold of said cargo vessel, using a manifold; and using said air pump to evacuate each said hold after each said hold is filled with cargo, αeating a negative pressure in each said hold. 


 14. An apparatus for recovering petroleum sheen from a water surface, said apparatus comprising: an air pump; a pressure differential head conneαed to said air pump in a substantially airtight manner; a plurality of pickups conneαed to said pressure differential head by at least one substantially airtight mbe, said pickups located at or near said water surface; a substantially vertical collection mbe with an internal passage, an open top upon which rests said head, an open bottom, and containing at least one separation plate which allows water to pass therethrough while retaining other material, each said separation plate being mounted aαoss said internal passage of said collection mbe, thereby forcing substantially all fluid passing through said colleαion mbe to pass through each said separation plate, allowing water to pass and retaining petroleum products.
15. An apparatus for recovering a first fluid floating on a surface of a second fluid in an atmosphere of a third fluid, comprising: pickup means for entraining portions of the first fluid in a flow of the third fluid passing therethrough; means for generating the flow of the third fluid; and means for causing the flow of the third fluid to pass through the pickup means.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising an enclosure conneαed to the pickup means to colleα the first fluid.
17. An apparatus for recovering a fluid floating on a surface of water, comprising: a pickup mbe adapted to entrain portions of the fluid in a flow of air passing therethrough; an air flow source to generate the flow of air; and means for causing the flow of air to pass through the pickup mbe.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising an enclosure conneαed to the pickup means to collect the first fluid. 


 19. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising means for injeαing pressurized air into the pickup mbe.
20. A pickup mbe for recovering a fluid floating on a surface of water, comprising: a collapsible mbe having an intake end and an outlet end, the outlet end of the collapsible mbe being held a substantially constant distance from the surface of the water, the collapsible mbe being longitudinally collapsible when the pressure in the collapsible mbe become less than the pressure outside of the collapsible mbe.
21. The pickup mbe of claim 20, further comprising a rigid mbe having an intake end and an outlet end and being adapted to be placed so that its intake end is a substantially constant distance from the surface of water;
22. The pickup mbe of claim 21, further including means for supporting the intake end of the rigid mbe the substantially constant distance from the surface of water.
23. The pickup mbe of claim 21 wherein the means for placing the intake end of the rigid mbe the substantially constant distance from the surface of the water comprises floats which float on the surface of water.
24. The pickup mbe of claim 20, further including means for injecting a compressed fluid in the vicinity of the intake end of the collapsible mbe. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
