<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630835</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drive system for modular link conveyor belts.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G2300	B65G2316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G23	B65G23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Plastic modular link belt conveyors are provided with an inner 
drive belt system (22) disposed along a variable length of the 

conveyor belt (Fig.5) at one or more positions (53, 54) to produce 
various advantages including operation of longer belts and those 

which have curved conveyance paths. The modular characteristics of 
these drive systems permit custom design in the field for different 

conveyor loadings, paths and loads. Thus, belt life and performance 
is enhanced by driving a belt with a belt drive system. The system 

advantageously uses standard modules of one type (18) in both the 
driven and driving belts. Thus the modules have similar 

manufacturing tolerances and temperature characteristics. Pivoted 
link modules with oblong apertures (19) in the belt drive system 

permits choices of modules for belt constructions compatible with 
curved paths. The modularized belt systems are versatile for 

adaption to such applications as wide bricklayered modular belts 
and non-conventional conveyor needs. In the drive system integrally 

formed gear teeth on the modular links intermesh in the space 
between the transverse pivot rods in the respective innermost 

driving belt and the outermost driven belt. By running the inner 
drive belt (22) "inside-out" modular links with drive tooth 

appendages extending from opposite belt sides, standard modules of 
the type having special conveyance structure (16) on the conveying 

belt side may be used in the driving belt. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAITRAM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE LAITRAM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KISSEE DARRELL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KISSEE, DARRELL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to modular conveyor belts of variable 
widths and lengths formed from pivoted links, preferably plastic, 
and more particularly it relates to modular driving belt loops in 
surface to surface driving relationship to the conveyor belts as 
locomotion means for the modular conveyor belts. Modular link conveyor belts are conventionally formed as 
belt loops driven by power driven sprocket wheels located at one 
or two ends of the loop. For heavily loaded belts the power drive 
system dependent upon a few sprocket teeth about the sprocket 
wheel in driving contact with the belt modules passing over the 
wheel presents a series of problems. With strong sprocket teeth 
and powerful drive forces plastic belts wear and have short life. 
Also the drive forces are not usually at the most heavily loaded 
portions of the belt and must transmit the drive forces through a 
chain of link to pivot rod couplings, thus creating tension in 
the belt requiring heavy duty modules. Furthermore the loading at 
the pivot joint accelerates wear. This type of drive system is 
particularly unacceptable in long belts or belts disposed in 
curved paths. Conveyor belt and chain drive systems that employ a loop 
belt in place of a drive sprocket to drive a conveyor belt system  
 
have been proposed in the prior art for distributing driving 
forces over a longer conveyor belt portion and thus reducing 
tension in the conveyor belt. U. S. Patents 1,939,315, Paulson, 
Dec. 12, 1933; 1,960,719, Stibbs, May 29, 1934; 2,405,530, 
Sullivan, Aug. 6, 1946; 2,868,356, Haaff, Jan. 13, 1959; and 
4,058,204, Arich, Nov. 15, 1977 represent these prior art drive 
systems. These systems, in general, are not compatible with 
modular link belts having pivotable plastic links which are 
subjected to significant wear and excessive belt tension in the 
presence of heavy or variable loading. Also in these prior art drive systems there are many other 
deficiencies and limitations, particularly for universal usage 
with a large variety of conveyor systems employing belts of 
various widths, lengths and travel path configurations where 
drive belts require a variety of configurations. One serious 
deficiency in custom made complex drive belts adapted to various 
conveyor belt conditions is the necessity to produce and stock 
special drive belt links in relatively small quantities thereby 
significantly increasing the cost of the driving belt systems. Conveyor belts that travel about curved paths in particular 
present driving problems
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a modular link belt conveyor system having an endless 
load carrying driven conveyor belt (15) constructed from end-to-end 

pivotably connected modular links (18) adapted for receiving 
driving teeth (17), the improved belt driving system characterized 

by: 
   a driving belt (22) for driving said driven belt (15) formed 

from pivotable modular links (18) into an endless loop assembly 
adapted to be driven by a powered driving source (23) and having 

toothed appendages (17) extending from the outer loop side of the 
driving belt (22) for serving as driving teeth (17) for powering 

the driven belt loop (15), and 
   power driving means (22, 23) for the the load carrying driven 

conveyor belt positioned with the driving belt (22) and a power 
driving source therefor (23) inside the driven belt loop assembly 

(15) to engage the driven belt (15) in a power driving relationship 
with the driving teeth (17) from a plurality of modules (18) in the 

driving belt. 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by 
modular links (18) in the driving and driven belt loops of 

identical configuration, manufacturing tolerances and temperature 
characteristics pivoted together to form both the driving belt and 

driven belt loops. 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by 
oblong modular links (18) in both the driven and driving belt loops 

with parallel upper and lower surfaces disposable along the length 
of the belts, the links (18) further having pivot apertures (19) 

passed through the links (18) at two opposite ends disposable along 
the length of the belt for pivotably connecting the links end-to-end 

in the belt loops (15, 22), and wherein the belt drive teeth 
(17) have generally trapezoidal shaped cross sections extending 

from one of said parallel surfaces. 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by 
modules (18) in both the driving (22) and driven (15) belt loops 

supporting raised ribs (16) extending from one side of the belt 
beyond said appendages (17), and said raised ribs (16) are disposed 

on the outer loop side of the driven belt (15) and the inner loop 
side of the driving belt (22). 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by a 
driving belt (22) narrower than the driven belt (15). 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by a 
plurality of said driving belt loops (53, 54; 22') coupled in a 

power driving relationship with the driven belt (15). 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by a 
driven conveyor belt loop (15) having substantially parallel load 

carrying and return paths wherein the driving belt (22) drivingly 
engages both the driven belt loop conveying path and return path. 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by 
modular links (18) in the driven (15) and driving (22) belt loops 

of similar configuration defined by interlocking teeth (17) of 
similar shape integrally supported by and extending from the 

respective modular links (18). 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by 
sprocket power drive means (23) coupled in the driving belt loop 

(22) to power the driven belt (15). 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by 
a driven belt (50) disposed between a pair of sprocket wheels (51, 

52) and configured to pass over a curved path between at least two 
straight sections, and having separate said driving loops (53, 54) 

engaging the driven belt (50) along the straight sections in a 
driving relationship. 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized by 
a driven belt loop (50) configured to pass over a curved path and 

having a straight section therein, wherein said driving belt loop 
(54 or 53) engages the driven belt in a driving relationship along 

the straight section. 
The conveyor system of Claims 1, 5 and 6 further 
characterized by a plurality of driving belt loops (22') 

distributed across the width of the driven belt (15). 
The conveyor system of Claims 1, 3, 10 and 11 further 
characterized by modular links (18) having an elongated pivot pin 

aperture (19). 
The conveyor system of Claim 1 further characterized in 
that the toothed appendages (17) constitute bars integrally 

extending across the width of the driving belt (22). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
