<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610204</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LINE CODE USING BLOCK INVERSION FOR HIGH SPEED LINKS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L2549	H04L2549	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L25	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
High speed telecommunication systems are disclosed which use a novel line coding scheme for better performance. The line code according to the scheme can be used to produce a block code of arbitrary length. It bounds the minimum number of transitions in a block, and the dc balance of the code. The overhead required is 2 bits if framing is not included and 3 bits if it is. A lookup table is not required to implement the code, thus it remains efficient for longer block lengths. The algorithm required to encode and decode the data can be implemented in serial at the transmission rate or in parallel at the block rate. The coding scheme results in a significant reduction in hardware components of the communication system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS GWENDOLYN KATE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRIS, GWENDOLYN, KATE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a high speed 
digital telecommunication technique. In particular, it is directed to a 
method of and an apparatus for communicating serially at high speed 
digital data signals which are block-coded in a new and more efficient 
format for a good statistically balanced transmission. In modern data telecommunication, raw data is modulated 
(encoded, or simply coded) into PCM signals and then are transmitted to 
a destination terminal or terminals. The received PCM signals are then 
demodulated (decoded) into the identical raw data at the destination. 
There are numerous encoding (coding) and decoding schemes (also 
called formats). A specific coding scheme (or format) is chosen for a 
particular application, based upon required performance criteria, cost 
effectiveness, the type of transmission path to be used, etc. It is therefore 
very common that the raw data is coded and decoded many times in 
different formats as they travel through the communication path from 
one level to another before they reach the destination. The present invention relates to a new line code, the term 
generally used for a data transmission coding scheme and format, which 
finds particular application in high speed serial data links, optical and 
non-optical. Line coding is used to create favourable statistical 
properties in a transmitted signal. In addition to essential requirements 
of being transparent and uniquely decodable etc., a line code must 
exhibit some other features. Three important qualities are its dc balance, 
transition density (and run bound), and bandwidth requirements. An 
additional practical requirement of the code is that it be simple to 
implement, at high speed where memory lookup implementations are 
impractical.  
 The dc balance (or dc component) is the shift of the 
transmitted center level created by the average time the signal is on to 
the time it is off. With code format, it is the pattern of the positive pulse 
duration and timing to that of the negative pulse or in most instances, it 
is the algebraic difference between the number of logical ones and the 
number of logical zeros. Any drift of the transmitted signal from the 
center baseline level will create a dc imbalance and affects the 
performance of the communication operation. The line code must 
therefore have a minimum or zero dc balance. Decoding the data in the receiver can only be achieved if 
the clock timing of the receiver is fully synchronized with that of the 
transmitter. Since the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high speed digital telecommunication system having 
an apparatus for serially transmitting digital data signals in blocks of 

coded bits, said apparatus comprising encoder means for encoding said 
digital data signals, serializer means for arranging the bits in the coded 

digital data signals, and driver means for serially transmitting said bits 
in the coded digital data signals, the invention being characterized in 

that: 

said encoder means (10) encodes in each block, data bits B (B0, B1,..., Bn-2, 
Bn-1) of a preselected length n, n being a positive integer, 

representing data words, a transition bit T and a dc balance bit D, and 
includes conversion means for converting said data bits B and 

transition bits T into NRZI (Non-Return-to-Zero-Invert-on-one) form, 
said transition bit T (42) indicating a bit inversion operation performed 

in response to the number of bits in said data bits and said transition bit 
of said block that are one of the binary states, and said dc balance bit D 

(46) indicating a bit inversion operation performed in response to the 
dc balance of all the bits in said block with respect to a previously 

accumulated system balance, and 
said encoder means further comprises system balance means (52) for 
updating the accumulated system balance by algebraically summing 

said dc balance of all the bits in said block and said previously 
accumulated system balance. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 1, wherein said encoder means comprises: 


transition means for counting the number of binary ones and setting 
said transition bit T according to said number; and  

 
dc balance means for calculating the dc balance of said block and 
generating said dc balance bit D according to said calculation result and 

said previously accumulated system balance. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 2, said apparatus further comprising: 


framing means (54) for generating and adding a frame bit F to each 
block to form a frame, said frame bit F indicating a boundary of said 

frame and control of certain functions in the data transmission; 
said serializer means arranging all the bits in each of successive frames; 
and 
said driver means transmitting each frame successively. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 3, wherein: 


said framing means comprising frame pattern generator for generating 
a plurality of frame bits F in a specific sequence; 
control logic means (72) for generating control logic bits C; and 
logic bit insertion means (72) for inserting said control logic bits into 
said specific sequence of said frame bits. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 4, wherein said specific order is said frame bit F, said 

dc balance bit D, said transition bit T and said data bits Bn-1, Bn-2,...,B1, 
B0 in this order in the time domain. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 5, said apparatus further comprising bit inversion 

means (40) for selectively inverting bits at certain positions within said 
data bits so that the energy in the data spectrum for a static pattern of all  

 
zero data or all one data is distributed to reduce electro-magnetic 

interference. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 4, wherein said data bits are parallel data bits and said 

encoder means encodes said data bits in parallel. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 5, wherein said data bits are serial data bits and said 

encoder means encodes said data bits in serial. 
A method of serially transmitting digital data signals in 
blocks of coded bits which has steps of encoding, in each block, data bits B 

(B0, B1...Bn-2,Bn-1) of a preselected length n, n being a positive integer 
representing data words, a transition bit T and a dc balance bit D, and 

serially transmitting each successive block, the invention being 
characterized in that said encoding step includes a step of converting 

said data bits B and transition bit T into NRZI (Non-return-to-Zero-Invert-on-one) 
form, said transition bit T indicating a bit inversion 

operation performed in response to the number of bits in said data bits 
and said transition bit of said block that are one of the binary states, and 

said dc balance bit D indicating a bit inversion operation performed in 
response to the dc balance of all the bits in said block with respect to a 

previously accumulated system balance, and said encoding means 
further comprises steps of calculating the dc balance of each block and 

updating the accumulated system balance by algebraically summing said 
dc balance of said block and said previously accumulated system balance.  

 
The method of serially transmitting digital data signals 
in blocks of coded bits according to claim 9, wherein said step of 

encoding further comprises steps of: 

setting said transition bit T to binary zero and counting the number of 
binary ones in said data bits and said transition bit, to change said 

transition bit T to binary one if said number is larger than a preselected 
number; and 
calculating the dc balance of said block and generating said dc balance 
bit D according to said calculation result and said previously 

accumulated system balance. 
The method of serially transmitting digital data signals 
in blocks of coded bits according to claim 10, further comprising steps of: 


adding in each block a frame bit F to form a frame, said frame bit F 
indicating a boundary of said frame and control of certain functions in 

the data transmission; 
repeating the above steps for each of successive frames; and 
serially transmitting each frame successively. 
The method of serially transmitting digital data signals 
in blocks of coded bits according to claim 11, wherein said step of adding 

a frame bit F comprises a step of: 

generating a plurality of frame bits in a pseudo-random pattern; 
generating control logic bits indicating said certain functions; and 
replacing certain said frame bits with said control logic bits. 
The method of serially transmitting digital data signals 
in blocks of coded bits according to claim 12, wherein said step of 

transmitting facilitates transmitting all the bits in each of successive 
frames in the folloeing order in the time domain, said frame bit F, said  

 
dc balance bit D, said transition bit T and said data bits Bn-1, Bn-2,..., B1, 

B0 in this order. 
The method of serially transmitting digital data signals 
in blocks of coded bits according
 to claim 12, wherein said data bits are 
parallel data bits and said step of encoding is carried out in parallel. 
The method of serially transmitting digital data signals 
in blocks of coded bits according to claim 13, wherein said data bits are 

serial data bits and said step of encoding is carried out in serial. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 1, further comprising an apparatus for receiving said 

digital data signals, said apparatus for receiving comprising: 

decoder means for decoding in each block which includes said data bits 
B, said transition bit T and said dc balance bit D in accordance with the 

values of T and D. 
The high speed digital telecommunication system, 
according to claim 16, said apparatus for receiving said digital data 

signals further comprising: 

framing circuit means for extracting said frame bits and control logic 
bits; and 
control means for initiating loopback functions in accordance with said 
control logic bits. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
