<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642015</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for measuring and controlling refracted angle of ultrasonic waves
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2907	G01N2904	G01N2944	G01N2944	G01N2904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and an apparatus for measuring and then 
controlling the refracted angle of ultrasonic waves 

propagating through a component. The method directly 
measures the actual refracted angle of ultrasound in an 

industrial component while performing nondestructive 
examination by measuring the slopes of characteristic 

echo-dynamic lines. These slopes are related to the 
angle of refraction by a simple mathematical relationship. 

A pattern recognition filtering method is used 
to identify the echo-dynamic pattern. The slope of an 

echo-dynamic line is computed after an edge detection 
algorithm is applied to the data. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to non-destructive
examination (NDE) of material, such as metal or alloy,
for voids, flaws, cracks and other defects that can be
detrimental to the integrity of the material. Specifically,
the invention relates to the inspection of parts
and components using refracted ultrasonic waves.Ultrasonic examinations are performed within the
nuclear industry and most other major industries to
determine the condition of parts and components. The
metal or alloy material of a part or component is
inspected using ultrasound to detect any flaws which
could prove detrimental to the safe operation of that
part or component. The ultrasonic NDE method can be
used to detect internal flaws in most engineering metals
and alloys. Bonds produced by welding, brazing, soldering
and adhesive bonding can also be ultrasonically
inspected.Ultrasonic inspection is used for quality control
and materials inspection in the fabrication of structures,
reactor pressure vessels, airframes, pipe systems,
bridges, motor vehicles and jet engines. The present
invention has application in all of these fields.For successful application of ultrasonic examination
techniques, the ultrasonic system, including transducers,
must be suitable for the type of inspection
being performed. If the proper transducer is not used, 
there is a high potential for gross error in the inspection
results, or there could be no results at all. For
instance, using a common ultrasonic transducer that has
a hard flat-surfaced Lucite wedge for examining as-welded
overlaid pipe welds results in gross errors in the
ultrasonic inspection results. In many cases ultrasonic
inspection data is not recorded at all. This is due to
the presence of air gaps between the transducer head and
the rough surface being inspected, which forms an opaque
barrier.Ultrasonic characterization of cracks in materials
is at least a two-step process: 1) detection and location;
and 2) sizing in absolute or relative terms. In
accordance with the first step of this process, the
transducer is excited to emit an ultrasonic wave which
is coupled to the structure being inspected. The emitted
wave enters the structure, where it is reflected by
the crack. The return path of the reflected wave impinges
on the transducer, where it is detected as a "pulse
echo" signal.The determination of the crack size, or depth of
penetration in the case of surface-connected flaws, is
a different and more complicated task. A conventional
method for determining the depth of penetration of a
plana
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for controlling an angle of refraction () of a pulsed
ultrasonic beam (4) propagating through a solid material (22) after said beam

has been transmitted by an ultrasonic transducer (20) to impinge on a surface of
said solid material with an initial angle (α 
i
) of incidence, comprising the steps of:

moving said transducer from a first position (y
1
) to a second position
(y
2
),
transmitting (2) a pulsed ultrasonic beam and then receiving (2) an
echo pulse from a reflector at each of a plurality of transducer positions along the

path from said first position to said second position;
organizing data (36) for the positions of said transducer and data for
the metal paths (mp
1
; mp
2
) corresponding to said position data to represent an
echo-dynamic arc;
recognizing (44) said echo-dynamic arc using pattern recognition
filtering;
detecting the end points of said echo-dynamic arc using an edge
detection algorithm;
computing a slope (s) of a straight line connecting first and second end
points of said echo-dynamic arc: and,
computing said angle of refraction () as a function of said slope (s);
computing an angular error (ε) equal to the difference between said
computer angle of refraction () and a desired angle of refraction (R);
computing a new angle of incidence as a function of said angular error;
and, 
adjusting an angle of said transducer so that a transmitted pulsed
ultrasonic beam has said new angle of incidence.
The control method as defined in claim 1 wherein said new angle of
incidence is computed in accordance with Snell's law.
The control method as defined in claim 1 wherein said organized data
is stored in a first-in/first-out buffer.
A system for controlling an angle of refraction () of a pulsed ultrasonic
beam ( 4 ) propagating through a solid material (22) after said beam has been

transmitted by an ultrasonic transducer (20) to impinge on a surface of said solid
material with an initial angle of incidence (α
i
) comprising:

means for moving said transducer from a first position (y
1
) to a second
position (y
2
), said transducer transmitting a pulsed ultrasonic beam and then
receiving an echo pulse from said reflector at each of a plurality of transducer

positions along the path from said first position to said second position;
means for organizing data for the position of said transducer and data
for the metal paths (mp
1
; mp
2
) corresponding to said position data to represent
an echo-dynamic arc:
means for recognizing (44) said echo-dynamic arc using pattern
recognition filtering;
means for detecting the end points of said echo-dynamic arc using an
edge detection algorithm;
means for computing a slope (s) of a straight line connecting first and
second end points of said echo-dynamic arc;
means for computing said angle of refraction () as a function of said
slope (s); 
means for computing an angular error (ε) equal to the difference
between said computer angle of refraction () and a desired angle of refraction

(R);
means for computing a new angle of incidence as a function of said
angular error; and,
means for adjusting an angle of said transducer so that a transmitted
pulsed ultrasonic beam has said new angle of incidence.
The system as defined in claim 4 wherein said means for organizing
said data comprises a first-in/first-out buffer (36).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
