<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651685</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMBINED CUTTING AND WELDING METHOD AND RELATIVE APPARATUS FOR MANUFACTURING STRUCTURAL SHEET METAL PRODUCTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2800	B21C3708	B23K3102	B23K2802	B23K3102	B21C3708	B23K2638	B23K3704	B23K2626	B23K3704	B23K2600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B21C	B23K	B23K	B23K	B21C	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K28	B21C37	B23K31	B23K28	B23K31	B21C37	B23K26	B23K37	B23K26	B23K37	B23K26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of manufacturing structural sheet metal products (P) whereby a number of portions (5') of sheet metal are fed simultaneously along concurrent planes ((alpha)) so that the leading edge (14) of one portion (5') cooperates with a face of an adjacent portion (5') along the plane of contact between the two portions (5'); respective sheets (L) are cut simultaneously off the portions (5'); and the sheets (L) are welded together along the respective planes of contact; cutting and welding being performed using laser heads (T, S).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LARA CONSULTANTS SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LARA CONSULTANTS S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LA ROCCA ALDO VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LA ROCCA, ALDO VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and relative 
apparatus for manufacturing structural sheet 
metal products by means of combined, preferably laser 
cutting and welding operations. Structural products with a closed polygonal 
section (e.g. rectangular box sections) or such as to 
present a high degree of rotational inertia (section 
irons) are widely used in various fields of industry for 
achieving a high degree of flexural and torsional 
rigidity. Depending on the geometry of the finished product 
and the type and thickness of the material employed, 
such products are normally manufactured using 
conventional permanent deformation (pressing, bending) 
or extrusion techniques. A drawback common to all the above techniques is  
 
the high cost of the tooling involved, which not only 
affects the price of the finished product, but also 
poses problems in terms of flexibility, by virtue of 
production machinery never, as a rule, being replaced 
until it is entirely written off. In the case of permanent deformation techniques 
(pressing and bending), the severe stress required for 
achieving a high degree of local deformation (as when 
deep-drawing sharp edges, etc.) invariably results in 
springback of the material whereby, upon removal of 
stress, the pressed or bent part springs back to a 
different shape from that assumed under stress. Dimensional inaccuracy resulting from springback 
of the material is especially noticeable when sheet 
metal parts produced using traditional permanent 
deformation techniques are welded, e.g. spot welded, to 
another part, in which case, any dimensional inaccuracy 
is counteracted by maintaining the two parts under 
stress and contacting each other. When stress is 
removed, however, the welded parts tend to return to 
their original shape, thus subjecting the weld spots to 
internal stress which remains throughout the working 
life of the assembled structure, and which, especially 
in the case of structures subjected repeatedly to 
pulsating stress (e.g. vehicles), results, at least 
macroscopically speaking, in sudden failure of the weld 
spots, which "spreads domino fashion" from one spot to 
another along the weld line, with catastrophic  
 
consequences to the structure as a whole. The above defect, which is partly due to traces of 
oil in the liquefied material during welding, and to 
metallurgical irregularities and microcracks produced 
when the oil vaporizes, has partly been solved by 
pickling prior to welding. In addition to only partly 
solving the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing structural sheet 
metal products, 

comprising at least the following operations repeated 
cyclically: 


a) at least two portions (5') of respective continuous 
strips (5) of sheet metal are fed simultaneously along 

respective concurrent planes (α); 
b) a sheet (L) is cut simultaneously off each of said 
portions (5'); 
c) said portions (5') are welded together substantially 
along a contact area, 
said cutting and welding operations being 
performed using laser means (T, S). 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 for manufacturing 
box type sections (P), characterized by the 

fact that it employs a number of mutually-cooperating 
portions (5') defining a closed polygonal cross section; 

each portion (5') defining a respective face of said 
section (P). 
A method as claimed in Claim 2, 
characterized by the fact that it employs a laser 

cutting head (T) for each said portion (5'), and a laser 
welding head (S) for each plane of contact between said 

portions (5'). 
A method as claimed in one of the foregoing  
 

Claims, characterized by the fact that said portions 
(5') are fed tangentially in relation to the axis (A) of 

said product; said contact area being defined by the 
front edge (14) of one said portion (5') and by another 

said portion (5') cooperating with said edge (14). 
A method as claimed in one of the foregoing 
Claims, characterized by the fact that it comprises an 

operation wherein the traveling direction of said 
portions (5') is inverted following said cutting 

operation. 
A method as claimed in Claim 5, characterized 
by the fact that it comprises an operation wherein said 

laser welding heads (S) are moved from a first withdrawn 
position to a second position wherein the respective 

optical axes (s) of said welding heads (S) lie in the planes of the 
contact areas between said portions (5'). 
A method as claimed in one of the foregoing 
Claims from 4 to 6, characterized by the fact that said 

welding and cutting operations are performed 
simultaneously; said laser welding heads (S) and said 

laser cutting heads (T) traveling in the same direction 
in relation to said portions (5'). 
A method as claimed in Claim 7, characterized 
by the fact that said welding heads (S) travel ahead of 

said cutting heads (T). 
A method as claimed in one of the foregoing 
Claims 1 or 2, characterized by the fact that said 

portions (5') are fed parallel to the axis (A) of said  
 

product (P); said contact area being defined by a 
lateral end surface of one said portion (5') and by a 

longitudinal edge of one face of another said portion 
(5') cooperating with said lateral surface. 
A method as claimed in Claim 9, characterized 
by the fact that said portions (5') are fed 

continuously. 
A method as claimed in Claim 10, characterized 
by the fact that said cutting and welding operations are 

performed as said portions (5') are fed forward. 
A method as claimed in Claim 10 or 11, 
characterized by the fact that, during said cutting 

operation, said laser cutting heads (T) are moved in an 
inclined direction in relation to the traveling 

direction of respective said portions (5'). 
A method as claimed in Claim 12 for manufacturing 
sections defined by cutting planes perpendicular to 

their respective axes, characterized by the fact that, 
during said cutting operation, said laser cutting heads 

(T) are moved in said inclined direction at a speed the 
component of which parallel to the traveling direction 

of respective said portions (5') is equal to the 
traveling speed (v
a
) of said portions (5'). 
A method as claimed in Claim 9, characterized 
by the fact that said portions (5') are fed forward in 

discrete steps; each said cutting operation being 
performed subsequent to said forward feed movement. 
A method as claimed in Claim 14, characterized  
 

by the fact that said welding operation is performed as 
said portions (5') are fed forward. 
A method as claimed in Claim 14 or 15, 
characterized by the fact that 

said welding and cutting operations are performed using 
a single multipurpose laser head for each face of said 

section. 
An apparatus (1, 1') for manufacturing 
structural sheet metal products, 

comprising: 

means (6a, 7) for supporting and guiding sheet 
metal and defining at least two concurrent planes (α); 
means (4) for simultaneously feeding at least two 
portions (5') of respective continuous strips of sheet 

metal along said respective planes (α); characterized by comprising: 
laser means (T) for simultaneously cutting respective sheets (L) off said at 
least two portions (5') of sheet metal; and 
laser means (S) for welding said portions (5') together 
substantially along a contact area. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 17, 
characterized by the fact that said laser cutting means 

comprise at least one laser head (T). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 17 or 18, 
characterized by the fact that said laser welding means 

comprise at least one laser head (S). 
An apparatus as claimed in one of the 
foregoing Claims from 17 to 19, characterized by the 

fact that it comprises means (4) for feeding and means  
 

(6a, 7) for supporting and guiding a number of said 
portions (5') cooperating mutually and defining, in 

cross section, a closed polygon; each said portion (5') 
defining a respective face of said product (P). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 19 or 20, 
characterized by the fact that it comprises a laser 

cutting head (T) for each said portion (5'), and a laser 
welding head (S) for each plane of contact between said 

portions (5'). 
An apparatus as claimed in one of the 
foregoing Claims from 17 to 21, characterized by the 

fact that said feed means (4) comprise a number of 
rotary drums (8) on to which are mounted respective 

rolls (9) of metal strip (5) off which said portions 
(5') are unwound; and respective electric motors (10) 

connected angularly to said drums (8). 
An apparatus as claimed in one of the 
foregoing Claims from 17 to 22, characterized by the 

fact that said supporting and guide means (6a, 7) 
provide for feeding said portions (5') tangentially in 

relation to the axis (A) of said product (P); said contact 
area being defined by the front edge (14) of one 

said portion (5') and by a face of another said portion 
(5') cooperating with said edge (14). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 23, 
characterized by the fact that it comprises first means 

(17) for moving said laser welding heads (S) along the planes of said 

respective contact areas; and means (15) for moving  
 

said laser cutting heads (T) along respective cutting 
planes. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 24, 
characterized by the fact that it comprises second means 

(17) for moving said laser welding heads (S) between a 
first withdrawn idle position and a second position 

wherein the respective optical axes (s) of said laser 
welding heads (S) lie in said planes of said contact areas between 

said portions (5'). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 24 or 25, 
characterized by the fact that said first means (17) for 

moving said laser welding heads (S) and said means (15) 
for moving said laser cutting heads (T) provide 

respectively for moving said welding heads (S) and said 
cutting heads (T) in the same direction along said 

respective planes. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 26, 
characterized by the fact that said welding heads (S) 

travel ahead of said cutting heads (T). 
An apparatus as claimed in one of the 
foregoing Claims from 17 to 22, characterized by the 

fact that said means (6a, 7) for supporting and guiding 
said portions (5') provide for feeding said portions 

(5') parallel to the axis (A) of said product (P); said 
contact area being defined by a lateral end surface 

of one said portion (5') and by a longitudinal edge of 
one face of another said portion (5') cooperating with 

said lateral surface.  
 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 28, 
characterized by the fact that said feed means (4) 

provide for continuously feeding said portions (5'). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claims 28 or 29, 
characterized by the fact that said means for moving 

said cutting heads (T) comprise means (16) for guiding 
said cutting heads (T) and which are inclined in 

relation to the traveling direction of respective said 
portions (5'). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 30 for manufacturing 
sections defined by cutting planes 

perpendicular to their respective axes, characterized by 
the fact that said means (15) provide for moving said 

laser cutting heads (T) along said guide means (16) at a 
speed the component of which parallel to the traveling 

direction of said respective portions (5') is equal to 
the traveling speed (v
a
) of said portions (5'). 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 28, 
characterized by the fact that said feed means (4) 

provide for feeding said portions (5') in discrete 
steps. 
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 32 when not 
dependent on Claim 21, characterized by the fact that it 

comprises a single multipurpose laser head for each face 
of said section (P). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
