<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0665994</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTACTLESS POWER DELIVERY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B66B134	B66B134	B66B900	B66B900	H01F3814	H01F3814	H02J500	H02J500	H02J1700	H02J1700	H02M324	H02M328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B66B	B66B	B66B	B66B	H01F	H01F	H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B66B1	B66B1	B66B9	B66B9	H01F38	H01F38	H02J5	H02J5	H02J17	H02J17	H02M3	H02M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A contactless power transfer system (30, 30'', 150, 300, 400), especially for powering underwater electric loads (34, 34', 34'', 306, 314, 315, 316, 434), including movable loads, such as underwater vehicles (308, 310), elevators (173), or worksite equipement (34'', 306). A converter (38, 174, 177, 338, 432) supplies high frequency power to a conductor loop (40, 165, 175, 340, 440). A coupling sheath or link (50, 50'', 150, 350, 450) has a core-mounted conductor (60, 160, 460) at least partially surrounded by a magnetic core (52, 452) which slidably receives a portion of the conductor loop within the link. An optional secondary converter (44, 175, 177, 344) converts power from the core-mounted conductor to meet the load requirements. A contactless power distribution system is also submersible to deliver power to underwater loads through clamped-on or captive links attached at any location along the conductor loop. Methods are also provided of powering loads, including those submersed in water, including seawater, or other non-magnetic liquid mediums.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE, INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIVAN, DEEPAKRAJ, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLONTZ, KEITH, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LORENZ, ROBERT, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVOTNY, DONALD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CONTACTLESS POWER DELIVERY SYSTEM Background of the InventionThis application is a continuation-in-part of co-pending application Serial No. 07/767,024, filed September 27, 1991, having the same inventors, and which is hereby incorporated by reference.The present invention relates generally to systems for delivering power from an • electrical source to an electric load, including delivery when there is relative motion between the source and the load, and more particularly to an improved submersible contactless power delivery and/or distribution system, and to methods for accomplishing this submersed power transfer without contact of primary and secondary windings, such as may be used in underwater electric vehicles, elevators, temporary work sites, oceanographic study and the like.There are several important applications where the ability to transfer power under water can significantly affect performance capabilities. For example, submersible vehicles cannot generate energy under water through internal combustion which expends precious oxygen. The most common method of supplying power to submersible vehicles involves using on-board batteries for energy storage. Battery capacity then becomes the major limitation for non-nuclear submersible vehicles, both in terms of mission length and performance of energy intensive tasks.The problem of supplying energy to land-based electric vehicles while they are moving on a roadway has been considered difficult to solve. In the past, systems transferring large amounts of electrical power, such as up to one megawatt, to a moving load have traditionally used means that are unreliable, inefficient, and potentially unsafe, such as sliding or rolling metal contacts, sliding carbon brushes, and trailing cables. For example, pantograph sliding contacts have been used extensively for trolleys and urban transit systems traveling on rails. However, these railway traction systems are not a viable consideration for underwater use because water, and especially salinated seawater, conducts electricity, whereas air, to a point, acts as an insulator. Additional problems include wear, corrosion, reliability and maintenance of sliding mechanical contact systems.Recently, some of these problems have been mitigated in land-based systems using inductively coupled flat coils in combination with power electronics to transfer power from a fixed source to a moving vehicle. For example, the following three articles propose various systems having a fixed primary winding buried in a roadway
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A contactless power transfer system for transferring power from a power source to an electric load, comprising: a first conductor coupled to one of the powα source or the electric load; a core-mounted conductor coupled to die other of the powα source or the electric load, with the core-mounted conductor having an outer peripheral surface; a magnetic core supporting the core-mounted conductor and substantially surrounding the outer peripheral surface, with both the core-mounted conductor and die magnetic core surrounding a portion of die first conductor so as to transfer power from the powα source to the electric load; and wherein a portion of the first conductor is slidably received within the core-mounted conductor and magnetic core for relative motion therebetween, with powα transfer continuing during the relative motion.
2. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein: the first conductor has an axial length; and the relative motion occurs along the axial lαigth of the first conductor.
3. A contactless powα transfer system according to claim 1 wherein: the first conductor has a longitudinal axis; and die relative motion is rotational substantially about the longitudinal axis of the first conductor.
4. A contactless powα transfer system according to claim 1 wherein: the first conductor is coupled to die powα source; and die core-mounted conductor is coupled to die electric load.
5. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 1 further including a first converter coupling the first conductor to die power source.
6. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 5 wherein the first converter includes a resonant converter.
7. A contacUess powα transfer system according to claim 5 further including a second converter coupling the core-mounted conductor to the electric load. 8. A contactless powα transfer system according to claim 1 wherein die magnetic core is separable into at least two core segments for selectively opαiing to receive and remove the first conductor, with the core segments being joinable to secure the first conductor therein.
9. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein the magnetic core comprises a gφless core. 10. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 1 further includING: a position sensor for sensing the position of the core-mounted conductor relative to the position of die first conductor; and 


 a positioning actuator responsive to the position sα sor for positioning die core-mounted conductor in a selected position relative to d e position of the first conductor.
11. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 10 wherein the position sαisor comprises a flux sαisor for sensing the core flux. 12. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 1 wherein: the core has two flux transferring faces separated by a gφ; the first conductor is mounted from a fixed insulative support member extαiding through the core gap; and d e contacdess powα transfer system further includes a fixed magnetic core member attached to the fixed insulative support to magnetically link the two flux transferring faces together.
13. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 12 wherein: the fixed insulative support has a first axis; the fixed core member has a flux transferring surface substantially perpendicular to the insulative support first axis; and die two flux transferring faces of the core are substantially perpendicular to the insulative support first axis.
14. A contactless powα transfer system according to claim 12 wherein: the fixed insulative support has a first axis; the fixed core member has two flux transferring surfaces substantially parallel to the insulative support first axis; and d e two flux transferring faces of the core are substantially parallel to the insulative support first axis.
15. A contactless powα transfer system according to claim 14 wherein the core-mounted conductor and die core are each φlit into first and second portions which are openable for disengaging d e first conductor and closable for engaging the first conductor for power transfer therebetween.
16. A contacdess power transfer system according to claim 12 further including: a position sensor for sensing the position of the core-mounted conductor relative to d e position of die first conductor; and a positioning actuator responsive to the position sαisor for positioning the core-mounted conductor in a selected position relative to the position of die first conductor.
17. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 16 wherein the position sensor comprises a flux sensor for sensing the core flux, the flux sensor being mounted in one of die two flux transferring faces of the core and die fixed core member. 18. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 1 further including: a fixed magnetic core member cooperating with the core to form a flux path through the core and die fixed core member; and 


 an insulative support extending from the fixed core member and supporting the first conductor.
19. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 18 wherein the core has a gap which receives at least a portion of the fixed core member. 20. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 18 wherein die relative motion occurs along a selected length of the first conductor, the contacdess power transfer system further includes plural insulative supports along the first conductor selected length.
21. A contacdess power transfer system according to claim 20 wherein the magnetic core comprises a substantially C-shaped core having an air gφ to partially surround the first conductor, the air gφ slidably receiving the first conductor plural supports therein as the electric load moves along the path.
22. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 20 wherein the magnetic core includes two longitudinally separated portions openably joined together for momentarily opαiing to allow the plural supports to pass through a longitudinal gap defined between the two longitudinally separated core portions when open.
23. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein die core-mounted conductor and die core are each φlit into first and second portions which are openable for disengaging the first conductor and closable for engaging the first conductor for powα transfer therebetween. 24. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 23 wherein the core-mounted conductor and die core first and second portions are pivoted together by a hinge member.
25. A contacdess power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein the magnetic core has an air gφ.
26. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 25 wherein the magnetic core air gφ is sized for passage of the first conductor therethrough.
27. A contacdess power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein: the first conductor is fixed and coupled to die power source; and die core-mounted conductor is coupled to die electric load.
28. A contacdess power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein: the first conductor is fixed and coupled to d e powα source, the first conductor has power flow sending and return members lying side-by-side along a travel path; and die core-mounted conductor is coupled to die electric load and comprises a pair of core-mounted conductor segments, and die core comprises a pair of core segmαits one of each surrounding one of die core-mounted conductor segments, with one of die conductor segments surrounding a portion of one of die sending and return members and die other of the conductor segments surrounding a portion of die othα of the sending and return members, with die pair of conductor segments moving side-by-side along the travel path during the power transfer. 


 29. A contacdess powα delivery system according to claim 1 further including a secondary converter with a powα conditioner for conditioning d e power received from the secondary conductor.
30. A contacdess powα delivery system according to claim 29 wherein: the power conditioner includes a sensor monitoring the powα received from the primary conductor; and die power conditioner is responsive to the monitoring of the sensor.
31. A contacdess powα delivery system for according to claim 1 wherein: the powα source comprises an AC source; and d e primary conductor is substantially fixed to power plural portable electric loads each having a secondary coupling sheath comprising a magnetic core and a core-mounted conductor coupled at selected locations along the length of die primary conductor for distributing power from the AC source to each portable electric load.
32. A contactless power delivery system according to claim 31 wherein the magnetic core has two longitudinally separated portions opαiably joined togediα to couple and decouple the sheath with the primary conductor.
33. A contacdess power delivery system for according to claim 1 wherein: the powα source comprises an AC source; and the primary conductor powers plural portable electric loads each having a secondary coupling sheath comprising a magnetic core and a core-mounted conductor coupled at selected locations along the length of die primary conductor for distributing powα from the AC source to each portable electric load, and die primary conductor is moveable between locations to provide temporary power for the portable electric load while moving between said locations.
34. A contacdess powα delivery system for according to claim 1 wherein: the primary conductor comprises a feeder conductor coupled to die power source, and plural fixed primary loops each coupled to the feeder conductor, each primary loop aligned with at least one othα primary loop to extend along adjacent portions of a path of travel of the load; and die magnetic core surrounds a portion of the one of the primary loops to receive powα therefrom when moving along the path of travel adjacent said one of die primary loops. 35. A contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 34 wherein the core and core-mounted conductor are openable to couple and decouple the sheath to each successive aligned primary loop as the load moves along die path of travel.
36. A contacdess power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein the core-mounted conductor and die core are each separated into first and second segments which are translationally openable for disαigaging the first conductor and translationally closable for αigaging the first conductor for power transfer therebetween.
37. A contactless power transfer system according to claim 1 wherein die core-mounted conductor and die core are each separated into first and second segments which are 


radially openable for disengaging the first conductor and radially closable for engaging the first conductor in radial directions respectively away from and toward a longitudinal axis of die surrounded portion of die first conductor.
38. A coupling sheath, comprising: a sheath conductor for surrounding a portion of an elongate power conductor, the sheath conductor for coupling to an electric load; and a magnetic core surrounding die sheath conductor to provide a flux path for a magnetic flux induced therein when the sheath conductor and core surround the power conductor, said magnetic flux inducing a current flow within die sheath conductor to deliver power from the power conductor to a load when coupled therewith.
39. A coupling sheath according to claim 38 wherein die power conductor has an insulative cover layer, and die sheath conductor is sized to grip the power conductor insulative cover layer and substantially prevent motion of the coupling sheath along die length of the power conductor.
40. A coupling sheath according to claim 38 wherein die power conductor has an insulative cover layer, and die sheath conductor is sized to slidably move along the length or around die periphery of the powα conductor.
41. A coupling sheath according to claim 38 wherein the sheath conductor has an inner surface facing the powα conductor whαi coupled therewith, and die coupling sheath further includes an inner insulative covα layer of a low friction material along the inner surface of the sheath conductor.
42. A method of coupling an electric load to an AC power source, comprising d e steps of: powering one of an elongate conductor or a coupling sheath with die AC power source; providing die electric load with die other of the elongate conductor or die coupling sheath; with the coupling sheath having a sheath conductor surrounded by a magnetic core, the sheath conductor electrically coupled to one of die AC powα source or the load, and witii the coupling sheath being separable into at least two sheath segments; and separating the at least two sheath segments; receiving a portion of die elongate conductor between at least two sheath segments; and joining together the at least two sheath segments to surround the portion of the elongate conductor with die coupling sheath to transfer powα by magnetic induction from the AC power source to the load.
43. A method according to claim 41 wherein: at least two of the sheath segments are separable and joinable by a relatively translational motion therebetween; 


 the separating stφ comprises sliding die at least two sheath segments apart from one another; and die joining stφ comprises sliding die at least two sheath segments together.
44. A method according to claim 41 wherein: at least two of the sheath segments are pivoted together to be pivotally separable and joinable; the separating stφ comprises pivotally separating the at least two sheath segments apart from one another; and d e joining stφ comprises pivotally joining the at least two sheath segments together. 45. A method according to claim 42 wherein: at least two of the sheath segments are radially separable and joinable by a relatively translational motion therebetween in radial directions respectively away from and toward a longitudinal axis of die received portion of die elongate conductor; the separating stφ comprises moving the at least two sheath segments substantially radially apart from one another; and d e joining step comprises moving the at least two sheath segments together substantially radially toward die elongate conductor.
46. A method according to claim 42 further including, between the separating and receiving stφs, the stφ of inserting the portion of the elongate conductor between the separated at least two sheath segments.
47. A method according to claim 42, further comprising the steps of: providing relative motion between the elongate conductor and die coupling sheath; and transferring power during the relative motion. 48. A method according to claim 47, further comprising the stφs of: providing relative motion comprising motion along the length of die elongate conductor: supporting the first conductor using plural insulative supports along the length of the first conductor; and wherein the separating stφ comprises separating the at least two sheath segments to avoid intersecting the plural insulative supports.
49. A method according to claim 47, further comprising die stφ of providing relative motion comprising radial motion around a periphery of the elongate conductor.
50. A submersible contacdess power transfer system for transferring powα from a powα source to an electric load, comprising: a first conductor coupled to one of die powα source or the electric load; a core-mounted submersible conductor coupled to die other of the power source or the electric load; and 


 a submersible magnetic core supporting and surrounding a portion of the core-mounted conductor, with die core-mounted conductor and magnetic core surrounding a portion of the first conductor and submersed in a liquid for transferring power from the source to the load.
51. A submersible contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 50 wherein a portion of the first conductor is slidably received widiin die core-mounted conductor and magnetic core for relative motion therebetween, with power transfer continuing during d e relative motion while submersed in the liquid.
52. A submersible contacdess power transfer system according to claim 51 wherein: the first conductor has an axial length, a submerged portion submersed in die liquid, and a surface portion extαiding from the liquid; and die surface portion of the first conductor is coupled to die power source.
53. A submersible contacdess power transfer system according to claim 52 wherein: the relative motion occurs along the axial length of the first conductor; and die core-mounted conductor is coupled to die electric load for travel along the axial length of the first conductor.
54. A submersible contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 50 wherein the core-mounted conductor is encapsulated in a shell of a waterproof electrically insulative material.
55. A submersible contacdess power transfer system according to claim 50, further including a first converter coupling the first conductor to the powα source. 56. A submersible contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 55 wherein the first converter comprises a high frequαicy resonant converter.
57. A submersible contacdess power transfer system according to claim 50 further including a second converter coupling die core-mounted conductor to the electric load.
58. A submersible contacdess powα transfer system according to claim 50 wherein: the first conductor has an axial length, a submerged portion submersed in the liquid, and a surface portion extαiding from the liquid, with die surface portion of the first conductor coupled to die power source; a portion of the first conductor is slidably received widiin d e core-mounted conductor and magnetic core for relative motion along the axial length of d e first conductor; die core-mounted conductor is coupled to die electric load for travel along the axial length of the first conductor, with powα transfer continuing during said travel while submersed in die liquid; die core-mounted conductor is encapsulated in a shell of a waterproof electrically insulative material; and die system further includes a high frequαicy resonant converter coupling d e first conductor to the power source, and a second converter coupling die core-mounted conductor to die electric load. 


 59. A submersible contacdess power transfer system according to claim 50 wherein the core-mounted conductor and core are radially movable around a periphery of the first conductor.
60. A submersible coupling link, comprising: a submersible sheath conductor for surrounding a portion of an elongate power conductor, die sheath conductor for coupling to an electric load submersed in a liquid; and a submersible magnetic core surrounding die sheath conductor to provide a flux path for a magnetic flux induced tiierein whαi the sheath conductor and core surround die powα conductor, said magnetic flux inducing a current flow within the sheath conductor to deliver powα from the powα conductor to a load when coupled therewith. 61. A submersible coupling link according to claim 60 wherein the power conductor has an insulative cover layer, and die sheath conductor is sized to slidably move along the length of die powα conductor.
62. A submersible coupling link according to claim 60 further including a shell of liquid impervious electrically insulative material encapsulating the sheath conductor. 63. A submersible coupling link according to claim 62 wherein the shell material is selected from one of the group consisting of a plastic, resin, teflon, rubber and synthetic elastomer.
64. A submersible coupling link according to claim 60 further including a core covering of an insulative durable material surrounding die core.
65. A submersible coupling link according to claim 60 wherein the sheath conductor and d e core are each φlit into first and second segmαits which are openable for disαigaging the power conductor and closable for αigaging the powα conductor for power transfer therebetween. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
