<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623454</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for producing a honeycomb article
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B31D300	B31D302	B29D9900	B29D9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B31D	B31D	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B31D3	B31D3	B29D99	B29D99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
When producing honeycomb articles, usually individual sections (13, 13', 13''), provided with adhesive strips (12, 12', 12''), are laid one on top of the other to form a pile (14). After completing the pile, the adhesive is then activated. In this case it is regarded as a disadvantage that the laying on of the strips provided with adhesive has to be carried out very carefully if it is wished to produce a high-precision honeycomb article. It is proposed that the adhesive strips (12, 12', 12'') be applied after laying a section (13, 13', 13'') to the respectively uppermost section (13) of the pile (14). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method for manufacturing a honeycomb element,

a section of a material being provided by means of an
application device with adhesive strips in regular

patterns;
stacks of sections of the material being formed, which
are laid on top of one another offset relative to one

another in relation to the strip patterns so that the
strips of an underlying section are arranged between the

strips of the respective overlying section in each case;
after laying a section onto the stack, the adhesive
strips are applied to the respective uppermost section;
respective superimposed sections are bonded together in
the region of the strips; and
the stack is expanded to form a honeycomb element,

characterised in that
a material web is withdrawn in the direction of
withdrawal from a supply roll,
the sections of the material are formed from the material
web, and
the regular patterns with adhesive strips are applied by
a pressure roller as application device, which comprises

receiving regions for the adhesive in the circumferential
direction of the pressure roller.
A method according to claim 1, characterised in that,
in a single working step with the application of the

adhesive strips to the uppermost section, the adhesive
strips at least of the directly underlying section are

activated.
A method according to claim 2, characterised in that
the activation is effected directly prior to the

application of the adhesive strips.
A method according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that substantially immediately prior to 

the application of the adhesive strips, air cushions are
removed at least from beneath the uppermost section.
A method according to claim 4, characterised in that
the air cushions are removed by means of a pressure roller,

which is guided over the uppermost section.
A method according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the offsetting of the strips is

effected by offsetting the application device.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 5,
characterised in that the offsetting of the strips is

effected by offsetting the stack.
A method according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the sections are overlaid with their

edges flush.
A method according to claim 8, characterised in that
the stack is held laterally.
A method according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the application device is displaced

over the substantially stationary stack for the application
of the adhesive.
A method according to one of claims 1 to 9,
characterised in that the stack is displaced relative to

the substantially stationary application device for the
application of the adhesive.
A method according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the adhesive is applied by moving the

application device relative to the stack in the direction
of the adhesive strips. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the adhesive is applied by a pressure

roller.
A method according to claim 12, characterised in that
the adhesive is applied by spraying.
A method according to one of claims 12 or 14,
characterised in that the adhesive is applied by

electrostatic transfer.
A device for manufacturing a honeycomb element,
comprising


an application device (20) for applying patterns of
adhesive strips (12) to a section (13) of a material and
a laying device (30) for forming a stack (14) of sections
(13), which are laid on top of one another offset relative

to one another in relation to the adhesive strip patterns,
so that the adhesive strips (12') of an underlying section

(13') lie between the strips (12) of the respective
overlying section (13), so that the stack (14) can be

expanded to a honeycomb element following a bonding
process, the application device (20) being arranged in the

region of the stack (14) in such a manner that the adhesive
strips (12) can be applied, after laying a section (13)

onto the stack (14), to the respective uppermost section
(13) and the position of the application device (20) is

preferably variable in a defined manner relative to the
stack (14) in a direction perpendicular to the adhesive

strips (12) to produce the offset arrangement of the
adhesive strips (12), characterised in that
a cutting device (15) for separating the sections (13)
from a material web (11) is provided and
the application device (20) is a pressure roller, which
comprises receiving regions (21) for the adhesive in the

circumferential direction of the pressure roller (20).
A device according to claim 16, characterised in that
an activating device (28) is provided and is applied to the

stack (14) in such a manner that, in a single working step
with the application of the adhesive strips (12) to the

uppermost section (13), the adhesive strips (12', 12'') of
the underlying sections (13', 13'') can be activated.
A device according to one of claims 16 or 17,
characterised by a device (28) which can be placed onto the

stack (14) and can be drawn under pressure preferably over
the stack in such a manner that air cushions between the

sections (13, 13', 13'') can be removed.
A device according to one of claims 16 to 18,
characterised in that the application device (20) can be

adjusted in such a manner that the width of the adhesive
strips (12) and/or their distance from one another can be

adjusted.
A device according to claim 19, characterised in that
the application device comprises a pressure roller (20),

which comprises receiving regions (21) in the
circumferential direction of the pressure roller (20) and

roller sections (23) separating the said receiving regions
(21), the roller sections (23) preferably being

replaceable.
A device according to claim 20, characterised in that
spacing elements (22), which are preferably replaceable,

are provided between the roller sections (23) for the
preparation of the receiving regions (21).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
