<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659934</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Press belt or sleeve, incorporating an open base carrier for use in long nip presses, and method of making same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29D2900	B29D2900	D21F100	D21F100	D21F302	D21F302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29D	B29D	D21F	D21F	D21F	D21F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29D29	B29D29	D21F1	D21F1	D21F3	D21F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A belt for a shoe press is constructed of an 
open-structure base or carrier which is coated with a 

solidified urethane coating material. The urethane 
coating is at least coextensive with the upper and lower 

surfaces of the base, and the base is preferably embedded 
within the coating. The belt is made by placing the 

open-structure base over a backing layer such as a coating 
belt or a layer of adhesive tape removably secured to 

the base, which in turn is trained about a pair of rollers 
so that the base overlies the backing layer. The 

urethane material, in liquid form, is poured onto the 
base, and flows through the openings and into the internal 

voids, and is supported by the backing layer. After 
the base is completely coated with the urethane material 

to form an endless belt, the belt is ground and removed 
from the backing layer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLETON MILLS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLETON MILLS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON MICHAEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE GAULT DENNIS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, MICHAEL C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE GAULT, DENNIS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of 
application S.N. 08/167,499, filed December 14, 1993. This invention relates to an endless belt for 
use in a shoe press. More particularly, the invention 
relates to a press jacket used on a sleeve type of shoe 
press such as the Voith Flexonip press, or to belting 
used on a Beloit-type long nip press. Hereafter, such a 
press jacket or belting will be referred to as a belt. A shoe press is used in a papermaking machine 
to dewater a fibrous web. The belt is typically used in 
combination with a felt, which functions to support the 
web between the belt and a cylindrical press roller. The 
belt is engaged by an arcuate pressure shoe, which includes 
a concave surface. The roller and the shoe cooperate 
to define a long nip through which the belt, felt 
and web pass to increase the dewatering of the web when 
compared to conventional nips on a papermaking machine. Prior art shoe press belts are shown in a 
number of patents. Adams U.S. Patent 4,552,620 teaches a paper-machine 
belt utilizing a two-part urethane system that is 
sprayed on an endless blanket of woven fabric. This 
process is seriously flawed, in that the spraying process 
creates voids in the urethane material. The presence of 
voids results in minimal abrasion resistance for the 
belt, which is a key characteristic for belts used in 
shoe presses. Other patents include Best U.S. Patent 
4,564,551 and Merckens U.S. Patent 5,175,037. Both of 
these patents teach incorporating a void volume in the 
belt itself by partially encapsulating a base structure 
with a polymeric resin. While this provides the paper-maker  
 
with an interesting concept to increase the dewatering 
capacity of the shoe press system, the structures 
disclosed in both patents have fundamental flaws. 
Specifically, the belts disclosed in these patents provide 
unsatisfactory operational performance and inadequate 
belt longevity. As to the former, the unsatisfactory 
operational performance is characterized by poor 
pressure profiles. The partially exposed base structure 
has supported intersections and unsupported legs. The 
unsupported legs tend to deform when compared to the supported 
intersections, during operation of the belt. This 
deformation causes a non-uniform pressure profile as the 
belt travels through the shoe press. The unsupported 
legs will also experience increased levels of flex fatigue 
due to repeated deformation when passing through 
the shoe press. This flex fatigue will also result in 
premature
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An endless, impervious belt for use in a 
long nip press, comprising: 

   an open-structure base defining first and 
second surfaces and a series of passages extending substantially 

perpendicularly to the first and second surfaces 
which are unimpeded to form internal voids; and 

   a polymeric resin coating applied to the base 
to embed the base therein, the polymeric coating filling 

the passages and the internal voids and extending at 
least coextensively with both the first and second surfaces 

of the base. 
The belt of claim 1, wherein the polymeric 
resin coating extends past both the first and second 

surfaces of the base to encapsulate the base therein. 
The belt of claim 1, wherein the belt is 
made by: 

   training an impervious coating belt about a 
pair of rollers to define an upper substantially horizontal 

run and a lower run; 
   placing the open-structure base over a backing, 

and training the base and backing about the pair of 
rollers such that the base defines an upper run; 

   driving at least one of the rollers to move the 
base fabric, resulting in movement of the upper run of 

the base fabric; 
   pouring the polymeric resin coating, in flowable 

form, onto the base such that the resin material 
passes through the passages and fills the voids, wherein 

the resin material flows onto the backing and is supported 
thereby to encase the base; and 

   solidifying the resin material. 
A method of making an endless, impervious 
belt for a long nip press, comprising applying a polymeric 

resin coating to an open-structure base, the base 
defining first and second surfaces and a series of passages 

 
extending substantially perpendicular to the first 

and second surfaces and including internal voids, and 
wherein the resin coating is applied so as to fill the 

passages and the internal voids and to extend at least 
coextensively with both the first and second surfaces of 

the base. 
The method of claim 4, wherein the polymeric 
resin coating is applied to the open-structure base by 

training an impervious coating belt about a pair of 
rollers to define an upper substantially horizontal run 

and a lower run, placing the base about the pair of 
rollers and over the coating belt such that the base 

defines an upper run overlying the upper run of the 
coating belt and in close proximity thereto, driving at 

least one of the rollers to simultaneously move the 
coating belt and the base to move the upper run of the 

coating belt and the base, and pouring the polymeric 
resin material, in flowable form, onto the base such that 

the resin material passes through the voids and passages 
of the base and onto the coating belt to encase the base, 

and solidifying the resin material. 
The method of claim 4, wherein the polymeric 
resin coating is applied to the open-structure base by 

engaging an adhesive backing layer with the lower surface 
of the base, training the base and the backing layer 

about a pair of rollers such that the rollers engage the 
backing layer, to define an upper substantially horizontal 

run of the base, driving at least one of the rollers 
to move the base and to thereby move its upper run, and 

pouring the polymeric resin material, in flowable form, 
onto the base such that the resin material passes through 

the voids and passages of the base and onto the backing 
layer to encase the base, and solidifying the resin 

material. 
The method of claim 4, wherein the step of 
applying the polymeric resin coating to the base comprises 

applying the coating such that the coating extends 
 

above an upper one of the first and second surfaces of 
the base. 
A method of making an endless, impervious 
belt for a long nip press, comprising the steps of: 

   placing a base fabric with a backing layer 
about the pair of rollers such that the base fabric 

defines an upper run, the base fabric defining upper and 
lower surfaces and voids which open onto the upper and 

lower surfaces; 
   driving at least one of the rollers to move the 

base fabric, resulting in movement of the upper run of 
the base fabric; 

   pouring a flowable polymeric resin material 
onto the base fabric such that the resin material passes 

through the voids and onto the backing layer coating 
belt, to encase the base fabric; 

   solidifying the resin material; and 
   removing the backing layer. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the backing 
layer comprises a coating belt trained about the pair of 

rollers to define an upper substantially horizontal run 
and a lower run, and wherein the step of placing the base 

fabric about the pair of rollers comprises placing the 
base fabric over the coating belt such that the base 

fabric overlies the upper run of the coating belt and is 
in close proximity thereto. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the backing 
layer comprises an adhesive layer adhered to the surface 

of the base fabric and engaged with the pair of rollers, 
and wherein driving at least one of the rollers to move 

the base fabric comprises driving the adhesive backing 
layer to move the base fabric, wherein the backing layer 

is removable from the base fabric after solidification of 
the resin material. 
The method of claim 8, further comprising 
the step of training the coating belt about two or more 

 
movable idler rollers disposed between the pair of rollers 

for varying the effective length of the coating belt. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the step of 
pouring a flowable polymeric resin material onto the base 

fabric takes place toward the upstream end of the base 
fabric upper run, wherein the resin material is solidified 

when it reaches the downstream one of the pair of 
rollers. 
The method of claim 8, wherein the step of 
pouring the resin material onto the base fabric comprises 

pouring a quantity of resin material onto the base fabric 
such that the upper surface of the resin material is 

spaced above the upper surface of the base fabric. 
The method of claim 9, wherein the lower 
surface of the base fabric is maintained in close proximity 

to the coating belt while the resin material is 
poured onto the base fabric, wherein the resin material 

defines a thin layer between the base fabric lower surface 
and the coating belt. 
A press arrangement for extracting water 
from a web of fibrous material, comprising: 

   a rotatable roller; 
   a press belt located adjacent the roller; and 

   a wet press fabric interposed between the belt 
and the roller, wherein the belt is arranged so as to 

exert pressure on the wet press fabric against the surface 
of the roller, and wherein the wet press fabric 

supports a fibrous web; 
   wherein the belt comprises an open-structure 

base defining first and second surfaces and a series of 
passages extending therebetween and including internal 

voids, and a polymeric resin coating applied to the base 
and filling the passages and the inter
nal voids, and 
extending at least coextensively with both the first and 

second surfaces of the base. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
