<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654084</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOLECULAR CLONING OF THE GENES REPONSIBLE FOR COLLAGENASE PRODUCTION FROM CLOSTRIDIUM HISTOLYTICUM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K3843	A61K3846	A61P3500	A61P3500	C07H2100	C07H2104	C12N121	C12N121	C12N952	C12N952	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1557	C12N1557	C12R119	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	C07H	C07H	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61P35	A61P35	C07H21	C07H21	C12N1	C12N1	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Genetically-engineered (E. coli) carrying vectors containing an insert that codes for non-native and native forms of (Clostridium histolyticum) collagenase. The recombinant DNA segments coding for collagenase are expressed efficiently in the transformed cells to yield enzymatically active and immunologically cross-reactive collagenase. Genetically-engineered collagenase is used for isolation of pancreatic islets, for isolation of endothelial cells, for the isolation of dispersed tumor cells, or for the treatment of "slipped disc".
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIGEN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIGEN INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEI SHAU-PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN HUN-CHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEI, SHAU-PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIN, HUN-CHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MOLECULAR CLONING OF THE GENESRESPONSIBLE FOR COLLAGENASE PRODUCTIONFROM CLOSTRIDIUM HISTOLYTICUMBACKGROUND This invention relates to the isolation and cloning of genetic information coding for Clostridium histolyticum collagenase and the expression of the genetic information in a suitable host. In particular, this invention is directed to the isolation and cloining of genetic information coding for forms of Clostridium histolyticum collagenase, including a form having a molecular weight higher than the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence.SUMMARYIn accordance with the present invention, a recombinant DNA segment is provided which codes for a polypeptide having the enzymatic activity and antigenicity of Clostridium histolvticiu collagenase. This polypeptide, however, is distinguishable from native C. histolyticum collagenases, that is, collagenases produced by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genome and subsequently purified from C. histolyticum. This polypeptide of the invention, referred to herein as a non- native form, has a higher molecular weight than the products of translation determined by the native expresion of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence.The claimed recombinant DNA segment comprises a promoter derived from C. histolyticum. This promoter 

operates independently and allows the claimed DNA segment to be transcribed under the control of said promoter to produce the claimed polypeptide without the functioning of a promoter external to the claimed recombinant DNA segment. The claimed recombinant DNA segment is further capable of expressing native polypeptides with collagenase activity having molecular weights lower than the claimed non-native, high molecular weight polypeptide.The invention further provides a vector comprising the claimed recombinant DNA segment and capable of transforming host cells to produce the claimed non-native polypeptide.The inventors found that the expression of the claimed recombinant DNA segment in transformed host cells is determined by the strain of the host cell. Accordingly, different E. coli host cells transformed with the vector of the invention are provided. One strain of host cells produces the non-native polypeptide of the invention having collagenase activity and antigenicity. Greater than 50% by weight of the total polypeptides produced by the host cells that have collagenase activity comprise the non-native high molecular weight polypeptide.The invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A recombinant DNA segment comprising DNA derived from Clostridium histolyticum coding for a polypeptide having the enzymatic activity of C. histolyticum collagenase, the polypeptide being distinguisable from the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence by having a higher molecular weight than the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence.
2. The DNA segment of claim 1 capable of being transcribed to yield mRNA, the mRNA capable of being translated to yield the polypeptide of claim 1.
3. The DNA segment of claim 1 capable of being transcribed to yield mRNA, the mRNA being capable of being translated to yield the polypeptide of claim 1 displaying the antigenicity of C. histolyticum collagenase.
4. The DNA segment of claim 1 wherein said DNA segment comprises a promoter derived from C. histolyticum such that said DNA segment when contained in the genome of a host cell can be transcribed under the control of said promoter and without the functioning of a promoter external to said DNA segment.
5. The DNA segment of claim 1 wherein the C. histolyticum structural gene is capable of further expressing polypeptides having collagenase activity, said polypeptides having molecular weights lower than the polypeptide of claim 1.
6. A vector comprising the DNA segment of claim 1 incorporated into a plasmid capable of transforming host 


cells, said plasmid selected from the group of plasmids consisting of those with both a drug resistance marker and a replication of origin.
7. The vector of claim 6 wherein said host cell is selected from the group consisting of E. coli. Bacillus subtilis, Clostridium histolyticum. and yeast.
8. E. coli host cells transformed with the vector of claim 6 and producing a polypeptide having collagenase activity and having the antigenicity of C. histolyticum collagenase, said polypeptide being distinguisable from the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence by having a higher molecular weight than the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence.
9« E. coli host cells transformed with the vector of claim 6 and producing polypeptides having collagenase activity wherein greater than about 50% by weight of the total polypeptides produced which have collagenase activity is comprised of a polypeptide having a higher molecular weight than the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence.
10. E. coli host cells transformed with the vector of claim 6 and producing a polypeptide having a molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons having collagenase activity, wherein said polypeptide of molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons comprises greater than about 50% by weight of the total polypeptides produced that have collagenase activity.
11. A substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a higher 


molecular weight than the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence.
12. The preparation of claim 10 purified from E. coli transformed with a vector comprising Clostridium DNA.
13. A substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons and prepared from E. coli transformed with a vector comprising Clostridium DNA.
14. A composition comprising a substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a higher molecular weight than the products of translation determined by the native expression of the C. histolyticum genomic coding sequence.
15. A composition comprising a substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons and prepared from E. coli transformed with a vector containing Clostridium DNA.
16. A method for digesting connective tissue and releasing embedded cells without destroying cell membranes and other essential structures comprising the steps of:
(a) incubating tissue in a buffered solution comprising said substantially purified collagenase of claim
11 with shaking at about 25-39° C to release and disperse the embedded cells; and
(b) separating the disperesed cells from tissue debris. 


 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of separating the dispersed cells from tissue debris is performed by density gradient centrifugation.
18. The method of claim 16 using a substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons and prepared from E. coli transformed with a vector comprising Clostridium DNA.
19. A method for isolating dispersed pancreatic islets comprising the steps of:
(a) incubating pancreatic tissue in a buffered solution comprising the substantially purifed collagenase of claim 11 with shaking at about 25-39° C to release and disperse the pancreatic islets; and
(b) separating the dispersed pancreatic islets from tissue debris.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of separating the dispersed pancreatic islets is performed by density gradient centrifugation.
21. The method of claim 19 using a substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons and prepared from E. coli transformed with a vector comprising Clostridium DNA.
22. A method for dissociating tumors comprising the steps of:
(a) incubating tumor tissue in a buffered solution comprising the substantially purified collagenase of claim 11 with shaking at about 25-39° C to dissociate and disperse the tumor cells; and
(b) separating the dispersed tumor cells from tissue debris. 


 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of separating the dispersed tumor cells is performed by density gradient centrifugation.
24. The method of claim 22 using a substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons and prepared from E. coli transformed with a vector comprising Clostridium DNA.
25. A method for intradiscal treatment of herniation of nucleus pulposus comprising the steps of:
(a) preparing a sterile buffered solution comprising the substantially purifed collagenase of claim 11; and (b) injecting the sterile buffered solution comprising the substantially purified collagenase into the nucleus pulposus.
26. The method of claim 25 using a substantially purified preparation of C. histolyticum collagenase, said collagenase having a molecular weight of about 110,000 daltons and prepared from E. coli transformed with a vector comprising Clostridium DNA. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
