<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634784</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Variable speed wafer exchange robot.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65G4907	B65G4907	H01L2102	H01L2102	H01L2167	H01L21677	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65G	B65G	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65G49	B65G49	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a variable speed robot 
(80) located adjacent to a plurality of stations (26 to 

32), including a wafer support assembly (84) capable of 
holding a wafer (36) and adapted to move between the 

staions sometimes holding a wafer and sometimes not 
holding a wafer. The wafer support is connected to a 

driver (102,104) which rotates the support about a 
rotational axis and causes the support to reciprocate 

between a retracted position and an extended position. 
The robot also includes a controller (78) that operates 

the driver at a first speed when the wafer support 
assembly holds a wafer and at a second speed when the 

wafer support assembly is not holding a wafer. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEPMAN AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEPMAN, AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to wafer exchange 
robots utilized in integrated vacuum process chambers and, 
more particularly, to a variable speed wafer exchange robot 
that moves at a slower speed when its wafer support carries 
a wafer and moves at a faster speed when the support is 
empty. Integrated circuit processing technology is 
continuously concerned with reducing the size of circuits 
both to increase the amount of circuitry that can be packed 
into an integrated circuit of a given size and to increase 
the speed of operation by reducing the distance that signals 
need to travel within a circuit. Particulates of a diameter 
even several times smaller than the size of a circuit 
component can cause failure of the integrated circuit if a 
particulate is present at a critical location on the circuit. 
This problem is especially acute for large-area integrated 
circuits such as microprocessors and four-megabyte or larger 
memories because such circuits have an increased area over 
which a critical defect can occur. The multi-layer structure of typical integrated 
circuits also increases the effect of particulates because a 
particulate incorporated into one level of a circuit can 
affect not only the circuitry on that level, but also  
 
circuitry on other levels. A defect in an embedded level of 
an integrated circuit can propagate through overlying layers, 
distorting the topography and thus disrupting operation of 
those circuit elements. For these reasons, it is important 
to minimize the amount of particulates that come into contact 
with a wafer immediately before and during processing. 
Accordingly, integrated vacuum process systems are used to 
limit particulate contamination. Integrated vacuum process systems generally include 
a central vacuum load lock chamber having a storage elevator 
for holding wafers and at least one and preferably a 
multiplicity of vacuum processing chambers mounted to its 
exterior. The storage elevator and the processing chambers 
communicate with the load lock chamber via closable entrance 
slits between the load lock chamber and the storage elevator 
and the processing chambers. Each of the processing chambers 
can be adapted to perform one or more processes including gas 
chemistry etching, gas chemistry deposition, physical 
sputtering and rapid thermal annealing of one or more wafers 
positioned within the chamber. Wafers are transferred from the storage elevator to 
the load lock chamber and then to the processing chamber by 
a wafer exchange robot
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A variable speed robot located adjacent to a 
plurality of stations, comprising: 

   a wafer support assembly adapted to hold a wafer, 
adapted to move between stations sometimes holding a 

wafer and sometimes not holding a wafer, adapted to 
move in a first direction and to move in a second 

direction; 
   a driver connected to the wafer support assembly 

to rotate and to reciprocate the wafer support 
assembly; and 

   a controller to control the driver at a first set 
of speed and acceleration when the wafer support 

assembly holds a wafer and at a second set of speed and 
acceleration when the wafer support assembly is not 

holding a wafer. 
A robot as claimed in claim 1, characterised 
in that the speed in the second set is faster than the 

speed in the first set. 
A robot as claimed in claim 2, characterised 
in that the speed in the first set is about 8 inches 

per second and the speed in the second set is about 32 
inches per second. 
A robot as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
3, characterised in that the acceleration in the second 

set is faster than the acceleration in the first set. 
A robot as claimed in claim 4, characterised 
in that the acceleration in the first set is about 4 

inches per second squared and the acceleration in the 
second set is about 16 inches per second squared. 
A robot as claimed in any of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the wafer support 

assembly includes: 
   a wafer support blade; and 

   at least one extension for converting rotations 
of the driver into rotation of the wafer support 

assembly about a rotational axis and a reciprocating 
movement between a retracted position and an extended 

position. 
A robot as claimed in any of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the driver includes: 

   a first motor; 
   a first coupling for coupling rotational movement 

from the first motor to the wafer support assembly; 
   a second motor; and 

   a second coupling for coupling rotational 
movement from the second motor to the wafer support 

assembly. 
A robot as claimed in claim 7, characterised 
in that both said first and second motors are stepper 

motors. 
A substrate transfer mechanism, comprising: 
   a movable substrate support for selectively 

holding a wafer on a surface thereof; 
   a driver selectively moving said substrate 

support in a plurality of directions; and 
   a controller controlling said driver to move said 

substrate support at a first set of one or more speeds 
and accelerations while said substrate support holds a 

substrate and at a second set of one or more speeds and 
accelerations while said substrate support does not 

hold a substrate. 
A substrate transfer mechanism as claimed in 
claim 9, wherein said first set of speeds and 

accelerations produce a smaller force on a substrate 
held by substrate support than said second set of 

speeds and accelerations. 
A substrate transfer mechanism as claimed in 
claim 9 or claim 10, characterised in that only said 

one or more speeds vary between said first and second 
sets. 
A substrate transfer mechanism as claimed in 
any of claims 9 to 11, characterised in that only said 

one or more accelerations vary between said first and 
second sets. 
A substrate transfer mechanism as claimed in 
claim 9 or claim 10, characterised in that both of said 

one or more speeds and of said one or more 
accelerations vary between first and second sets. 
A method for moving a robot adapted to hold 
a substrate while moving between a plurality of 

stations, comprising: 
   a first step of moving the robot at a first speed 

and with a first acceleration when the robot is holding 
a substrate; and 

   a second step of moving the robot at a second 
speed and with a second acceleration when the robot is 

not holding a substrate; 
   wherein at least one of said first speed and 

first acceleration substantially differs from a 
corresponding one of said second speed and second 

acceleration. 
A method as claimed in claim 15, 
characterised in that the second speed is faster than 

the first speed. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, 
characterised in that the second acceleration is faster 

than the first acceleration. 
A method as claimed in claim 17, 
characterised in that the second speed is faster than 

the first speed. 
A method as claimed in claim 17, 
characterised in that the first speed is about 8 inches 

per second, the second speed is about 32 inches per 
second, the first acceleration is about 4 inches per 

second squared and said second acceleration is about 16 
inches per second squared. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 14 to 
18, characterised in that both the first and second 

moving steps comprise rotating the robot about a 
rotational axis and moving the robot radially with 

respect to said rotational axis. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
