<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627895</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURGICAL INSTRUMENT FOR CUTTING HARD TISSUE AND METHOD OF USE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1716	A61B1716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical device (10) capable of cutting and removing medium to hard body tissue such as cartilage and bone from a joint region or similarly restricted interior space within the body is disclosed. The surgical instrument includes a stationary carrier sized for insertion into a joint or similar restricted interior space within the body and having a first and second end. The carrier (30) is provided an apical aperture at the end to be inserted into the joint. A cutter (40) is axially disposed within the carrier (30) and is provided with at least one cutting surface (41) at one end that protrudes from the aperture of the carrier (30). The cutter (40) is further provided an axial conduit (44) that terminates in at least one opening on or proximate to the cutting surface of the cutter (40). The cutter (40) is driven by a motor that moves the cutter (40) in a linearly reciprocating fashion that abrades away tissue depending on the configuration of the cutting surface. The cutter (40) is further provided with a vacuum source that is capable of creating suction at the opening of the axial conduit to draw tissue into the conduit opening and carry it away from the treatment site for disposal.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNVASIVE TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNVASIVE TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHER MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
-1-βURGICΛ IHSTRUHENT FOR CUTTING HARD TISSUE AND METHOD OF USEField of the Invention This invention relates generally to surgical devices, and more particularly to surgical devices suitable for arthroscopic and laporoscopic applications.Background of the InventionOver the last decade, minimally invasive surgical techniques have gained vide use and great popularity. Such techniques generally involve a combination of miniaturized cutting tools in concert with remote viewing devices that can be inserted through small incisions and delivered to a site well inside the body cavity to carry out desired surgery. Such techniques are advantageous over standard invasive surgery in that patient trauma is minimized and recovery time iε markedly shortened.One of the most popular applications of minimally invasive surgery iε in the area of arthroscopic surgery. Such surgery allows joints to be repaired without having to cut through or open up healthy areas of joint to be treated. However, operating within a joint iε limited by the εpace available among and between the joint tissues and ligamentε for maneuvering cutting devices.In response to space limitations imposed on cutting devices to be used within joints and similarly constrained spaces, cutters relying on the shearing forces created by the interaction of at least two -separate cutting surfaces have been proposed. United States Patent No. 4,203,444 to Bonnell et al. discloεeε 

one such device. The Bonnell device utilizes an outer tube having a side-facing, axially extending cutting port and an internal rotary blade. A vacuum conduit draws the tissue to be sheared into the cutting port while the rotary blade iε driven in shearing relation to the external tube. The vacuum further draws the cut body tissue through a tube lateral to the handle and out of a side port of the inεtrument for diεpoεal.United States Patent No. 4,601,290 to Effron et al. discloses another example of a shearing cutter.The Effron device utilizes an outer tube having both a side-facing and end facing cutting port with a cutting edge and an internal tube having an internal opening having cutting edges thereon. The external and internal openings and edges are relatively moveable to open to receive the body tissue there through and to close in order to cut body tiεsue. A vacuum means into the external and internal openings where the tissue iε sheared by the combined cutting forces of the internal and external tubes. The cut tissue iε then drawn through the inner tube and subsequently out of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A surgical instrument for cutting and removing medium to hard body tissue such as cartilage and bone from a joint region or similar restricted interior space within a body comprising: a) cutting means having a first and second end, said cutting means provided with a rasping pad at its first end and further provided with an axial conduit terminating in at least one opening on or proximate to the cutter; b) drive means connected to the second end of said cutting means, said drive means operative to move the rasping pad in a linearly reciprocating fashion thereby cutting away pieces of tisεue; and c) vacuum means operative to produce a suction force at the opening of the axial conduit of said cutting means for removing cut away tissue pieces from the interior space.
2. The surgical device of claim 1 wherein said cutting means is further provided with a blade at the first end and forward of the rasping pad for slicing or chopping tissue.
3. The surgical device of claim 2 wherein the rasping pad is provided with a plurality of sharp- pointed projections.
4. The surgical device of claim 2 wherein the rasping pad is provided with a plurality of sharp- edged projections. 


 5. The εurgical device of claim 3 wherein the sharp edges of the projections are substantially semi¬ circular in shape.
6. The εurgical device of claim 2 wherein the raεping pad is εubεtantially planar.
7. The εurgical device of claim 2 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a single opening forward of the rasping pad.
8. The εurgical device of claim 2 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a plurality of openings on the raεping pad.
9. A εurgical inεtrument for cutting and removing medium to hard body tiεεue εuch aε cartilage and bone from a joint region or εi ilar restricted interior space within a body comprising: a) cutting means having a first and second end, said cutting means provided with a cutter comprising a combination of a blade and a εubstantially planar rasping pad at its first end and further provided with an axial conduit terminating in an opening positioned between the blade and the rasping pad; b) drive means connected to the second end of said cutting means, said drive means operative to move the rasping pad in a linearly reciprocating fashion thereby cutting away pieces of tissue; and c) vacuum means operative to produce a suction force at the opening of the axial conduit 


 of said cutting means for removing cut away tissue pieces from the interior space.
10. A surgical instrument for cutting and removing medium to hard body tisεue such as cartilage and bone from a joint region or similar restricted interior space within a body comprising: a) stationary carrier means sized for insertion into a joint or similar restricted interior space within the body and having a first and second end, said carrier means provided at the first end an aperture; b) cutting meanε axially disposed within said carrier means and having a firεt and second end, said cutting means provided with a cutter at its first end disposed within and protruding from the aperture of said carrier means and further provided with an axial conduit terminating in at least one opening on or proximate to the cutter; c) drive means connected to the second end of said cutting means, said drive means operative to move the cutter in a linearly reciprocating fashion thereby cutting away pieceε of tissue; and d) vacuum means operative to produce a suction force at the opening of the axial conduit of said cutting means for removing cut away tissue pieces from the interior space.
11. The surgical instrument of claim 10 wherein the cutter iε provided with a raεping pad.
12. The εurgical inεtrument of claim 11 wherein the cutter iε further provided with a blade forward of 


the rasping pad.
13. The εurgical instrument of claim 12 wherein the axial conduit terminates in an opening positioned between the blade and the rasping pad.
14. The surgical device of claim 11 wherein the rasping pad iε provided with a plurality of sharp- pointed projections.
15. The surgical device of claim 11 wherein the rasping pad iε provided with a plurality of εharp- edged projections.
16. The εurgical device of claim 15 wherein the εharp edges of the projections are substantially semi¬ circular in εhape.
17. The εurgical device of claim 11 wherein the rasping pad is subεtantially planar.
18. The surgical device of claim 11 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a single opening forward of the rasping pad.
19. The εurgical device of claim 11 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a plurality of openings on the rasping pad.
20. A εurgical instrument for cutting and removing medium to hard body tissue such as cartilage and bone from a joint region or similar restricted interior space within a body comprising: 


 a) stationary carrier means sized for insertion into a joint or similar restricted interior space within the body and having a first and second end, said carrier means provided at the first end an aperture; b) cutting means axially disposed within said carrier means and having a first and second end, said cutting means provided with a cutter having a substantially planar rasping pad and a blade forward of the rasping pad, the cutter disposed within and protruding from the aperture at the first end of said carrier means, said cutting means further provided with an axial conduit terminating in an opening positioned between the blade and the rasping pad of the cutter; c) drive means connected to the second end of said cutting means, said drive means operative to move the cutter in a linearly reciprocating fashion thereby cutting away pieces of tisεue; and d) vacuum meanε operative to produce a suction force at the opening of the axial conduit of said cutting means for removing cut away tissue pieces from the interior space.
21. The surgical instrument of claim 20 wherein the raεping pad iε provided with a plurality of sharp- pointed projections.
22. The surgical instrument of claim 10 wherein the aperture of said carrier means forms a track which guides the linearly reciprocating movement of the cutter of said cutter means. 


 23. The εurgical instrument of claim 22 wherein the cutter is provided with a raεping pad.
24. The εurgical instrument of claim 23 wherein the cutter is further provided with a blade forward of the rasping pad.
25. The εurgical instrument of claim 24 wherein the axial conduit terminates in an opening positioned between the blade and the rasping pad.
26. The εurgical device of claim 25 wherein the raεping pad iε provided with a plurality of εharp- pointed projections.
27. The εurgical device of claim 25 wherein the raεping pad iε provided with a plurality of εharp- edged projections.
28. The surgical device of claim 25 wherein the sharp edges of the projections are substantially semi¬ circular in shape.
29. The εurgical device of claim 25 wherein the rasping pad is substantially planar.
30. The εurgical device of claim 25 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a single opening forward of the rasping pad. 


 31. The surgical device of claim 25 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a plurality of openings on the rasping pad.
32. A surgical instrument for cutting and removing medium to hard body tissue such as cartilage and bone from a joint region or similar restricted interior space within a body comprising: a) cutting means having a first and second end, said cutting means provided with a cutter having a substantially planar rasping pad haying a plurality of sharp-pointed projections and a blade forward of the rasping pad, said cutting means further provided with an axial conduit terminating in an opening positioned between the blade and the rasping pad of the cutter; b) stationary carrier means having a first and second end, axially and slidably disposed around said cutting means, εaid carrier meanε sized for insertion into a joint or similar restricted interior space within the body and provided at the first end with an aperture for receipt of and for guiding the linearly reciprocating motion of the cutter; c) drive meanε connected to the εecond end of εaid cutting means, said drive means operative to move the cutter in a linearly reciprocating fashion thereby cutting away pieces of tissue; and d) vacuum means operative to produce a suction force at the opening of the axial conduit of said cutting means for removing cut away tissue pieces from the interior space. 


 33. A εurgical instrument for cutting and removing medium to hard body tiεεue εuch as cartilage and bone from a desired operation site within a joint or εimilar restricted interior space within a body comprising: a) cutting means having a first and second end, εaid cutting means provided with a raεping pad at its first end and further provided with an axial conduit terminating in at least one opening on or proximate to the cutter; b) drive means connected to the second end of said cutting means, εaid drive means operative to move the rasping pad in a linearly reciprocating fashion thereby cutting away pieces of tissue; c) freezing means for delivering a liquified inert gas to the operation site to harden soft tissue for cutting; d) vacuum means operative to produce a suction force at the opening of the axial conduit of said cutting means for removing cut away tissue pieces from the interior space.
34. The εurgical device of claim 33 wherein εaid cutting means is further provided with a blade at the first end and forward of the rasping pad for slicing or chopping tisεue.
35. The εurgical device of claim 34 wherein the raεping pad iε provided with a plurality of εharp- pointed projections. 


 36. The surgical device of claim 34 wherein the rasping pad iε provided with a plurality of sharp- edged projections.
37. The surgical device of claim 34 wherein the sharp edges of the projections are substantially semi¬ circular in shape.
38. The surgical device of claim 34 wherein the rasping pad is εubstantially planar.
39. The εurgical device of claim 34 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a single opening forward of the rasping pad.
40. The surgical device of claim 34 wherein the axial conduit terminates in a plurality of openings on the rasping pad. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
