<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620184</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multipurpose wine bottle stopper removing device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67B700	B67B706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67B	B67B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67B7	B67B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device is described for removing either a cork or a 
mushroom-shape stopper from a bottle. It includes a support 

frame (10) having a bottom ring (17), 
a top cap member (11) with a threaded hole (13) 

extending therethrough and at least two circumferentially 
spaced longitudinal support members (12) extending between the top 

cap (11) and bottom ring (17). A threaded shaft (15) 
is mounted in the top cap threaded hole (13), this 

shaft having a handle (16) mounted on the upper end thereof. A 
stopper gripping and pulling member (20) is included for a 

mushroom-shaped stopper comprising a bridge member (21) connected 
to the lower end of the threaded shaft such that the threaded 

shaft is free to rotate relative to the bridge member while 
being fixed against relative axial movement, guideways (27) in the 

bridge member for receiving the support frame longitudinal 
support members (12) thereby preventing rotation of the bridge 

member (21), a pair of opposed stopper gripping arms (22) extending 
downwardly from the bridge member and 

adapted to swing outwardly from the 
bridge member to release a pulled stopper. Also included is a 

cork pulling member (50) comprising a stem portion (51) with a handle 
(52) at 

one end and cork screw portion (53) at the other end, the cork 
screw stem extending through an axial hole (42) in the threaded 

shaft with the cork screw handle projecting above the threaded 
shaft handle. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WINE PAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WINE PAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ST DENIS ANDREW R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ST. DENIS, ANDREW R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device for removing a stopper 
from a bottle, and more particularly, for removing either a 
cork or a mushroom-shaped stopper from a wine bottle. It is now commonplace to use a form of plastic stopper 
for wine bottles, particularly sparkling wine or champagne 
bottles. These plastic stoppers have the advantage of being 
very inexpensive, but they do present problems that are 
avoided with traditional bottle corks. Thus, when removing 
traditional corks, a cork screw is turned into the cork for 
pulling and this not only provides a pulling means but also a 
means for controlling the cork from flying when released from 
the bottle. It is not possible to use a cork screw with a 
plastic stopper and, therefore, these stoppers are formed with 
a bulbous head as a means for grasping the stopper for 
pulling. Because this is not a very efficient means for 
pulling, it is commonplace to form the stopper with a 
relatively loose fit in the bottle and provide a wire cage 
over the bulbous head to hold the stopper from accidentally 
releasing due to pressure in the bottle. This pressure may be 
as high as 40 psi. Also, when the plastic stopper is released 
it frequently becomes a dangerous projectile with the release 
of gas pressure in the bottle and has caused serious eye 
injuries. Because the plastic stopper is a dangerous 
projectile, some wine makers for safety reasons actually use 
much more expensive mushroom-shaped stoppers formed from cork. 
A cork stopper inflicts much less damage as a projectile than 
does a plastic stopper. There is still a need for a very simple and inexpensive 
device which is very easy to use and which is capable of 
removing a plastic bottle stopper without allowing the stopper 
to become a projectile. To be commercially viable, the device 
must also be very easy to use, while being formed from a bare 
minimum of plastic parts. Numerous devices have heretofore been proposed for 
removing stoppers from bottles. A particularly significant  
 
design is that shown in U.S. Patent 4,756,214 which issued 
July 12, 1988. The device of this patent goes a long way to 
meeting the above criteria in terms of safety but it remains a 
relatively complicated device including a slidable collar to 
permit engagement with the mouth of the bottle. An example of the use of a wire cage to prevent 
accidental release of a stopper is shown in U.S. Patent 
4,708,033. Because a stopper will sometimes pop out by itself 
when the wire cage is removed, it is important that the 
s
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for removing either a cork or a mushroom-shaped 
stopper from a bottle, comprising: 


(a) a support frame having a bottom ring member adapted 
to engage the neck of a wine bottle, a top cap member with a 

threaded hole extending therethrough and at least two 
circumferentially spaced longitudinal support members 

extending between the top cap and bottom ring, 
(b) a threaded shaft having an upper end and a lower end 
mounted in said top cap threaded hole, this shaft having a 

handle mounted on the upper end thereof, 
(c) a stopper gripping and pulling member for a mushroom-shaped 
stopper comprising a bridge member connected to the 

lower end of said threaded shaft such that the threaded shaft 
is free to rotate relative to the bridge member while being 

fixed against relative axial movement, guideways in said 
bridge member for receiving said support frame longitudinal 

support members thereby preventing rotation of said bridge 
member, a pair of opposed stopper gripping arms extending 

downwardly from said bridge member, said gripping arms having 
at the lower ends thereof inwardly extending gripper dogs 

adapted to slide downwardly over the top of a mushroom-shaped 
stopper in a bottle and grip the stopper for pulling and these 

gripper arms being further adapted to swing outwardly from 
said bridge member to release a pulled stopper, and 
(d) a cork pulling member comprising a stem portion with 
a handle at one end and cork screw portion at the other end, 

said cork screw stem extending through an axial hole in said 
threaded shaft with the cork screw handle projecting above 

said threaded shaft handle, said cork screw member being 
adapted to be screwed into a cork in a bottle by turning the 

cork screw handle and being adapted to pull the cork from the 
bottle by turning the handle of the threaded shaft whereby the 

thread shaft handle engages the cork screw handle thereby 

lifting the cork screw and cork. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein a disc member 
is attached to the lower end of said threaded shaft, said disc 

having an axially upwardly extending collar which is received 
in a hole in said bridge member, permitting rotation of said 

shaft relative to the bridge member. 
A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the disc 
member is permanently fixed to the lower end of the threaded 

shaft. 
A device as claimed in claim 3 wherein the bridge 
member is fixed against relative axial movement on said 

threaded shaft by means of resilient tabs projecting from said 
threaded shaft. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the cork 
pulling member includes a shoulder portion below the handle 

thereof, said shoulder being adapted to press against the top 
of the handle of the threaded shaft while pulling a cork. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the handle of 
the threaded shaft is detachably connected thereto. 
A device for removing a mushroom-shaped stopper from 
a wine bottle, comprising: 


(a) a support frame having a bottom ring member adapted 
to engage the neck of a wine bottle, a top cap member with a 

threaded hole extending therethrough and at least two 
circumferentially spaced longitudinal rods extending between 

the top cap and bottom ring, 
(b) a threaded shaft having an upper end and a lower end 
mounted in said top cap threaded hole, this shaft having a 

handle mounted on the upper end thereof, and 
(c) a stopper gripping and pulling member comprising a 
bridge member connected to the lower end of said threaded 

shaft such that the threaded shaft is free to rotate relative 
to the bridge member while being fixed against relative axial 

movement, guideways in said bridge member for receiving said 
support frame longitudinal rods thereby preventing rotation of 

said bridge member, a pair of opposed stopper gripping arms 
 

extending downwardly from said bridge member, said gripping 
arms having at the lower ends thereof inwardly extending 

gripper dogs adapted to slide downwardly over the top of a 
mushroom-shaped stopper and grip the stopper for pulling and 

these gripper arms being further adapted to swing outwardly 
from said bridge member to release a pulled stopper. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
