<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611125</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic zoom control and image stabilization
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5232	H04N5232	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A video camera comprises: a lens for collecting a 
light (1) from an object to be photographed; and image pickup 

device (3) for converting the light collected by the lens into 
an electrical signal; and analog to digital converting 

circuit (9) for converting the electric signal from the image 
pickup device into a digital signal; a memory circuit (14) for 

storing the digital signal obtained by the analog to digital 
conversion; shake detecting means (21A,21B) for detecting a shake of 

the video camera; calculating means (20) for obtaining a 
correction amount from an output signal of the shake 

detecting means; correcting means (5,14,20) for correcting a shake of 
an image accompanied with a slight shake of a body of the 

video camera on the basis of an output signal of the 
calculating means; zoom means (1,15) for enlarging or reducing the 

object to be photographed; and control means (20) for changing 
the correcting means in accordance with a change of zoom of 

the zoom means. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKADA MIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKADA, MIYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a video camera
and a video signal reproducing apparatus, each having a hand
shake correcting function.In recent years, in association with the
miniaturization and light weight of video cameras, a problem
of hand shake has come to easily occur. Therefore, a video
camera having a hand shake correcting function has been put
into practical use.As a hand shake correcting method of such a video
camera, there has been known a method whereby a shake of the
camera is detected by an angular velocity sensor and a
cut-out position in an image memory is shifted in accordance
with an output of the angular velocity sensor.In such a hand shake correcting method of the
video camera, the output of the angular velocity sensor is
integrated by a low pass filter, and is converted from an
angular velocity into an angle, thereby obtaining a
correction amount. On the basis of the correction amount,
an image plane is shifted. A limiter to set a correction
limit value of an output of the low pass filter is provided
so that the correction amount does not exceed the limit
value.The video camera having the image memory can
enlargedly interpolate the image plane stored in the image
memory. Such a function is called an electronic zoom. On
the other hand, a zoom in which a zoom lens is moved is
called an optical zoom.In case of the hand shake correcting method such
that a movement of the camera is detected by the angular
velocity sensor and the correction is performed in
accordance with the cut-out position in the image memory 
(for example, European Patent Application Publication No.
0498730), the shake of the image plane enhances with an
increase in zoom magnification in the optical zoom region.
It is, therefore, necessary to increase the correction
amount in proportion to the zoom magnification.On the other hand, in an electronic zoom region,
it is sufficient to set the correction gain constant. This
is because in the electronic zoom region, for example, in
case of the electronic zoom of the double magnification,
when there is a hand shake of (n) lines, the reading
position in the image memory is shifted by (n) lines. Then,
the content of the image memory is interpolated by two times
and is read out. When the image data is shifted by (n)
lines and is interpolated by two times and is read out, the
correction of (2n) lines is executed.Such a hand shake correcting apparatus has a low
pass filter to convert from an angular velocity based on the
shake of the camera detected by the angular velocity

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A video camera comprising:

a lens (1) for collecting a light from an object
to be photographed;
an image pickup device (3) for converting the
light collected by said lens into an electric signal;
an analog to digital converting circuit (9) for
converting the electric signal from said image pickup device

(3) into a digital signal;
a memory circuit (14) for storing said digital
signal obtained by said analog to digital conversion;
shake detecting means (21A, 21B) for detecting a
shake of said video camera;
calculating means (20) for obtaining a correction
amount from an output signal of said shake detecting means;
correcting means (15, 12, 14, 15) for correcting a
shake of an image accompanied with a slight shake of a body

of said video camera on the basis of an output signal of
said calculating means;

characterised by a non-linear limiter circuit
(68B) for limiting the correction amount from said calculating

means (20) such that the correction amount gradually approaches a
correction limit (LMT).
The video camera of claim 1 further comprising:

zoom means (1, 15) for enlarging or reducing said
object to be photographed; and
control means (20) for changing said correcting
means in accordance with a change of zoom of said zoom

means.
A video signal reproducing apparatus comprising:

an analog to digital converting circuit (9) for
converting an input video signal into a digital signal; 
a memory circuit (19) for storing said digital
signal obtained by said analog to digital conversion;
shake detecting means for detecting a shake of an
image plane generated by said video signal;
calculating means (20) for obtaining a correction

amount from an output signal of said shake detecting means;
correcting means (12, 14, 15) for correcting a
shake of an image accompanied with a slight shake of said

image plane on the basis of an output signal of said
calculating means (20);

characterised by a non-linear limiter circuit
(68B) for limiting the correction amount from said calculating

means (20) such that the correction amount gradually approaches a
correction limit (LMT).
The video signal reproducing apparatus of claim 3
further comprising:


zoom means (1, 15) for enlarging or reducing said
object to be photographed; and
control means (20) for changing said correcting
means in accordance with a change of zoom of said zoom

means.
The video camera according to claim 2, wherein
said zoom means comprises an optical zoom (1).
The video camera according to claim 2 or 5 or the
video signal reproducing apparatus according to claim 4,

wherein said zoom means comprises an electronic zoom (15).
The video camera according to claim 6, wherein
said zoom means is controlled so that said optical zoom (1)

operates first and said electronic zoom (15) operates when a
zoom amount by said optical zoom (1) reaches its maximum.
The video camera according to any one of claims 2,
5 or 6, wherein a window (12) for a predetermined focus 

adjustment is set in said image pickup device (13) and the
window is moved in accordance with a change of zoom of said

zoom means.
The video signal reproducing apparatus according
to any one of claims 4 or 6, wherein a window (12) for a

predetermined focus adjustment is set in the image plane and
the window is moved in accordance with a change of zoom of

said zoom means.
The video camera according to claims 6, 7 or 8
(when dependent from claim 6) or the video signal

reproducing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the
electronic zoom means (15) performs an electrical zooming

process by using an image memory (14).
The video camera according to claim 10, wherein
said image memory (14) is used for both said electronic zoom

(15) and a hand shake correction.
The video signal reproducing apparatus according
to claim 10, wherein said image memory (14) is used for both

said electronic zoom (15) and a shake correction of the
image plane.
The video camera according to claim 11, wherein
said electronic zoom (15) performs a hand shake correction

in the horizontal direction of said video camera by shifting
the read-out position in one line of said image memory (14).
The video signal reproducing apparatus according
to claim 12, wherein said electronic zoom (15) performs a

shake correction of the image plane in the horizontal
direction by shifting the read-out position in one line of

said image memory (14). 
The video camera according to claim 13, wherein
said image pickup device (3) has an image pickup area larger

than an area which is actually displayed, and a hand shake
correction in the horizontal and vertical directions is

performed by changing a read-out position in the horizontal
and vertical directions in the image pickup area (3).
The video signal reproducing apparatus according
to claim 14, wherein said image memory (14) has an image

area larger than an area which is actually displayed, and a
shake correction in the horizontal and vertical directions

is performed by changing a read-out position in the
horizontal and vertical directions in the plane.
The video camera according to any one of claims 1,
2, 5-8, 10, 11, 13 or 15, wherein said shake detecting means

uses angular motion sensors (21A, 21B) which detect shakes
in the vertical and horizontal directions of said video

camera.
The video signal reproducing apparatus according
to any one of claims 3, 4, 6, 10, 12, 14 or 16, wherein said

shake detecting means uses motion vector sensors which
detect shakes in the vertical and horizontal directions of

the image plane.
The video camera according to claim 17, or the
video signal reproducing apparatus according to claim 18,

wherein said calculating means comprises a gain adjusting
circuit for performing a negative adjustment of gain for

output signals obtained from said motion sensors.
The video camera or video signal reproducing
apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said gain adjusting

circuit comprises a multiplying circuit (54A, 54B) for 
adjusting a variation of said motion sensors.
The video camera or video signal reproducing
apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said gain adjusting

circuit further comprises a coring circuit (56A, 56B) for
eliminating noises in an output signal of said multiplying

circuit.
The video camera or video signal reproducing
apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said gain adjusting

circuit further comprises a low pass filter circuit (61A,
61B) for converting angular or linear velocity information

of an output signal of said coring circuit (56A, 56B) into
angular information.
The video camera or video signal reproducing
apparatus according to claim 22, wherein said gain adjusting

circuit further comprises the limiter circuit (68A, 68B) for
limiting an amplitude of an output signal of said low pass

filter.
The video camera or video signal reproducing
apparatus according to claim 23, wherein said limiter

circuit (68B) performs a nonlinear process in which a
limiting amount is changed in accordance with a level of an

output signal.
The video camera according to claim 23 or 24,
wherein said limiter circuit (68B) is controlled so that the

limiting amount is changed in accordance with a speed of
panning of said video camera.
The video signal reproducing apparatus according
to claim 23 or 24, wherein said limiter circuit (68B) is

controlled so that the limiting amount is changed in 
accordance with a speed of panning of said image plane.
The video camera according to claim 23, 24 or 25,
wherein said limiter circuit (68B) is controlled so that the

limiting amount is changed in accordance with a zoom amount
of said video camera.
The video signal reproducing apparatus according
to claim 23, 24 or 26, wherein said limiter circuit (68B) is

controlled so that the limiting amount is changed in
accordance with a zoom amount of the image plane.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
