<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641244</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TREATMENT OF ACID GAS USING HYBRID MEMBRANE SEPARATION SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5322	B01D5322	C01B1700	C01B1704	C01B1716	C07C700	C07C7144	C07C900	C07C904	C10L300	C10L310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C01B	C01B	C01B	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C10L	C10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	C01B17	C01B17	C01B17	C07C7	C07C7	C07C9	C07C9	C10L3	C10L3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for separating acid gas from natural gas which utilizes a hybrid membrane system comprising a hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly, an acid gas membrane assembly, and, optionally, a dehydration membrane assembly. This hybrid membrane system is preferably used together with a means for converting the separated hydrogen sulfide into elemental sulfur, i.e., a Claus sulfur plant. The hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly preferably comprises a gel polymer membrane, molten salt membrane and/or rubber copolymer membrane. The acid gas membrane assembly preferably comprises a cellulose acetate membrane, polyimide membrane, polysiloxane membrane, and/or pyrolone membrane. The dehydration membrane assembly preferably comprises a polysiloxane membrane.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXXON CHEMICAL PATENTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KORIN AMOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KORIN, AMOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TREATMENT OF ACID GAS USING HYBRID MEMBRANE SEPARATION SYSTEMSThe present invention relates generally to the use of various hybrid membrane separation systems to separate hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide from natural gas feedstrea s. In particular, the hybrid membrane separation systems combine an acid gas membrane system and at least one hydrogen sulfide membrane system in various configurations to provide for the separation of acid gas and concentration of hydrogen sulfide from a natural gas feedstream such that a hydrocarbon-rich retentate can be sent directly to a pipeline and wherein the resultant hydrogen sulfide-rich permeate stream is satisfactory for use in a Claus sulfur plant.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMixtures of hydrogen sulfide with other gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, are found in a number of gas streams. For example, mixtures of hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, water, and methane are found in natural gases. U.S. pipeline specifications for natural gas only permit 2% carbon dioxide and 4 ppm hydrogen sulfide. Therefore, it is necessary to remove hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide (also referred to as "acid gas") from the gas mixtures for the purpose of purifying the gas mixture or recovering the 

 acid gas. Also, it is often necessary to purify a gaseous hydrocarbon stream to produce sweet, dry gas which will not poison certain catalysts and which can meet the usual pipeline specifications. It is also highly desirable to recover the hydrogen sulfide as a source of elemental sulfur. That is, during the separation of hydrogen sulfide from sour natural gas, it is desirable to selectively separate the hydrogen sulfide without removing all of the carbon dioxide. Usually, the separated hydrogen sulfide and a portion of the carbon dioxide are delivered to a Claus sulfur plant for conversion to elemental sulfur.Typical natural gas processing plant flow sheets are set forth in Figs. 1 and 2, attached hereto. Fig. 1 depicts a natural gas process wherein sour natural gas is fed to a gas/liquor separation unit 10 and the resultant gaseous product is sent to an amine absorption or cryogenic fractionation unit 12 for the purpose of removing hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide from the gas. Amine absorption unit 12 separates the components and delivers hydrogen sulfide to Claus sulfur plant 14, carbon dioxide to compressor 16, and methane to dehydration unit 18. Claus sulfur plant 14 produces elemental sulfur which is sent to storage facility 20 and tail gases which are sent to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A hybrid membrane system for separating acid gas from natural gas which comprises: a hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly; and an acid gas membrane assembly.
2. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a means for converting hydrogen sulfide into elemental sulfur.
3. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a dehydration membrane assembly.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly comprises at least one hydrogen sulfide membrane module.
5. The system according claims 4, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module comprises a hydrogen sulfide selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes. 


 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein said hydrogen sulfide selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: gel polymer membranes, molten salt membranes and rubber copolymer membranes.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said acid gas membrane assembly comprises at least one acid gas membrane module.
9. The system according claims 8, wherein said acid gas membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
10. The system according to claim 9, wherein said acid gas membrane module comprises an acid gas selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein said acid gas selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: cellulose acetate membranes, polyimide membranes, polysiloxane membranes, and pyrolone membranes. 


 12. The system according to claim 3, wherein said dehydration membrane assembly comprises at least one dehydration membrane module.
13. The system according claims 12, wherein said dehydration membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein said dehydration membrane module comprises a dehydration selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein said dehydration selective membrane is a polysiloxane membrane.
16. A hybrid membrane system for separating acid gas from natural gas which comprises: an acid gas membrane assembly; a first hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly; and a second hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly.
17. The system according to claim 16 further comprising a means for converting hydrogen sulfide into elemental sulfur. 


 18. The system according to claim 16 further comprising a dehydration membrane assembly.
19. The system according to claim 16, wherein said first and second hydrogen sulfide membrane assemblies each comprise at least one hydrogen sulfide membrane module.
20. The system according claims 19, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
21. The system according to claim 20, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module comprises a hydrogen sulfide selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
22. The system according to claim 21, wherein said hydrogen sulfide selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: gel polymer membranes, molten salt membranes and rubber copolymer membranes.
23. The system according to claim 16, wherein said acid gas membrane assembly comprises at least one acid gas membrane module. 


 24. The system according claims 23, wherein said acid gas membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
25. The system according to claim 24, wherein said acid gas membrane module comprises an acid gas selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
26. The system according to claim 25, wherein said acid gas selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: cellulose acetate membranes, polyimide membranes, polysiloxane membranes, and pyrolone membranes.
27. The system according to claim 18, wherein said dehydration membrane assembly comprises at least one dehydration membrane module.
28. The system according claims 27, wherein said dehydration membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules. 


 29. The system according to claim 28, wherein said dehydration membrane module comprises a dehydration selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
30. The system according to claim 29, wherein said dehydration selective membrane is a polysiloxane membrane.
31. A method for separating acid gas from a natural gas feedstream which comprises: feeding said natural
'
gas feedstream to a hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly wherein hydrogen sulfide is separated from said natural gas feedstream as a hydrogen sulfide-rich permeate; feeding the natural gas retentate from said hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly to an acid gas membrane assembly wherein carbon dioxide is separated from said natural gas retentate and wherein a hydrocarbon-rich retentate is sent to a pipeline; and feeding said hydrogen sulfide-rich permeate to a means capable of converting said hydrogen sulfide to elemental sulfur. 


 32. The method according to claim 31 further comprising the step of feeding said hydrocarbon-rich retentate of said acid gas membrane assembly to a dehydration membrane assembly to remove water prior to feeding the dehydrated hydrocarbon-rich retentate to said pipeline.
33. The method according to claim 31, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly comprises at least one hydrogen sulfide membrane module.
34. The method according claims 33, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
35. The method according to claim 34, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module comprises a hydrogen sulfide selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
36. The method according to claim 35, wherein said hydrogen sulfide selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: gel polymer membranes, molten salt membranes and rubber copolymer membranes. 


 37. The method according to claim 31, wherein said acid gas membrane assembly comprises at least one acid gas membrane module.
38. The method according claims 37, wherein said acid gas membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
39. The method according to claim 38, wherein said acid gas membrane module comprises an acid gas selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
40. The method according to claim 39, wherein said acid gas selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: cellulose acetate membranes, polyimide membranes, polysiloxane membranes, and pyrolone membranes.
41. The method according to claim 32, wherein said dehydration membrane assembly comprises at least one dehydration membrane module. 


 42. The method according claims 41, wherein said dehydration membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
43. The method according to claim 42, wherein said dehydration membrane module comprises a dehydration selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
44. The method according to claim 43, wherein said dehydration selective membrane is a polysiloxane membrane. 

45. A method for separating acid gas from a natural gas feedstream which comprises: feeding said natural gas feedstream to an acid gas membrane assembly wherein hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide are separated from said natural gas feedstream as an acid gas permeate, and wherein a hydrocarbon-rich retentate is sent to a pipeline; feeding said acid gas permeate to a hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly wherein hydrogen sulfide is separated from said acid gas permeate as a hydrogen sulfide- rich permeate; and feeding said hydrogen sulfide-rich permeate to a means capable of converting said hydrogen sulfide to elemental sulfur.
46. The method according to claim 45 further comprising the step of feeding said hydrocarbon-rich retentate of said acid gas membrane assembly to a dehydration membrane assembly to remove water prior to feeding the dehydrated hydrocarbon-rich retentate to said pipeline.
47. The method according to claim 45, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly comprises at least one hydrogen sulfide membrane module. 


 48. The method according claims 47, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
49. The method according to claim 48, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module comprises a hydrogen sulfide selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
50. The method according to claim 49, wherein said hydrogen sulfide selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: gel polymer membranes, molten salt membranes and rubber copolymer membranes.
51. The method according to claim 45, wherein said acid gas membrane assembly comprises at least one acid gas membrane module.
52. The method according claims 51, wherein said acid gas membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules. 


 53. The method according to claim 52, wherein said acid gas membrane module comprises an acid gas selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
54. The method according to claim 53, wherein said acid gas selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: cellulose acetate membranes, polyimide membranes, polysiloxane membranes, and pyrolone membranes.
55. The method according to claim 46, wherein said dehydration membrane assembly comprises at least one dehydration membrane module.
56. The method according claims 55, wherein said dehydration membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
57. The method according to claim 56, wherein said dehydration membrane module comprises a dehydration selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes. 


 58. The method according to claim 57, wherein said dehydration selective membrane is a polysiloxane membrane.
59. A method for separating acid gas from a natural gas feedstream which comprises: feeding said natural gas feedstream to an acid gas membrane assembly wherein hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide are separated from said natural gas feedstream as an acid gas permeate; feeding said acid gas permeate from said acid gas membrane assembly to a first hydrogen sulfide system membrane assembly wherein hydrogen sulfide is separated from said acid gas permeate as a first hydrogen sulfide-rich permeate; feeding the natural gas retentate to a second hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly wherein hydrogen sulfide is separated from said natural gas retentate as a second hydrogen sulfide-rich permeate, and wherein a hydrocarbon- rich retentate is sent to a pipeline; feeding said first and second hydrogen sulfide- rich permeates to a means capable of converting said hydrogen sulfide to elemental sulfur. 


 60. The method according to claim 59 further comprising the step of feeding said hydrocarbon-rich retentate of said second hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly to a dehydration membrane assembly to remove water prior to feeding the dehydrated hydrocarbon-rich retentate to said pipeline.
61. The method according to claim 59, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane assembly comprises at least one hydrogen sulfide membrane module.
62. The method according claims 61, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
63. The method according to claim 62, wherein said hydrogen sulfide membrane module comprises a hydrogen sulfide selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
64. The method according to claim 63, wherein said hydrogen sulfide selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: gel polymer membranes, molten salt membranes and rubber copolymer membranes. 


 65. The method according to claim 59, wherein said acid gas membrane assembly comprises at least one acid gas membrane module.
66. The method according claims 65, wherein said acid gas membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
67. The method according to claim 66, wherein said acid gas membrane module comprises an acid gas selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
68. The method according to claim 67, wherein said acid gas selective membrane is selected from the group consisting of: cellulose acetate membranes, polyimide membranes, polysiloxane membranes, and pyrolone membranes.
69. The method according to claim 60, wherein said dehydration membrane assembly comprises at least one dehydration membrane module. 


 70. The method according claims 69, wherein said dehydration membrane module is selected from the group consisting of co-current membrane modules, counter-current membrane modules, and advantaged membrane modules.
71. The method according to claim 70, wherein said dehydration membrane module comprises a dehydration selective membrane selected from the group consisting of: spiral wound membranes, flat sheet membranes, hollow fiber membranes, and plate-and-frame membranes.
72. The method according to claim 71, wherein said dehydration selective membrane is a polysiloxane membrane.
73. The method according to any of claims 31, 45 or 59, wherein residual hydrogen sulfide is separated from the retentate of any membrane assembly by means of direct conversion.
74. The system according to any of claims 1 or 16, further comprising at least one direct conversion device capable of separating residual hydrogen sulfide from the retentate of any membrane assembly. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
