<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611325</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SAMPLING AIR CONTAMINANTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5000	B01D5000	B07B900	B07B900	G01N122	G01N122	G01N124	G01N124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B07B	B07B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D50	B01D50	B07B9	B07B9	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sampling apparatus (10) for separating and collecting contaminants contained in an air sample has a first particle separator (18), a second particle separator (20), a coarse filter (22), a denuder (24), a fine filter (26), a semi-volatile organic compound collector (28), a flow rate control device (16), and a vacuum pump (14). The apparatus (10) separates the coarse, intermediate, and fine particles, acid gases, basic gases, volatile organic compounds, and semi-volatile organic compounds at a high flow rate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US ENVIRONMENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY AN AGENCY OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURTON ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURTON, ROBERT, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FORSAMPLING AIRCONTAMINANTSField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to sampling air for contaminants, and more particularly relates to using an integrated sampler for identifying and measuring all contaminants in an atmospheric sample with a single device.Background of the Invention The sampling of atmospheric contaminants is an ever-expanding area of research. Accurate identification, classification, and measurement of atmospheric contaminants is critical for, among other things, compliance with governmental regulations, studying the effect of contaminants on the surrounding environment, and assessment of air quality. Sampling of air contaminants is a complex operation, as a given atmospheric sample may contain a multitude of contaminants that must be identified and measured. Problems have developed as researchers have attempted to sample large numbers of contaminants in a single operation; often the collection and/or measurement method for one component of a contaminated airstream adversely affects the measurement accuracy of other airstream components. Another difficulty is obtaining a sufficient sample of low concentration contaminants for proper analysis. High flow rate samplers reduce the time necessary to obtain an adequate contaminant sample, but 

 to date a completely integrated high flow rate sampler has not been available.What is needed is a air sampler that is portable, able to accurately collect many contaminants simultaneously, do so quickly and easily, and provide samples that are easily measured.Summary of the Invention A first aspect of the invention is an apparatus for separating and collecting particle, volatile organic (VOCs) , semi-volatile organic (SVOCs) , acid gas, and basic gas components of an atmospheric sample directed along a path of travel in a downstream direction. The apparatus comprises a housing through which the sample travels, vacuum means for drawing the air sample through the housing, means for separating the particle components of the sample into a large particle part, an coarse part, and a fine part, filter means for trapping the intermediate and fine particle component parts, denuder means for removing gaseous contaminants, and collection means for collecting the semi-volatile organic components. Flow rate control means for controlling the flow rate of the airstream created by the vacuum means is also included. The apparatus can include a plurality of coarse filter means, denuders, fine filter means, and SVOC collection means
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. An apparatus for separating and collecting particle, gaseous organic, semi-volatile organic, acid gas, and basic gas components of an air sample directed along a path of travel in a downstream direction comprising:
(a) a housing;
(b) vacuum means connected to said housing for drawing said air sample into and through said housing; (c) first particle separation means for separating said particle components into a large particle part and a remaining part in an upstream section of said housing;
(d) second particle separation means for separating said remaining part of said particle component into a coarse part and a fine part, said second particle separation means being in a section of said housing downstream from said first particle separation means; (e) coarse filter means for trapping said coarse part of said particle components, said coarse filter means being in a section of said housing downstream from said second particle separation means;
(f) denuder means being in a section of said housing downstream from said second particle separation means, said denuder means removing from the air sample one or more airstream components from the group consisting of said acid gas components, said basic gas components, and said volatile organic compound components;
(g) fine filter means for trapping said fine part of said particle component, said fine filter means being in a section of said housing downstream from said denuder means; (h) SVOC collection means for collecting said SVOCs from said air sample, said SVOC collection 


means being in a section of said housing downstream from said fine filter means;
(i) flow rate control means for controlling the flow rate of said air sample through said housing.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said first particle separation means separates into said large particle part of said particle component all particles over 10 μm.
3. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said first particle separation means is a two-step inlet.
4. An apparatus according to claim 3, in which said second particle separation means is a high volume virtual impactor.
5. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said second particle separation means is configured such that said air sample is divided into a plurality of branch streams.
6. An apparatus according to claim 5, in which said second particle separation means is a plurality of high volume virtual impactors.
7. An apparatus according to claim 6, in which said plurality of HWIs are configured such that said fine particle part of said air sample separates into a plurality of divisions, each division comprised of particles within a specified particle size range, and such that each of said branch streams contains one of said particle component divisions. 


 8. An apparatus according to claim 5, in which said second particle separation means is configured such that flow volumes of said branch streams are substantially equivalent.
9. An apparatus according to claim 7, in which said HWIs are configured such that said plurality of fine particle component divisions numbers four, and one of each said divisions comprises particles within the following ranges: 0-0.32 μm, 0-0.8 μm, 0-1.5 μm, and 0-2.5 μm.
10. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said intermediate filter means collects particles larger than 2.5 μm.
11. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said denuder means removes from said air sample at least two of the group consisting of said acid gas component, said basic gas components, and said volatile organic compounds.
12. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said denuder means removes said acid gas component, said basic gas component, and said volatile organic compounds component.
13. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said denuder means includes at least one of the group comprising: sodium carbonate film to remove said acid gas component; citric acid film to remove said basic gas component; and silicon grease to remove said volatile organic component.
14. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said denuder includes at least two from the group comprising: sodium carbonate film to remove said acid 


gas component; citric acid film to remove said basic gas component; and silicon grease to remove said volatile organic component.
15. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said denuder includes sodium carbonate film to remove said acid gas component, citric acid film to remove said basic gas component, and silicon grease to remove said volatile organic component.
16. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said denuder means includes a plurality of denuders through which a plurality of branch streams of said air sample flows.
17. An apparatus according to claim 16, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders includes at least one of the group comprising: sodium carbonate film to remove said acid gas component; citric acid film to remove said basic gas component; and silicon grease to remove said volatile organic component.
18. An apparatus according to claim 16, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders includes at least two from the group comprising: sodium carbonate film to remove said acid gas component; citric acid film to remove said basic gas component; and silicon grease to remove said volatile organic component.
19. An apparatus according to claim 16, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders includes sodium carbonate film to remove said acid gas component, citric acid film to remove said basic gas component, and silicon grease to remove said volatile organic component. 


 20. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said fine filter means removes from said air sample particles as small as 0.001 μm.
21. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said fine filter means includes filter media comprised of at least one of the group consisting of Nucleopore, PTFE, PTFE-coated glass fiber, and quartz.
22. An apparatus according to claim 16, in which said fine filter means includes a plurality of filter sections.
23. An apparatus according to claim 22, in which filter media for said plurality of filter sections include at least one from the group consisting of Nucleopore, PTFE, PTFE-coated glass fiber, and quartz.
24. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said SVOC collection means include polymer traps comprising at least at least one from the group consisting of XAD-2, PUFF, Tenax, and charcoal.
25. An apparatus according to claim 24, in which said means for collecting SVOCs includes a plurality of polymer traps.
26. An apparatus according to claim 25, in which said plurality of polymer traps includes at least one of the group consisting of XAD-2, PUFF, Tenax, and charcoal.
27. An apparatus according to claim 24, in which said polymer trap comprises a sandwich construction of a XAD-2 core and PUFF outer layers. 


 28. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said flow control means includes at least one manually controlled butterfly valve.
29. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said flow control means is electronically controlled.
30. An apparatus according to claim 1, in which said vacuum means is configured to draw said air sample through said housing at a flow volume of at least 35 cfm.
31. An apparatus used in separating and classifying the particle, acid gas, basic gas, VOC, and SVOC components of an air sample comprising:
(a) a housing; (b) denuder means that removes from said air sample at least one of the group consisting of said acid gasses, basic gasses, and volatile organic compounds, said denuder means being in a section of said housing; (c) filter means that traps said particles contained in said air sample, said filter means being in a section of said housing downstream from said denuder means; and
(d) means for collecting SVOCs located in a section of said housing downstream from said filter means.
32. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said denuder means includes a plurality of denuders.
33. An apparatus according to claim 31 in which said denuder means removes from the sample at least two of the group consisting of acid gasses, basic 


 gasses, and volatile organic compounds.
34. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said denuder means removes from the sample acid gasses, basic gasses, and VOCs.
35. An apparatus according to claim 32, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders removes from the sample at least two of the group consisting of acid gasses, basic gasses, and VOCs.
36. An apparatus according to claim 32, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders removes from the sample acid gasses, basic gasses, and VOCs.
37. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said filter means includes filter media including at least one from the group consisting of PTFE-coated glass fiber, Nucleopore, quartz, and PTFE.
38. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said filter means includes a plurality of filters.
39. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said plurality of filters includes filter media including at least one of the group consisting of PTFE- coated glass fiber, Nucleopore, quartz, and PTFE.
40. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said SVOC collection means include a polymer trap comprising at least one of the group consisting of PUFF, XAD-2, Tenax, and charcoal. 


 41. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said SVOC collection means includes a plurality of polymer traps.
42. An apparatus according to claim 31, in which said plurality of polymer traps comprises at least two of the group consisting of PUFF, XAD-2, Tenax, and charcoal.
43. An apparatus according to claim 40, in which at least one polymer trap includes a sandwich construction comprising a XAD-2 core and PUFF outer layers.
44. A method of separating and collecting particle, acid gas, basic gas, organic gas, and semi-volatile organic components in an air sample which comprises the steps of:
(a) drawing said air sample through a housing;
(b) separating said air sample into a first large particle part and a second part; (c) separating said second part of said air sample into a coarse part and a fine part;
(d) removing from said air sample at least one of the group comprising acid gasses, basic gasses, and organic gasses; (e) trapping said fine part of said particle component in a fine filter means; and
(f) removing semi-volatile organic compounds.
45. A method according to claim 44, in which said coarse part of said particle component is trapped in a coarse filter means; 


 46. A method according to claim 44, in which said air sample is drawn through said housing at a volumetric flow rate of at least 35 cfm.
47. A method according to claim 44, in which the flow rate of said air sample drawn through said housing is monitored by flow rate control means.
48. A method according to claim 47, in which said flow rate control means is manually monitored.
49. A method according to claim 47, in which said flow rate control means is monitored electronically.
50. A method according to claim 44, in which said large particle part of said particle component of said air sample is comprised of particles larger than 10 μm.
51. A method according to claim 44, in which said large particle part is separated utilizing a two-step inlet.
52. A method according to claim 44, in which said separation of said particle component into a coarse part and a fine part utilizes a high volume virtual impactor.
53. A method according to claim 44, in which said coarse part of said particle component comprises particles larger than 2.5 μm.
54. A method according to claim 44, in which said air sample is divided into branch streams. 


 55. A method according to claim 54, in which the flow volumes of said branch streams are substantially equivalent.
56. A method according to claim 54, in which said division of said air sample into branch streams occurs during said separation of said particle component into said coarse part and said fine part.
57. A method according to claim 54, in which said division of said air sample into branch streams occurs just prior to said removal of at least one of the group consisting of acid gasses, basic gasses, and volatile organic compounds.
58. A method according to claim 56, in which said separation of said air sample into said intermediate part and said fine part utilizes a plurality of HWIs.
59. A method according to claim 58, in which said fine part is separated into a plurality of divisions based on particle size.
60. A method according claim 59, in which said divisions of said fine part have separation cutpoints of 0.32μm, 0.8μm, 1.5μm, and 2.5μm.
61. A method according to claim 44, in which two of the group comprising acid gasses, basic gasses, and volatile organic compounds are removed.
62. A method according to claim 44, in which acid gasses, basic gasses, and VOCs are removed. 


 63. A method according to claim 44, in which at least one of the group consisting of sodium carbonate, citric acid, and silicon grease is utilized.
64. A method according to claim 44, in which at least two of the group consisting of sodium carbonate, citric acid, and silicon grease are utilized.
65. A method according to claim 44, in which sodium carbonate, citric acid, and silicon grease are utilized.
66. A method according to claim 44, in which a plurality of denuders is utilized.
67. A method according to claim 44, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders removes from the sample at least one of the group consisting of acid gasses, basic gasses, and volatile organic compounds.
68. A method according to claim 44, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders removes from the sample at least two of the group consisting of acid gasses, basic gasses, and volatile organic compounds.
69. A method according to claim 44, in which at least one of said plurality of denuders removes from the sample acid gasses, basic gasses, and volatile organic compounds.
70. A method according to claim 44, in which said filter means utilizes a filter media, said filter media comprised of at least one of the group consisting of PTFE-coated glass fiber, Nucleopore, quartz, and PTFE. 


 71. A method according to claim 70, in which a plurality of filter media sections is utilized.
72. A method according to claim 71, in which said plurality of filter media sections includes at least one of the group consisting of PTFE-coated glass fiber, Nucleopore, quartz, and PTFE.
73. A method according to claim 44, in which said SVOCs are removed by at least one of the group consisting of PUFF, XAD-2, Tenax, and charcoal.
74. A method according to claim 73, in which said SVOCs are removed by at least two of the group consisting of PUFF, XAD-2, Tenax, and charcoal.
75. A method according to claim 44, in which a plurality of SVOC collection means are utilized.
76. A method according to claim 74, in which at least one of said plurality of SVOC collection means includes at least one of the group consisting of PUFF, XAD-2, Tenax, and charcoal.
77. A method of measuring the VOC concentration in an air sample comprising the steps of:
(a) dividing said air sample into a plurality of substantially equivalent branch flows;
(b) passing at least one of said branch flows through denuder means that remove volatile organic compounds;
(c) passing said plurality of branch flows through a similar plurality of filter means that traps the particles present in said sample; (d) passing said plurality of branch flows through a similar plurality of SVOC collection means; and 


 (e) removing and analyzing the composition and concentration of the filtrate trapped by said filter means filtrate and the SVOC components trapped by said SVOC collection means for each branch flow.
78. A method according to claim 77, in which said plurality of branch flows equals two. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
