<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654464</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Processes for the preparation of pesticides and intermediates.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C20900	C07C20962	C07C21100	C07C21160	C07C23500	C07C23516	C07D21500	C07D21508	C07D27700	C07D27756	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C209	C07C209	C07C211	C07C211	C07C235	C07C235	C07D215	C07D215	C07D277	C07D277	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is disclosed a process for the preparation of 
an indanylamine compound of general formula 


wherein R¹ represents an optionally substituted alkyl 
group, and R², R³ and R⁴ independently represent a hydrogen 

atom or an optionally substituted alkyl group, the process 
including the steps of hydrogenating a compound of general 

formula 

wherein R¹, R², R³ and R⁴ are as described above and R⁵ and 
R⁶ independently represent a halogen atom, a hydroxyl, 

nitro or cyano group, or an optionally substituted alkyl, 
alkoxy, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylcarboxy or alkylamino group 

provided that R⁵ and R⁶ represent different atoms or 
groups, and subsequent rearrangement and derivatisation of 

the product thereof. Compounds of general formula I may be 
used to prepare preferred stereo
isomers of fungicidal N-indanyl 
carboxamide compounds. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL INT RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHELL INTERNATIONALE RESEARCH MAATSCHAPPIJ B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINER PAUL HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINER, PAUL HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process for the 
preparation of pesticides and intermediates. Particularly, 
although not exclusively, the invention relates to the 
predominant preparation of preferred stereoisomers of 
indanylamine compounds which may be used to predominantly 
prepare preferred stereoisomers of fungicidal N-indanyl 
carboxamide derivatives. European Patent Application Number 0 280 275 
(Mitsubishi Kasei Corporation) describes fungicidal N-indanyl 
carboxamide derivatives of general formula: 
wherein R represents a lower alkyl group, n is an integer 
from 1 to 6 and A represents various optionally 
substituted heterocyclic groups. Japanese Laid-Open Publication No. 92-54173 
(Mitsubishi Kasei Corporation) discloses an optionally 
active N-indanylthiazole carboxamide having enhanced 
fungicidal activity and a process for the preparation 
thereof. The particular compound disclosed is 4-methyl-N-(3R-1,1,3-trimethylindan-4-yl)thiazole-5-carboxamide. 
The 
process for the preparation of the compound involves 
optically resolving 4-methyl-N-(1,1,3-trimethylindan-4-yl)thiazole-5-carboxamide 
using, for example, an optical 
isomer separating column. As a consequence of the process  
 
described, the yield of the preferred enantiomer may be 
relatively low. This invention is based on the discovery of a novel 
process for the preparation of indanylamine compounds 
which may be used in the preparation of preferred 
stereoisomers of fungicidal N-indanyl carboxamide 
derivatives. According to a first aspect of the present invention, 
there is provided a process for the preparation of an 
indanylamine compound of general formula 
wherein R¹ represents an optionally substituted alkyl 
group, and R², R³ and R⁴ independently represent a hydrogen 
atom or an optionally substituted alkyl group, the process 
including the steps of hydrogenating a compound of general 
formula  wherein R¹, R², R³ and R⁴ are as described above and R⁵ and 
R⁶ independently represent a halogen atom, a hydroxyl, 
nitro or cyano group, or an optionally substituted alkyl, 
alkoxy, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylcarboxy or alkylamino group 
provided that R⁵ and R⁶ represent different atoms or 
groups, and subsequent rearrangement and derivatisation of 
the product thereof. The process has been found to be advantageous in 
producing compounds of the general formula I in which a 
preferred stereoisomer of the compound may predominate. It 
is believed that this arises from the chiral nature of the 
group R⁵R⁶CH- in the compound of general formula
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the preparation of an indanylamine 
compound of general formula 

 
wherein R¹ represents an optionally substituted alkyl 

group, and R², R³ and R⁴ independently represent a hydrogen 
atom or an optionally substituted alkyl group, the process 

including the steps of hydrogenating a compound of general 
formula 

 
wherein R¹, R², R³ and R⁴ are as described above and R⁵ and 

R⁶ independently represent a halogen atom, a hydroxyl, 
nitro or cyano group, or an optionally substituted alkyl, 

alkoxy, alkoxycarbonyl, alkylcarboxy or alkylamino group 
 

provided that R⁵ and R⁶ represent different atoms or 
groups, and subsequent rearrangement and derivatisation of 

the product thereof. 
A process according to Claim 1, wherein R¹, R³ and R⁴ 
represent a methyl group and R² represents a hydrogen atom. 
A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein R⁵ 
represents a C₁₋₆ alkyl group and R⁶ represents a chlorine 

atom, or a hydroxyl or C₁₋₆ alkylcarboxy group. 
A process according to any preceding claim, wherein 
in said hydrogenation step, said compound of general 

formula II is hydrogenated to form an intermediate 
compound of general formula 

 
wherein R¹, R², R³, R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶ are as described above. 
A process according to Claim 4, wherein said compound 
of general formula III is treated so as 
to form an 
intermediate compound of general formula  

wherein R¹, R², R³, R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶ are as described above. 
An intermediate compound of general formula II as 
described in any preceding claim per se. 
A process for the preparation of an intermediate 
compound of general formula II as described in Claim 6, 

the process comprising reacting a compound of general 
formula. 


 
with a compound of general formula 

 
wherein R¹, R², R³, R⁴, R⁵ and R⁶ are as described in any 

preceding claim and L¹ is a leaving group. 
An intermediate compound of general formula III as 
described in Claim 4 per se. 
A process for the preparation of an intermediate 
compound of general formula III as described in Claim 8, 

the process comprising hydrogenating a compound of general 
formula II as described in any preceding claim. 
An intermediate compound of general formula IV as 
described in Claim 5 per se. 
A process for the preparation of an intermediate 
compound of general formula IV as described in Claim 10, 

the process including the step of causing rearrangement of 
a compound of general formula III as described in Claim 4. 
A process for the preparation of a compound of 
general formula  

the process comprising reacting a compound of general 
formula I prepared according to the process of any of 

Claims 1 to 5, with a compound of general formula 
 

wherein L² represents a leaving group and A represents a 
group of general formula 

 
wherein X represents a halogen atom, a methyl group or a 

trifluoromethyl group, Y represents a hydrogen atom, a 
halogen atom, a lower alkyl group, an amino group, a 

mercapto group or a lower alkylthio group, R¹¹ represents 
 

a methyl group or a trifluoromethyl group, and R¹² and R¹³ 
independently represent a hydrogen atom or a methyl group. 
A process according to Claim 12, wherein A represents 
a group of formula 

 
in said compound of general formula VIII. 
A compound of general formula I when prepared by a 
process as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 5 per se. 
A compound of general formula VIII when prepared by 
a process as claimed in Claim 12 or Claim 13 per se. 
A process for the preparation of a compound of 
general formula I, an intermediate compound of general 

formula II, a process for the preparation of an 
intermediate compound of general formula II, an 

intermediate compound of general formula III, a process 
for the preparation of an intermediate compound of general 

formula III, an intermediate compound of general formula 
IV, a process for the preparation of an intermediate 

compound of general formula IV, a compound of general 
formula I when prepared by the process, a process for the 

preparation of a compound of general formula VIII and a 
compound of general formula VIII when prepared by the 

process, each aspect being substantially as hereinbefore 
described with reference to the Examples. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
