<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628474</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Brake apparatus for bicycle
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62L510	B62L500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62L	B62L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62L5	B62L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hub brake apparatus (B) for use on an axle fixed to a frame of a 
bicycle. The 

apparatus includes a hub (16) rotatable in a first direction about the 
axle (7) when the 

bicycle moves forward, a brake drum (1) rotatable with the hub, brake 
shoes (2) arranged 

around the axle and radially inwardly of the brake drum to be movable between 
a first position for frictionally engaging the brake drum and a second position 

retracted from the brake drum, a ring spring (27) for biasing the brake 
shoes toward 

the second position, and a cam mechanism disposed radially inwardly of the 
brake shoes for moving the brake shoes from the second position to the first 

position. The cam mechanism includes intermediate members (3) having 
radially 

outward portions for contacting the brake shoes, and a cam (4) disposed 
radially 

inwardly of the intermediate members and having peripheral portions for contacting 
the intermediate members. The peripheral portions of the cam define inclined 

surfaces (4a) opposed to the intermediate members. Each of the inclined 
surfaces 

has a radius from the axle diminishing in the first direction. The inclined 
surfaces displace the intermediate members radially outwardly into pressure 

contact with the brake shoes when the cam is manually rotated in the first 
direction. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANADA MITSUGU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANADA, MITSUGU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a brake apparatus for a bicycle, and more particularly 
to a device for correcting a braking force especially in a region of strong braking 
force. Fig. 7 shows a conventional roller type hub brake for a bicycle. The hub 
brake includes a brake drum 1, brake shoes 2 movable into pressure contact with 
the brake drum 1, a plurality of rollers 3 for pressing the brake shoes 2 upon the 
brake drum 1, and a brake operating cam 4 for pushing the rollers 3 to press the 
brake shoes 2 upon the brake drum 1. The cam 4 is rotatable in a direction of arrow "a" about an axle 7 with an 
operation of a control arm 5. The cam 4 has inclined surfaces 4a for radially 
outwardly pushing the rollers 3. As a result, the brake shoes 2 are pressed upon 
inner surfaces of the drum 1 to apply a braking force thereto. In the above construction, the drum 1 is rotatable in a direction of arrow "c", 
opposite to the rotating direction of the cam 4, as the bicycle runs forward. 
When the braking force is applied with the brake shoes 2 contacting the inner 
surfaces of the drum 1, the brake shoes 2 are moved by a frictional force in the 
same direction as the drum 1, i.e. counterclockwise in Fig. 7. With this movement 
of the brake shoes 2, the rollers 3 also move counterclockwise. Since the 
inclined surfaces 4a of the cam 4 have a height increasing as they extend 
counterclockwise, the rollers 3 move radially outwardly as they move 
counterclockwise, thereby increasing the braking force. Consequently, the conventional drum brake apparatus applies a greater  
 
braking force to the bicycle than a braking force corresponding to an operating 
force applied to s brake lever not shown. This makes it difficult to effect a fine 
adjustment of the braking force.  
 In EP 048 25 59 a hub brake apparatus is shown whereby the operating force can 
be transmitted and amplified in different ways. A plurality of brake shoes 
disposed between rollers ad a brake drum is moved in a radial outward direction 
during a brake operation. The rollers can be moved by a cam arranged around an 
axle whereby the cam presses the brake shoe upon the brake drum under the 
amplified operating force. Thus, the brake is operable by a great force although 
the primary operating force can be small. A further adjustment of the braking 
force due to the special requirements during a brake operation is not possible.  
 An object of the present invention is to provide a hub brake apparatus which 
applies a braking force corresponding to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hub brake apparatus for use on an axle (7) fixed to a frame of a bicycle, and 
controllable through a manually operable brake control device, said 

apparatus comprising: 

a hub (16) rotatable in a first direction about said axle (7) when said bicycle 
moves forward; 
a brake drum (1) rotatable with said hub (16); 
brake shoes (2) arranged around said axle (7) and radially inwardly of said 
brake drum (1) to be movable between a first position for frictionally 

engaging said brake drum (1) and a second position retracted from said 
brake drum; 
biasing means (27) for biasing said brake shoes (2) toward said second 
position; 
cam means disposed radially inwardly of said brake shoes (2) and 
operable in response to a manual operation of said brake control device 

for applying a pressure on the brake shoes (2) in a direction to move said 
brake shoes from said second position to said first position, said cam 

means including : 
intermediate members (3) having radially outward portions for 
contacting said brake shoes; 
a cam (4) disposed radially inwardly of said intermediate members (3) 
and having peripheral portions for contacting said intermediate members 

(3); 
a support member (6) for supporting said intermediate members; 
a control portion (5) for controlling said cam means;
characterized in that
said peripheral portions define inclined surfaces (4a) facing said intermediate 
members (3), each of said inclined surfaces having a radius from said axle 

diminishing in said first direction, said inclined surfaces displacing said 
intermediate members radially outwardly into pressure contact with said 

brake shoes (2) when said cam (4) is manually rotated by means of the 
control portion (5) in said first direction, whereby said pressure increases 

in proportion to an amount of operation of said brake control portion (5) 
before said amount of operation reaches a predetermined value, and 

decreases after said amount of operation reaches said predetermined 
value, and that 
said support member (6) has an arm (6A) and is supported to said frame 
through an elastic means (13, 14) disposed between said arm and said frame 

whereby said support member is rotatably supported to said frame. 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in claim 1, 
characterized in that
 
said control portion (5) is biased in a direction opposite to said first 

direction. 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in claim 2, 
characterized in that
 
said support member (6) includes an arm (6A), said elastic means 

comprising at least one coil spring (13, 14) disposed between said arm and 
said frame for imparting a biasing force in a direction opposite to said 

first direction. 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in claim 3, 
characterized in that
 
said elastic means includes a second coil spring disposed concentrically 

with said coil spring. 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in claim 4, 
characterized in that
 
said elastic means further includes two coil springs disposed 

concentrically with each other.  
 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in one of claims 1 to 5, 
characterized 
in that
 each of said intermediate members (3) is substantially cylindrical 
and extends substantially parallel to said axle. 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in one of claims 1 to 6, 
characterized 
in that
 said biasing means comprises a substantially annular spring 
fitted in grooves formed peripherally of said brake shoes (2). 
A hub brake apparatus, as defined in one of claims 1 to 7, 
characterized 
in that
 it is provided for a front wheel of said bicycle. 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in one of claims 1 to 8, 
characterized 
in that
 it is comprising three brake shoes (2) each contactable by two 
intermediate members (3). 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in one of claims 1 to 9, 
characterized 
in that
 it is further comprising a plurality of holder members for 
restricting a displacement of said intermediate members (3) about said 

axle, each of said holder members being disposed between an adjacent 
pair of said intermediate members (3). 
A hub brake apparatus as defined in claim 10, 
characterized in that
 at 
least one of said holder members is fixed to said support member through 

a pin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
