<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651824</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSCRIPTION CONTROL ELEMENT FOR INCREASING GENE EXPRESSION IN MYOBLASTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K67027	A01K67027	A61K4800	A61K4800	C12N510	C12N510	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1585	C12N1585	C12P2102	C12P2102	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A61K	A61K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K67	A01K67	A61K48	A61K48	C12N5	C12N5	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	C12P21	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transcription control element is provided for controlling gene expression in myogenic cells. The transcription control element comprises an isolated DNA segment having an enhancer activity in cultured cells and in non-cultured myogenic cells. The transcription control element is isolated from upstream regions of genes encoding bHLH myogenic regulatory proteins. Specifically, an enhancer element from the upstream region of human myoD and an enhancer element from the upstream region of a quail qmf1 are provided. These myoblast-specific transcription control elements are capable of significantly increasing the levels of gene expression in myogenic cells and are intended to be applied in gene therapy, using myoblast transfer and microinjection techniques, wherein myoblast-specific gene expression is desired or required.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOX CHASE CANCER CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOX CHASE CANCER CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMERSON CHARLES P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDHAMER DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMERSON, CHARLES, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDHAMER, DAVID, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TRANSCRIPTION CONTROL ELEMENT FOR INCREASING GENE EXPRESSION IN MYOBLASTSPursuant to 35 U.S.C. §202 (c) , it is hereby acknowledged that the U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention described herein, which was made in part with funds from the National Institutes of Health.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the field of gene expression and gene therapy. Specifically, a transcription control element is provided for controlling gene expression in myogenic cells.BACKGROUNDVertebrate skeletal muscle fibers are formed by the cellular fusion of progenitor myoblasts, which are embryonic cells that proliferate and populate the muscle-forming regions of embryos. Myogenic lineages become determined during somite morphogenesis, leading to the formation of stably determined myoblasts. The process of myoblast differentiation into muscle fibers has been investigated in cell cultures of clonal embryonic myoblasts and established myoblast cell lines. In dispersed cell cultures, myoblasts can proliferate clonally in the presence of medium rich in growth factors, but retain their potential to differentiate in fused muscle fibers. Thus, myoblasts are a stably determined cell type, capable of extensive cell division, the progeny of which faithfully inherit their myoblast identity and can express their potential to differentiate into muscle fibers. The growth and differentiation of myoblasts is controlled by extracellular factors, specifically growth factors such as basic fibroblast growth factor 

 (bFGF) and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-/3) . In the presence of such growth factors, myoblasts proliferate, whereas in reduced concentrations of such factors, myoblasts can exist in the cell cycle in Gl r fuse and differentiate into contractile fibers. Myogenesis, therefore, involves "determination" of the myoblast lineages in the somite and "differentiation" of myofibers in the muscle- forming regions of the embryo. The molecular mechanisms regulating cell lineage determination have been studied using the mouse cell line C3H10T1/2 (10T1/2) . Konieczny and Emerson, Cell, .38,: 791 (1984) . This model cell culture system has allowed identification of several mammalian genes (myoD, myogen±n, Myf-5 and MRF-4) that regulate the determination of the skeletal lineage. These genes encode transcription factors comprising a subgroup within the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) superfamily of Myc-related DNA binding proteins. It has been determined that the bHLH myogenic regulatory proteins are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An isolated DNA segment having an enhancer activity in cultured cells and in non- cultured, myogenic cells, wherein said enhancer activity causes increased expression of a target gene when said DNA segment and said target gene are disposed within a DNA strand and said DNA segment is so positioned in the 5' direction relative to said target gene to permit said increased expression of said target gene.
2. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 1, positioned within 100 kilobases (kb) in the 5' direction of said target gene.
3. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 2, positioned between 10 kb and 30 kb in the 5' direction of said target gene.
4. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 1, isolated from a 100-kb region adjacent in the 5' direction to a gene encoding a bHLH myogenic regulatory protein.
5. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 4, wherein said bHLH myogenic regulatory protein is a MyoD protein.
6. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 4, wherein said gene encoding said bHLH myogenic regulatory protein is human myoD. 


 7. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 6, isolated from a region approximately 18-22 kb in the 5' direction from said human myoD gene.
8. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 6, having a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as Sequence I.D. No. 2, described herein.
9. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 6, having a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as bases 1-258 of Sequence I.D. No. 2, described herein.
10. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 6, having a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as bases 1185-1757 of Sequence I.D. No. 2, described herein.
11. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 4, wherein said gene encoding said bHLH myogenic regulatory protein is quail qm l.
12. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 11, isolated from a region approximately 11.5-15 kb in the 5' direction from said qmfl gene.
13. An isolated DNA segment according to claim 11, having a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as Sequence I.D. No. 3, described herein.
14. A vector comprising a DNA segment according to claim 1. 


 15. A procaryotic or eucaryotic host cell transformed or transfected with a vector according to claim 14.
16. An antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence capable of hybridizing with a DNA segment according to claim 1.
17. A DNA segment isolated and purified from an approximately 25.5-kb fragment adjacent in the 5' direction to a human myoD gene, having a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as Sequence I.D. No. 2, described herein.
18. A vector comprising a DNA segment according to claim 17.
19. A DNA segment according to claim 17, consisting essentially of a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as bases 1-258 of Sequence I.D. No. 2, described herein.
20. A DNA segment according to claim 17, consisting essentially of a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as bases 1185-1757 of Sequence I.D. No. 2, described herein.
21. A DNA segment isolated and purified from an approximately 18-kb fragment adjacent in the 5' direction to a quail qmfl gene, having a nucleotide sequence substantially the same as Sequence I.D. No. 3, described herein.
22. A vector comprising a DNA segment according to claim 21. 


 23. An isolated DNA segment having an enhancer activity in cultured cells, wherein said enhancer activity causes increased expression of a target gene when said DNA segment and said target gene are disposed within a DNA strand and said DNA segment is so positioned in the 5' direction relative to said target gene to permit said increased expression of said target gene, said DNA segment being isolated by a method comprising: a) obtaining at least one test segment comprising DNA sequences disposed in the 5' direction within 100 kb of a gene encoding a bHLH myogenic regulatory protein, one or more of said at least one test segment being suspected of having said enhancer activity; b) preparing a set of test constructs, each said test construct comprising one said test segment, a reporter gene and a vector adapted.for expression in a cultured eucaryotic cell, said test segment and said reporter gene being so located relative to each other and to regulatory sequences of said vector to permit expression of said reporter gene, as well as said enhancing activity, if present, of said test segment; c) preparing a control construct comprising a reporter gene and a vector adapted for expression in a cultured eucaryotic cell, said reporter gene being so located relative to regulatory sequences of said vector to permit expression of said reporter gene; d) introducing each said test construct or said control construct into cultured eucaryotic cells under conditions permitting expression of said reporter gene, said expression 



causing formation of a detectable product in an amount correlatable to said expression; e) establishing a ratio of said amount of detectable product formed in said cultured eucaryotic cells comprising said test construct to said amount of detectable product formed in said cultured eucaryotic cells comprising said control construct, the magnitude of said ratio being indicative of said enhancer activity suspected of being possessed by said test segment; and f) identifying each said test segment possessing said enhancer activity, thereby isolating said DNA segment having said enhancer activity.
24. An isolated DNA segment having an enhancer activity specifically in myogenic cells of a living animal, wherein said enhancer activity causes increased expression of a target gene when said DNA segment and said target gene are disposed within a DNA strand and said DNA segment is so positioned in the 5' direction relative to said target gene to permit said increased expression of said target gene, said DNA segment being isolated by a method comprising: a) obtaining at least one test segment comprising DNA sequences disposed in the 5' direction within 100 kb of a gene encoding a bHLH myogenic regulatory protein, one or more of said at least one test segment being suspected of having said enhancer activity; b) preparing a set of test constructs, each said test construct comprising one said test segment) a reporter gene and regulatory sequences necessary for expression of said reporter gene in cells of a vertebrate embryo, said test segment and said reporter gene being so located relative to each 


other and to said regulatory sequences to permit expression of said reporter gene, as well as said enhancing activity, if present, of said test segment; c) introducing each said test construct into cells of said vertebrate embryo under conditions permitting expression of said reporter gene, said expression causing formation of a detectable product in an amount correlatable to said expression; d) determining which, if any, cells of said vertebrate embryo form said detectable product, the formation of said detectable product specifically in myogenic cells of said vertebrate embryo being indicative of said enhancer activity; and e) identifying each said test segment possessing said enhancer activity, thereby isolating said DNA segment having said enhancer activity. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
