<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627805</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electromagnetic machine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K118	H02K127	H02K127	H02K718	H02K718	H02K118	H02K1600	H02K2114	H02K1600	F03D900	F03D900	H02K2114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	F03D	F03D	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K1	H02K1	H02K1	H02K7	H02K7	H02K1	H02K16	H02K21	H02K16	F03D9	F03D9	H02K21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electromagnetic machine which is suitable for use 

as a direct-drive, directly-coupled, mains electricity 
generator (14) to be driven by a low speed device such as 

a wind turbine (18), consists of one or more rotor 
rings (30) of many permanent magnets (40) of alternating 

polarity, with coaxial stator rings (28) of many 
laminated yokes (35), each yoke defining slots to locate 

coils (38). The yokes (35) and coils (38) form modules 
which are supported by beams (32) relative to the rotor 

rings (30). The rotor rings (30) may also be of modular 
construction. Manufacture and assembly are thereby 

simplified, and sub-harmonic magnetic flux components are 
suppressed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electromagnetic 
machine, primarily intended to act as a generator of 
electricity, but which could equally be used as an 
electric motor. The machine of the invention is primarily intended 
as a generator of mains-frequency alternating current 
when directly coupled to a device such as a wind-energy 
rotor, which rotates at a much lower frequency than mains 
frequency. It may equally be used to generate current at 
other frequencies for use with systems where the 
generator feeds into the mains via a frequency converter. 
Hitherto it has usually been necessary to interpose a 
gear-mechanism between such a rotor (which might rotate 
at 40 r.p.m.) and a generator of conventional type, so 
the generator turns much faster than the rotor. The use 
of permanent magnets to provide the magnetic field in 
which one or more coils are moved to generate electricity 
is also known. The invention relates to an electromagnetic machine 
of the type comprising one or more pairs of concentric 
rings arranged on a common axis, in the or each pair the 
first ring comprising several permanent magnets each 
magnet being magnetised in a tangential direction and 
there being pole pieces arranged so there are magnetic 
poles alternating in polarity around the ring at the 
surface thereof facing the second ring; and the second 
ring being of laminated construction and defining slots 
in the surface thereof facing the first ring, the slots 
extending parallel to the axis, with coils of wire 
locating in the slots; and one of the rings being 
rotatable relative to the other about the axis; such a 
machine is described for example in FR 2 636 480  
 
(Alsthom). In this machine each pole at the surface of 
the first ring is defined by a single pole piece 
occupying the entire space between successive magnets, 
leaving no gaps between those components which form the 
first ring; while the second ring is formed of annular 
sheets with slots for coil windings, so there are no 
circumferential gaps in the second ring either. The present invention thus provides an 
electromagnetic machine of the type described above, 
characterised by each ring being of modular construction, 
in the first ring each magnet having respective said pole 
pieces, and each magnet with its pole pieces defining a 
magnet module and being separated by gaps from the 
adjacent magnet modules, and the second ring comprising 
several laminated yokes each defining at least one pair 
of slots within which a rectangular coil of wire
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromagnetic machine comprising one or more 
pairs of concentric rings arranged on a common axis, in 

the or each pair the first ring comprising several 
permanent magnets (40), each magnet being magnetised in a 

tangential direction and there being pole pieces (42) 
arranged so there are magnetic poles alternating in 

polarity around the ring at the surface thereof facing 
the second ring; and the second ring being of laminated 

construction and defining slots in the surface thereof 
facing the first ring, the slots extending parallel to 

the axis, with coils (38) of wire locating the slots; and 
one of the rings being rotatable relative to the other 

about the axis; characterised by each ring being of 
modular construction, in the first ring each magnet (40) 

having respective said pole pieces (42), and each magnet 
(40) with its pole pieces (42) defining a magnet module 

and being separated by gaps from the adjacent magnet 
modules, and the second ring comprising several laminated 

yokes (35) each defining at least one pair of slots 
within which a rectangular coil (38) of wire locates, 

each yoke (35) with its coil (38) or coils defining a 
yoke module and being separated by gaps from the adjacent 

yoke modules. 
A machine as claimed in Claim 1 wherein, in the or 
each pair of rings, the number of coils (38) and the 

number of poles are such that the emfs induced in the 
coils (38) by the magnets (40) are not all cophasal. 
A machine as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein 
each yoke (35) is of E-shaped cross-section, with 

parallel-sided slots, and locates a single coil (38).  
 
A machine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
Claims wherein each pole piece (42) projects radially to 

be closer to the second ring than the permanent magnets 
(40). 
A machine as claimed in any one of the preceding 

Claims wherein the number of slots and the number of 
poles are both at least 100. 
A machine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
Claims wherein, in each second ring, the coils (38) are 

connected so as to provide three-phase alternating 
outputs, there being several coils (38) in each second 

ring associated with each phase of the output. 
A machine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
Claims wherein the first ring or all of the first rings 

are axially movable relative to the second ring or all of 
the second rings. 
A machine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
Claims wherein the ring or those rings which are not 

continuously rotatable can undergo limited rotation, and 
the machine includes means (22) to apply a torque and 

damping to oppose this limited rotation. 
A machine as claimed in any one of the preceding 
Claims wherein means (32) are provided to cool each yoke 

module at the surface thereof remote from the first ring. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
