<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625335</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical stapler
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B17068	A61B1710	A61B17068	A61B17115	A61B1703	A61B1728	A61B1711	A61B17072	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical instrument 10 and method for applying 
fasteners to bodily tissue is disclosed. The instrument 

includes a handle assembly 12, a jaw portion 124, and an 
optional stent portion 450. The instrument can be 

configured and dimensioned to be insertable through a 
cannula, and is useful for joining tubular organs. 

A plurality of fasteners, e.g. staples, is disposed in each of two jaws. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to surgical staplers 
and, more particularly to surgical staplers for use in 
endoscopic and laparoscopic procedures. Laparoscopic and endoscopic surgical procedures are 
minimally invasive procedures in which operations are 
carried out within the body by means of elongated 
instruments inserted through small entrance openings in 
the body. The initial opening in the body tissue to 
allow passage of the endoscopic or laparoscopic 
instruments to the interior of the body may be a natural 
passageway of the body, or it can be created by a tissue 
piercing instrument such as a trocar. With the aid of a 
cannula assembly inserted into the opening, laparoscopic 
or endoscopic instrumentation may then be used to perform 
desired surgical procedures. Laparoscopic and endoscopic surgical procedures  
 
generally require that any instrumentation inserted in 
the body be sealed, i.e. provisions must be made to 
ensure that gases do not enter or exit the body through 
the instrument or the entrance incision so that the 
surgical region of the body, e.g. the peritoneum, may be 
insufflated. Mechanical actuation of such instruments is 
for the most part constrained to the movement of the 
various components along a longitudinal axis with means 
provided to convert longitudinal movement to lateral 
movement where necessary. Because the endoscopic or 
laparoscopic tubes, instrumentation, and any required 
punctures or incisions are relatively narrow, endoscopic 
or laparoscopic surgery is less invasive and causes much 
less trauma to the patient as compared to procedures in 
which the surgeon is required to cut open large areas of 
body tissue. Surgical fasteners or staples are often used to join 
body tissue during laparoscopic and endoscopic 
procedures. Such fasteners can have a pair of legs 
joined by a backspan and are typically set into the body 
by means of an elongated instrument which crimps the 
fastener legs to secure the fastener and tissue. Various types of stapling instruments have been 
known for fixing staples to body tissue. Generally, the 
staples have been applied by using instruments having an 
anvil and an ejector mechanism for driving the legs of a  
 
staple through the tissue and against the anvil for 
deforming the legs into a "B" shape or the like. An 
example of such a stapler having an anvil is disclosed in 
U.S. Patent No. 4,665,916. An example of a surgical 
stapler having an anvil and adapted for endoscopic use is 
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,040,715.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument (10) for the anvil-less stapling of 
a purse string to tissue, the instrument comprising: 


an elongate portion (14) having proximal (12) and 
distal (20) end portions and a longitudinal axis: 
a pair of jaws (124), each extending on a 
longitudinal jaw axis from said distal end portion; and 
a plurality of fasteners (210) disposed within each 
said jaws, the instrument being characterised in that: 


i. the instrument is suitable for endoscopic 
surgery; 
ii. the elongated portion (14) is articulated at an articulation joint (16) such that said distal end 

(20) of the elongated portion and said pair of jaws (124) can deflect 
at joint (16) away from said longitudinal axis. 
The instrument of claim 1, further comprising at least 
one suture (300) at least partially disposed adjacent 

said pair of jaws. 
The instrument of claim 1 or 2, further comprising means 
(16) for articulating said pair of jaws relative to the 

longitudinal axis of said endoscopic portion, the 
longitudinal jaw axis of each said jaw being 

substantially parallel to said endoscopic longitudinal 
axis when the instrument is in an unarticulated position. 
The instrument of claim 3, wherein when said instrument 
is articulated, said longitudinal jaw axis is positioned 

at an angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of said 
endoscopic portion.  

 
The instrument of any of the preceding claims, further 
comprising a stent (450) extending from said elongate portion 

distal end (20), said stent comprising a first member (452) and a 
second member (454) each having proximal and distal ends, 

wherein said first and second members are longitudinally 
slidable relative to each other such that the 

longitudinal distance between said first member distal 
end and said second member proximal end is adjustable. 
The instrument of any of the preceding claims, further 
comprising a stent (600) extending from said elongate 

portion distal end, said stent comprising a plurality 
(601-4) of interrelating stent portions, each said 

portions having a generally planer portion (606) integral 
with a generally curved portion (608), said stent 

portions being arranged such that said generally curved 
portions are aligned along a longitudinal axis and at 

least one said generally planer portions is disposed on 
one side of said longitudinal axis and at least one said 

generally planer portions is disposed on the other side 
of said longitudinal axis. 
The instrument of claim 6, wherein each said generally 
curved portions have a longitudinal aperture (612) 

adapted to receive an elongate stent rod therethrough. 
The instrument according to claim 5, 6 or 7, wherein the 
stent is at least partially fabricated from a bioabsorbable 

material. 
The instrument of any of the preceding claims further 
comprising means for deforming said fasteners.  

 
The instrument of any of the preceding claims, wherein at 
least one said jaws has a stationary plate member (732) 

and a movable plate member (730) said movable plate 
member being longitudinally slidable within said jaw, 

each said plate members having a plurality of slots (738, 
740) passing therethrough; 


a pair of bars (734) longitudinally disposed within 
said jaw, said bars having projections adapted to pass at 

least partially through said plurality of plate member 
slots, wherein said plurality of fasteners are disposed 

between said bars and movement of said movable plate 
member causes each said bars to move laterally towards 

each other, thereby simultaneously deforming said 
fasteners. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
