<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612395</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTARY DRUM DRYER HAVING INTERNAL FLIGHTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01C1902	F26B1100	F26B1104	E01C1905	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01C	F26B	F26B	E01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01C19	F26B11	F26B11	E01C19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTEC IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASTEC INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWANSON MALCOLM L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWANSON, MALCOLM, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a rotary 
drum dryer, comprising the features as indicated in the preamble of claim 1 and particularly, but not exclusively to such a dryer for heating and drying stone 
aggregate useful in the production of asphalt paving 
composition or the like. Such a dryer is known from US-A-4 300 837. Conventional asphalt production plants 
include a drum dryer wherein the stone aggregate is 
heated and dried and then mixed with liquid asphalt. 
Such dryers typically comprise a rotating drum which is 
inclined from the horizontal. The virgin aggregate is 
introduced into the upper end of the drum, and an 
outlet is provided adjacent the lower end of the drum 
for withdrawing the heated and dried aggregate. A 
burner is mounted adjacent one end of the drum so as to 
create a heated gas stream which moves through the drum 
to heat the aggregate flowing therethrough. In a parallel flow dryer, the burner is 
mounted adjacent the upper end of the drum so that the 
heated gas stream moves through the drum in a direction 
parallel to the moving aggregate, while in a 
counterflow drum dryer, the burner is mounted adjacent 
the lower end of the drum and the heated gas flows 
counter to the direction of movement of the aggregate. 
A dryer of the parallel flow type is disclosed in U.S. 
Patent No. 4,332,478 to Binz, and a dryer of the 
counterflow type is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 
4,867,572 to Brock et al.  
 In drum dryers of the described type, the 
burner flame defines a combustion zone, and a plurality 
of longitudinally extending flights extend about the 
circumference of the inside wall of the drum at the 
combustion zone, so that the flights shield the wall of 
the drum from the radiant heat of the burner flame and 
thereby protect the wall from overheating and 
deterioration. The need for a protective refractory 
lining is thus usually unnecessary. These flights are 
typically T-shaped in transverse cross section, and the 
flights are spaced from the wall so as to pass over the 
layer of aggregate in the bottom of the drum as the 
drum rotates. Thus the flights also tend to shield the 
aggregate from the radiant heat as the aggregate moves 
through the combustion zone. As will be apparent, the above described 
flights are continually exposed to the radiant heat of 
the burner flame in the combustion zone, and as a 
result, the flights themselves become overheated and 
rapidly deteriorate. Further, the fact that the 
flights overlie and shield the aggregate in the bottom 
of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotary drum dryer (10) comprising: 


a hollow drum (12, 12a) having a cylindrical wall 
(14, 14a) and which is mounted for rotation about a 

central axis (15); 
means (20, 20a) for rotating said drum about said 
central axis (15, 15a); 
aggregate inlet means (21, 21a) for introducing 
aggregate into the interior of said drum and aggregate 

outlet means (22, 22a) for withdrawing the aggregate 
from the interior of said drum, and so as to define a 

downstream direction when viewed in the direction of 
the movement of the aggregate from the inlet means 

(21, 21a) toward the outlet means (22, 22a) and an 
opposite upstream direction; 
heating means comprising a burner (26, 26a) 
positioned adjacent an end of said drum (12, 12a) for 

introducing air and a high temperature flame into the 
interior of said drum, and so as to define a 

combustion zone in said drum which surrounds said 
flame; 
a dam (30, 30a) coaxially encircling the inside 
of said wall (14, 14a) of said drum (12, 12a) and 

defining an inside circumferential edge (31) which is 
spaced from said wall of said drum; and  

 
a plurality of longitudinally extending flights 
(34, 34a) mounted to the inside surface of wall and 

said flights being spaced about substantially the 
entire circumference of the inside surface of said 

wall of said drum and extending upstream of said dam, 
 
   characterised in that (i) said dam (30, 30a) is 

located adjacent the downstream end of said combustion 
zone, (ii) said flights (34, 34a) extend along the 

length of said combustion zone, (iii) each of said 
flights, when viewed in transverse cross section, 

comprises a medial portion (36) which is generally 
perpendicular to a radial line extending from said 

central axis (15, 15a) and the trailing edge portion (40) which extends inclined away from said wall (14,14a) from said medial portion (36), and (iv) said dam is adapted 
to retain and raise the level of the aggregate flowing 

through said combustion zone so that the flights pass 
through the aggregate in the bottom of the drum in the 

combustion zone and collect a portion of the aggregate 
on their radially inwardly facing surfaces and carry the collected aggregate to an elevated discharge point (P). 
A rotary drum drier as claimed in claim 1, 
wherein said medial portion (36) of each of said flights, 

when viewed in transverse cross-section, is generally 
parallel to an adjacent portion of said inside 

circumferential edge (31) of said dam. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in claim 2,  
 

wherein said medial portion (36) of said flights, when viewed 
in transverse cross-section, lies at a level which 

generally corresponds to the level of the adjacent 
portion of said inside circumferential edge (31) of 

said dam. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 
3, wherein said medial portion (36) of each of said flights 

(34, 34a) is generally planar and defines a plane 
which is substantially perpendicular to a radial line 

extending from said central axis. 
A rotary drum drier as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, 
wherein said trailing edge 

portion (40) of each of said flights extends from said 
plane of said medial portion (36) at an angle of about 70°. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, 
wherein each of said flights further comprises a 

leading edge portion (38) which is positioned on the  
 

side of said medial portion (36) opposite said trailing edge 
portion (40), and wherein said leading edge portion 

(38) is inclined toward the wall (14, 14a) of said 
drum. 
A rotary drum drier as claimed in claim 6 when 
appended to claim 5, wherein said leading edge portion 

(38) extends from said plane of said medial portion (36) at 
an angle of about 30 degrees. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in claim 6 or 7, 
wherein said leading edge portion (38) and said 

trailing edge portion (40) of each flight (34, 34a) 
each have a transverse dimension which is about one 

half that of said medial portion (36). 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said flights (34, 34a) are 

equally spaced about the entire circumference of the 
inside surface of said cylindrical wall of said drum. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in claim 9, 
wherein said flights (34, 34a) are positioned 

sufficiently close to each other that the inside 
surface of said cylindrical wall is substantially 

completely covered in the radial direction.  
 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein said flights (34, 34a) are 

supported in spaced relation from the inside surface 
of said wall (14, 14a) of said drum by a plurality of 

longitudinally spaced apart posts (42). 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said dam (30, 30a) comprises 

a plurality of aligned and interconnected plates, and 
a plurality of openings (32) extend through at least 

some of said plates immediately adjacent the inside 
surface of said wall (14, 14a) of said drum to 

facilitate cleaning of the aggregate therefrom. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims further comprising lifting flight 

means (24) mounted to that portion of said inside 
surface of said wall (14, 14a) of said drum which is 

outside of said combustion zone for lifting and 
cascading the aggregate as it flows in the downstream 

direction through the interior of the drum on rotation 
thereof. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising means (18, 18a) 

mounting said drum (12, 12a) for rotation about said  
 

central axis (15, 15a) and with said central axis 
being inclined with respect to the horizontal so as to 

define an upper end and a lower end of said drum. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in claim 14, 
wherein said heating means is disposed adjacent said 

lower end of said drum and exhaust duct means (28) is 
positioned adjacent the upper end of said drum so that 

the aggregate moving through said drum in the 
downstream direction moves counter to the direction of 

gas flow through said drum. 
A rotary drum dryer as claimed in claim 14, 
wherein said heating means is disposed adjacent said 

upper end of said drum and exhaust duct means (28a) is 
positioned adjacent said lower end of said drum so 

that the aggregate moving through said drum in the 
downstream direction moves parallel to the direction 

of gas flow through said drum. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
