<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641474</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POINTING DEVICE HAVING IMPROVED AUTOMATIC GAIN CONTROL AND INFORMATION REPORTING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3041	G06F3042	H04B10152	H04B10152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved optical pointing device (40') utilizing a moveable unit (100) having a voltage-to-frequency converter (VFC) (61). The VFC emits pulses with separation proportional to the angular rotative and/or translational position of the moveable unit (100) which pulses are applied to an LED (57') of the moveable unit (100). A microcomputer (5') in a base unit (41) measures separation of the pulses received by a photodetector (43') to determine the components of the angular rotative and/or translational position of the moveable unit (100). In accordance with another aspect, automatic gain control circuitry (60) is located in the moveable unit (100), thereby eliminating the need for two-way communication to achieve consistency of operation in a prescribed space.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SELECTECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SELECTECH, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ODELL DONALD S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PILCHER L STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ODELL, DONALD, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PILCHER, L., STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
POINTING DEVICE HAVING IMPROVED AUTOMATIC GAIN CONTROLAND INFORMATION REPORTINGBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to improvements to a pointing device, such as that disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 5,045,843, the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.The invention which is the subject of U.S.Patent No. 5,045,843 satisfies a need for a system facilitating remote control of a cursor on a display screen. Figure 1 illustrates an example of a basic block diagram of the pointing device, shown at 40, according to the prior patent. A first unit 41, called a fixed unit or base unit, is located proximate the display screen and interconnects with a cursor control circuit 13 associated with the display screen 15, such as a television or a computer display screen.The fixed unit 41 includes a driver 7 and a first LED 9. A microcomputer 5 controls operation of the driver 7 as well as operation of the cursor control circuit 13. The fixed unit further includes a photodetector 43 connected to the microcomputer 5 via an analog-to-digital converter 16 and a buffer 45.The movable or remote unit 48 includes a camera 19 having a lens 21, an elongated tube 23 and a position sensing detector 25 connected to operational amplifiers 29. The operational amplifiers 29 amplify the currents 

received and translate them into proportional voltages. The voltages are digitized by the A/D converter 49 and processed by the microcomputer 51 to control operation of the driver 55 which drives a second LED 57. In order to compensate for ambient light conditions, the system according to the prior patent performs active dynamic gain control in the fixed unit by two-way ("closed-loop") communication between the fixed unit and the moveable unit. Specifically, the intensity of the light transmitted by the LED of the fixed unit is controlled. This light intensity is proportional to the square of the distance between the fixed unit and the moveable unit. The fixed unit and moveable unit communicate with each other in both directions to establish appropriate illumination levels of the IR LED 9 in the fixed unit. The amplified output signals of the operational amplifiers are then digitized by the A/D converter 49 to allow for processing by the microcomputer 51. The step of digitizing the amplified signal for ultimate transmission is hereinafter referred to as "information reporting".While the system according to the prior patent adequately performs its desired functions, there is room for improvement.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. An optical pointing device for use within a prescribed space for interconnection with a display device having a display screen, a cursor movably displayed on said display screen and a cursor control circuit for controlling the position of the cursor on said display screen, the optical pointing device comprising: a first unit including a light source and computer means for controlling the operation of said light source, said first unit being fixedly located relative to said display device with said computer means connected to said cursor control circuit; a second unit movably contained within said space and comprising light detector means for detecting light emitted from said light source to generate in response output signals related to the angular rotative and/or translational relationship between said light source and said light detector means, amplifier means connected to said light detector means for amplifying the output signals of said light detector means by an amplification factor to generate an information signal, automatic gain control means for changing the amplification factor of said amplifying means as distance between the first and second unit changes to adjust the level of the output signals of said 



light detector means which are amplified by said amplifying means and thereby to compensate for movement of the second unit within said space.
2. The optical pointing device of claim 1, wherein said second unit further comprises transmission means for transmitting the information signal to the computing means of said first unit.
3. The optical pointing device of claim 2, wherein the transmission means of the second unit comprises optical transmission means for transmitting an optical signal, and the first unit further comprises light detection means connected to the computing means for receiving the optical signal transmitted by said optical transmission means. 4. The optical pointing device of claim 3, wherein said second unit further comprises means for controlling the automatic gain control means and the amplifying means.
5. The optical pointing device of claim 4, wherein the means for controlling comprises a state machine.
6. A pointing device for use within a prescribed space and adapted to be interconnected with a display device having a display screen, a cursor movably displayed on said display screen and a cursor control 


circuit for controlling the position of the cursor on said display screen, the pointing device comprising: a first unit including computer means connected to said cursor control circuit; a second unit movably contained within said space and comprising orientation detection means for detecting angular rotative and/or translational position and generating an information signal representative of components of said angular rotative and/or translational position, means for converting the information signal to a series of spaced pulses, the time spacing between consecutive pulses being proportional to a particular component of the angular rotative and/or translational position. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the second unit comprises transmission means for transmitting the series of pulses to the computer means of the first unit, and the computer means of the first unit converts the series of pulses to cursor control data which is supplied to the cursor control circuit.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the first unit comprises light detection means connected to said computer means, and the transmission means of the second unit comprises optical transmission means for transmitting the series of pulses as a series of light pulses to the light detection means of said first unit. 


 9. The device of claim 6, wherein said first unit comprises a fixedly located light source and the orientation detection means of the second unit comprises light detector means for detecting light emitted from said light source and in response generating an output signal related to the angular rotative and/or translational relationship between the light source and the light detector means.
10. A method for communicating the angular rotative and/or translational position of a moveable unit within a prescribed space to a receiving unit for interconnection with a display device having a display screen, a cursor movably displayed on said display screen and a cursor control circuit for controlling the position of the cursor on said display screen, the method comprising the steps of: detecting the angular rotative and/or translational position of the moveable unit; generating an information signal having a level which is indicative of components of the angular rotative and/or translational position of the moveable unit; converting the information signal into a series of spaced pulses, the time separation between any two consecutive pulses being representative of a particular component of the angular rotative and/or translational position of the moveable unit; and 


 transmitting the series of pulses from the moveable unit to the receiving unit.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of transmitting comprises the step of generating a series of light pulses which are transmitted to the receiving unit from the moveable unit.
12. The method of claim 10, and further comprising the steps of converting the series of pulses received by the receiving unit to cursor control data and supplying the cursor control data to the cursor control circuit.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of transmitting comprises the step of transmitting a series of light pulses to the receiving unit. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein said step of detecting the angular rotative and/or translational position of the moveable unit comprises detecting light emitted from a fixedly, located light source at said receiving unit and in response generating an output signal related to the angular rotative and/or translational position of the moveable unit.
15. A pointing device for use within a prescribed space for interconnection with a display device having a display screen, a cursor movably displayed on said display screen and a cursor control 


circuit for controlling the position of the cursor on said display screen, the pointing device comprising: a first unit including computer means connected to said cursor control circuit, said first unit being fixedly located relative to said display device; and a second unit movably contained within said space and comprising orientation detection means for detecting angular rotative and/or translational position, amplifier means connected to said orientation detection means for amplifying the output signals of said orientation detection means by an amplification factor to generate an information signal, automatic gain control means for changing the amplification factor of said amplifying means as distance between the first and second unit changes to adjust the level of the output signals of said light detector means which are amplified by said amplifying means and thereby to allow for movement of the second unit within said space. 16. A method for communicating the angular rotative and/or translational position of at least one moveable unit within a prescribed space to a receiving unit or to another moveable unit, the method comprising the steps of: detecting the angular rotative and/or translational position of the at least one moveable unit; 


 generating an information signal having a level which is indicative of components of the angular rotative and/or translational position of the at least one moveable unit; converting the information signal into a series of spaced pulses, the time separation between any two consecutive pulses being representative of a particular component of the angular rotative and/or translational position of the at least one moveable unit; and transmitting the series of pulses from the moveable unit to the receiving unit.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of transmitting comprises the step of generating a series of light pulses which are transmitted from the moveable unit to the receiving unit or to another moveable unit.
18. An improvement to an optical pointing device for use within a prescribed space for interconnection with a display device having a display screen, a cursor moveably displayed on said display screen and a cursor control circuit for controlling the position of the cursor on the display screen, the optical pointing device comprising a first unit including computer means connected to said cursor control circuit and being fixedly located relative to said display device; and a second unit moveably contained within said 



space and comprising orientation detection means for detecting angular rotative and/or translational position, amplifier means connected to said orientation detection means for amplifying the output signals of said orientation detection means by an amplification factor to generate an information signal, the improvement comprising: automatic gain control means in said second unit for changing the amplification factor of said amplifying means as the distance between the first unit and second unit changes to adjust the level of the output signals of said orientation detection means and thereby to compensate for movement of the second unit within said space. 19. The improvement of claim 18, wherein said first unit includes a light source controlled by said computer means, and said orientation detection means of said second unit comprises light detector means for detecting light emitted from said light source to generate in response to output signals related to the angular rotative and/or translational position between said light source and said light detector means.
20. An improvement to an optical pointing device - for use within a prescribed space for interconnection with a display device having a display screen, a cursor moveably displayed on said display 


screen and a cursor control circuit for controlling the position of the cursor on the display screen, the optical pointing device comprising a first unit including computer means connected to said cursor control circuit and being fixedly located relative to said dislpay device; and a second unit moveably contained within said space and comprising orientation detection means for detecting angular rotative and/or translational position, amplifier means connected to said orientation detection means for amplifying the output signals of said orientation detection means by an amplification factor to generate an information signal representative of components of the angular rotative and/or translational position, the improvement comprising: means for converting the information signal to a series of spaced pulses, the time spacing between any two consecutive pulses being proportional to a particular component of the angular rotative and/or translational position. 21. The improvement of claim 20, wherein said first unit includes a light source controlled by said computer means, and said orientation detection means of said second unit comprises light detector means for detecting light emitted from said light source to generate in response output signals related to the 


angular rotative and/or translational position between said light source and said light detector means.
22. The improvement of claim 21, wherein the second unit further comprises optical transmission means for transmitting the series of pulses to the computer means of the first unit, and the computer means of the first unit converts the series of pulses to cursor control data which is supplied to the cursor control circuit. 23. The improvement of claim 21, wherein the means for converting receives as input, discrete voltage signals representing spatial coordinates indicating the position on said light detector means of a light beam emitted by said light source of said first unit. 24. The improvement of claim 20, wherein said means for converting receives as input the information signal in the form of a predetermined number of DC voltage signals each representing one of said components, the number of pulses in said series comprising a lead pulse, a plurality of component pulses equal in number to said predetermined number of DC voltage signals, and a tail pulse, the time spacing between a first component pulse and a lead pulse representing a first DC voltage signal, and the time spacing between succeeding consecutive pairs of said component pulses representing the remaining DC voltage signals. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
