<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629734</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ring for coupling two elements of a washing machine tub
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06F3726	B65D4500	B65D4532	D06F3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06F	B65D	B65D	D06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06F37	B65D45	B65D45	D06F37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A split coupling ring (5) for coupling the two 
peripheral flanges (2a, 3a) of the elements (2, 3) 

forming the tank of the washing machine has its end 
portions connected to each other by a folded seam on 

the side wings of the V profile element constituting 
the ring. This operation is performed on one side only 

or on both sides of the profile element. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a ring for 
coupling the peripheral flanges of the two elements 
forming the tub of a washing machine, said ring 
defining a plane and an axis perpendicular to this 
plane and being made of a metal profile having two 
branches, a central bottom part and an open end which 
faces the axis of the ring. Rings of the above indicated type have been known 
and used for some time, which have their adjacent ends 
bent outwardly, substantially at right angles with 
respect to the adjacent part of the ring, said ends 
having a pair of facing holes for engagement of a 
clamping bolt. The rings of this type do not prove to 
be fully satisfactory in use, because of the tendency 
of the two deformed ends of the ring to deform further 
as a result of the tension of the bolt, preventing at 
the same time a proper clamping of the connected parts. Rings are also known whose adjacent ends are 
provided with auxiliary welded elements having passages 
in line with each other for the engagement of a 
clamping bolt. The rings of this latter type provide an 
efficient clamping of the connected parts as requested, 
but are complicated and costly to manufacture (see for 
example figure 2 of French patent No. 2.296.048). 
Solutions are also known in which the two ends of the 
ring are provided with hooks and, respectively, 
apertures which are to cooperate together to provide a 
mutual engagement (see figures 3-12 of the above 
identified French patent). Also this solution has the 
drawback to require a ring with a relatively 
complicated and costly structure. The same applies to  
 
the solution known from French patent No. 2.355.943 in 
which on the ends of the ring there are mounted L-shaped 
brackets connected to each other by a clamping 
screw. A much better solution both from the standpoint of 
efficiency and reliability, and from the standpoint of 
simplicity and economy of manufacture and assembling, 
has formed the subject of European patent EP-B-210.143. 
According to such solution, each end of the coupling 
ring is permanently deformed so as to be radially 
outwardly offset with respect to the adjacent portion 
of the ring, with the part of the bottom wall of the 
profile element which connects the bottom wall of each 
offset end portion to that of the immediately adjacent 
part of the profile element which has a hole defining 
along with the cavity of the end portion a passage for 
the engagement of a clamping bolt. The two end portions 
of the ring are adapted to be placed in an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Ring (5) for coupling the peripheral flanges (2a, 
3a) of the two elements (2, 3) forming the tub (1) of a 

washing machine, said ring defining a plane and an axis 
perpendicular to this plane and being made of a metal 

profile (6) having two branches (7), a central bottom 
part (8) and an open end which faces the axis of the 

ring (5), whereby the ends of the ring (5) are adapted 
to be placed in an overlapping relationship,
 
   characterised in that the two ends of the ring (5) 

are not provided with any hole or passage for 
connecting screws nor with any further connecting 

element,
 
   and in that at least one branch (7) of each end 

portion of the ring (5), which is to be connected by a permanently deformed 
folded seam to a cooperating 

branch of the other end portion of the ring, is 
arranged in a plane inclined outwardly with respect to 

the plane of the ring, so as to define two shoulder 
parts which allow engagement by a seaming tool. 
A method for coupling the peripheral flanges (2a, 
3a) of the two elements (2, 3) constituting the tub (1) 

of a washing machine, in which a coupling ring (5) is 
provided, said ring defining a plane and an axis 

perpendicular to this plane and being made of a metal 
profile (6) having two branches (7), a central bottom 

part (8) and an open end which faces the axis of the 
ring (5), and in which said ring is positioned over 

said peripheral flanges (2a, 3a), with its end portions 
placed in an overlapping relationship,
 
   characterised in that each end portion of said 

ring has at least one branch (7) which is inclined 
outwardly with respect to the plane of the ring, so as 

to define a shoulder part (8a),  
 


in that the ring is placed on said peripheral 
flanges (2a,3a), is tensioned thereon with its end 

portions in an overlapping relationship, 
and in that the two overlapping end portions of 
the ring (5) are fastened to each other in this 

tensioned condition by permanently deforming at least 
part of the overlapping portions of said outwardly 

inclined branches of the ring (5) in the same 
direction, by a folded seam operation carried out by a 

seaming tool engaging the shoulder parts of the end 
portions of the ring. 
Method according to claim 2, characterised in that 
said folding operation is carried out only on one side 

of the profile. 
Method according to claim 2, characterised in that 
said folding operation is carried out on both sides of 

the profile. 
Method according to claim 2, characterised in that 
said folding operation is carried out by cutting and 

bending tabs (7a) from the overlapping portions of said 
branches (7). 
Method according to claim 2, characterised in that 
said folding operation is carried out with the aid of 

an auxiliary sheet metal element which covers the 
overlapping portions of said branches (7) as a seal. 
Device for clamping and locking the ring (5) of 
claim 1, comprising two clamping jaws (50) arranged at 

a distance from each other adjacent to said end 
portions of the ring, means to move said jaws (50) 

between two relatively spaced apart inoperative 
positions and two relatively close operative positions, 

whereby said ring (5) is tightened,
 
   characterized in that the facing surfaces (50a) of 

the jaws (50) engage the shoulder portions (8a) of the 
ring (5), said device being also provided with means  

 
(53,54) for rigidly connecting the two outwardly 

inclined and overlapping branches (7) of the two end 
portions of the coupling ring (5) to each other, by at 

least partly folding, in the same direction, said 
overlapping branches (7) 
Device according to claim 7, characterised in that 
said means (53, 54) for rigidly connecting the branches 

(7) comprises a die (53) and a punching element (54) 
for cutting and bending a plurality of tabs (60) from 

the overlapping branches (7). 
Device according to claim 8, characterised in that 
said tabs (60) have a dovetail profile. 
Device according to claim 8, characterised in that 
said tabs (60) have toothed sides. 
Device according to claim 8, characterised in that 
said tabs have an inverted T profile. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
