<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648165</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A VEHICLE SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60G17015	B60G17015	B60G17017	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60G	B60G	B60G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60G17	B60G17	B60G17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides, with reference to the figure, a vehicle suspension system comprising an actuator (10) connected between the body (11) of a vehicle and a wheel and a wheel and hub assembly (18) of the vehicle. A source of pressurized fluid (20) and an exhaust for fluid (24) are provided along with valve means (22) for controlling flow of fluid to the actuator (10) from the source of pressurized fluid (20) and/or from the actuator (10) to the exhaust for fluid (24). Sensor means (27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 41) is used to generate signals of sensed variable vehicle parameters. A control system for the vehicle suspension system is used which has processor means (25, 20) which processes the signals generated by the sensor means (27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 41). The processor means (25, 26) outputs a control signal to the valve means (22) and thereby controls the actuator (10). The processor means in normal operating conditions uses a first set of preprogrammed constants (e.g. control loop gains, integrating factors, desired ride heights) in algorithms used by the processor means to calculate the control signal outputted thereby. The processor means uses a different set of preprogrammed constants in the algorithms for a chosen time period following activation of the system and/or at low vehicle speeds and/or a low pressure of fluid supplied by the source of pressurized fluid (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOTUS CAR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOTUS CARS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OAKLEY ROBIN NEIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OAKLEY, ROBIN NEIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A VEHICLE SUSPENSION SYSTEMThis invention relates to a vehicle suspension control system. By "vehicle" is meant all classes of vehicle capable of motion on land, and the term includes motor vehicles, lorry cabs and trailers, tractors and tracked vehicles.In particular, the invention relates to a vehicle suspension control system for controlling the suspension of a vehicle having an active suspension system.Active suspension systems are well known. For example, the applicant's European Patent Application No. EP-A-0114757 discloses an active suspension system in which a number of sensor inputs representing variables of vehicle motion are processed in a microprocessor to produce signals representing forces required at the points of support of the vehicle body on its wheel/hub assemblies. The required forces are applied by respective hydraulic actuators disposed between the vehiclie body and each wheel/hub assembly to maintain as nearly as possible a constant attitude of the vehicle.Active suspension systems operate on the principles either of measuring the forces acting between the vehicle body and the wheel/hub assemblies or of calculating such forces from measured values indicative of vehicle behaviour.The main problem faced by the designer of an active suspension system is the difficulty that whilst the vehicle suspension system should respond to perturbations in the road (road inputs) by moving the actuators attached to the wheel and hub assembly, the suspension system 

should not cause the actuators to deflect in response to loads imposed upon the vehicle by reason of "driver inputs". "Driver inputs" include loads being placed on the suspension due to the cornering and acceleration/ decceleration of the vehicle. "Driver inputs" also include variations on the load of the vehicle due to load carried inside the vehicle and aerodynamic forces on the vehicle. Such "driver inputs" should generally not cause displacement of the actuators. In other words, the designer is faced with the problem of designing a suspension system which is "soft" to road inputs whilst being "hard" to driver inputs.In PCT/GB 90/00690 a vehicle suspension control system is described which has processors which deal with loading arising from "driver" inputs separately from "road" input loading, the processors outputting separate control signals for each actuator which are combined into one control signal to control each actuator.The present invention aims to deal with problems encountered with active suspension systems when they are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A vehicle suspension system comprising: an actuator connected between the body of the vehicle and a wheel and hub assembly of the vehicle, a source of pressurised fluid, an exhaust for fluid, valve means for controlling the flow of fluid to the actuator from the source of pressurised fluid and/or from the actuator to the exhaust for fluid, sensor means for generating signals indicative of sensed variable vehicle parameters and a control system for controlling the actuator comprising processor means which processes the signals generated by the sensor means and controls the valve means to control fluid flow to and/or from the actuator, the processor means outputting a control signal to the valve means and thereby controlling the actuator, wherein the processor means in normal operating conditions uses a first set of preprogrammed constants in algorithms used by the processor means to calculate the control signal outputted thereby, characterised in that the processor means uses a different set of preprogrammed constants in the algorithms for a chosen time period following activation of the system and/or at low vehicle speeds and/or at low pressures of the fluid supplied by the source of pressurised fluid.
2. A vehicle supension system as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the control system operates with a variable bandwidth of operating frequencies and the processor means varies the bandwidth with vehicle velocity. 


 3. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the processor means includes means for generating a desired active ride height for the vehicle which varies the desired active ride height with the velocity of the vehicle and/or with the pressure of the fluid supply.
4. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the sensor means measures the force transmitted to the vehicle body by the actuator and the control system includes an open force control loop which adjusts the force transmitted to the vehicle body by controlling the length and/or speed of extension/contraction of the actuator, the processor means using a gain in the open force control loop which is varied by the processor means with varying vehicle velocity.
5. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the sensor means measures the length of the actuator and the control system includes a closed displacement error control loop in which the control signal for the valve means is a function of the error between the measured length of the actuator and a desired length calculated by the processor means, wherein the processor means uses a gain in the closed displacement error control loop which is varied by the processor means with varying vehicle velocity.
6. A vehicle suspension system comprising: an actuator connected between the body of the vehicle and a wheel and hub assembly of the vehicle, a road spring connected between the body of the 


vehicle and the wheel and hub assembly in parallel with the actuator, a source of pressurised fluid, an exhaust for fluid, valve means for controlling flow of fluid to the actuator from the source of pressurised fluid and/or from the actuator to the exhaust for fluid, sensor means for generating signals indicative of a plurality of sensed variable vehicle parameters electrical or electronic processor means which processes the signals generated by the sensor means, the processor means outputting a control signal to control the valve means and thereby controlling the length of the actuator, wherein when the passive ride height of the vehicle supported by the road spring alone is different from the active ride height of the vehicle when the control processor means is operative, the processor means for a chosen time period following activation of the suspension system and/or at low vehicle speeds and/or at low fluid supply pressures is characterised by ramping the ride height of the vehicle from the passive ride height at a rate determined by ramping means provided in the processor means.
7. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the sensor means includes means to measure vehicle speed and the processor means calculates a desired active ride height for the vehicle which is varied by the processor means with varying.
8. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 7 wherein the processor means calculates a desired active ride height which is adjusted with 


increasing vehicle speed until a speed threshold is reached, whereafter the active ride height remains unaltered by variations in vehicle speed.
9. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 7 or Claim 8 wherein the sensor means measures the pressure of the fluid supplied by the source of pressurised fluid and the processor means calculates a desired active ride height which is varied by the processor means with variations in the sensed fluid pressure.
10. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 9 wherein the suspension system calculates a desired ride height which is varied with increases in fluid pressure until a pressure threshold is reached, whereafter the desired active ride height remains unaltered by pressure variations.
11. A suspension system for a vehicle comprising: an actuator connected between the body of the vehicle and a wheel and hub assembly of the vehicle, a source of pressurised fluid, an exhaust for fluid, valve means for metering flow of fluid to the actuator from the source of pressurised fluid and/or flow of fluid from the actuator to the exhaust for fluid, sensor means for generating signals indicative of forces on the vehicle, electrical or electronic processor means for processing the signals generated by the sensor means and for outputting a control signal to the valve means to thereby control the actuator, 


 wherein the actuator comprises a piston and cylinder arrangement having two chambers in the cylinder divided by the piston, the valve means comprises means to connect both chambers together to allow flow from one chamber to the other and the processor means controls the valve means to connect both chambers together when the net force on the actuator is in the same sense as the motion required of the actuator by the processor means, characterised in that the processor means is adapted to control the valve means such that the valve means do not connect both chambers together for a chosen time period after activation of the suspension system and/or until a chosen velocity threshold and/or fluid pressure threshold is reached.
12. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the sensor means generates a signal indicative of vehicle velocity and the processor means operates such that the possibility of both chambers being connected together exists only when the sensed vehicle velocity is above a chosen velocity threshold.
13. A vehicle suspension system comprising: an actuator connected between the body of the vehicle and a wheel and hub assembly of the vehicle, a source of pressurised fluid, an exhaust for fluid, and a control system for controlling the actuator comprising: sensor means for generating signals indicative of forces on the vehicle and length of the actuator, valve means for metering flow of fluid from the source of pressurised fluid to the actuator and/or from the actuator to the exhaust for fluid, 


 electrical or electronic processor means for processing the signals generated by the sensor means and for outputting a control signal to valve means to vary the length of the actuator, wherein the control system has a closed loop displacement error control system and a system for biasing the valve means to an offset condition in which the fluid flow to and/or from the actuator is controlled such that the actuator applies a force sufficient to counter loading on the actuator and thereby maintain a required ride height, the processor means being characterised by having memory means which stores on deactivation of the suspension system the value of one or more signals generated by the sensor means and/or produced by the system for biasing the valve means, the processor means using the stored value or values when the suspension system is next activated.
14. A suspension system as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the processor means has Electrically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory for storing the stored value or values.
15. A vehicle suspension system comprising: an actuator connected between the vehicle body and a wheel and hub assembly of the vehicle, a source of pressurised fluid, an exhaust for fluid, and a control system for controlling the actuator comprising: sensor means for generating signals indicative of forces on the vehicle the length of the actuator, the velocity of the vehicle and the fluid pressure of the fluid from the source of pressurised fluid. 


 valve means for metering flow of fluid from the source of pressurised fluid to the actuator and/or metering flow of fluid from the actuator to the exhaust for fluid, electrical or electronic processor means for processing the signals generated by the sensor means and for outputting a control signal to control the valve means to vary the length of the actuator, wherein the control system comprises a closed displacement error control loop and a control loop for biasing the valve means to maintain a required ride height for the vehicle, characterised in that a gain is used in the displacement error loop which is varied by the processor means with changes in the velocity of the vehicle and/or pressure.
16. A vehicle suspension system comprising: an actuator connected between the body of the vehicle and a wheel and hub assembly of the vehicle, a source of pressurised fluid, an exhaust for fluid, and a control system for controlling the actuator comprising: sensor means for generating signals indicative of the forces on the vehicle, the length of the actuator and the velocity of the vehicle, valve means for metering flow of fluid to the actuator from the source of pressurised fluid and/or flow of fluid from the actuator to the exhaust for fluid, electrical or electronic processor means for processing the signals generated by the sensor means and for controlling the valve means to vary the length of the actuator, wherein 


 the control system includes a force control loop characterised in that a gain is used the force control loop which is varied by the processor means as a function of vehicle velocity.
17. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 16 wherein the gain of force control loop is increased with increased vehicle velocity.
18. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 17 wherein the gain of the force control loop is switched from a low value to a high value with increasing velocity at a chosen velocity threshold.
19. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 17 wherein the gain of the force control loop increases in proportion to increasing vehicle velocity until a velocity threshold is reached, whereafter the gain remains unchanged with variations in velocity.
20. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 18 or Claim 19 wherein the gain of the force error loop is increased with velocity to a maximum of twice the lowest value of the gain.
21. A vehicle suspension system comprising: an actuator connected between the vehicle body and a wheel and hub assembly of the vehicle, a source of pressurised fluid, an exhaust for fluid, and a control system for controlling the actuator comprising: sensor means for generating signals indicative of forces on the vehicle length of the actuator and velocity of the vehicle, 


 valve means for metering fluid flow to the actuator from the source of pressurised fluid and/or from the actuator to the exhaust for fluid, and electrical or electronic processor means for processing the signals generated by the sensor means and for outputting a control signal to control the valve means to vary the length of the actuator, wherein the control system has a closed displacement loop controlling vehicle ride height which controls the valve means to bring the vehicle to a desired ride height calculated by the processor means characterised in that the vehicle is brought to the desired ride height at a levelling rate which is variable with vehicle velocity, the rate being controlled by one or more variable gains in the closed displacement loop which are varied by the processor means as a function of vehicle velocity.
22. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 21 wherein the variable gains are altered such that the levelling rate decreases with increasing velocity.
23. A vehicle suspension system as claimed in Claim 22 wherein the processor means is programmed with a vehicle speed threshold above which the variable gain or gains remain constant. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
