<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619915</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C700	G11C700	G11C1121	G11C1142	G11C1156	G11C1156	G11C1304	G11C1304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C7	G11C7	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C13	G11C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical memory (10) is disclosed in which data is stored in an optical data layer (19) capable of selectively altering light such as by changeable transmissivity, reflectivity, polarization, and/or phase. The data is illuminated by controllable light sources (15) and an array of multi-surface imaging lenslets (21) project the image onto a common array of light sensors (27). Data is organized into a plurality of regions or patches (called pages) and by selective illumination of each data page, one of the lenslets (21) images the selected data page onto the light sensors (27). Light in the data image pattern strikes different ones of the arrayed light sensors (27), thereby outputting a pattern of binary bits in the form of electrical data signals. By selectively and sequentially illuminating different ones of the data regions (pages) on the data layer (19), correspondingly different data patterns are imaged by the corresponding lenslets (21) onto the common sensor array (27), thereby enabling many stored data pages to be retrieved by multiplexing at electro-optical speed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INFORMATION OPTICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INFORMATION OPTICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSSELL JAMES T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUSSELL JAMES T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPTICAL RANDOM ACCESS MEMORYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The invention concerns method and apparatus of opticall storing and retrieving mass digital data stored as light altering characteristics on an optical material and providin fast random access retrieval.Optical memories of the type having large amounts of digital data stored by light modifying characteristics of a film or thin layer of material and accessed by optical addressing without mechanical movement have been proposed bu have not resulted in wide spread commercial application. Th interest in such optical recording and retrieval technology due to its projected capability of faster retrieval of large amounts of data compared to that of existing electro-optical mechanisms such as optical discs, and magnetic storage such tape and magnetic disc, all of which require relative motion of the storage medium.For example, in the case of optical disc memories, it i necessary to spin the record and move a read head radially t retrieve the data, which is output in serial fashion. The serial accessing of data generally requires transfer to a buffer or solid state random access memory of a data process in order to accommodate high speed data addressing and other data operations of modern computers. Solid state ROM and RA can provide the relatively high access speeds that are sough but the cost, size, and heat dissipation of such devices whe 

 expanded to relatively large data capacities limit their applications.Examples of efforts to provide the relatively large capacity storage and fast access of an optical memory of the type that is the subject of this invention are disclosed in the patent literature such as U.S. Patent 3,806,643.for PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORDS OF DIGITAL INFORMATION AND PLAYBACK SYSTEMS INCLUDING OPTICAL SCANNERS and U.S. Patent 3,885,094 for OPTICAL SCANNER, both by James T. Russell? ϋ. S. Patent 3,898,005 for a HIGH DENSITY OPTICAL MEMORY MEANS EMPLOYING A MULTIPLE LENS ARRAY; U. S. Patent No. 3,996,570 for OPTICAL MASS MEMORY; U. S. Patent No. 3,656,120 for READ-ONLY MEMORY; U. S. Patent No. 3,676,864 for OPTICAL MEMORY APPARATUS; U. S Patent No. 3,899,778 for MEANS EMPLOYING A MULTIPLE LENS ARRA FOR READING FROM A HIGH DENSITY OPTICAL STORAGE; U. S. Patent No. 3,765,749 for OPTICAL MEMORY STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL SYSTEM and U. S. Patent No. 4,663,738 for HIGH DENSITY BLOCK ORIENTE SOLID STATE OPTICAL MEMORIES. While some of these systems attempt to meet the above mentioned objectives of the present invention, they fall short in one or more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. An optical data system comprising: an optical data means for storing data as light altering characteristics and being organized into a plurality (P) of juxtaposed data regions each having capacity to store (B) bits of data; controllable light source means for selectively illuminating at least one of said separate data regions of said optical data means; data imaging lens means having a plurality of juxtaposed lenslets each being shaped and arranged in such proximity to and in optical registration with a separate one of said juxtaposed data regions so that the image resolving power thereof is substantially uniform over the field of view of that data region to form an image thereof on a common image surface spaced from said data means and lens means; sensor means having a plurality (S) of juxtaposed light sensors arranged at said image surface for sensing data as a light image corresponding to an illuminated data region; and data signal output means coupled to said sensor means for outputting data signals representing said data of an illuminated and imaged data region. 


 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising optical means disposed between said sensor means and said lens means and including diffraction means for correcting aberrations in the imaging of each data region by each of said plurality of juxtaposed lenslets.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of lenslets of said lens means include contoured refractive surfaces of a continuous layer of optical material and further comprising optical means disposed between said sensor means and said lens means and having diffraction means and field lens means, said diffraction means selectively correcting light rays representing data images from said lenslets, and said field lens means directing light patterns imaged through said diffraction means from different lenslets onto said image surface.
4. The system of claim 2 wherein said diffraction means comprises a plurality of overlapping grating patterns arrayed so that individual grating patterns are in optical axial alignment with separate individual ones of said plurality of juxtaposed lenslets.
5. The system of claim 2 wherein said diffraction means of said optical means comprise holographic means having a plurality of overlapping holographic image correction patterns arrayed so that individual holographic correction patterns are 


in optical axial alignment with separate ones of said plurality of juxtaposed lenslets.
6. The system of claim 2 wherein said optical means further comprises a field lens disposed between said diffraction means and said sensor means for bending light ray patterns originating from different ones of said data regions and lenslets onto said common image surface containing said sensor means.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein each said lenslet has a Numerical Aperture in a range of 0.35 to 0.6, and a field of view substantially equal to an area of one of said data regions.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein each of said lenslets is comprised of at least one functionally aspherical optical element.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein said aspherical surface of each of said lenslets is disposed adjacent said data means.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein said data means and said lens means are formed as a unitary layered structure so as to maintain optical registration therebetween. 


 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said unitary layered structure of said data means and said lens means comprises a data layer having said data regions arrayed in juxtaposition thereon, a lenslet layer having said plurality of lenslets formed thereon as an array of juxtaposed lens surface contour having their individual optical axes aligned with registering ones of said data regions, and a transparent spacer layer disposed between said data layer and said lenslet layer.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein said transparent spacer layer optically immerses said data of said data layer to reduce an angle of image ray divergence relative to that of air or free space.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein said lens surface contours of said lenslets adjacent said transparent spacer layer are aspherical to provide substantially uniform resolution across the field of data in the aligned data region.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein each said data region has a contour toward said transparent spacer layer and said lenslet layer has second optical lens surfaces of said lenslets opposite from said transparent spacer that are substantially spherical. 


 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said second lens surfaces have predetermined aspheric factors on a substantially spherical surface.
16. The system of claim 10 further comprising structura means for receiving and releasably retaining said unitary layered structure of said data means and said lens means relative to said sensor means, whereby said unitary structure can be removed and replaced with a like structure storing different data.
17. The system of claim 1 wherein said sensor means comprises a plurality of sensor elements arrayed in a pattern that complements, on an enlarged image scale, data in one of said data regions of said data means.
18. The system of claim 1 wherein said data regions on said data means are arrayed in juxtaposed close-packed cells and sensor means has a plurality of said sensor elements arrayed to form said common image surface and having a perimeter in the shape of a single cell generally of the shap but larger than one of said data regions.
19. The system of claim 18 wherein said cell has the shape resembling a hexagon. 


 20. The system of claim 1 wherein said controllable light source means comprises an array of juxtaposed solid state light generating elements.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein said light generating elements are organized into groups, each group for illumination of a different one of said data regions.
22. The system of claim 20 wherein each group of said solid state light generators has a generally hexagonal shaped cell in the array and means for selectively energizing each said group to cause a hexagonal-shaped patch of light for illuminating a corresponding one of said separate data regions of said data means.
23. The system of claim 1 wherein said controllable light source means comprise an array of solid state light generators, said light generators being arranged in multiple- element groups, each such group having multiple elements and being arranged as a group in registration with a separate data region of said data means so that each group of elements is collectively energized to illuminate a separate selected data region.
24. The system of claim 23 wherein said plurality of solid state light generators comprise light emitting diodes. 


 25. The system of claim 23 wherein said plurality of solid state light generators comprise laser diodes.
26. The system of claim 1 wherein said data means is a light transmissive data means.
27. The system of claim 1 wherein said data means is a light reflective data means.
28. The system of claim 1 wherein said data means is a light polarizing data means.
29. The system of claim 28 wherein said light polarizin data means is a magneto-optic data means.
30. The optical system of claim 1, wherein said data bits are 
<
 2.25 microns across and stored at a density of 2 x 10
7
 or greater per cm
2
.
31. The optical system of claim 30, wherein each said data region stores B ≥ 10
6
 bits and said plurality (S) of juxtaposed sensors and (B) bits of data stored in each data region has the relationship S 
>
 B. 


 32. The optical system of claim 1, wherein said (B) bit of data is defined by B 
>
 10
s
 and said plurality of (P) data regions is P 
>
_ 100 for a data capacity of the system equal to or greater than 100 megabits.
33. The optical system of claim 30, wherein said optica data means comprises data supporting means that has a substantially flat surface of area equal to about 6.5 cm
2
.
34. The optical system of claim 1, wherein each said lenslet has an effective focal length of substantially 1.0mm or less and is disposed with its first surface at substantially .6mm or less from said data means.
35. The optical system of claim 34, wherein each said data region has a dimension of d across its area, and each said lenslet has a first surface spaced within 1/10 d to 3/4 of said data means, and wherein said image surface at which said sensors are arranged is spaced from said lenslets by a distance greater than d.
36. The optical data system of claim 1 wherein said sensor means comprises: an array of solid state sensor elements formed in an integrated circuit structure providing said common image surface, and a plurality of adaptive threshold sensing circuit means for providing a variable, adaptive light sensing 


threshold to data images at each of said sensor elements in response to receipt of light on adjacent sensor elements.
37. The optical data system of claim 36 wherein said array of solid state sensor elements comprises a plurality of charge coupled devices.
38. The optical data system of claim 36 wherein said array of solid state sensor elements comprises at least one PIN diode.
39. The optical data system of claim 1, further comprising adaptive threshold sensing circuit means for providing a variable, adaptive light sensing threshold to data images incident on each of said sensors.
40. An optical data system comprising: an optical data means for storing data as light altering characteristics having a density on the order of one bit per square micron and being organized into a plurality of juxtaposed data regions each adapted to store a field of bits of data; controllable light source means for selectively illuminating at least one of said data regions of said optical data means; 


 lens means having a plurality of juxtaposed lensle configured to resolve objects on the order of one micron or less and each arranged proximate and in optical registration with a separate one of said juxtaposed data regions for forming an image of the bit field thereof on a common image surface spaced from said data means and lens means; sensor means having a plurality of juxtaposed light sensors arranged at said image surface for sensing said data as a light image of an illuminated one or more of said data regions; and data signal output means coupled to said sensor means for outputting data signals representing said data of a illuminated and i aged data region.
41. An optical data system comprising: an optical data means for storing data as light altering characteristics on a substantially planar data storage structure and being organized in an array of close packed, juxtaposed cells and each cell adapted to store data; controllable light source means for selectively illuminating at least one of said cells of said optical data means; data imaging optical means having an array of juxtaposed lens subsystems disposed so that each said lens subsystem is proximate to and in optical registration with a separate one of said cells and has a center-to-center spacing relative to adjacent lens subsystems that is substantially 


equal to the corresponding spacing between adjacent cells in said data storage structure, and wherein each said lens subsystem has a Numerical Aperture in the range of 0.35 to 0. and a field of view substantially equal to an area of the one of said cells in registration therewith for forming an image of data in said cell on a common image surface; and sensor means having a plurality of juxtaposed light sensors arrayed at said common image surface for sensing data as light imaged from an illuminated said cell.
42. The optical data system of claim 41 wherein each of said lens subsystems has at least one refractive surface that is disposed within a distance d 
<
 than said center-to-center spacing of said lens subsystems.
43. The optical data system of claim 42 wherein said on refractive surface is aspherical.
44. The optical data system of claim 42 wherein each said lens subsystem has at least one diffractive surface disposed at a distance greater than d from said cell, and has overlapping diffractive areas so that overlapping data image rays from adajcent cells after passing through said refractiv surface are diffractively altered by overlapping diffractive areas. 


 45. The optical data system of claim 41 wherein each of said lens subsystems has an optical stop located at a predetermined distance from a registering one of said cells, each of said lens subsystems having at least one refractive means between a registering one of said cells and said stop and having at least one diffractive means at a distance from said cell greater than that of said stop.
46. The optical data system of claim 45 wherein said diffractive means comprises a plurality of over-lapping diffractive patterns, each pattern encompassing an area that is greater than the field of view of each of said lens subsystems so that overlapping data image rays from adjacent cells are diffractively corrected by different but overlapping diffractive patterns.
47. The optical data system of claim 44 wherein said diffractive means includes a grating.
48. The optical data system of claim 44 wherein said diffractive means includes a holographic pattern.
49. An optical data system comprising: an optical data means for storing data as light altering characteristics having a density in a range of the order of 10
7
 to 10
8
 bits per square cm and being organized into 



a plurality of (P) juxtaposed data regions each sized to stor a field of (B) bits of data at said density; controllable light source means for selectively illuminating at least one of said data regions of said optica data means; lens means having a plurality of juxtaposed lenslet each arranged in optical registration with a separate one of said (P) juxtaposed data regions and shaped to resolve said field of (B) bits of data thereof at said density substantially uniformly over said region to form an image thereof on a common image surface spaced from said data means and lens means; sensor means having a plurality of juxtaposed light sensors arranged at said image surface for sensing said field of (B) bits of data as a light image of an illuminated one or more of said data regions; and data signal output means coupled to said sensor means for outputting data signals representing said field of (B) bits of data.
50. An optical data system comprising: an optical data means for storing data as light altering characteristics and being organized into a plurality of juxtaposed data regions each having capacity to store bits of data; 


 controllable solid state light generator means for selectively illuminating at least one of said separate data regions of said optical data means; data imaging lens means having a plurality of juxtaposed lenslets each having at least one functionally aspherical surface and arranged in such proximity to and in optical registration with a separate one of said juxtaposed data regions so that the image resolving power thereof is substantially uniform over the field of view of that data region to form an image thereof on a common image surface spaced from said data means and lens means; sensor means having a plurality of juxtaposed solid state light sensors arranged at said common image surface for sensing data as a light image corresponding to an illuminated data region; and data signal output means coupled to said sensor means for outputting data signals representing selective portions of said stored bits of data of an illuminated and imaged data region.
51. An optical data recording and retrieval system comprising: read light source array means; optical data record means disposed proximate to said read light source array means for being illuminated thereby; 


 lens array means comprising a plurality of substantially similar lenslets arrayed in a lens structure disposed proximate to said optical data record means, each said lenslet forming a distal image of a portion of said optical data record means illuminated by said read light, source array means; light sensor array means disposed to receive said image of said portion of said optical data record means illuminated by said read light source means, said sensor arra means responding to said age to output data; and recording light data composer means for producing a recording light data pattern and imaging same onto said optical data record means for storing said data pattern.
52. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 having a read mode and a recording mode, further comprising beam splitter means that in a read mode causes read data to be imaged in succession through said lens array means and said beam splitter means onto said light sensor array means, and that in a recording mode causes said recording light pattern produced by said recording light data composer means to be imaged in succession through said beam splitter means and said lens array means onto said optical data record means. 


 53. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises controllable light valve array means and recording light emitter means for generating said recording light data pattern by illuminating said light valve array means so that a recording image thereof is directed onto said optical data record for storage.
54. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 53 wherein said recording light emitter means comprises an array of selectively energized record light sources, one for imaging data through separate ones of said lenslets onto an associated portion of said optical data record means, and further comprising a record imaging lens means disposed between said array of selectively energized record light sources and said controllable light valve means.
55. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises controllable reflective modulators arrayed in a data pattern, and recording light means for generating said recording light data pattern by illuminating said controllable reflective modulators so as to cause a reflected recording image thereof, and optical means for directing said reflected recording image through a selected lenslet onto an associated portion of said optical data record means. 


 56. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises an array of light source elements disposed substantially coplanar with said light sensor array means, and further comprising light shutter means disposed proximate said lens array mean for controllably transmitting said recording light data pattern composed by said array of light source elements through a selected one or more of said lenslets onto the associated portion or portions of said optical data record means.
57. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 56 wherein said array of recording light source elements and said light sensor array means comprise solid state devices.
58. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 56 wherein said array of recording light source elements and said light sensor array means are mounted on a common circuit board.
59. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 58 wherein said common circuit board comprises a large scale integrated circuit. 


 60. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 wherein said light sensor array means comprises soli state devices, and said recording light data composer means comprises means for operating said solid state devices as light generators.
61. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 further comprising controllable optical shutter means for selectively blocking recording light data patterns from selected regions of said data means.
62. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises a plurality of recording light emitters arrayed in a pattern that complements data patterns on said data record means.
63. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises an array of micro lenses and adjacent thereto an array of recording light source means for imaging recording light patterns onto said data record means through said lens array means. 


 64. A method of recording and reading optical data, comprising the steps of: composing a recording light data pattern by selectively operating light pattern controlling devices; optically forming a recording image of said recording light data pattern through one of a plurality of lenslets of a lens array onto a region of an optical data record, said region being in registration with said one of th plurality of lenslets; storing said recording image formed on said optical data record; and reading said optical data record by illuminating said region thereof storing said recording image.
65. The method of claim 64 wherein the step of reading comprises imaging said illuminated region of said optical dat record onto an array of light sensors using the same one of the plurality of lenslets of the lens array through which sai recording image was formed on said region of said optical dat record.
66. The method of claim 65 further comprising the step of physically bonding said optical data record to said plurality of lenslets by means of a transparent bonding material before the step of optically forming a recording image. 


 67. The method of claim 65 comprising the step of immersing said optical data record in a transparent material disposed between said optical data record and said lens arra before the step of optically forming a recording image.
68. An optical data recording system comprising: a recording light data composer means for forming pattern of changeable data to be recorded; data storage means having a plurality of separate data storage regions each for storing data imaged thereon; lens array means comprising a plurality of similar lenslets arrayed in a lens structure and disposed proximate t said data storage means so that each separate lenslet is optically in registration with a separate one of said regions of said data storage means; and optical selector means for causing composed data light patterns produced by said recording light data composer means to be imaged by said multiple lens array means onto a separate selected one of said data regions of said data storage means.
69. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said optical selector means comprises controllable optical means for blocking recording light data to all but selected one or more of said regions of said data storage means. 


 70. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises a plurality of recording light emitters arrayed in a pattern that complements each of the separate data storage regions on said data storage means.
71. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises an array of micro lenses and an adjacent array of recording light emitter elements, said array of micro lenses directing recording light data composed on said array of recording light emitter elements into one of said lenslets of said lens array for being imaged thereby onto one of said data regions of said data storage means.
72. The optical data recording system of claim 68 having a read mode and a recording mode, further comprising beam splitter means that in a read mode causes read data to be imaged through said lens array means and said beam splitter means, and that in a recording mode causes said recording light pattern produced by said recording light data composer means to be imaged in succession through said beam splitter means and said lens array means onto said optical data record means. 


 73. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises controllable light valve array means and recording light emitter means for generating said recording light data patter by illuminating said light valve array means so that a recording image thereof is directed onto said optical data record for storage.
74. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said recording light emitter means comprises an array of selectively energized record light sources, one for imaging data through separate ones of said lenslets onto a registering portion of said optical data record means, and further comprising a record imaging lens means disposed between said array of selectively energized record light sources and said controllable light valve means.
75. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises controllable reflective modulators arrayed in a data pattern, and recording light means for generating said recording light data pattern by illuminating said controllable reflective modulators so as to cause a reflected recording image thereof, and optical means for directing said reflected recording image through a selected lenslet onto a registering portion of said optical data record means. 


 76. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said light sensor array means comprises solid state devices, and said recording light data composer means comprises means for operating said solid state devices as light sources.
77. The optical data recording system of claim 68 further comprising controllable optical shutter means for selectively blocking recording light data patterns from selected regions of said data means.
78. The optical data recording system of claim 68 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises a plurality of recording light emitters arrayed in a pattern that complements data patterns to be stored on said data means.
79. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 72 wherein said recording light data composer means comprises an array of micro lenses and adjacent thereto an array of recording light generator means for imaging recording light patterns onto said data regions of said data record means through said beam splitter means and said lens array means. 


 80. An optical data and lens structure for an optical data system, comprising: a data layer for storing data as light altering characteristics and being organized into a plurality of separate data regions; a lens array comprising a plurality of lenslets disposed adjacent said data layer and each lenslet having an optical field of view respectively aligned with one of said separate data regions so that each lenslet is arranged for imaging optical data associated with one of said data regions; and structural means interposed said data layer and sai lens array so as to optically couple and mechanically fix sai data layer to said lens array to form a structural unit.
81. The optical data and lens structure of claim 80 wherein said structural means comprises a transparent optical layer of bonding material.
82. The optical data and lens structure of claim 80, further comprising: an additional layer of material bonded to said data layer on a side thereof opposite from said first named layer and said lens array. 


 83. The optical data and lens structure of claim 81, wherein said additional layer is a transparent protective cover material through which data illuminating light may be passed from an external light source to illuminate said data layer.
84. The optical data and lens structure of claim 81 wherein said additional layer is reflective so that light illuminating said data layer through said lens array is reflected back toward said lens array to form a reflected dat image.
85. The optical data and lens structure of claim 80 wherein each said lenslet has first and second optical surfaces at least one of which is substantially aspherical.
86. The optical data and lens structure of claim 80 wherein said data layer at each said data region has an optical contour that optically coacts with the aligned one of said lenslets to image data at a distal image plane.
87. An optical data lens system for reading and/or writing optical data with respect to a data storage medium, comprising: a data imaging lens means having a first surface adapted to be positioned proximate an optical data storage medium, and having a second surface; 


 said first surface having a substantially aspheric prescription so as to selectively alter data image rays from different locations of a data field proximate thereto, and said second surface having a relatively higher degree of spherical prescription compared to said first surface.
88. The optical data lens system of claim 87 wherein said second surface of said lens means is substantially spherical but has a predetermined amount of aspherical conte in its prescription for correcting aberrations in data image rays passing through said surfaces of said lens means.
89. The optical data lens system of claim 87 wherein said first surface of said lens means is refractive and further comprising an optical immersion layer formed between said first surface of said lens means and the optical data storage medium and having an index of refraction that is substantially unequal to that of said lens means at said firs surface.
90. The optical data lens system of claim 89 wherein said second surface of said lens means is also refractive and further comprising a glass material between said first and second surfaces, said immersion layer comprising a transparen polymer having an index of refraction greater than that of air. 


 91. The optical data lens system of claim 87 wherein said lens means is refractive and is made of a glass material bounded by said first and second surfaces, and said system further comprising a layer of data media for storing optical data as light altering characteristics disposed adjacent said first lens surface, and a transparent immersion and bonding layer interposed said first surface and said data storage layer for bonding said data storage layer to said lens means and having an index of refraction greater than air and substantially less than that of said glass material.
92. The optical data lens system of claim 87 wherein said leans means further comprises a third surface disposed in spaced apart relation to said second surface, and said first and second surfaces being refractive and said third surface being diffractive.
93. The optical data lens system of claim 92 wherein said lens means further comprises a fourth surface disposed in spaced apart relation to said third surface, and wherein said fourth surface is diffractive.
94. The optical data lens system of claim 87 wherein said data imaging lens means comprises a plurality of lenslets juxtaposed in substantially flat array and each said lenslet having said first surface that has a substantially aspherical prescription and a second surface that has said relatively 


 higher degree of spherical prescription whereby 
"
each of said plurality of lenslets cooperates with that optical data on t storage medium in the field of view of such lenslet.
95. An optical data sensor for sensing optical data imaged on a sensing plane, comprising: an array of solid state light sensor elements disposed for receiving imaged data; and a plurality of adaptive threshold sensing circuit means for providing a variable, adaptive light sensing threshold to data at each sensor element in response to receipt of light on adjacent sensor elements.
96. The optical data sensor of claim 95 wherein said array of light sensor elements comprises a plurality of charg coupled devices.
97. The optical data sensor of claim 95 wherein said array of light sensor elements comprises photosensiπg diodes.
98. The optical data sensor of claim 97 wherein at leas one of said photosensing diodes is a PIN diode.
99. The optical data sensor of claim 95 further comprising a plurality of solid state light emitters disposed substantially in juxtaposition with said light sensor 


elements, and means for selectively energizing said light emitters.
100. The optical data sensor of claim 95 wherein said plurality of adaptive threshold sensing circuit means comprises variable level comparator means, said variable leve comparator means connected to receive sensor output signals from predetermined subgroups of said sensor elements for changing a threshold sensing level at each said variable leve comparator means as a function of the amount of light inciden on said subgroups of said sensor elements.
101. The optical data sensor of claim 95 wherein said array of solid state light sensor elements and said adaptive threshold sensing circuit means are fabricated as an integrated solid state circuit.
102. A method of sensing optical data imaged on a sensin plane, comprising: forming a light image of a data pattern on an array of photo sensitive elements; outputting data from each element when light in sai pattern that is incident on one of said elements has a predetermined intensity threshold; and changing said intensity threshold in response to light incident on elements adjacent to said one of said elements. 


 103. The system of claim 1, wherein said data imaging means comprises for each said lenslet at least one diffractive element for imaging an associated data region, and at least one anomalous lens means for achromatizing the imaging rays.
104. The system of claim 103, wherein said anomalous lens means comprises an optical medium containing a buried refractive surface formed by a preselected dye that has an anomalous dispersion selected to cancel out color aberration caused by dispersion in the diffractive element.
105. The system of claim 103, wherein said anomalous lens means is in the configuration of a Fresnel lens.
106. The system of claim 1, wherein said data imaging means comprises for each lenslet at least one diffractive element for i aging an associated data region, and at least one anomalous lens characterized by an optical media having embedded therein an optical material exhibiting a predetermined sharp change in index of refraction as a function of wavelength.
107. The system of claim 1, wherein said data imaging means comprises for each lenslet at least one diffractive element for imaging an associated data region, and at least one anomalous lens formed by at least two optical media that exhibit a predetermined and selectable net dispersion such that the optical power introduced by said lens substantially affects color aberration only. 


 108. The system of claim 1, wherein said data imaging means comprises for each said lenslet at least one diffractive element for imaging an associated data region, and at least one gradient index lens means.
109. The system of claim 1, wherein said gradient index lens means is formed by a gradient of anomalous dispersion dye varying the index of refraction longitudinally of the optical axis.
110. The system of claim 1, wherein said gradient index lens means is formed by a gradient of anomalous dispersion dye varying the index of refraction radially of the optical axis.
111. The optical data system of claim 39, wherein said adaptive threshold sensing circuit means comprises an integrated circuit sensor array having a plurality of subarrays of grouped sensor cells for detecting a single light image bits and sensor processing means for detecting data bits from said light image bits.
112. The optical data system of claim 39, wherein each of said data regions has fiducial data stored thereon for registering the light image on said sensor means, and wherein said adaptive threshold sensing circuit comprises processing means for reading said fiducial data and controlling addressing of said data signal output means for 


 adapting the reading of data from said sensor means according to said fiducial data.
113. The optical data system of claim 1, further comprising means for submultiplexing data from each of said data regions so as to cause portions of each of said regions to be selectively imaged on said sensor means.
114. The optical data system of claim 1, further comprising a field flattener lens means for correcting spherical aberration of said light image incident on said sensor means.
115. The optical data system of claim 1, further comprising a focal plane lens array after said plurality of juxtaposed lenslets and proximate said sensor means for refocusing each imaged data region onto said sensor means.
116. The optical data recording and retrieval system of claim 51, wherein said recording light data composer means comprises ultrasonic leans means for controllably directing said data pattern and imaging it onto said optical data record.
117. The optical data system of claim 1, wherein said controllable light source means comprises at least one light guide means for jointly illuminating a subset of said data regions, and electrically controlled shutter means disposed in a data image path between said light guide and said sensor means 


for shuttering image light from certain but not all of said subset of said data regions.
118. An optical data reading system comprising: at least one of an optical data storage medium with juxtaposed data regions thereon; a controllable light source means for selectively illuminating a data region on said data storage medium; a data imaging lens means having a plurality of juxtaposed lenslets proximate said data storage medium being shaped and arranged to form an image of an associated data region on a common image surface; and a sensor means having a plurality of juxtaposed light sensors arranged at said common image surface for sensing data as a light image corresponding to an illuminated data region, wherein the relative positions of said optical data storage medium, said controllable light source means, said data imaging lens means and said sensor means are controllably moveable in substantially parallel planes.
119. An optical data reading system comprising: a substantially planar optical data storage medium with juxtaposed data regions thereon wherein said data storage medium is controllably movable within a first planar area occupied by it; a plurality of juxtaposed lenslets proximate a first side of said data storage medium being shaped and arranged to 


 form an image of an associated data region on a common image surface spaced from said first side; a controllable light source means for selectively illuminating a data region of said data storage medium wherein said controllable light source means is controllably moveable within a second plane parallel to said first plane, and a substantially planar sensor means having a plurality of juxtaposed light sensors arranged at said common image surface for sensing data as a light image corresponding to an illuminated data region wherein said sensor means is cooperatively connected to said light source means.
120. An optical data system comprising: an optical data means for storing data as light altering characteristics and being organized into a plurality (P) of juxtaposed data regions each having capacity to store (B) bits of data, said optical data means defining a plane; controllable light source means for selectively illuminating at least one of said separate data regions of said optical data means; data imaging lens means having a plurality of juxtaposed lenslets each being shaped and arranged in such proximity to and in optical registration with a separate one of said juxtaposed data regions so that the image resolving power thereof is substantially uniform over the field of view of that data region to form an image thereof on a common image surface spaced from said data means and lens means; 


 sensor means having a plurality (S) of juxtaposed light sensors arranged at said image surface for sensing data as a light image corresponding to an illuminated data region; data signal output means coupled to said sensor means for outputting data signals representing said data of an illuminated and imaged data region; and registration adjustment means being controlled by a control signal for adjusting the position of said optical data means within said plane for maintaining optical registration of said light image and said sensor means.
121. An optical data cartridge reading system comprising: a cartridge including a housing, said housing suspending in its interior a data array of substantially planar optical data storage medium with juxtaposed data regions thereon, said data array including a plurality of juxtaposed lenslets proximate a first side of said data array being shaped and arranged to form an image of an associated data region on a common image surface spaced from said first side, a reading unit including a controllable light source means for selectively illuminating a data region from a second side of said data array wherein said light source means is supported by said reading unit in a plane parallel to said data array, said reading unit further including a sensing array of substantially planar sensor means having a plurality of juxtaposed light sensors arranged at said common image surface for sensing data as a light image corresponding to an illuminated 


data region wherein said sensing array is supported by said reading unit in a plane parallel to said data array a clamping means including registration means mounted within said reading unit for clamping said data array and said plurality of lenslets between said light source means and said sensing array. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
