<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610214</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FORM READER WITH LINEAR CCD SCANNER AND DRUM FEED.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K714	G06K714	G06K1302	G06K1308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	G06K13	G06K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A form reader especially for lottery forms with handwritten marks or bar codes includes a drum transport (52) engaging the form, and a stepping motor advances the form circularly along a path around the drum, passing through a linear reading station elongated perpendicularly to the path. A light source (90) illuminates the form at the read station and reflected light is incident on an elongated array of charge coupled device (CCD) light sensors via a focusing lens arrangement (122). An analog comparator coupled to a serial output of the CCD sensors digitizes and encodes each pixel in the elongated array repetitively during transport, sampling the reflectance of the form and defining an X-Y array of pixels. A digital processor coupled to an image memory analyzes the data for predetermined patterns such as handwritten marks, printed reference marks and/or printed bar code or OCR characters on the form. A throat sensor detects the form at an inlet to the reader for initiating operation of the stepping motor when the form is present. Form guides align the form generally to the transport path, and can be laterally movable for aligning one or both edges of the form to the transport path.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GTECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GTECH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWEN MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANNON THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOWEN, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANNON, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FORM READER WITH LINEAR CCD SCANNER AND DRUM FEED Background of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to the field of form readers, and in particular to a reader for discriminating information on manually marked forms such as lottery entry tickets as well as printed forms such as issued lottery entry validation tickets. The form is advanced by a drum feeder including a stepping motor, past an array of linearly arranged charge coupled device (CCD) light sensors. The outputs of the CCD light sensors are digitized for each step of the motor to obtain a two dimensional image of the form for analysis.2. Prior ArtForms for recording handwritten marks for entry of data into a data processing system generally have a plurality of discrete areas arranged in a pattern delineated by background printing on the form. The user indicates a choice by placing a line, an "X" or other mark (e.g., entirely filling in the area) in one of a series of areas presented for choice. Each of the areas is typically defined by a box, oval, pair of spaced lines, etc., and the form normally has a field for a number of such choices. Forms of this type are used for example to encode a lottery player's choice of numbers for a wager, using a form reader in data communication with a lottery agent terminal and with a central lottery computer.Upon validation of a player's entry the lottery agent terminal prints an entry ticket showing the player's entry and a serial number or other unique identification. The unique identification may include printed alphanumeric characters as well as barcode, optical character recognition (OCR) characters and/or darkened blocks in a geometric pattern representing numeric data. If the player presents a printed ticket as a winning ticket, the lottery agent enters data from the ticket into the terminal for verifica¬ tion by the lottery central computer over the data communication link. This data can be read automatically in the same manner as a handwritten entry form, using an appropriate scanner. 

 Hand-marked forms are read automatically to determine whether a mark is present or absent in each of the areas presented for choice, normally in rows and columns. Printed forms are examined for the character of printed marks in a given field. The form is illuminated and the level of light reflected from the form is compared to a threshold level. For a row and column form a photocell can be oriented to read each of a number of rows of delineated areas or tracks. The level of reflected light
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A reader for a form having reflectance variations repre¬ senting data, comprising: a form transport including means for engaging the form, and a motor operable to advance the form along a transport path; illumination means operable to emit light against the form at a detection area; an array of charge coupled device (CCD) light sensors arranged relative to the detection area to detect light at discrete positions, the array being elongated in a direction at least partly perpendicular to the transport path; a digitizer operable to convert a level of charge from each said CCD light sensor to at least one digital bit, representing a sample of reflectance at the discrete positions; means for triggering the CCD light sensors repetitively during transport of the form past the array of CCD light sensors, to sample said reflectance of the form at said discrete positions, thereby defining pixels in a two dimensional digital representation of an image of the form; and, a digital processor coupled to image memory means, operable to record and analyze the pixels for predetermined patterns.
2. The reader according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined patterns include reference marks and handwritten marks on the form, and wherein the digital processor is operable to reference position of the reference marks to determine presence and absence of the handwritten marks at particular positions on the form.
3. The reader according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined patterns include at least one of printed data, bar coded data and OCR characters, and wherein the digital processor is operable to discriminate the data by analyzing contrasting lines and spaces on the form.
4. The reader according to claim 3, wherein the digitizer includes an analog comparator having inputs coupled to at least one 


 peak detector and to an output of the CCD sensors, the peak detector defining a reference level varying with at least one of a maximum and minimum signal level from the CCD sensors.
5. The reader according to claim 1, wherein the form transport includes a transport drum coupled to the motor, the transport drum carrying the form in a circular path.
6. The reader according to claim 5, wherein the motor is a stepping motor, and further comprising means for synchronizing stepping of the motor with triggering of the CCD sensors and the analog to digital converter.
7. The reader according to claim 6, wherein the CCD sensors define a linear array and the motor is stepped once for advancing the form from one linear array of pixels to a next linear array of pixels.
8. The reader according to claim 6, further comprising a throat sensor operable to detect presence of the form at an inlet to the reader, the throat sensor being coupled to the form transport for initiating operation of the motor when the form is present.
9. The reader according to claim 5, further comprising a form guide disposed at an inlet to the reader, the form guide being operable to align the form generally to the transport path.
10. The reader according to claim 9, wherein the form guide includes at least one laterally movable barrier, the barrier bearing against an edge of the form for generally aligning the form to the transport path.
11. The reader according to claim 10, wherein the form guide include two movable barriers for bearing against opposite edges of the form. 


 12. The reader according to claim 1, wherein the illumination means includes an elongated light bar arranged adjacent the transport path, and further comprising a lens disposed between the transport path and the CCD sensors, the lens focusing light reflected from the form onto the CCD sensors.
13. The reader according to claim 12, wherein the light bar includes a plurality of light emitting diodes in a linear array.
14. The reader according to claim 1, wherein the form is a lottery ticket including at least one of handwritten marks defining lottery entry data and printed marks identifying a previously validated lottery entry.
15. The reader according to claim 14, wherein the reader is coupled in data communication with at least one of a lottery agent terminal and a lottery central computer.
16. A reader for a lottery form having reflectance variations representing data, comprising: a form transport including a drum transport for engaging the form, and a stepping motor operable to advance the form along a transport path passing circularly around the drum transport; a linear light source operable to illuminate the form along a linear area substantially perpendicular to the transport path at a detection area; an array of charge coupled device (CCD) light sensors and a lens arrangement, the CCD light sensors and the lens arrangement being positioned relative to the detection area to detect light reflected from the form at discrete positions, the array being elongated in a direction perpendicular to the transport path; at least comparator coupled to an output of the CCD light sensors, operable to digitize a level of charge from each said CCD light sensor, representing a level of reflectance as compared to a reference level at a pixel corresponding to one of the discrete positions; 


 means for triggering the CCD light sensors and the comparator repetitively during transport of the form past the array of CCD light sensors, to sample said reflectance of the form at discrete positions defining pixels, providing a two dimensional digital representation of the pixels, the means for triggering the CCD light sensors and the comparator being synchronized with the stepping motor of the form transport; and, a digital processor coupled to image memory means, 
•
 the processor being operable to analyze the pixels in the two dimen¬ sional digital representation for predetermined patterns including at least one of handwritten marks, printed marks, OCR characters and bar code on the form.
17. The reader according to claim 16, wherein the form includes reference marks for fixing a relative position of the marks on the form, the digital processor being operable to reference position of the reference marks to determine presence and absence of the handwritten marks at particular positions on the form.
18. The reader according to claim 16, further comprising a throat sensor operable to detect presence of the form at an inlet to the reader, the throat sensor being coupled to the form transport for initiating operation of the motor when the form is presen .
19. The reader according to claim 16, further comprising a form guide disposed at an inlet to the reader, the form guide being operable to align the form generally to the transport path, and including at least one laterally movable barrier, the barrier bearing against an edge of the form for generally aligning the form to the transport path.
20. The reader according to claim 16, wherein the form is a lottery ticket including at least one of handwritten marks defining 


lottery entry data and printed marks identifying a previously validated lottery entry, and wherein the reader comprises means for data communication with at least one of a lottery agent terminal and a lottery central computer. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
