<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631584</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CANCER DIAGNOSIS AND THERAPY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K1447	C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N3350	G01N3350	G01N33574	G01N33574	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for determining the presence of cancerous cells in a tissue from a patient, which method includes the steps of providing either (a) a nucleic acid probe including a nucleotide sequence at least 8 nucleotides in length which is identical to a portion or all of the coding sequence of a candidate tumor suppressor gene, or (b) an antibody specific for a candidate tumor suppressor gene product; obtaining from a patient a first tissue sample potentially including cancerous cells; providing a second tissue sample, substantially all of the cells of which are non-cancerous; and comparing, by use of either the probe or the antibody, the levels of expression of the candidate tumor suppressor gene in the first and second tissue sample, wherein an amount of hybridization or immune complex formation, as the case may be, in the first tissue sample less than one third that in the second tissue sample indicates the presence of cancerous cells in the first tissue sample; methods of treating a cancerous cell by increasing the level of expression of a candidate tumor suppression gene in the cell; novel candidate tumor suppressor genes; and their use in diagnosis and therapy.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA FARBER CANCER INST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANA FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAGER RUTH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAGER, RUTH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CANCER DIAGNOSIS AND THERAPY Background of the Invention This invention relates to diagnosis and treatment of cancers, particularly, solid tumors. Sager, 246 Science 1406, 1989, discusses tumor suppressor genes. The loss of tumor suppressor genes, or their inactivation, is oncogenic. That is, the loss of DNA encoding a tumor suppressor gene product, or the lowering of expression of a tumor suppressor gene, gives rise to a cancerous condition. Sager generally describes the identification of candidate tumor suppressor genes. In particular, Sager describes the process of subtractive hybridization as a general method for recovering genes that are expressed in normal cells but not in closely related tumor cells. Sager further describes the isolation of three clones by subtractive hybridization of normal and cancerous mammary cells. The genes corresponding to these clones are expressed by all normal mammary epithelial cells, but not by any primary mammary tumors or mammary tumor cell lines. One such gene encodes keratin 5, which is said to be a valuable marker to distinguish normal and primary tumor cells in culture. Also identified is a gene encoding fibronectin, and a third gene identified as NB-1. Tumor suppressor genes are proposed to play a key role in cancer protection, and it is suggested that tumor suppressor genes provide a vast untapped resource for anti-cancer therapy.Decreased DNA methylation is a consistent feature of tumorigenesis (Jones et al.. Adv. Cancer Res . 54.:1- 23, 1990) but local sites of hypermethylation have also been found in tumor cells (Jones et al.. Adv. Cancer Res . 54.U-23, 1990; Baylin et al.. Blood 10 : 412-411 , 1987). Elevated expression of the DNA methyltransferase gene has recently been described in progressive stages of colon 

 cancer (El-Deiry et al., Proc. Natl . Acad. Sci . USA 88.:3470-3474, 1991), suggesting a general mechanism for hypermethylation, but not explaining the specificity seen on particular genes.Summary of the InventionThis invention features novel methods for identifying cancerous cells present in a human, particularly in solid tumors. The invention also features methods for identifying drugs useful for treatment of such cancer cells, and for treatment of the cancerous condition. Unlike prior methods, the invention provides a means for identifying cancer cells at an early stage of development, such that premalignant cells can be identified prior to their spreading throughout the human body. This allows early detection of potentially cancerous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims 1. A method for determining the presence of cancerous cells in a tissue from a patient, which method comprises the steps of: providing a nucleic acid probe comprising a nucleotide sequence at least 8 nucleotides in length which is identical to a portion of the coding sequence of a candidate tumor suppressor gene; obtaining from a patient a first tissue sample potentially comprising cancerous cells; providing a second tissue sample, substantially all of the cells which are non-cancerous; contacting said nucleic acid under stringent hybridizing conditions with RNA of each of said first and second tissue samples; and comparing (a) the amount of hybridization of said nucleic acid probe with said RNA of said first tissue sample, with (b) the amount of hybridization of said nucleic acid probe with said RNA of said second tissue sample, wherein an amount of hybridization with said RNA of said first tissue sample less than one third the amount of hybridization with said RNA of said second tissue sample indicates the presence of cancerous cells in said first tissue sample.
2. A method for determining the presence of cancerous cells in a tissue from a patient, which method comprises the steps of: providing an antibody specific for the gene product of a candidate tumor suppressor gene, said gene product being present in cancerous tissue of a given tissue type at a level less than one third the level of said gene product in noncancerous tissue of said given tissue type; 


 obtaining from a patient a first sample of tissue of said given tissue type, said first sample potentially comprising cancerous cells; providing a second sample of tissue of said given tissue type, essentially all of the cells of which sample are non-cancerous; contacting said antibody with protein of said first and second samples under conditions permitting immunocomplex formation; and comparing (a) the amount of immunocomplex formation in said first sample, with (b) the amount of immunocomplex formation in said second sample, wherein an amount of immunocomplex formation in said first sample less than one third the amount of immunocomplex formation in said second sample indicates the presence of cancerous cells in said first sample of tissue.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said candidate tumor suppressor gene is chosen from a gene encoding keratin 5, NB-1 gene product, fibronectin, connexin 26, glutathione-S-transferase i, CaN19 protein, small proline-rich (spr-1) protein, amphiregulin, thymosin beta-4, gamma actin, calpactin light chain (pll) , HBpl7, myosin regulatory light chain, v-fos transformation effector protein, or one of the following mitochondrial genome-encoded proteins: URF4, Co III, or ATPase.
4. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said candidate tumor suppressor gene comprises a sequence which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 3 (Ul) , SEQ ID NO: 4 (U2) , SEQ ID NO: 5 (U3) , SEQ ID NO: 6 (U4) , SEQ ID NO: 7 (U5) , SEQ ID NO: 8 (U6) , SEQ ID NO: 9 (U7) , SEQ ID NO: 10 (U8) , SEQ ID NO: 11 (U9) , or SEQ ID NO: 12 (U10) . 


 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said contacting step comprises performing a northern analysis or an in situ hybridization analysis.
6. A method for identifying a drug useful for treatment of a cancer, comprising the steps of: identifying a candidate class II tumor suppressor gene, expression of which is suppressed in a given type of cancer cell; providing a first and a second sample of said given type of cancer cell; determining the level of expression of said gene in said first sample; treating said second sample with a candidate drug; and determining the level of expression of said gene in said second sample after treatment with said candidate drug, wherein a drug which increases the level of expression of said gene in said second sample, compared to the level of expression of said gene in said untreated first sample, is potentially useful for treatment of said given type of cancer cell.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said drug alters a signal transduction pathway in said given type of cancer cell.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein said drug increases synthesis or processing of the mRNA of said candidate tumor suppressor gene in said given type of cancer cell.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein said drug decreases degradation of the messenger RNA transcribed 


 from said candidate tumor suppressor gene in said given type of cancer cell.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein said drug increases protein synthesis from mRNA transcribed from said candidate tumor suppressor gene in said given type of cancer cell.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein said drug decreases degradation of the gene product of said candidate tumor suppressor gene in said given type of cancer cell.
12. The method of claim 6, wherein said drug demethylates methylated residues on DNA.
13. A method for cancer cell treatment comprising the steps of: identifying a patient with cancer cells characterized by a low level of expression of a candidate class II tumor suppressor gene, compared to the level of expression of said gene in normal cells; and treating said patient with a compound which raises the level of expression of said gene in said cancer cells.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein said gene encodes keratin 5, NB-1 gene product, fibronectin, connexin 26, glutathione-S-transferase pi, CaN19 protein, small proline-rich (spr-1) protein, amphiregulin, thymosin beta-4, gamma actin, calpactin light chain (pll) , HBpl7, myosin regulatory light chain, v-fos transformation effector protein, or one of the following mitochondrial genome-encoded proteins: URF4, Co III, or ATPaseδ. 


 15. The method of claim 13, wherein said candidate tumor suppressor gene comprises a sequence which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 3 (Ul) , SEQ ID NO: 4 (U2) , SEQ ID NO: 5 (U3) , SEQ ID NO: 6 (U4) , SEQ ID NO: 7 (U5) , SEQ ID NO: 8 (U6), SEQ ID NO: 9 (U7) , SEQ ID NO: 10 (U8) , SEQ ID NO: 11 (U9) , or SEQ ID NO: 12 (U10) .
16. The method of claim 13, wherein said compound demethylates methylated residues in DNA.
17. A method for cancer cell treatment comprising the steps of: identifying a patient with a cancer cell characterized by a low level of expression of a candidate tumor suppressor gene, compared to the level of expression of said gene in normal cells of the same tissue type as said cancer cells; and introducing into said cancer cell a nucleic acid encoding a
'
 candidate tumor suppressor gene.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein said nucleic acid includes an expression control element permitting expression of said candidate tumor suppressor gene in said cancer cell.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein said candidate tumor suppressor gene encodes keratin 5, NB-1 gene product, fibronectin, connexin 26, glutathione-S- transferase pi, CaN19 protein, spr-1 protein, amphiregulin, thymosin beta-4, gamma actin, calpactin light chain (pll), HBpl7, myosin regulatory light chain, v-fos transformation effector protein, or one of the 


 following mitochondrial genome-encoded proteins: URF4, Co III, or ATPaseβ.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein said candidate tumor suppressor gene comprises a sequence which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a sequence Shown in SEQ ID NO: 3 (Ul) , SEQ ID NO: 4 (U2), SEQ ID NO: 5 (U3) , SEQ ID NO: 6 (U4) , SEQ ID NO: 7 (U5) , SEQ ID NO:
8 (U6) , SEQ ID NO: 9 (U7) , SEQ ID NO: 10 (U8) , SEQ ID NO: 11 (U9) , or SEQ ID NO: 12 (U10) .
21. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 3 (Ul) .
22. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 4 (U2) .
23. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 5 (U3) .
24. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 6 (U4) .
25. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 7 (U5) .
26. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 8 (U6) . 


 27. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 9 (U7) .
28. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 10 (U8) .
29. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 11 (U9) .
30. An isolated DNA which hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA having the sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 12 (U10) .
31. A method of determining the level of a candidate tumor suppressor gene product in a biological fluid, said method comprising obtaining a sample of a biological fluid from a person; contacting proteins in said sample with an antibody specific for a candidate tumor suppressor gene product; and determining the amount of immune complex formation by said antibody, said amount being indicative of the level of said gene product in said sample.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein said biological fluid is blood, urine, or saliva.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein said amount is compared to the amount of immune complex formation by said antibody in a normal control sample. 



 34. The method of claim 31, wherein said amount is compared to the amount of immune complex formation by said antibody in a sample previously or subsequently obtained from said person. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
