<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638625</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Luminescent material for a mercury discharge lamp
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J6142	C09K1102	H01J6138	C09K1102	H01J6146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	C09K	H01J	C09K	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J61	C09K11	H01J61	C09K11	H01J61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A luminescent material (26) for a mercury discharge lamp (10) 
comprises a phosphor material including phosphor particles 

for emitting a luminous flux upon excitation by ultraviolet 
radiation at 254 nm and a protective layer continuously 

formed on the phosphor particle with at least one metal 
oxide selected from the group consisting of MgO, Y₂O₃, 

La₂O₃, Sm₂O₃, Gd₂O₃, Dy₂O₃, Ho₂O₃, Er₂O₃, Yb₂O₃, Lu₂O₃, 
CaO, ZrO₂, SrO, BaO, α -Al₂O₃ and BeO. A mercury discharge 

lamp has a luminescent layer coated with the luminescent 
material on the wall of the light transmissive bulb 

thereof. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a luminescent
material for a mercury discharge lamp and more particularly
to a luminescent material for a fluorescent lamp, which
includes a phosphor material emitting a luminous flux upon
excitation by ultraviolet radiation having a wave length of
254 nm.A mercury vapor discharge lamp, such as a
fluorescent lamp is widely used as light sources for
general illumination purposes, office automation machines,
light-emitting elements of the giant screen display
apparatus and back lights for liquid crystal displays. The
fluorescent lamp has a luminescent layer composed of a
phosphor and formed on an inner envelope of a glass tube in
which mercury and one or more rare gases are filled.
Electrodes are suitably arranged in a glass tube and a
discharge is caused therebetween. Mercury in the glass
tube is vaporized by the discharge and mainly ultraviolet 
radiation is produced. A comparatively small part of the
ultraviolet radiation has a wavelength of 185 nm while the
greatest part has a wavelength of 254 nm. Upon excitation
of the phosphor by the ultraviolet radiation, a luminous
flux or visible light is produced. The visible light is
irradiated outside the glass tube. For general
illumination purposes, a three band type fluorescent lamp,
which efficiently generates white light and has excellent
colour rendering properties, has become popular. The
luminescent layer of the three band type fluorescent lamp
is composed of blue, green and red emitting phosphors each
having a relatively narrow band emission spectrum
distribution.The fluorescent lamp mentioned above has a
drawback because the luminous efficacy is reduced with increasing
operating hours. In particular, reduction of
luminous efficacy in a high wall loaded fluorescent lamp is
considerably higher. As disclosed in Japanese Patent
Disclosure (Kokoku) 3-45505, the reduction in the the
luminous efficacy has been supposed to be caused by the
following two factors. Firstly, the phosphor material
itself deteriorates upon exposure to the ultraviolet radiation
of wavelength 185 nm. Although the intensity ratio of
ultraviolet radiation having the wavelength of 185 nm to
that of the wavelength of 254 nm is about 10 to 12 %, it
becomes more than 12 % when the fluorescent lamp is 
operated with a relatively high wall load as compared to
the conventional fluorescent lamp.The lamp tube can be formed in various shapes like
a circle, a U-shape, a saddle-shape and other complicated
shapes in addition to the ordinary straight tube. As the
fl
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A luminescent material for a mercury discharge lamp comprising:

a phosphor material including phosphor particles which emit a luminous flux upon
excitation by ultraviolet radiation at 254 nm; and
a continuous protective layer formed on the phosphor particles comprising:
0.005 to 3.0 wt% of at least one metal oxide selected from the group consisting of MgO,

Y
2
O
3
, La
2
O
3
, Sm
2
O
3
, Gd
2
O
3
, Dy
2
O
3,
 Ho
2
O
3
, Er
2
O
3
, Yb
2
O
3
, Lu
2
O
3
, CaO, ZrO
2
, SrO, BaO,
α -Al
2
O
3
 and BeO, obtainable by a process in which the phosphor particles are dispersed
in an ethanol, methoxyethanol, xylene or butyl alcohol solvent; a metal alkoxide solution

of a metal from said group being added to form a slurry, stirring the slurry at 70°C to
90°C to cause hydrolysis of the metal alkoxide solution, excess solvent being

evaporated whereby the metal oxide layer formed is dried and heated to form said
continuous protective layer.
A luminescent material as claimed in claim 1 wherein:

the metal oxide of the metal oxide layer formed on the phosphor particles
has an energy gap of 5 electron volts to 8 electron volts at the forbidden band and which

is capable of absorbing ultraviolet radiation at 185 nm.
A luminescent material according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a metal ion of
the or each metal oxide has an electronegativity between 5 and 9.
A luminescent material according to any preceding claim,

   wherein the phosphor material includes a rare earth metal or the
phosphor is activated by a rare earth metal. 
A luminescent material according to any preceding claim wherein the
continuous protective layer formed on the phosphor particles substantially prevents

ultraviolet radiation at 185 nm from transmitting therethrough.
A luminescent material according to claim 5 wherein the protective layer
prevents ultraviolet radiation at 185 nm from transmitting to the phosphors therethrough.
A luminescent material according to any preceding claim wherein the
metal oxide layer transmit ultraviolet radiation at 254 nm but effectively reflect or block

ultraviolet radiation at 185 nm.
A luminescent material according to any preceding claim in which the
protective layer consists of a set of inner and outer layers formed on the phosphor

particles.
A luminescent material as claimed in any preceding claim in which the
protective layer is a multilayer.
A mercury discharge lamp comprising:

a light transmissive bulb;
a luminescent layer including a phosphor material formed on the inner
wall of the light transmissive bulb;
a quantity of mercury and a quantity of one or more rare gases filled in the
light transmissive tube; and 
means arranged for generating positive column discharge in the light
transmissive bulb, wherein the phosphor material includes a continuous protective layer

as defined in any one of claims 1 to 4.
A lamp device comprising:

a mercury discharge lamp including a light transmissive bulb, a
luminescent layer including phosphor material formed on an inner wall of the light

transmissive bulb, the phosphor material including phosphor particles, a quantity of
mercury and a quantity of one or more rare gases contained within the light transmissive

bulb tube and first means arranged for generating and sustaining positive column
discharge in the light transmissive tube,

   wherein the phosphor material includes a continuous protective layer thereon as
defined in any one of claims 1 to 4, and

   a lamp fixture for fixing the fluorescent lamp including electrical circuit means for
supplying electric energy to the first means for generating and sustaining the positive

column discharge.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
