<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0669114</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stent having a multiplicity of closed circular structures
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F284	A61F282	A61F206	A61F206	A61F200	A61F282	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An expandable stent that can be used in an artery or any other vessel 
of the human body forms a multiplicity of generally circular rings when 

expanded and provides a closed structure which optimizes hoop strength 
so as to minimize elastic recoil of the vessel into which the stent is 

inserted. The structure of the stent is initially in the form of 
folded ellipses or ovals which can be formed to a small diameter for 

percutaneous insertion by means of a stent delivery catheter. The 
ovals are joined to each other by either a straight or undulating 

shaped wires which are called "longitudinals" which serve to space the 
deployed rings within the vessel. Straight longitudinals are used in 

straight vessels and undulating longitudinals can be employed in either 
straight or highly curved vessels such as some coronary arteries. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is in the field of stents for maintaining patency of any
one of a multiplicity of vessels of the human body.In the last decade, many different designs of stents have been used to
maintain patency of arteries and other vessels of the human body. In
all such devices, hoop strength is an important characteristic.
Specifically, the stent must have enough hoop strength to resist the
elastic recoil exerted by the vessel into which the stent is placed.
The Mass stent described in the U.S. Patent No. 4,553,545 and the
Dotter stent described in U.S. Patent No. 4,503,569 are each open
helical coils. The Palmaz stent described in the U.S. Patent No.
4,733,665 is of the "chinese finger" design. The Gianturco-Rubin stent
currently sold by Cook, Inc. is another stent design which like the
stents of Mass, Dotter and Palmaz does not have any closed circular
member to optimize hoop strength.European patent application 0,566,807 describes a post-deployment stent
formed by joining together a number of unitary elements. Once
constructed, the stent has a number of closed rings connected by
straight longitudinals.The ideal arterial stent utilizes a minimum wire size of the stent
elements to minimize thrombosis at the stent site after implantation.
The ideal arterial stent also possesses sufficient hoop strength to
resist elastic recoil of the artery. The optimum design for maximizing
hoop strength is a closed circular structure which has a small diameter
when percutaneously inserted into a vessel and which expands into the
form of multiplicity of closed circular structures (i.e. rings) when
expanded outward against the vessel wall.In accordance with a first aspect of the invention, there is provided
a post-deployment stent structure for maintaining patency of a vessel
of a human body, the stent structure having a multiplicity of closed,
generally circular rings, the plane of each ring being generally
parallel to the plane of each adjacent ring, the rings having a
generally common longitudinal axis which is perpendicular to the plane
of each ring with the rings being spaced apart from each other and 
having a multiplicity of structures forming longitudinals, the
longitudinals being fixedly attached to the rings, the stent structure
being characterised by:
at least two longitudinals having an undulating shape so as to
enhance longitudinal flexibility.In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided an
initial structure that is capable of being formed into a pre-deployment
stent structure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A post-deployment stent structure (10) for maintaining patency of
a vessel of a human body, the stent structure (10) having a

multiplicity of closed, generally circular rings (12), the plane of
each ring being generally parallel to the plane of each adjacent ring

(12), the rings (12) having a generally common longitudinal axis which
is perpendicular to the plane of each ring (12) with the rings (12)

being spaced apart from each other and having a multiplicity of
structures forming longitudinals (14), the longitudinals (14) being

fixedly attached to the rings (12), the stent structure (10) being
characterised by:


at least two longitudinals (14L,14R) having an undulating shape
so as to enhance longitudinal flexibility.
The stent of Claim 1, wherein the longitudinals (14) comprise a
pair of top and bottom longitudinals and a pair of side longitudinals,

the top and bottom longitudinals being adapted to maintain an
essentially unchanged shape in the absence of the multiplicity of

generally circular rings, and the side longitudinals having said
undulating shape.
The stent of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the longitudinals (14)
are of unitary construction with the generally circular rings (12) from

a single piece of thin-walled metal tubing.
The stent of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the rings (12) have a
multiplicity of cutouts (5) for the placement therethrough of the

longitudinals (14), the longitudinals being generally elongated
structures that lie parallel to the common longitudinal axis of the

generally circular rings (12).
The stent of claim 4, wherein the cutouts (5) on the rings are
formed in unitary construction with the longitudinals (14) from a

single piece of metal.
The stent of claim 5, wherein the single piece of metal is 
generally in the form of a thin-walled cylinder.
The stent of claim 1, wherein at least one of the longitudinals
(14) is spaced apart from all other longitudinals (14).
The stent of claim 1, wherein each longitudinal (14) is spaced
apart from every other longitudinal (14).
The stent of claim 1, wherein at least one of the longitudinals
(14) is a linearly directed, elongated structure.
The stent of claim 1, wherein the rings (12) and longitudinals
(14) are made from titanium.
The stent of claim 1, wherein the multiplicity of circular rings
(12) has exactly two end rings which are those rings which have an

adjacent ring on only one side and at least one interior ring which has
adjacent rings on both sides, at least some portion of the end rings

being formed from a metal having a higher density as compared to the
density of the metal of the at least one interior ring.
The stent of claim 1, wherein the stent is formed from a metal
having a shape memory characteristic.
An initial structure (1') that is capable of being formed into a
pre-deployment stent structure which in turn is capable of being

deployed into a post-deployment stent structure as claimed in any
preceding claim for placement within a vessel of the human body, the

initial structure being characterised by:

a multiplicity of flat ovals (2') which in the post-deployment
stent form said multiplicity of closed, generally circular rings (12),

the plane of each oval being generally parallel to the plane of all
other ovals, the ovals having a common longitudinal axis which is

perpendicular to the plane of each oval and which longitudinal axis
passes through the geometric centre of the ovals; and
a multiplicity of longitudinals (14) fixedly attached to the
ovals (2'), at least two of the longitudinals having an undulating

shape so as to enhance longitudinal flexibility, the longitudinals
being positioned onto the ovals so as to be generally parallel to the 

longitudinal axis of the ovals, at least one of the longitudinals being
spaced apart from all other longitudinals.
The initial structure of claim 13 wherein the ovals (2') and the
longitudinals (14) are unitary.
A pre-deployment stent structure (20) which is capable of being
deployed into a post-deployment stent structure as claimed in any of

claims 1 to 12 for placement within a vessel of the human body, the
pre-deployment structure being formed from an initial structure being

characterised in that the initial structure consists of a multiplicity

of flat ovals which in the post-deployment stent form said multiplicity
of closed, generally circular rings (12), the plane of each oval of

said initial structure being generally parallel to the plane of all
other ovals, the ovals also having a minor axis and a major axis and a

minor axis dimension and a major axis dimension, the ovals having a
common longitudinal axis which is perpendicular to the plane of each

oval and which longitudinal axis passes through the geometric centre of
the ovals, and a multiplicity of longitudinals fixedly attached to the

ovals, the longitudinals being positioned onto the ovals from a single
metallic structure, at least two of the longitudinals having an

undulating shape so as to enhance longitudinal flexibility, and the
pre-deployment stent structure being formed by folding the ovals about

each oval's minor axis in nested relation each with respect to the
other, the pre-deployment stent structure being adapted to form a post-deployment

stent structure having a multiplicity of generally circular
rings that are formed from the ovals.
The pre-deployment stent structure of claim 15 wherein the ovals
(2') are folded around an expandable balloon (6) located near the

distal end of a stent delivery catheter.
The pre-deployment stent structure of claim 15 wherein the ovals
(2') are folded around the oval's minor axis to form a pre-deployment

structure of a generally cylindrical shape that can be mounted onto a
stent delivery catheter.
The pre-deployment stent structure of claim 15 wherein one side 
of the ovals (2') is folded in one direction and the opposite side of

the ovals is folded in the opposite direction to form a pre-deployment
structure of a generally cylindrical shape.
The pre-deployment stent structure of claim 15, wherein the outer
diameter of the generally cylindrical pre-deployment stent structure is

approximately the same as the minor axis dimension of the oval (2').
The pre-deployment stent structure of claim 17, wherein the stent
structure formed from the single metallic structure is a cylinder that

is smaller in its inside diameter as compared to the outside diameter
of an expandable balloon (6) located at a distal portion of a stent

delivery catheter onto which the stent structure is mounted.
The pre-deployment stent structure of any of claims 15 to 20,
wherein said at least two longitudinals having an undulating shape

(14L,14R) comprise a multiplicity of straight sections and undulating
sections with each straight section being joined continuously to an

undulating section, the straight sections of all of the longitudinal
structures being generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the

stent, the undulating sections of each longitudinal structure being of
a generally curved shape so as to allow each undulating longitudinal

structure to readily expand and contract in length during insertion of
the stent in to a curved vessel.
The pre-deployment stent structure of claim 21, wherein each
undulating section is in the general form of a sine wave.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
