<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648334</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMMUNOASSAY USING DYE COMPLEXED ENZYME CONJUGATES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33536	G01N33536	G01N33542	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33544	G01N33544	G01N33558	G01N33558	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Target-specific dye labeled complexes are formed by reacting a conjugate of an enzyme and a specific binding substance, such as an antibody or antigen, with an enzyme substrate in a liquid medium under conditions where the substrate is converted to dye molecules which then complex to the conjugate. Such dye labeled complexes are useful in a variety of biological assays, particularly lateral flow assays where the dye labeled complex is immobilized within a label zone (14) which forms part of a flow path for a liquid sample or liquid reagent in a test device (10). Liquid flow through the label zone (14) transports the dye labeled complex to a subsequent capture zone (16) where it is bound in proportion to the presence or absence of a target analyte within the liquid sample.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUIDEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUIDEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAWLAK JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRONOVOST ALLAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWLEY GERALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAWLAK, JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRONOVOST, ALLAN, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWLEY, GERALD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMMUNOASSAY USING DYE COMPLEXED ENZYME CONJUGATESBACKGROUND OP THB INVENTION 1. Pield of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to compositions and methods for their preparation and use in biological assay systems. More particularly, the present invention relates to target-specific labeling complexes comprising a specific binding substance, an enzyme, and dye molecules complexed thereto. The use of chromogenic and fluorescent dyes as"labels" in biological assay procedures is known. Typical assay protocols call for direct or indirect binding of a dye label to an analyte or analyte analog in a biological sample, where the presence or absence of the dye at a particular stage of the assay can be determined visually and related to the amount of analyte initially present in the sample. A wide variety of specific assay protocols exist.Of particular interest to the present invention, certain assays utilize naturally colored or dyed particles as a label, where the particles are bound to an antibody or other specific binding substance. Suggested particles include dyed latex beads, dyed liposomes, erythrocytes, metal sols, and the like. The colored particle in such complexes can serve as a visible marker, where separation, capture, or aggregation of the particles is mediated through binding of the antibody or other specific binding substance. The amount of label thus segregated in a particular assay step is related to the amount of analyte initially present in the sample.A variety of methods for preparing such antibody- particle compositions have been proposed. Such methods generally rely on producing a colored particle, typically by dyeing a latex bead, a liposome, or the like, and subsequently 

attaching the colored particle to the antibody, typically by passive adsorption or by covalent binding.While generally useful, methods for preparing such antibody-particle compositions can be relatively complex, usually requiring multi-stage operations including preparati of the particle, coloring of the particle, attachment of the particle to the antibody, and blocking of the particle for u in immunoassays. Moreover, a loss of antibody binding capac can often result from the particle attachment. Sometimes th particles are not compatible with the antibodies selected fo particular application.It would be desirable to provide improved labeling compositions and methods for their production that would all for any antibody to be used for an application. The compositions should be relatively easy to prepare,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A target-specific labeling complex comprising: an enzyme bound to a specific binding substance; and dye molecules complexed to the conjugate in an amount sufficient to impart a visually discernable color to the complex while leaving an active site of the specific binding substance available for binding to a target molecule, wherein the dye molecules were formed by reaction in aqueous phase of a substrate with the enzyme bound to the specific binding substance.
2. A labelling complex as in claim 1, wherein the specific binding substance is an antibody.
3. A labelling complex as in claim 2, wherein the enzyme is covalently attached to the antibody.
4. A labelling complex as in claim 1, wherein the enzyme is selected from the group consisting of oxidases, peroxidases, phosphatases , diaphorases, galactosidases, and oxidoreductases.
5. A labelling complex as in claim 1, wherein the enzyme is inactivated.
6. A labelling complex as in claim 1, wherein the complex includes from 10 to 10
7
 dye molecules.
7. A labelling complex as in claim 1, wherein the complex is lyophilized.
8. A test article comprising: a support matrix; and a target-specific labeling complex impregnated within the support matrix, wherein the complex comprises:
(i) a conjugate of an enzyme and a specific binding substance; and 


 (ii) dye molecules complexed to the conjugate in an amount sufficient to impart a visually discernable color to th complex while leaving an active site of the specific binding substance available for binding to a target molecule.
9. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the target specific labeling complex is lyophilized within the support matrix.
10. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the suppor matrix is a solid matrix which conducts nonbibulous flow of a liquid sample.
11. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the suppor matrix is a solid matrix which conducts bibulous flow of a liquid sample.
12. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the suppor matrix is a fabric composed of a polyester, an acrylonitrile copolymer, rayon, glass fiber, cellulose, and blends thereof.
13. A test article as in claim 12, wherein the fabri has been treated with a blocking agent to render the fabric nonbibulous.
14. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the specific binding substance is an antibody.
15. A test article as in claim 14, wherein the enzy is covalently attached to the antibody.
16. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the enzym is selected from the group consisting of oxidases, peroxidases phosphatases, diaphorases, galactosidases, lytic enzymes, and oxidoreductases.
17. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the enzym is inactivated. 


 18. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the complex includes from 10 to 10
7
 dye molecules.
19. A test article as in claim 8, wherein the complex is lyophilized.
20. A method for preparing target-specific labeling complexes, said method comprising. providing a conjugate of an enzyme and a specific binding substance, wherein the enzyme is capable of converting a substrate to a colored dye product and the specific binding substance is capable of binding to a target molecule; and reacting the conjugate with the substrate in an aqueous medium under conditions which result in the complexation of the colored dye product with the conjugate.
21. A method as in claim 20, wherein the reaction conditions are selected to promote turnover of the substrate by the enzyme.
22. A method as in claim 20 wherein reaction between the conjugate and the substrate is stopped after the complex has obtained a desired color intensity.
23. A method as in claim 20, wherein the reaction is stopped by substrate exhaustion.
24. A method as in claim 20, wherein the reaction is stopped by altering the reaction conditions.
25. A method as in claim 20, wherein the reaction is stopped by inactivating the enzyme.
26. A method as in claim 20, wherein the specific binding substance is an antibody.
27. A method as in claim 26, wherein the enzyme is covalently attached to the antibody. 


 28. A method as in claim 20, wherein the enzyme is selected from the group consisting of oxidases, perosidases, phosphatases, diaphorases, galactosidases, lytic enzymes, and oxidoreductases.
29. In a device for detecting the presence of an analyte in a liquid sample, which device includes:
(a) a sample receiving zone comprising a solid support matrix which conducts lateral flow of liquid sample, in contact with
(b) a labeling zone comprising a solid support matri which conducts lateral flow of liquid sample and at least one assay label which specifically binds to or competes with the analyte, said labeling zone being in contact with (c) a capture zone comprising a solid support matrix which conducts lateral flow and in at least a portion thereof at least one capture reagent capable of binding said assay label or analyte, said capture zone being contiguous with (d) an absorbent zone, the improvement which comprises an assay label comprising: a conjugate of an enzyme and a specific binding substance; and dye molecules complexed to the conjugate in an amount sufficient to impart a visually discernable color to the complex while leaving an active site of the specific binding substance available for binding to a target molecule.
30. A device as in claim 29, wherein the specific binding substance is an antibody.
31. A device as in claim 29, wherein the enzyme is covalently attached to the antibody.
32. A device as in claim 29, wherein the enzyme is selected from the group consisting of oxidases, peroxidases, phosphatases, diaphorases, galactosidases, lytic enzymes, and oxidoreductases. 


 33. A device as in claim 29, wherein the enzyme is inactivated.
34. A device as in claim 29, wherein the complex includes from 10 to 10
7
 dye molecules.
35. A device as in claim 29, wherein the complex is lyophilized. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
