<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625785</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Guide jig for wiring harness assembly plate
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K1306	H01B1300	H05K1306	H01B13012	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H01B	H05K	H01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K13	H01B13	H05K13	H01B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A guide jig (1) for a wiring harness assembly plate comprises a support 
tube (3) mounted and fixed on a plate member (2), and an electric wire guide 

rod (4) having an electric wire guide portion (4c) for guiding a bundle of 
electric wires (15) and supported by the support tube (3) for extension and 

retraction along the axis thereof. The support tube (3) and the electric wire 
guide rod (4) are supported non-rotatably on their axes relative to each other. 

The electric wire guide rod (4) is operable to change the positions thereof 
between a guide extended position in which the electric wire guide portion (4c) 

guides and holds the bundle of electric wires (15) and a guide retracted position 
in which the electric wire guide portion (4c) is retracted to a level lower than 

the height of the bundle of electric wires (15) being laid. In the guide retracted 
position, the electric wire guide rod (4) is supported by the support tube (3) 

such that the upper guide rod (4a) including the electric wire guide portion (4c) 
is reclinable with respect to the horizontal axes (L, M). The guide jig (1) 

provides increased working efficiency in wiring harness assembling operation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIWAKI SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIMOTO KATSUTOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIWAKI, SATORU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGIMOTO, KATSUTOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a guide jig for a wiring harness assembly 
plate which is used in assembling a wiring harness. A wiring harness assembly plate is constructed such that a plurality of 
guide jigs are arranged in predetermined positions on a plate member on which 
wiring is suitably drawn. A plurality of electric wires measured and cut to 
length are laid along the corresponding guide jigs in accordance with the wiring 
drawing to form a branch-shaped bundle of electric wires depending on the 
purposes. The bundle of electric wires are wound with tape or the like so as 
not to be loosened. Finally, clamps, protectors and the like are mounted to the 
bundle of electric wires as required to accomplish a desired wiring harness. Recently, the branch configuration of the wiring harness has been more 
complicated and, accordingly, the guide jigs on the assembly plate have been 
increased in number and in density. The guide jigs have prevented the tape 
winding and mounting of the clamps, protectors and the like (hereinafter referred 
to as an attachment mounting operation) and greatly deteriorated working 
efficiency. There has been provided guide jigs for increasing the working efficiency 
as disclosed in Japanese Utility Model Publication No. 62-20103 (1987),  
 
Japanese Utility Model Application Laid-Open No. 4-99313 (1992), 
Japanese Utility Model Application Laid-Open No. 4-33212 (1992) and GB-A-2 246 087. In the 
guide jigs disclosed in Japanese Utility Model Publication No. 62-20103, 
Japanese Utility Model Application Laid-Open No. 4-99313 and GB-A-2 246 087, an electric wire 
guide rod having in its upper part a generally U-shaped electric wire guide 
portion for guiding a bundle of electric wires is adapted to vertically move up 
and down. The electric wires are laid as desired in a guide extended position 
in which the electric wire guide rod rises. In the attachment mounting 
operation, the electric wire guide rod is lowered into a guide retracted position 
in which the electric wire guide portion is retracted to a level lower than the 
height of the laid bundle of electric wires. The working efficiency has been 
increased in this manner in the attachment mounting operation. In the guide jig disclosed in Japanese Utility Model Application Laid-Open 
No. 4-33212, a fork portion for guiding a bundle of electric wires has a 
reclinable electric wire hooking portion. The electric wires are laid as desired 
in an upstanding position of the electric wire hooking portion. In the 
attachmen
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A guide jig (1) for a wiring harness assembly plate mounted and fixed on 
a plate member (2) for guiding a bundle of electric wires (15), said guide jig comprising: 


a support tube (3) mounted and fixed on said plate member; and 
an electric wire guide rod (4) including an electric wire guide portion (4c) at its top 
end for guiding said bundle of electric wires, said electric wire guide rod being 

supported by said support tube for axial extension and retraction therethrough 
and being supported non-rotatably on said axis (K) by said support tube, 
said electric wire guide rod being operable to change the positions thereof 
between a guide extended position in which said electric wire guide rod projects 

upwardly so that said electric wire guide portion guides and holds said bundle 
of electric wires and a guide retracted position in which said electric wire guide 

portion is retracted to a level lower than the height of said bundle of electric 
wires being laid, characterized by said electric wire guide rod in said guide retracted position 

being supported by said support tube such that an upper portion of said electric 
wire guide rod including said electric wire guide portion (4c) is reclinable with 

respect to a first horizontal axis (L,M). 
The guide jig of claim 1, 

wherein said support tube includes a lower support tube (3b) mounted and fixed 
on said plate member, and an upper support tube (3a) connected to the top end of 

said lower support tube for rotation on said first horizontal axis (L), 
wherein said electric wire guide rod includes a lower guide rod (4b) supported 
by said lower support tube for extension and retraction along the axis of said  

 
lower support tube, and an upper guide rod (4a) connected to the top end of said 

lower guide rod for rotation on a second horizontal axis (M) parallel to said first 
horizontal axis (L) and supported by said upper support tube for extension and 

retraction along the axis of said upper support tube, 
wherein said second horizontal axis of said electric wire guide rod in said 
guide extended position is located within said upper support tube, and 
wherein said first horizontal axis of said support tube and said second 
horizontal axis of said electric wire guide rod coincide with each other in said 

guide retracted position. 
The guide jig of claim 2, wherein
 
   said upper guide rod includes at its top end an overhanging portion 

abutting against an top end surface of said upper support tube for restricting the 
downward retraction of said electric wire guide rod. 
The guide jig of claim 2, wherein 

said lower support tube includes a male threaded portion (3f) on its outer 
peripheral surface, a ring-like seat plate (6) at its bottom end, and a nut element (8) 

threadingly engaging said male threaded portion, and 
said nut element is tightened into threaded engagement with said male 
threaded portion of said lower support tube inserted into a through hole (2a) formed 

in said plate member to mount and fix said lower support tube on said plate 
member. 
The guide jig of claim 3, wherein  
 


said lower support tube includes a male threaded portion (3f) on its outer 
peripheral surface, a ring-like seat plate (6) at its bottom end, and a nut element (8) 

threadingly engaging said male threaded portion, and 
said nut element is tightened into threaded engagement with said male 
threaded portion of said lower support tube inserted into a through hole (2a) formed 

in said plate member to mount and fix said lower support tube on said plate 
member. 
The guide jig of claim 5, wherein 

said lower guide rod includes an axially extending planar portion on its 
outer peripheral surface, and 
said seat plate (6) includes on its lower surface a support plate (7) along which 
said planar portion of said lower guide rod is vertically slidable. 
The guide jig of claim 6, wherein 

said lower guide rod includes a locking groove (4h) on its lower side surface, 
and 
said support plate includes a locking element (9) releasably locked in said 
locking groove in said guide extended position of said electric wire guide rod. 
The guide jig of claim 7, wherein
 
   said seat plate includes a cut and bent claw portion (6a). 
The guide jig of claim 7, wherein 

said lower guide rod includes an operating element (11) at its bottom end for  
 

operating said locking element (9), and 
there is provided a coil spring (12) fitted over said lower guide rod and 
posi
tioned between said support plate and said operating element. 
The guide jig of claim 2, further comprising
 
   a spring element (20) for urging said upper guide rod to rotate said upper guide 

rod on said second horizontal axis of said electric wire guide rod. 
The guide jig of claim 10, 

wherein said electric wire guide rod includes a pair of extending pieces 
projecting from the bottom end of said upper guide rod, a pair of extending 

pieces projecting from the top end of said lower guide rod, and a horizontal 
shaft for connecting said extending pieces for rotation on said second horizontal 

axis, and 
wherein said spring element is a torsion spring fitted over said horizontal 
shaft and having a first end locked in a groove portion (20a) formed at the bottom 

end of said upper guide rod and a second end locked in a groove portion (20b) 
formed at the top end of said lower guide rod. 
The guide jig of claim 2, wherein
 
   said upper guide rod includes an overhanging portion (24) overhanging toward 

one side so that the center of gravity of said upper guide rod is eccentric 
toward said one side with respect to the vertical plane containing said second 

horizontal axis of said electric wire guide rod. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
