<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635455</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for controlling foaming and flowrate in beverage dispensing systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67D108	B67D100	B67D114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67D	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67D1	B67D1	B67D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for controlling foaming and flowrate 
in a beverage dispensing system, such as a draft 

beer dispensing system. A flow regulating member is 
positioned within a faucet member, at the delivery 

end of the beer dispensing system, to balance the 
dispensing system to, in turn, further prevent the 

break-up of the beverage into foam. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BANNER BEVERAGE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BANNER BEVERAGE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROH JAMES K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROH, JAMES K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to beverage dispensing 
systems, and in particular, to systems for 
dispensing beverages which contain dissolved gases 
(e.g., carbonated beverages such as beer or soda), 
which are stored in kegs, and dispensed from faucets 
at locations more or less remote from the keg storage 
location. Systems for the dispensing of beer are especially 
problematic. In a typical beer installation, the 
beer kegs are stored in a cooler in a basement or 
back room, vertically and/or horizontally remote 
from the dispensing location (bar). A number of 
beverage transport tubes extend from the kegs in the 
cooler to the bar, to a dispensing device to which 
the faucet or faucets are attached. A number of 
other tubes, carrying a coolant (glycol), are placed 
in a circuit from the cooler, substantially parallel 
to the beverage transport tubes, all the way to the 
faucets, and back to the cooler, so that the beer 
and the faucets are cooled. The two sets of tubes 
are typically encased together in a temperature 
isolating enclosure, and the assembly is often 
referred to as a "python". The motive force which causes the beer to flow in 
such a system is pressurized gas. Most relatively 
small systems utilize carbon dioxide, which is 
supplied from pressurized cylinders. A pressure 
regulator, between the cylinder and the beer kegs,  
 
is nominally used to control the amount of pressure 
applied to the beer. In larger, or more extended 
systems, a mixture of gases (air and carbon dioxide) 
may be used, requiring the use of a compressor. Such 
mixed gases are also used when the pressure required 
in a carbon dioxide system, just to make the beer 
move, is so great that gas absorption will take 
place readily (as described in further detail hereinafter). 
Such mixed gas systems are complex and 
expensive. A typical beer keg is configured so that the tube, 
through which the beer is withdrawn from the keg, 
has its opening adjacent the bottom of the keg. The 
pressurizing gas is inletted into the keg through 
an opening in the top of the keg, so that the pressurizing 
gas pushes "down" on the beer. Optimally, a beer dispensing set-up, once established, 
will provide the cold beer at a desired flow rate of approximately 
0.063 litres per second (one gallon per minute), with 
the beer leaving the faucet in a continuous, substantially 
completely liquid state. In order for a 
beer to "run" properly, the system must be configured 
so as to place a certain amount of "back" 
pressure (that is,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A beverage dispensing system (10), for delivering and 
dispensing beverages having dissolved gases therein, 

under pressure, which beverages may tend to break up 
and release said dissolved gases in the form of 

foam, said beverage dispensing system comprising: 

source means (12) for storing said beverage in a substantially 
controlled environment; 
at least one beverage transport member (30), operably 
associated with said source means, for transporting 

said beverage, under pressure, away from said source 
means; 
at least one faucet means (32), operably associated 
with said at least one beverage transport member, 

for enabling delivery of said beverage into containers 
for consumption, 
said at least one faucet means including 

a shank portion (40), operably connected in fluid 
communication with said at least one beverage transport 

member, for receiving said beverage from said 
at least one beverage transport member and having a 

flow passageway disposed therein, 
a valve portion (42), operably configured to be 
selectively positionable between open and closed 

configurations, to start and stop flow of said 
beverage through said beverage dispensing system, 

and 
a nozzle portion (46), fordirecting flow of said 
beverage into-said containers; and 
flow regulator means (60) for substantially precluding 
the breakup of said beverage and release of said 

dissolved gases, so as to prevent foaming, said flow 
regulator means being operably arrangeable substantially 

within said shank portion of said at least  
 

one faucet means, 
including a flow regulator member (60), operably 
insertable into said flow passageway of said shank 

portion, upstream from a transition position between 
said shank portion and said valve portion of said at 

least one faucet means, said flow regulator member 
being in the form of at least one rolled substantially 

cylindrical coil. 
The beverage dispensing system according to 
claim 1, wherein said substantially cylindrical coil 

has an outer diameter advantageously configured so 
as to enable a slightly forced fit, upon insertion 

of said flow regulator member into said flow passageway 
of said shank portion of said at least one 

faucet means. 
The beverage dispensing system according to 
claim 2, wherein said flow regulator member further 

comprises: 

a mesh member (62), advantageously configured to fit 
within said flow passageway of said shank portion of 

said at least one faucet means, with a slightly 
forced fit. 
The beverage dispensing system according to 
claim 3, wherein said mesh member is fabricated from 

food grade stainless steel. 
The beverage dispensing system according to 
claim 3, wherein said mesh member is formed from a 

substantially rectangular piece of mesh material. 
The beverage dispensing system according to 
claim 5, wherein said mesh material has a wire 

thickness of 0.4 mm (0.016 inches). 
The beverage dispensing system according to 
claim 5, wherein said mesh material has a square per 

linear centimetre count in the range of 7 to 8.7 
squares per linear centimetre (18 to 22 squares per linear 

inch).  
 
An apparatus (60) for substantially precluding 
foaming in a system (10) for dispensing beverages having 

gases dissolved therein, in which the dispensing 
system includes source means (12) for storing said beverage 

in a controlled environment; at least one beverage 
transport member (30), operably associated with said 

source means, for transporting said beverage, under 
pressure, away from said source means of beverage; 

at least one faucet means (32), operably associated with 
said at least one beverage transport member, for 

enabling delivery of said beverage into containers 
for consumption, said at least one faucet means 

including shank portion (40), operably connected in 
fluid communication with said at least one beverage 

transport member, for receiving said beverage from 
said at least one beverage transport member, a valve 

portion (42), operably configured to be selectively 
positionable between open and closed configurations, 

to start and stop flow of said beverage through said 
beverage dispensing system, and a nozzle portion (46), 

for directing flow of said beverage into said containers, 
said apparatus comprising: 


flow regulator means (60) for substantially precluding 
the breakup of said beverage and release of said 

dissolved gases, so as to prevent foaming, said flow 
regulator means operably arrangeable substantially 

within said shank portion of said at least one 
faucet means, 
including a flow regulator member, operably insertable 
into said flow passageway of said shank 

portion, upstream from a transition position between 
said shank portion and said valve portion of said at 

least one faucet means, said flow regulator member 
being in the form of at least one rolled substantially 

cylindrical coil. 
The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein 
said substantially cylindrical coil has an outer 

diameter advantageously configured so as to enable a 
slightly forced fit, upon insertion of said flow 

regulator means into said flow passageway of said 
shank portion of said at least one faucet means. 
The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein 
said flow regulator means further comprises; 


a mesh member (62), advantageously configured to fit 
within said flow passageway of said shank portion of 

said at least one faucet means, with slightly forced 
fit. 
The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein 
said mesh member is fabricated from food grade 

stainless steel. 
The apparatus according to claim 10,wherein 

said mesh member is formed from a substantially 
rectangular piece of mesh material. 
The apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein said mesh material has a wire thickness of 

0.4 mm (0.016 inches) 
The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein 
said mesh material has a square count per linear 

centimetre in the range of 7 to 8.7 squares per linear 
centimetre (18 to 22 squares per linear inch). 
The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein 
said flow regulator means further comprises: 

handle means (66, 68), operably emanating from an end of 
said coil, for facilitating removal of said flow 

regulator means from said flow passageway, and for 
substantially precluding overinsertion of said flow 

regulator means into said flow passageway. 
The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein 
said handle means comprises: 


a wire loop member (66,68), operably configured to form  
 

one of a plurality of particular geometric outlines, 
each said outline corresponding to a particular 

combination of characteristics for a particular flow 
regulator means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
