<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0089044</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE HAVING A CONTAINER SEALED WITH A SOLDER OF LOW MELTING POINT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2310	H01L3102	H01L2714	H01L2714	H01L310203	H01L3102	H01L310203	H01L2302	H01L2302	H01L23057	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L31	H01L27	H01L27	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor device forming a hermetically sealed 
housing for a semiconductor element, comprising a base 

member, a wall member surrounding the semiconductor 
element, and a cover hermetically sealed to the wall 

member. According to the invention, an intermediate annu­
lar member (17) is interposed between the cover (11) and 

wall member (12′), the intermediate member being attached 
to the cover by a solder glass (16) and exhibiting a metal 

surface facing the wall member for being attached to the wall 
member by metallic solder. A protrusion (15) of the wall 

member (12′) fully or partly surrounds the intermediate 
member (17) and is also attached thereto by metallic solder. 

This structure enables the manufacture of a perfectly sealed 
housing without applying excessive heat to the assembled 

device which may damage the semiconductor element. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKANO, KAZUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

 A Semiconductor Device Having a Container
 Sealed with a Solder of Low Melting Point
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
 The present invention relates to a semiconductor device and, more particularly, to a structure of the container for a semiconductor element.


Description of the Prior Art
 Recently, imaging elements using a charge coupled device (i.e., CCD), a photo-detector array, or an MOStransistor array have been developed. A container for such an imaging element must have a window with an optically transparent plate of sapphire or glass. However, no metallized layer can be formedron the surface of sapphire or glass plate, so that metallic solders having a small water vapor permeability and a low melting point cannot be used to hermetically attach the window glass to the package. Other than metallic solders, solder glass or resin solder could be used. Despite this, the imaging element has an optical filter made of an organic material formed over its surface.
 Since the properties of an optical filter are subjected to change at a temperature not so high, the use of solder glass which is processed at a temperature around   400"C    would deteriorate the optical filter. On the  other hand, some resin solder   haves    low melting point of   1500C,    but they have a relatively high water vapor permeability so that ambient moisture can penetrate the container, after the semiconductor element has been sealed into the container, thereby deteriorating the characteristics of the semiconductor element.


 The container in the prior art has another defect that the positional relationship between the cover member and the wall member is liable to be displaced when the cover member is fixed to the wall member, thereby reducing the production yield.


SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 It is, therefore, a primary object of the present invention to provide a semiconductor device having a container which can safely seal a semiconductor element having a low heat resistance.


 Another object of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor device having a container, which has excellent hermetic properties, and which can be fabricated with a high yield.


 According to the present invention, a semiconductor device comprises: a semiconductor element; a container main body having an area for mounting the semiconductor element thereon, and a protrusion around the surface of the outer periphery of the element mounting area; a cap member  covering the element mounting area of the container body; an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:



 1. A semiconductor device comprising: a semiconductor element; a base member supporting said semiconductor element thereon; a wall member supported on said base member while enclosing said semiconductor element; a first frame overlaid on and attached to said wall member by a metallic soldering material; and a cap member attached to said first frame by a glassy adhesive, whereby said semiconductor element is hermetically sealed in a container including said base member, said wall member, said first frame, said cap member, said metallic soldering material and said glassy adhesive.



 2. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising a second frame placed above said wall member such that said metallic soldering material fills the gap between said first and second frames.



 3. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said cap member is made of an optically transparent material.



 4. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said first and second frames at least partially overlap in the direction of their widths.  



 5. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said cap member is made of an optically transparent material.



 6. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 2, wherein said second frame is made integrally of the same material as that of said wall member.



 7. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 6, wherein said cap member is made of an optically transparent material.



 8. A semiconductor device comprising: a semiconductor element; a base member supporting said semiconductor element thereon; a wall member supported on said base member and enclosing said semiconductor element; a first frame attached onto said wall member while substantially enclosing said semiconductor element; a second frame overlaid on and attached to said wall member by a metallic soldering material such that said'metallic soldering material fills up the gap between said first and second frames, and such that it encloses said second frame; and a cap member attached to said second frame by a glassy adhesive.



 9. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 8, wherein said first and second frames at least partially overlap in the direction of their widths.  



 10. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 9, wherein said cap member is made of an optically transparent material.



 11. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 10, wherein said metallic soldering material has a melting point of at most   2000C.   



 12. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 10, wherein both of said first and second frames are made of metal.



 13. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 10, wherein said first frame is made integrally of the same material as that of said wall member.



 14. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 10, wherein said semiconductor element is covered with an optical filter.



 15. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 11, wherein said semiconductor element includes an optical filter overlying the surface thereof.  



 16. The semiconductor device as claimed in Claim 9, wherein the surface of said first frame which faces said cap member has a poor wettability with said metallic soldering material. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
