<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615104</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rotary absorption heat pump
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25B1500	F25B1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25B	F25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25B15	F25B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotary absorption heat pump assembly comprises a 
generator (2), condenser (3), evaporator (4), absorbent cooler 

(5), and absorber (1), all operatively associated to function 
as components of an absorption-type heat pump of high 

efficiency and superior operating characteristics. The heat 
pump has a tapered cylindrical absorber (1) which receives and 

processes, in the form of a very thin peripheral film (d), a 
predetermined amount of absorbent solution. The absorber (1) 

is arranged in abutting end-to-end relationship with the 
generator (2) with which it communicates. The condenser (3) 

and evaporator (4) are arranged end-to-end outside of the 
absorber (1) and absorbent cooler (5), concentrically 

therewith and radially spaced therefrom. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONSERVE RESOURCES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONSERVE RESOURCES, INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRAVDA MILTON F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRAVDA, MILTON F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to rotary absorption heat pumps of 
the general class described in U.S. -A-3,740,966 (Milton 
F. Pravda). Absorption machines used as chillers and ice makers 
predate similar duty vapor compression machines by the better 
part of a century. With the advent of universal electrical 
usage and, more so, with the introduction of the 
chlorofluorocarbon refrigerants, vapor compression machines 
supplanted but did not completely eliminate absorption 
machines from the marketplace. Since the 1950's, vapor 
compression machines manufactured to condition room air not 
only cool in the Summer but heat in the Winter thereby 
assuming the characteristics of true heat pumps. Heat pumps 
thus are of two categories: rotary absorption heat pumps 
(RAHP's) and vapor compression heat pumps (VCHP's). The conditions which initially heavily favored VCHP's in 
the marketplace have subsequently been somewhat altered. The 
world has become more conscientious about conserving energy, 
especially since the large increase in the price of energy 
which occurred during the mid 1970's. The economic balance 
here favors the absorption process, because it can utilize 
low-grade waste heat efficiently. Also, with the recent recognition of the destructive 
behavior of chlorofluorocarbons (CFC's) on the earth's  
 
protective ozone layer, the heretofore ideal class of 
refrigerants for use in VCHP's has been eliminated, thus 
further tilting the balance in favor of the absorption 
process. The RAHP's differ from conventional VCHP's both in their 
operating cycle and in their construction. The common cycle 
components in RAHP's and VCHP's are the evaporator and the 
condenser but thereafter the similarity ends. In the VCHP's, 
the vapor produced in the evaporator is increased in pressure 
by means of a mechanical pump and at the higher pressure it is 
cooled and liquified in the condenser. Subsequently, it is 
returned to the evaporator in order to complete the cycle. In 
the RAHP's, the refrigerant vapor produced in the evaporator 
is absorbed in a deliquescent material located within a 
component termed the absorber. The diluted deliquescent 
material is then transferred to a component named a generator 
within which the refrigerant vapor is separated from the 
material and its pressure is increased by the application of 
heat. The vapor at higher pressure is subsequently directed 
to a condenser wherein it is cooled and liquified before it is 
returned to the evaporator in order to complete the cycle.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotary absorption heat pump assembly 
comprising a generator (2), condenser (3), evaporator (4), 

and absorber (1) having infeed and outfeed ends, and means 
operatively associating the same to function as components 

of an absorption type heat pump, and 

mounting means for mounting the heat pump 
components for rotation as a unit, 
the absorber (1) comprising a hollow frustum of a 
right circular cone, outwardly tapering in the downstream 

direction and adapted to receive and process on its inner 
surface an absorbent solution in the form of a very thin 

film (d) of substantially uniform thickness, 
the absorber (1) and generator (2) being arranged 
concentrically end-to-end, 
 
   characterised in that a cooler (5) for the 

absorbent solution is provided at the upstream end of the 
absorber and arranged concentrically and end-to-end with 

the absorber whereby the absorbent film can enter the 
absorber from the cooler, and in that the condenser (3) and 

evaporator (4) are arranged end-to-end peripherally outside 
of the absorber and absorbent cooler, substantially 

concentric therewith. 
The heat pump assembly of claim 1 wherein the 
angle of taper  of the absorber, as measured with respect 

to its axis of rotation (51), is from 0.1° (0.001745 rad)  
 

to 45° (0.785 rad). 
The heat pump assembly of claim 2 wherein the 
angle of taper of the absorber, as measured with respect to 

its axis of rotation (51), is from 2.0° (0.0349 rad) to 
7.0° (0.1222 rad). 
The heat pump assembly of claim 1, 2 or 3, 
wherein the length to mean radius ratio of the conical 

absorber (1) is from 2:1 to 10:1. 
The heat pump assembly of any preceding claim, 
wherein the absorber (1) and generator (2) are arranged in 

end-to-end abutting relationship and wherein the infeed end 
of the absorber is closed with a first isolation/insulation 

barrier (26) and its outfeed end with a second 
isolation/insulation barrier (21),
 
   there being provided in the first barrier a 

plurality of peripheral openings (33) in juxtaposition to 
the interior wall (7) of the absorber for feeding absorbent 

solution to said interior wall in film-forming relation. 
The heat pump assembly of claim 5, wherein a 
downstream second isolation/insulation barrier is provided 

with a plurality of peripheral openings (54) arranged to 
deliver absorbent solution in the form of said thin film to 

the interior peripheral surface of the generator (2). 
The heat pump assembly of any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the condenser (3) and evaporator 

(4) comprise a plurality of elongated tubes (37) and 
a combination of liquid trap means (38) and insulating plug  

 
means (39), which divide each tube internally into a 

condenser section (3) and an evaporator section (4). 
The heat pump assembly of any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the interior tapered surface (7) of 

the absorber (1) is provided with a plurality of 
longitudinally extending partitions or baffles (85), 

circumferentially spaced and dividing the interior surface 
into non-communicating separated areas for maintaining the 

uniformity of thickness of the very thin absorbent film (d) 
during operation of the assembly. 
The heat pump assembly of any one of the 
preceding claims, including variable capacity pump means 

(17) for transferring concentrated absorbent solution from 
the generator (2) to the absorbent cooler (5). 
The heat pump assembly of claim 9 wherein the 
pump means comprises pitot pump means (17). 
The heat pump assembly of any one of the 
preceding claims, including check valve means (82) 

installed between the evaporator (4) and absorber (1) and 
operative to prevent egress of refrigerant from the 

evaporator to the absorber during shut down of the 
assembly. 
The heat pump assembly of claim 11 wherein the 
check valve means (82) comprises valve means opened by 

centrifugal action and closed by spring pressure. 
The heat pump assembly of any one of the 
preceding claims, including a charge of  

 
absorbent/refrigerant solution predetermined to maintain 

during operation of the assembly operational amounts of 
charge in the generator, condenser, evaporator, absorbent 

solution cooler and absorber components of the assembly and 
to maintain said film ("d") of absorbent/refrigerant of 

substantially uniform thickness in the absorber. 
The rotary heat pump assembly of claim 13 
wherein the charge comprises lithium bromide and water. 
The rotary heat pump assembly of claim 14 
wherein the charge comprises a crystallization-resistant 

mixture of lithium bromide, lithium iodide and water, the 
lithium iodide comprising from 30% to 40% by weight of the 

total salt content of the charge. 
A method of operating the rotary absorption 
heat pump assembly of any preceding claim, wherein there is 

maintained on the frusto-conical inner surface of the 
absorber (1) a substantially uniform film of 

absorbent/refrigerant solution having a thickness (d) of 

0.5 mil (12.7 µm) to 5.0 mil (127 µm). 
A method of operating the rotary absorption 
heat pump assembly of claim 8, wherein there is maintained 

on the frusto-conical inner surface a substantially uniform 
film of absorbent/refrigerant solution having a thickness 

(d) of approximately half the height of the baffles or 
partitions (85). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
