<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651064</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A device and process for the pretreatement of electronic scrap.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C22B100	C22B100	C22B700	C22B700	C22B1100	C22B1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C22B	C22B	C22B	C22B	C22B	C22B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C22B1	C22B1	C22B7	C22B7	C22B11	C22B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for the pretreatment of electronic 
scrap, comprising a scroll cylinder (1) with a worm 

screw (2) inside it, endowed with inputs and outputs for 
thermal exchange fluid (13, 8) and electronic scrap to 

be treated (6, 14); a furnace comprising sucha device, 
further comprising input (9, 11) and output (23, 24) air 

barriers; a refrigerator comprising such a device too; 
as well as a proces for the pretreatment of electronic 

scrap making use of such a furnace and refrigerator. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IN TEC ITALIA INT ENV TECH SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IN.TEC. ITALIA - INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENT TECHNOLOGY S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CELI ANTONIO MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CELI, ANTONIO MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of 
the pretreatment of electronic scrap for recovering the 
constituent elements thereof, in particular the metal. More specifically, the present invention 
relates to a device for the pretreatment of electronic 
scrap, suitable to allow the subsequent recovery of its 
components. Moreover, the present invention relates to a 
furnace and to a refrigerator for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap, implemented with such a device. Moreover, it relates to a process for the 
pretreatment of electronic scrap, that avails itself of 
the use of such a device. In the sense of the present disclosure, by 
"electronic scrap" electronic components, devices and 
circuits are meant coming from the scraping of 
apparatuses that use them as their hardware, such as for 
instance computers, televisors, radio sets, telephone 
systems and so on. In the sense of the present disclosure, by 
"pretreatment" a treatment is meant in consequence of 
which the constituent metal doesn't turn out to be 
already directly recovered from the electronic scrap, 
but it results to be susceptible of being transformed 
into ions, to be thereafter recovered substantially 
totally as electrolytic metal, by means of devices and 
processes being the subject matter of copending patent 
applications, in the name of the same Applicant hereof.  Electronic scrap, regardless of its origin 
(computers, televisors, radio sets, telephone systems, 
etcetera) has revealed itself, put into the dump, not a 
negligible danger for the environment in which we live, 
not to speak about the fact that in this way enormous 
quantities of metals, sooner or later no longer 
available, irremediably go lost. Therefore, already in the past the same 
Applicant hereof had suggested a device suitable to 
treat electronic scrap so as to be able to recover the 
metal contained in it. Such a device provided an equicurrent 
encounter of the electronic scrap with a flow of thermal 
exchange fluid. In order to obtain the mutual separation of 
the constituent components of the scrap a high 
temperature heating was provided in a furnace made up of 
such device. As a measure against possible leakages from 
its inside a single air barrier was provided during its 
operation. However, the efficiency of such a device turns 
out to be low, in the sense that the quantity of metal 
not recoverable is considerable. Moreover, the measures against the leakages 
from inside turn out to be unsure. This constitutes a serious shortcoming, as in 
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for the pretreatment of electronic 
scrap, characterized in that it comprises 

   a scroll cylinder (1; 1') with a worm screw 
(2) fixed at its inner surface,
 and closed at its two 
ends, respectively of input and output, by two 

corresponding input (5) and output (6) heads; 
   means (20, 21, 22) for actuating in rotation 

said scroll cylinder (1; 1') in both senses; 
   means for inputting (6, 6') and means for 

removing into output (14) respectively into and from 
said scroll cylinder (1; 1') electronic scrap to be 

treated, and 
   means for inputting (13; 25) and means for 

removing into output (8) thermal exchange fluid 
respectively into and from said scroll cylinder (1; 1'). 
The device for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claim 1, further 

characterized in that 
   the worm screw (2) of said scroll cylinder (1; 

1') is interleaved in several points by walls (3) 
arranged diametrically as a radiant crown with respect 

to the scroll cylinder itself. 
The device for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claim 2 or claim 3, 

further characterized in that 
   it comprises lifting vanes (4) interleaved in 

longitudinal sense betwwen the threads of the worm screw 
(2) of said scroll cylinder (1; 1'). 
A rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap comprising a device according to anyone 

of the preceding claims, wherein
 

   said means for inputting electronic scrap into 
said scroll cylinder comprise a charging tube (6) with 

an end that opens itself in the scroll cylinder (1) 
through said input head (5), and with the opposite end 

at the outside constituting a mouth for charging 
electronic scrap (6'); 

   said means for removing said thermal exchange 
fluid into output from said scroll cylinder (1) are made 

up of a suction opening (8) through said input head (5); 
   said suction opening (8) being provided in 

offtake from said charging tube (6); 
   means (10) being provided between said suction 

opening (8) and said charging mouth (6) for temporally 
selectively admitting electronic scrap into the interior 

of the scroll cylinder (1); 
   an air barrier (9; 11) being provided between 

said charging mouth (6') and said means (10) for 
temporally selectively admitting electronic scrap; 

   said means for removing electronic scrap into 
output from said scroll cylinder (1) being made up of an 

exhaust conveyor (14) through said output head (12); 
   said means for inputting thermal exchange 

fluid into said scroll cylinder (1) comprising a 
delivery manifold (13) through said output head (12); 

   said exhaust manifold (14) being endowed with 
an air barrier (23, 24) downstream of said delivery 

manifold (12). 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claim 4, wherein 

   said means for temporally selectively 
admitting electronic scrap into the scroll cylinder 

comprise a hermetic slider closure (10). 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claim 4 or claim 5, 

wherein 
   between said means (23) for inputting thermal 

exchange fluid into said scroll cylinder (1) and said 
air barrier (23, 24) provided on said exhaust conveyor 

(14) a wing closure (15) is provided. 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatmente of 
electronic scrap according to any one of claims 4 to 6, 

wherein 
   said air barrier provided between said 

charging mouth (6') and said temporally selectively 
means (10) for admitting electronic scrap into the 

scroll cylinder (1) is made up of an air jet fed through 
a delivery opening (9) converging to said charging tube 

(6) to strike the entire cross section thereof and 
removed through a suction opening (11), converging to 

said charging tube (6) too. 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to anyone of claims 4 to 7, 

wherein 
   said barrier air wherewhich said exhaust 

conveyor (14) is endowed is made up of an air jet fed 
through a delivery opening (23) converging to the 

exhaust conveyor (14) itself to strike the entire cross 
section thereof and removed through a suction opening 

(24), converging to the exhaust conveyor (14) too. 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to any one of claims 4 to 8, 

further characterized in that 
   it comprises means (16) for collecting the 

fluidized solder output from the scroll cylinder (1). 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claim 9, wherein 

   said means for collecting the fluidized solder 
comprise a grid (16). 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to anyone of claims 4 to 10, 

further characterized in that 
   it comprises a circuit (B7, WT8, W9, K19, P10, 

WT3) for the recirculation of the thermal exchange 
fluid, comprising means for filtering (B7) and means for 

washing (W9, P10, K19) the,thermal exchange fluid. 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claim 11, further 

comprising 
   a tank for storing thermal exchange fluid (B7) 

inserted in said recirculation circuit (B7, WT8, W9, 
P10, K19, WT3). 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to anyone of the preceding 

claims, wherein said thermal exchange fluid is nitrogen. 
The rotary furnace for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to anyone of claims 4 to 13, 

further comprising 
   a burner (B17) for burning the air barrier and 

eventually burning the thermal exchange fluid. 
A refrigerator for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap comprising a device according to anyone 

of claims 1 to 3, wherein 
   said means for inputting electronic scrap into 

said scroll cylinder comprise a charging tube through 
said input head (5'); 

   said means for inputting thermal exchange 
 

fluid comprise a delivery opening (25) through said 
output head, and 

   said means for removing the thermal exchange 
fluid into output comprise a suction hood towards said 

output head. 
The refrigerator for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claim 15, further 

comprising 
   a burner for the thermal exchange fluid (B17). 
The refrigerator for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap according to claims 15 or 16, wherein 

it is provided particularly that said thermal exchange 
fluid is air. 
A process for the pretreatment of 
electronic scrap, 

comprising the stages of: 

(I) heating of the electronic scrap in a 
rotary furnace according to one of claims 4 to 13; 
(II) collection and enrouting of the solder at 
the output; 
(III) cooling of metals and plastics at the 
output in a refrigerator according to one of claims 13 

to 15, and 
(IIII) separation of the ferrous metals from 
nonferrous metals and plastics at the output and 

enrouting thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
