<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640875</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Aqueous developable flexographic printing plate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F700	G03F700	G03F7004	G03F7004	G03F7027	G03F7027	G03F7031	G03F7031	G03F7032	G03F7032	G03F7033	G03F7033	G03F7038	G03F7038	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An aqueous developable photosensitive element 
comprising a support and a photosensitive layer 

provided thereon, said photosensitive layer containing 
(a) at least one binder comprising a solid elastomeric 

composition, said solid composition resulting from the 
removal of water from an aqueous dispersion of an 

elastomeric polymer, said dispersion having a solid-liquid 
interface and having adsorbed at said interface, 

at least one polymeric stabilizer comprising a compound 
having a hydrophobic portion and a hydrophilic portion, 

wherein said hydrophobic portion is oriented toward the 
surface of the dispersed elastomeric polymer and said 

hydrophilic portion is oriented away from the surface 
of the elastomeric polymer, (b) at least one 

ethylenically unsaturated monomer or oligomer, and (c)a 
photoinitiator system, processes to make the 

photosensitive element and a method of use to make a 
flexographic printing plate are described. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DU PONT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E.I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSEN LAWRENCE ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEA PAUL THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWATTON DAVID WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSEN, LAWRENCE ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEA, PAUL THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWATTON, DAVID WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to solid photosensitive 
compositions which can be used to prepare flexographic 
printing plates. More particularly, it relates to 
solid photosensitive compositions which are aqueous 
developable. Photosensitive compositions useful in preparing 
flexographic printing plates are well known in the art. 
These compositions generally comprise (1) an addition 
polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomer, (2) a 
photoinitiator or photoinitiating system activated by 
actinic radiation and (3) a thermoplastic elastomeric 
polymeric binder comprising polymerized conjugated 
diene monomers. Flexographic printing elements can be 
made from these photosensitive compositions by solvent 
casting, by extruding and calendering, or by pressing 
the compositions at an elevated temperature into the 
form of a layer or self-supporting sheet on a suitable 
casting wheel, belt or platen. The photosensitive 
sheet can be permanently affixed to a suitable 
permanent substrate. A removable coversheet is usually 
placed on top to protect the photosensitive sheet. Photopolymerizable elements and processes for 
their use in preparing flexographic printing plates are 
well known in the art. See for example, U.S. Patent 
Nos. 4,323,636; 4,460,675; 4,970,037; and many others. Flexographic printing plates can be made from the 
photosensitive elements described above, by exposing to  
 
actinic radiation selected portions of the 
photosensitive layer, usually through an image-bearing 
transparency. Upon exposure to actinic radiation, the 
ethylenically unsaturated monomer is polymerized or 
crosslinked in those areas of the photosensitive layer 
exposed to actinic radiation, resulting in reduced 
solubility or swellability in developer solvents. No 
significant polymerization or crosslinking occurs in 
the unexposed areas of the photosensitive layer. 
Consequently, upon application of suitable developer 
solvent, the exposed areas remain, and the unexposed 
areas are removed. The developer solvents most commonly used are 
organic solvents including aromatic or aliphatic 
hydrocarbon or halohydrocarbon solvents. Recently, it 
has become less desirable to use such organic solvents 
due to toxicity and environmental concerns. Thus, 
photosensitive compositions which are aqueous 
developable, i.e., can be washed out with aqueous 
solutions or plain water, have been proposed for use in 
preparing flexographic printing plates. Some examples 
include U.S. Patent Nos. 4,177,074; 4,361,640; 
4,960,073; 5,075,192;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A photosensitive element comprising a support 
and a photosensitive layer, said photosensitive layer 

comprising: 

(a) at least one binder comprising a solid 
elastomeric composition, said solid 

composition resulting from the removal of 
water from an aqueous dispersion of an 

elastomeric polymer, said dispersion having a 
solid-liquid interface and having adsorbed at 

said interface, at least one polymeric 
stabilizer comprising a compound having a 

hydrophobic portion and a hydrophilic 
portion, wherein said hydrophobic portion is 

oriented toward the surface of the dispersed 
elastomeric polymer and said hydrophilic 

portion is oriented away from the surface of 
the elastomeric polymer; 
(b) at least one ethylenically unsaturated 
monomer or oligomer; and 
(c) a photoinitiator system. 
The photosensitive element of claim 1 wherein 
the polymeric stabilizer consists essentially of a 

material selected from the group consisting of diblock 
copolymers of alkyl esters of acrylic acid and acrylic 

or methacrylic acid, diblock copolymers of alkyl esters 
of methacrylic acid and acrylic or methacrylic acid, 

alkaline earth salts of diblock copolymers of alkyl 
esters of acrylic acid and acrylic or methacrylic acid, 

alkaline earth salts of diblock copolymers of alkyl 
esters of methacrylic acid and acrylic or methacrylic 

 
acid, diblock copolymers of propylene oxide and 

ethylene oxide, graft copolymers of alkyl esters of 
acrylic or methacrylic acid and ethylene oxide, graft 

copolymers of alkyl esters of acrylic or methacrylic 
acid and vinyl pyrollidone, and mixtures thereof. 
The photosensitive element of claim 2 wherein 
the polymeric stabilizer comprises a block copolymer of 

butyl methacrylate and methacrylic acid. 
The photosensitive element of claim 1 wherein 
the ratio of the hydrophobic portion to the hydrophilic 

portion in the polymeric stabilizer is in the range of 
4:1 to 1:4. 
The photosensitive element of claim 1 wherein 
the ratio of the elastomeric polymer to the polymeric 

stabilizer is in the range of 98:2 to 70:30. 
The photosensitive element of claim 1 wherein 
the elastomeric polymer has an average particle size in 

the range of 0.05 to 1.0 micrometers in diameter. 
The photosensitive element of claim 1 wherein 
the photosensitive layer comprises, based on the total 

weight of the photosensitive layer: 

(a) 40-95% by weight elastomeric polymer plus 
polymeric stabilizer; 
(b) 5-30% by weight monomer or oligomer; and 
(c) 0.1-5.0% by weight photoinitiator system. 
The photosensitive element of claim 1 wherein 
the elastomeric polymer comprises an elastomer selected 

from the group consisting of poly(butadiene), 
poly(isoprene), poly(butadiene-styrene), poly(isoprene-styrene), 

 
natural rubber, neoprene, polyurethanes and 

mixtures thereof. 
The photosensitive element of claim 1 which 
further comprises a macromolecular polymeric binder. 
The photosensitive element of claim 9 wherein 
the macromolecular polymeric binder is selected from 

the group consisting of acid-containing polymer or 
their salts and amphoteric polymers. 
A process for preparing a photosensitive 
element comprising: 


(a) forming an oil/water emulsion, said emulsion 
containing at least one polymeric stabilizer 

comprising a compound having a hydrophobic 
portion and a hydrophilic portion; 
(b) forming in the emulsion a latex disperison of 
at least one elastomeric polymer, said 

dispersion having a solid-liquid interface, 
wherein said stabilizer is adsorbed at the 

solid-liquid interface and said hydrophobic 
portion is oriented toward the surface of the 

dispersed elastomeric polymer and said 
hydrophilic portion is oriented away from the 

surface of the elastomeric polymer; 
(c) substantially removing the water and oil; 
(d) mixing the elastomeric polymer with 

(i) at least one ethylenically 
unsaturated monomer or oligomer; 

and 
(ii) a photoinitiator system to form a 
photosensitive composition; and 
(e) forming the photosensitive composition into a 
sheet structure on a support, 

 
wherein step (c) occurs after steps (b) or (d) or 

simultaneously with (d). 
A process for forming a photosensitive 
element comprising: 


(a) forming an oil/water emulsion 
(b) forming in the emulsion a latex 
dispersion of at least one elastomeric 

polymer, said dispersion having a solid-liquid 
interface; 
(c) adding a polymeric stabilizer comprising 
a compound having a hydrophobic portion and a 

hydrophilic portion, wherein said stabilizer 
is adsorbed at the solid-liquid interface and 

said hydrophobic portion is oriented toward 
the surface of the dispersed elastomeric 

polymer and said hydrophilic portion is 
oriented away from the surface of the 

elastomeric polymer; 
(d) substantially removing the water and 
oil; 
(e) mixing the elastomeric polymer with 

(i) at least one ethylenically 
unsaturated monomer or oligomer; 

and 
(ii) a photoinitiator system to form a 
photosensitive composition; and 
(f) forming the photosensitive composition 
into a sheet structure on a support, 
 
wherein step (d) occurs after step (c) or step (e)or 

simultaneously with step (e). 
A process for preparing a flexographic 
printing plate comprising: 
(a) imagewise exposing to actinic 
radiation a photosensitive element 

comprising a support and a 
photosensitive layer, said 

photosensitive layer comprising (i) 
at least one binder comprising a 

solid elastomeric composition, said 
solid composition resulting from the 

removal of water from an aqueous 
dispersion having a solid-liquid 

interface and having adsorbed at said 
interface, at least one polymeric 

stabilizer comprising a compound 
having a hydrophobic portion and a 

hydrophilic portion, wherein said 
hydrophobic portion is oriented 

toward the surface of the dispersed 
elastomeric polymer and said 

hydrophilic portion is oriented away 
from the surface of the elastomeric 

polymer; (ii) at least one 
ethylenically unsaturated monomer or 

oligomer; and(iii) a photoinitiator 
system; 
(b) removing the unexposed areas of the 
photosensitive layer by washing with an 

aqueous solution; 
(c) optionally applying a post-development 
treatment selected from the group consisting 

of drying, post-exposing to actinic 
radiation, and light finishing. 
The process of Claim 13 wherein the aqueous 
solution is water. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
