<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632664</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Chrominance signal processing circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N968	H04N945	H04N944	H04N968	H04N9455	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Chrominance signals of a digitized composite video 
signal are processed by including automatic phase control and 

automatic chroma control operations that use circuit elements 
that are concurrently available for both operations as well as 

for other signal processing operations. The automatic phase 
control operation calculates a phase error corresponding to a 

phase difference between a reference clock signal and a burst 
synchronization signal of the chrominance signal. The reference 

clock signal is generated in response to the phase error data, 
such that the phase error is minimized and the reference clock 

signal coincides with the burst synchronization signal. The 
automatic chroma control operation multiplies the chrominance 

signal by coefficient data corresponding to the difference 
between the chrominance signal and a reference value to generate 

a constant level chrominance signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYASAKI SHINICHIROU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE KAZUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIYASAKI, SHINICHIROU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE, KAZUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and methods
for processing chrominance signals of a composite video signal,
and, more particularly, to apparatus and methods which
incorporate automatic phase control (APC) and automatic chroma
control (ACC) operations in processing chrominance signals.A composite video signal includes a modulated color
sub-carrier signal (chrominance signal), shown in Fig. 1A,
combined with a monochrome signal (luminance signal) and shown in
Fig. 1B. The chrominance signal contains information regarding
the color portion of an image, and this information is
represented by both the amplitude and phase of the chrominance
signal. Because color information is stored in the phase of the
signal, an operation that processes the chrominance signal must
be closely synchronized with the phase of the signal to avoid
loss of color information, such as the tint or hue of an image
recreated from the processed signal. Preferably, the phase of
the processing operation should be within 2° of the chrominance
signal.To maintain a precise phase relationship between the
transmitted chrominance signal and a chrominance signal
processing operation, a color synchronizing burst signal, shown
in Fig. 1A, is transmitted with the chrominance signal to provide
a phase reference for the processing operation. The color 
synchronizing burst is a short, unmodulated signal usually
consisting of nine cycles and is located on the back-porch of the
horizontal blanking interval, after the horizontal sync pulses.A chrominance processing operation uses the color
synchronizing burst to generate an internal reference signal.
The reference signal is generated by an Automatic Phase Control
(APC) operation which separates and amplifies the color
synchronizing burst signal, and then locks the phase of a local
reference oscillator of the same frequency as the burst signal to
the phase of burst signal.In analog chrominance signal processing, the phase-locking
is usually provided by a phase locked-loop, as shown in
Fig. 2, or a phase controlled oscillator. Typically, the phase-locked
loop is formed by a DC voltage controlled oscillator (VCO)
40, which generates the internal reference signal, in combination
with a phase detector 42 and a low pass filter 41. The phase
detector 42 is supplied with the VCO output signal and the color
synchronizing burst signal and generates a DC output having
polarity and amplitude proportional to the direction and
magnitude of the relative phase difference between the VCO output
signal and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A chrominance signal processing apparatus for
processing a chrominance signal containing a burst

synchronization signal, comprising:

address generating means (5) for generating a
sequence of addresses as a function of a reference clock

signal (4fsc);
first memory means (2) for storing respective samples of a
predetermined portion of said chrominance signal at

respective ones of said sequence of addresses;
calculating means (6) for calculating phase error
data indicative of a phase difference between said

reference clock signal and said burst synchronization
signal as a function of said samples of said predetermined

portion of said chrominance signal and for determining
difference data derived from adjacent ones of said samples;
oscillator means (13) for generating said reference
clock signal in response to said phase error data such that

said phase error data is minimized and said reference clock
signal coincides with said burst synchronization signal;
additional memory means (15) for storing coefficient
data corresponding to said difference data; and
multiplying means (1) for multiplying said
predetermined portion of said chrominance signal by said

coefficient data to form a constant level chrominance
signal and for delivering said constant level chrominance 

signal to said first memory means (2).
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a
burst gate control signal source and latching means (3)

responsive to said reference clock signal (fsc) for
latching the burst gate control signal to switch (sw) said

predetermined portion of said chrominance signal to said

memory means (2).
The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, further
comprising reset means (4) for resetting said address

generating means (5) to initiate generating said sequence
of addresses as a function of said latched burst gate

control signal.
The apparatus of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said
calculating means (6) calculates respective differences

between selected ones of said samples and averages said
differences.
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said
calculating means (6) lag-lead filters said average to

calculate said phase error data.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, further
comprising accumulator means (8) for accumulating said

phase error data over a horizontal scan period for delivery
to said oscillator means (13) for generating said reference

clock signal.
The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising
register means (10) for storing said accumulated phase

error data for delivery to said oscillator means (13). 
The apparatus of any preceding claim, further
comprising digital-to-analog converter means (12) for

converting said phase error data to an analog DC voltage.
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said
oscillator means comprises a voltage controlled oscillator

(12) for generating a sampling clock signal (4fsc) as a
function of said analog DC voltage.
The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising
dividing means (14) for dividing said sampling clock signal

(4fsc) to generate said reference clock signal (fsc).
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein
said memory means (2) stores said phase error data.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein
said calculating means (6) calculates respective sums of

absolute values of said adjacent ones of said samples and
determines a maximum value (Mmax) of said respective sums.
The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said
calculating means (6) calculates said difference data by

subtracting a reference value (A) from said maximum value
(Mmax).
The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising
accumulator means (8) for calculating an integrated

reference value by integrating said reference values over a
horizontal scan period.
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said
additional memory means (15) selects coefficient data

corresponding to said integrated reference value for 
delivery to said multiplying means (1).
A method of processing a chrominance signal
containing a burst synchronization signal, comprising the

steps of:

generating (5) a sequence of addresses as a function
of a reference clock signal (4fsc);
storing (2) respective samples of a predetermined
portion of said chrominance signal at respective ones of

said sequence of addresses;
calculating (6) phase error data indicative of a
phase difference between said reference clock signal and

said burst synchronization signal as a function of said
samples of said predetermined portion of said chrominance

signal;
generating (13) said reference clock signal in
response to said phase error data such that said phase

error data is minimized and said reference clock signal
coincides with said burst synchronization signal;
determining difference data derived from adjacent
ones of said samples;
storing coefficient data corresponding to said
difference data;
multiplying (1) said predetermined portion of said
chrominance signal by said coefficient data to form a

constant level chrominance signal; and
storing said constant level chrominance signal.
The method of claim 16, further comprising the 
steps of providing a burst qate control siqnal, latching

(3) said burst gate control signal in response to said
reference clock signal, and switching said predetermined

portion of said chrominance signal to said memory means (2)
as a function of said latched burst gate control signal.
The method of claim 17, further comprising the
step of resetting (4) said generating of said sequence of

addresses as a function of said latched burst gate control
signal.
The method of claim 16, 17 or 18, wherein the
step of calculating phase error data includes calculating

(6) respective differences between selected ones of said
samples and averaging said differences.
The method of claim 19, wherein the step of
calculating (6) phase error data further includes lag-lead

filtering said average to calculate said phase error data.
The method of any one of claims 16 to 20,
further comprising the step of accumulating (8) said phase

error data over a horizontal scan period.
The method of claim 21, further comprising the
step of storing (10) said accumulated phase error data.
The method of any one of claims 16 to 22,
further comprising the step of digital-to-analog converting

(12) said phase error data to an analog DC voltage.
The method of claim 23, wherein the step of
generating said reference clock signal includes generating

(12) a sub-carrier clock signal as a function of said 
analog DC voltage.
The method of claim 24, wherein the step of
generating said reference clock signal includes dividing

(14) said sub-carrier clock signal to generate said
reference clock signal.
The method of any one of claims 16 to 25,
further comprising the step of storing said phase error

data.
The method of any one of claims 16 to 26,
wherein the step of determining difference data includes

calculating (6) respective sums of absolute values of said
adjacent ones of said samples and determines a maximum

value of said respective sums.
The method of claim 27, wherein the step of
determining difference data includes subtracting a

reference value from said maximum value.
The method of claim 16, 27 or 28, further
comprising the step of calculating (8) an integrated

reference value by integrating said reference values over a
horizontal scan period.
The method of claim 29, further comprising the
step of selecting (15) coefficient data corresponding to

said integrated reference value.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
