<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646405</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for the prevention of dioxin formation in combustion flue gases
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5370	B01D5310	B01D5383	B01D5383	B01D5306	B01D5370	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Environmental release of carcinogenic polychlorinated 
dibenzo-dioxins and polychlorinated dibenzo-furan compounds 

that typically result from combustion of materials 
containing chlorine or hydrochloric acid-generating 

components is minimized by preferential sorption of the 
precursor reactants on sorbents added to exhaust gas at 

high temperatures containing such precursors prior to 
conversion of the precursors to carcinogenic compounds 

normally occurring as the exhaust gas is cooled. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECO ENG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LERNER BERNARD J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECO ENGINEERING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LERNER, BERNARD J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LERNER BERNARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LERNER, BERNARD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for
minimizing formation and environmental release of
carcinogenic polychlorinated dibenzo-dioxins and
polychlorinated dibenzo-furan compounds that typically
result from combustion of fuels and incineration of wastes
containing chlorine or hydrochloric acid generating
components. More particularly, this invention relates to
preventing formation of toxic, polychlorinated organic 
compounds in combustion operations, including incineration
of wastes and burning of fuels in power plants, by
selective adsorption of the precursor compounds at elevated
temperatures.Combustion off-gases from the burning of fuels or the
incineration of medical and other wastes contain a variety
of chemical compounds known to be hazardous to human
health. Among these combustion products are a number of
specific polychlorinated organic compounds that are known
to be carcinogenic at trace concentrations. The most toxic
of these chlorinated hydrocarbons are 2,3,7,8 tetrachloro-dibenzo-dioxin
and the penta- chloro-, hexachloro-,
heptachloro- and octachloro- homologs, hereinafter
collectively designated as polychlorinated dibenzodioxins,
PCDD, and the polychlorodibenzo-furan (PCDF) analogs,
hereinafter collectively referred to as polychlorinated
dibenzofurans, PCDF. In general, the lower number (tetra
and penta) chlorinated congeners are the more carcinogenic
to humans, and the octachloro congeners are conventionally
held to be non-carcinogenic.Efficient combustion at high temperatures, typically
1000-1200°C, at adequate retention times, is known to
destroy any PCDD/PCDF originally present in the fuel or
wastes. However, detailed investigation of post-combustion
chemical reactions has shown that the PCDD/PCDF form again
on cooling down of the combustion gases. PCDD/PCDF are
known to form from aromatic precursor compounds such as
chlorobenzenes, chlorophenols, polychlorinated diphenyl
ethers, polychlorinated biphenyls, benzo-furans, benzodioxins
and the like, hereinafter collectively referred to
as pre-dioxins and pre-furans. In an article by Acharya, DeCicco and Novak, "Factors
That Can Influence and Control the Emissions of Dioxins and
Furans from Hazardous Waste Incinerators", published in the
Journal of Air and Waste Management, pp. 1605-1615, Vol.
41, No. 12, 1991, the disclosure of which is hereby
incorporated by reference, the authors state that the predioxin
and pre-furan compounds are believed to be formed at
a temperature of about 500°C. Dioxins then form downstream
as the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for minimising the environmental release of
polychlorinated benzodioxin and benzofuran compounds in

waste exhaust gases, wherein

combustion process fly ash and combustion exhaust gases
containing aromatic precursor reactants of polychlorinated

benzodioxin and benzofuran compounds are contacted with
substantially dry, finely divided, solid, macroporous,

sorbent material at a temperature above that favourable for
adsorption of said precursor reactants on said sorbent

material, but compatible with the thermal and chemical
stability of the sorbent material, to form a stream,
said stream is cooled to a temperature favourable for
adsorption of said aromatic precursor reactants on said

sorbent material, such that said precursor reactants are
adsorbed on said sorbent material
the stream comprising the pre-dioxin and pre-furan
reactant-depleted gas stream, combustion process fly ash and

spent sorbent passes to a solids separation zone where
particulate matter comprising said spent sorbent and said

fly ash is removed from the gas stream,
characterised in that

   the sorbent material is an adsorbent having a surface
area of at least 50 m
2
g
-1
 and is substantially free of
chloride reactable metal compounds and which has a selective

capacity for the adsorption of said aromatic precursor
reactants of polychlorinated benzodioxin and benzofuran

compounds at temperatures of 290°C and above, up to the
temperature at which structural integrity of the sorbent for

absorbing said aromatic precursor reactants no longer
exists, such that the aromatic precursor reactants are

preferentially adsorbed on said sorbent material with

substantially no conversion of said adsorbed aromatic
precursor reactants to polychlorinated benzodioxin and

benzofuran compounds. 
A process according to Claim 1, wherein the sorbent is
acid-treated.
A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the
combustion process fly ash and combustion exhaust gases are

formed in a combustion zone, the sorbent material being
introduced into contact with the combustion process fly ash

and combustion exhaust gases in the combustion zone.
A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the
combustion process fly ash and combustion exhaust gases are

formed in a combustion zone, the sorbent material being
introduced into contact with the combustion process fly ash

and combustion exhaust gases outside the combustion zone.
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein said sorbent is activated carbon or clay.
A process according to any one of claims 2 to 4,
wherein said sorbent is an acid-treated unsintered fly ash.
A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 6,
wherein said gases are cooled by direct contact with a

cooler liquid in a liquid-spray quenching zone.
A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 7,
wherein said solids separation zone comprises a fabric

filter baghouse.
A process according to any one of Claims 1 to 8,
wherein said solids separation zone comprises an

electrostatic precipitator.
A process according to Claim 1, wherein said first
stream is cooled to a temperature of from about 200°C to

about 280°C. 
A process according to Claim 1, wherein said sorbent
material contacts said combustion exhaust gases at a

temperature of at least 290°C.
A process according to claim 11, wherein said sorbent
material contacts said combustion exhaust gases at a

temperature in the range of 290°C to about 450°C.
A process according to claim 12, wherein said sorbent
material contacts said combustion exhaust gases at a

temperature in the range of from about 350°C to about 400°C.
A process according to claim 1, wherein said sorbent
material contacts said combustion gases at a temperature in

the range of from about 700°C to about 1000°C.
A process according to claim 14, wherein said sorbent
material contacts said combustion gases at a temperature in

the range of from about 700°C to about 900°C.
A process according to Claim 14, wherein said first
stream is cooled to a temperature in the range of from about

500°C to about 750°C.
A process according to Claim 1, wherein said sorbent is
substantially free of transition metals.
Apparatus for minimising the environmental release of
carcinogenic polychlorinated benzodioxins and benzofurans in

combustion exhaust gases, said apparatus comprising:

combustion means (10,110) having inlet means
(12,112,114) for introducing fuel or wastes and air to said

combustion means and outlet means (20,129) for discharge of
exhaust gases,
gas-cooling means (22,131) communicating with said
incinerator outlet means having an inlet means for receiving

exhaust gases and an outlet means, 
characterised by
a first gas-treating means (30,120) communicating with
said gas-cooling means for contacting said gas with

substantially dry, finely-divided high surface area solid
sorbent to adsorb aromatic precursor reactants on the

sorbent, thereby minimising formation of carcinogenic
polychlorinated benzodioxins and benzofurans
conduit means for passing gases contacted with said
high surface area sorbent to a second cooling means

(26,129),
conduit means (44,138) for passing cooled gases with
said high surface area sorbent from said second cooling

means to a solids separation means (46,146) for the removal
of said sorbent and combustion fly ash particulate
characterised in that

the sorbent in the first gas treating means is an adsorbent
having a surface area of at least 50 m
2
g
-1
 and is
substantially free of chloride reactable metal compounds and

which has a selective capacity for the adsorption of said
aromatic precursor reactants of polychlorinated benzodioxin

and benzofuran compounds at temperatures of 290°C and above,
up to the temperature at which structural integrity of the

sorbent for absorbing said aromatic precursor reactants no
longer exists, such that the aromatic precursor reactants

are preferentially adsorbed on said sorbent material with
substantially no conversion of said adsorbed aromatic

precursor reactants to polychlorinated benzodioxin and
benzofuran compounds.
Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said gas
cooling means comprises a multi-stage energy recovery boiler

(22).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
