<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647385</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISTRIBUTED CIRCUIT SWITCH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q1104	H04Q1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a digital switch intended for use in a node in a circuit switched telecommunication network with a distributed switching function. The switch includes a switch memory (8), and a time slot counter (10), which is connectable to the switch memory and arranged to point out an address in the switch memory for cyclical writing of incoming data into the switch on this address. A control memory (6) is arranged for controlling the sequence order for read out of data from the switch memory. The switch memory is connectable via an adapting device (32) to a transmission medium, which is common to a number of nodes in the network. The time slot counter (10) is connected via the adapting device (32) to receive frame synchronisation from the common transmission medium. The control memory (6) is arranged for selecting time slots from the common transmission medium and generating read address to the switch memory (8). According to a first aspect of the invention, the control memory (6) and the switch memory (8) are realized with fewer memory cells than admitted by the address space. According to a second aspect of the invention, each memory cell of the switch memory (8) includes an encryption register (56) and devices to enable encryption of traffic between two nodes of the network.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTBERG LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTBERG, LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Distributed circuit switchTechnical areaThe present invention relates to aIn future the switching function of a telecommunication network will be increasingly distributed, i.e. decentralized. Presumably data communication and telephony will also be mixed. In two new standards (DQDB and FDDI-II) datacom and telephony are mixed in a distributed system architecture. As regards telephony this means that also the circuit switch will be distributed.One of the advantages with a distributed circuit connected switch is that it most often will be relatively small in each node and that the manufacturing costs for the complete switch will be proportional to the number of nodes. A conventional time switch includes a control memory, a switch memory and a time slot counter. In the switch memory data is cyclically entered into the memory on an address which is pointed to by the time slot counter. At reading out data from the switch memory the value of the time slot counter is translated in the control memory before becoming an address to the switch memory. The data is read out in an order determined by the control memory. A processor writes into the control memory for updating a table of read out order located therein.State of the art A distributed switch of the kind defined above by way of introduction is e.g. known from the Swedish patent application 9103719-2. A switch of this type has the disadvantage that it implies a significant increase of costs in the network.Description of the inventionOne object of the invention is to provide a switch of the 

kind mentioned by way of introduction by means of which additional cost in each node is significantly decreased.Another object is to protect such as switch against erroneous connection for preventing an unintentional listener from being able to interpret what is said.According to the invention the above objects have been achieved in a switch of the kind indicated by way of introduction byThrough the invention the control memory and the switch memory can be realized in such a way that the number of memory cells is reduced to only the number required in each node.Description of the FiguresThe invention will now be described in detail by means of the embodiments shown on the enclosed drawings, in whichFigure 1 is a block diagram showing a conventional time switch,•Figure 2 is a block diagram showing part of a telecommunication network with distributed time switches, Figure 3a-c are blockdiagrams showing embodiments of a distributed time switch according to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A digital switch intended for use in a node in a circuit switched telecommunication network with a distributed switching function, said switch including a switch memory (8) , a time slot counter (10) , which is connectable to said switch memory (8) and arranged to point out an address therein for cyclical writing of data arriving into said switch on this address, a control memory (6) for controlling the sequence order for read out of data from said switch memory, characterised by said switch memory (8) being connectable via an adapting device (32) to a transmission medium, which i^ ommon to a number of nodes in said network, said time slot counter (10) being connected via said adapting device (32) for receiving frame synchronisation from said common transmission medium, said control memory (6) being arranged for selecting time slots from said common transmission medium and for generating read address to said switch memory (8) , and each of said control memory (6) and said ,!
*
ιtch memory including memory cells and an address spar«= t;.e number of said memory cells being less than admittt' oy said address space, wherein said address space is ^f- led as the maximum number of possible address combinations Between a lowest and an uppermost address.
2. A switch according to claim 1, characterised by said switch memory (8) being arranged between said adapting device (32) and a data output (26) to said node, and a decoding logic (36) being arranged between said time slot counter (10) and an input buffer (18) for incoming data from said node to direct said data via said input buffer (18) and said adapting device (32) on specific time slots in said common trans¬ mission medium.
3. A switch according to claim 1, characterised by said 


switch memory (8') being arranged between a data input (20') from said node and said adapting device (32') and a decoding logic (36') being arranged between said time slot counter (10') and an output buffer (24') to control clocking in of data from said common transmission medium in said output buffer for specific time slots on said common transmission medium.
4. A switch according to claim 1, characterised by said switch memory (8") being for both receive incoming data from said node and to forward it to said adapting device (32'') and to receive incoming data from said adapting device and forward it to said node.
5. A digital switch intended for use in a node in a circuit switched telecommunication network with a distributed switching function, said switch including a switch memory (8) , a time slot counter (10) , which is connectable to said switch memory (8) and arranged to point out an address therein for cyclical writing of data arriving into said switch on this address, a control memory (6) for controlling the sequence order for read out of data from said switch memory, characterised by said switch memory (8) being connectable via an adapting device (32) to a transmission medium, which is common to a number of nodes in said network, said time slot counter (10) being connected via said adapting device (32) for receiving frame synchronisation from said common transmission medium, said control memory (6) being arranged for selecting time slots from said common transmission medium and for generating read address to said switch memory (8) , and each memory cell of said switch memory (8) including an encryption register (56) and devices to enable encryption of traffic between two nodes in said network.
6. A switch according to claim 5, characterised by devices for achieving transmission of an unique encryption key together with each request for connection from one node to another. 


 7. A switch according to claim 5 or 6, characterized by each of said control memory (6) and said switch memory including memory cells and an address space, the number of said memory cells being less than admitted by said address space, wherein said address space may be defined as the maximum number of possible address combinations between a lowest and an uppermost address. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
