<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643945</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for applying and adjusting an anchoring device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B17132	A61F200	A61B1902	A61B1700	A61B1900	A61B1782	A61F200	A61B1728	A61B1768	A61B1704	A61B1700	A61B1728	A61B1712	A61B1704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61F	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61F2	A61B19	A61B17	A61B19	A61B17	A61F2	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for elevating, approximating and/or 
restraining internal organs or structures, and more 

particularly for treating female urinary stress 
incontinence are provided. The apparatus include an 

anchoring device 10 having an elongated suture 12 with an 
anchor 14, 16 at each end thereof and a cinching member 20 

therebetween for adjusting the operative length of the 
suture, an articulating apparatus for applying the 

anchoring device during an endoscopic or laparoscopic 
procedure, and an apparatus for drawing the suture relative 

to the cinching member after it has been emplaced. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus
for applying and adjusting a sutured anchoring
device. More particularly, this invention relates to an
apparatus for elevating the urethrovesical
junction relative to the bladder to correct female urinary
stress incontinence. US-A-4235238 discloses apparatus which
includes the technical features of the pre-characterising part of claim 1 below.In females, incontinence, or the inability to
control the outflow of urine, can have a variety of causes
in the urinary system including congenital defects and
defects from trauma or disease. The most common cause of
female incontinence is known as stress incontinence and
results from weakness or relaxation of the urethral
sphincter.Many procedures, several involving urethrovesical
elevation, have been devised over the years, to cure
urinary stress incontinence. One early procedure involved
fixation of the urethrovesical junction to the symphysis
pubis by placing sutures through part of the urethral wall,
but caused urethral distortion. A modified version of the
procedure involved suturing the urethral lumen directly to
the symphysis pubis, and placing additional sutures through
the bladder. This technique however, often led to urine
loss and/or the formation of bladder stones. An alternative approach involved attaching the
urethrovesical junction to the narrow band of strong
aponeurotic fibers which extends laterally along the
pectineal line of the pubis commonly referred to as
Cooper's ligament. In this procedure which is described in
U.S. Pat. No. 5,149,329 to Richardson, the urethrovesical
junction is elevated by bringing the paravaginal fascia
into juxtaposition with Cooper's ligament through suture
placement.A number of procedures for urethrovesical
elevation involve anchoring the paravaginal fascia to the
abdominal wall. See, for example, U.S. Patent No.
5,112,344 to Petros which describes looping a filamentary
element between the vaginal wall and the rectus abdominis
in the anterior wall of the abdomen whereby it passes to
each side of the urethra to correct the spacial
relationship to the pubis. U.S. Patent No. 5,019,032 to
Robertson describes a method of treatment involving the
installation of sutures between the rectus fascia and the
vagina by means of a needle inserted through the abdomen.A sling procedure is disclosed in U.S. Patent No.
5,013,292 to Lemay and describes a method for correcting
female urinary incontinence by implanting a sling-like
anchoring device in the skin above the symphysis pubis to
adju
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus (200) for applying a surgical anchoring device to
body tissue comprising:


a) a handle assembly (202) defining a
longitudinal axis; and
b) a needle body (204) extending from said handle
portion, said needle body having an axial bore

(214) extending therethrough for retaining
said surgical anchoring device;

the apparatus being 
characterised by
:
c) an elongate frame extending distally from said
handle assembly and including a body portion

and a distal end portion adapted for
articulated movement, said distal end portion

having a tissue receiving port (628) defined
therein;
d) said needle body extending through said body
portion, to said tissue receiving port;
e) actuation means (208)operatively associated
with said handle assembly for initially moving

said needle body relative to said frame to
communicate with said tissue engagement port

and for subsequently advancing said anchoring
member from a distal end of said needle body;

and
f) control means operatively associated with said
frame for effectuating articulated movement of

said distal end portion of said frame relative
to said body portion of said frame.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, said anchoring device to be applied
including an elongated suture having an anchor member

positioned at each end thereof, and wherein 

a) the handle assembly has an internal actuation
chamber (632) formed therein for housing a reciprocating

carrier assembly (644) ;
b) the needle body is reciprocatory and extends
from said carrier assembly, and the axial bore extending

therethrough is for retaining said anchor members in
alignment;
c) the actuation means is for subsequently advancing
one of said anchor members from a distal end of said needle

body;
d) articulation control means operatively associated
with said frame is provided, for effectuating articulated

movement of said distal end portion of said frame relative
to said body portion of said frame; and
f) rotation control means operatively associated with
said frame is provided, for effectuating rotation of said

distal end portion of said frame about a longitudinal axis
extending therethrough relative to said body portion of

said frame.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein

a) the actuation means is configured for initially moving said
needle body in a longitudinal direction relative to said

elongated frame and for subsequently advancing said
surgical anchoring device from a distal end of said needle

body.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
wherein said actuation means comprises a carrier assembly

configured for reciprocating movement within an actuation
chamber of said housing and a plunger mechanism (634) 

configured for reciprocating movement relative said carrier
assembly.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said actuation
means further comprises an elongate feed rod (654)

operatively connected to said plunger mechanism and
extending into the axial bore of said needle body for

sequentially advancing said anchor members therefrom.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 5, further comprising means
for inhibiting movement of said feed rod until said plunger

mechanism has moved through said first longitudinal
distance.
Apparatus as recited in Claim 6, wherein said inhibiting
means comprises a pivoting latch member (658) connected to

said carrier assembly and configured to interact with said
plunger mechanism until said plunger mechanism has moved

through said first longitudinal distance.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
further comprising means for permitting sequential

advancement of said actuation means.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in combination
with said surgical anchoring device for anchoring tissue wherein said surgical anchoring device

comprises:

a) an elongate suture (12) defining opposed end
portions; 
b) a first anchor member (14) positioned at one end
of said suture and a second anchor member (16) positioned

at the opposed end of said suture;
c) a cinching member (20) provided on said suture
between said first and second anchor members and movable

with respect thereto for approximating said first and
second anchor members.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said cinching
member includes a housing defining a passageway for

receiving at least a portion of said suture and a tapered
wedge member (175) disposed within said passageway (22) and

selectively movable therein for permitting relative
movement of said suture and said cinching member to adjust

the operative length of said suture.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 9, wherein said tapered wedge
member includes a plurality of outwardly extending ribs

(178, 180) for engaging said suture.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein said
cinching member further comprises means (172, 182) for

limiting relative movement of said housing and said wedge
member.
Apparatus as claimed in in Claim 12, wherein said limiting
means includes a protuberance (182) which depends from said

wedge member and a track (172) defined in said housing for
accommodating said protuberance.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
