<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653734</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Depository apparatus for envelopes and single sheets
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07C536	G06K1306	G07D1100	B07C536	G07D900	G07D1100	G06K1306	G07D900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07C	G06K	G07D	B07C	G07D	G07D	G06K	G07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07C5	G06K13	G07D11	B07C5	G07D9	G07D11	G06K13	G07D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A depository apparatus (10) includes a common entry 
slot (14) for receiving both envelopes and single sheet 

financial documents such as cheques. A thickness sensor 
(58) adjacent to the entry slot (14) provides an output 

indicative of whether a deposit item has a thickness of at 
least one millimetre, which is normally indicative that the 

item is an envelope. Transport means (34) and divert gates 
(50, 52) route items having a thickness of at least one 

millimetre into an envelope feed path for further 
processing, and route items of less than this thickness into 

a financial document feed path for further processing. 
Imaging means (76) generate a digital image of items routed 

into the document feed path, this image being processed to 
determine if the item is a document of predetermined type. 

The imaging means (76) enables the apparatus to detect if a 
thin envelope has been incorrectly routed into the document 

feed path. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NCR INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NCR INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON ADAM J L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON, ADAM J.L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a depository apparatus. The 
invention is concerned in particular with a depository 
apparatus for receiving deposit items comprising single 
sheets and deposits contained within envelopes. The invention has application, for example, to a 
depository apparatus included in an automated teller machine 
(ATM) of the kind which is arranged to carry out a financial 
transaction, such as dispensing currency notes or accepting 
a deposit in the form of an envelope or a single sheet 
financial document such as a cheque or payment slip. As is 
well known, in operation of an ATM of this kind, a user 
inserts a customer identification card into the machine and 
then enters certain data (such as a personal identification 
number, type of transaction, etc.) on one or more keyboards 
included in a user interface of the machine. The machine 
will then process the transaction, dispense currency notes 
or accept a deposit item as may be requested, and return the 
card to the user as part of a routine operation. If an 
envelope is to be deposited, the user typically inserts the 
envelope through a deposit entry slot in the user interface, 
and the depository apparatus of the ATM transports the 
envelope to, and deposits it in, a container included in the 
apparatus. If a single sheet financial document is 
deposited, the document is transported to reading and 
printing means for automatic processing of the document, 
after which the document is deposited in separate container 
means. From EP-A-0247361 there is known a depository apparatus 
which accepts envelopes and single sheet documents through a 
common entry slot. The depository distinguishes between 
envelopes and single sheet documents merely through the use 
of a thickness sensor. If a deposit item is identified as 
an envelope by the thickness sensor, it passes along a  
 
substantially direct main transport path to a document 
deposit stack. If the deposit item is identified as a 
single sheet document (cheque) by the thickness sensor, it 
is diverted from the direct transport path round a loop 
which includes reading means for reading the machine-readable 
information, such as MICR characters, from it. 
After reading, the cheque returns to the direct transport 
path and so passes to the document deposit stack (in this 
system, all documents are deposited in the same depository 
cartridge) (see also EP-A-0 430 679). The cheque can be circulated round the loop several 
times in an attempt to read it, with its registration and 
alignment
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A depository apparatus including a common entry 
slot (14) for receiving deposit items comprising envelopes 

and single sheet financial documents, thickness sensing 
means (58) for providing an output indicative of whether a 

deposit item has at least a predetermined thickness, 
transport means (34) and diverter means (50, 52) for 

transporting a deposit item along a common transport path 
and thereafter routing the deposit item into an envelope 

path for further processing as an envelope if the deposit 
item has at least said predetermined thickness, or into a 

financial document path for further processing as a 
financial document if the deposit item has less than said 

predetermined thickness, characterized by imaging means (76) 
for generating a digital image of a deposit item routed into 

said financial document path, and processing means (84) for 
processing said digital image to determine whether the 

deposit item is a financial document of predetermined type, 
the deposit item being returned to said common path if said 

processing means fails to determine that the deposit item is 
a financial document of said predetermined type. 
A depository apparatus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said processing means (84) is arranged 

to determine whether a deposit item is a financial document 
of said predetermined type by checking whether appropriate 

information is present at certain locations on said item. 
A depository apparatus according to either claim 1 
or claim 2, characterized in that said transport means (34) 

is arranged to return to the said entry slot (14) along said 
common feed path a single sheet document which has failed to 

be recognized as a financial document of said predetermined 
type by said processing means (84). 
A depository apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said processing  

 
means (84) is arranged to determine whether a deposit item 

is an envelope of predetermined type, said transport means 
(34) being arranged to transport such envelope to said 

envelope path. 
A depository apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized by display means (24) 

arranged to display to a user a visual image of a deposit 
item in respect of which said digital image has been 

generated. 
A depository apparatus according to claim 5, 
characterized by data entry means (22) whereby a user may 

authorise further processing of a deposit item in respect of 
which said visual image is displayed on said display means 

(24). 
A depository apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said processing 

means (84) is arranged to determine whether a financial 
document has been fully completed by the user, said 

transport means (34) being arranged to return to said entry 
slot (14) along said common feed path a financial document 

which has been found by said processing means (84) not to 
have been fully completed. 
A depository apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said processing 

means (84) is arranged to determine whether a financial 
document is incorrectly orientated with respect to said 

imaging means (76), said transport means (34) being arranged 
to return to said entry slot (14) along said common feed 

path a financial document which has been found by said 
processing means (84) to be incorrectly orientated. 
A depository apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said imaging means 

(76) includes at least one line scan camera. 
A depository apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized by aligning means (60) for  

 
aligning with reference to a reference surface a deposit 

item of less than said predetermined thickness prior to 
routing the deposit item to said financial document path. 
A depository apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that said predetermined 

thickness is about one millimetre. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
