<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636974</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for control of a computer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F302	G06F302	G06F3023	G06F3023	G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3038	G06F3048	G06F3048	G06F314	G06F314	G06F946	G06F948	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F9	G06F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for controlling a computer which 
includes a single control program having the functionality 

of an operating system and a plurality of separate 
application programs. The control program includes a 

graphic user interface which comprises interface data 
objects instead of separate application programs. A first 

embodiment of a computer system under the present invention 
includes a keyboard which is specially tailored to work with 

the graphic user interface and includes a graphic input 
device and special function keys in addition to standard 

alphanumeric keys. A second embodiment of a computer system 
under the present invention comprises a pen computer having 

a digitizer and a stylus for entering user input into the 
program. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to computer 
interfaces, and more specifically to a system for and a 
method of controlling a computer. Newer, modern interfaces are based upon a 
"desktop" metaphor. All work as well as system resources 
are displayed as icons or lists of named items on a 
simulated desktop. Users interact with the desktop when 
they first turn on the system, in between working with 
different application programs, to perform "housekeeping" 
operations, and to transfer information from task to task. The human interface community is quite aware of 
the benefits of the desktop metaphor, which is a well-disguised 
and improved version of the traditional operating 
system concept, namely a "central dispatch area" from which 
"system commands" are issued. The basic improvement 
consisted of making previously obscure commands, which had 
to be memorized, visible according to a straightforward 
mental model. There are many problems with the desktop approach. 
Time and effort are spent learning and operating the 
desktop, instead of doing productive work. The desktop is 
an application program just like any other, but applications 
restrict access to different operations at different times, 
which is inherently modal. From the user's perspective, 
removing modes from an interface is beneficial because it 
relieves users of having to remember the state of the system 
each time they do something. Macintosh, Windows, Motif, and other similar 
computer environments are platforms for application 
programs. Users of such computer environments are often 
confronted by new applications, and they know that new 
software for their computers means significant new work for  
 
themselves. They have come to expect that each new 
application demands that they enter, explore, and master a 
unique world. Some people delight in this kind of 
adventuring. Many others, though, when faced with a stack 
of manuals for a new drawing program or spreadsheet, often 
prefer to continue doing their work in the "old way" 
(because doing their work matters more to them than working 
their computers). These folks have learned the hard way 
that using a computer involves an inordinate amount of 
personal time making a system work that is cumbersome and 
slow and an inordinate amount of knowledge to do something 
that is not a whole lot better than a manual typewriter. It is an object of the present invention to 
provide a system for and a method of controlling a computer 
which alleviates the aforementioned problems, caused by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A computer system characterized by a processor 
which executes a single program which includes the 

functionality of an operating system and a plurality of 
separate application programs and which includes a graphic 

user interface; a display device coupled to the processor 
which displays the graphic user interface; and a user input 

means coupled to the processor for entering user input into 
the program. 
A computer system according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the graphic user interface comprises 

interface data objects instead of the separate application 
programs. 
A computer system according to claim 2, 
characterized in that the graphic user interface comprises: 

a plurality of subsystems including: a content structuring 
sub-system which organizes data in ways that make sense to 

the user; a search and navigation subsystem a graphic 
manipulation subsystem; which provides graphic functions to 

graphically manipulate displayed objects; a text entry 
subsystem which allows a user to enter and edit text; a 

command subsystem which allows the user to perform functions 
on selected objects; and an input manager which provides 

pathways that connect the user input means and the display 
to user tasks and which controls operation of the 

subsystems. 
A computer system according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized by a permanent storage 

medium coupled to the processor; and a temporary storage 
medium coupled to the processor; wherein the permanent and 

 
temporary storage media represent a single storage medium to 

a user. 
A computer system according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the user input means 

incorporates a keyboard. 
A computer system according to claim 5, 
characterized in that the keyboard comprises content 

structuring keys. 
A computer system according to claim 5 or claim 6, 
characterized in that the keyboard comprises: a graphic 

input device; and a leap key; wherein the graphic input 
device and the leap key provide a single displayed text 

marker. 
A computer system according to any one of claims 5 
to 7, characterized in that the keyboard comprises a spider 

key which causes a graphics cursor to be displayed. 
A computer system according to any one of claims 5 
to 8, characterized in that the keyboard comprises selection 

keys including: a select key for creating a current 
selection; a more key for adding objects to the current 

selection; and a less key for removing objects from the 
current selection. 
A computer system according to any one of claims 1 
to 4, characterized in that the user input means 

incorporates a digitizer coupled to the processor, and a 
stylus. 
A computer system according to claim 10, 
characterized in that the display device comprises a 

 
plurality of distinct areas established by the program for 

displaying information associated with each area. 
A computer system according to claim 10 or claim 
11, characterized in that the stylus comprises a tip switch 

at the writing end and a barrel switch for implementing a 

predetermined function. 
A method of controlling a computer system 
characterized by the steps of: executing a single program in 

a processor which has the functionality of an operating 
system and a plurality of separate application programs and 

which includes a graphic user interface; displaying the 
graphic user interface on a display coupled to the 

processor; and entering user input into the processor, 
including the substeps of contacting a stylus against the 

surface of a digitizer coupled to the processor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
