<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fuel injection apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02M6110	F02M4512	F02M5910	F02M4500	F02M6100	F02M4108	F02M6106	F02M4500	F02M4112	F02M5900	F02M4508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02M61	F02M45	F02M59	F02M45	F02M61	F02M41	F02M61	F02M45	F02M41	F02M59	F02M45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low-speed area where a cam speed is low is provided in the 
cam characteristic of non-uniform speed cams (8a) of an injection 

pump (1) for moving a plunger (12) at a low speed, and a high-speed 
area for moving the plunger (12) at a high speed is provided in the 

back portion of the cam characteristic. The nozzle needle (37) of 
an injection valve (2) is opened at a predetermined first 

injection-valve opening pressure (P1), and is held at a 
predetermined valve-open position until fuel pressure reaches 

a second injection-valve opening pressure (P2) set higher than the 
first injection-valve opening pressure (P1). The injection valve (2) 

is provided with a steady flow-rate portion for keeping the 
area of an injection port (45) nearly constant even when the shift 

amount of the nozzle needle (37) varies, and the nozzle needle (37) is 
held at the predetermined valve-open position in this steady 

flow-rate area. The period in which the plunger moves in the 
low-speed area of the cam characteristic and the period in 

which the nozzle needle (37) is held at the predetermined valve-open 
position in the steady flow-rate area overlap each other 

at least partially. Accordingly, the low injection-rate 
period is secured at the beginning of fuel injection, thus 

ensuring high-pressure injection. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOYOTA JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIBATA MASAHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIBATA, MASAHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a fuel injection apparatus
according to the preamble of the patent claim 1.A known fuel injection apparatus for supplying fuel to
a diesel engine in an automobile is disclosed in Japanese
Unexamined Patent Publication No. Sho 62-288364. The apparatus
uses a distributor type fuel injection pump which distributes
compressed fuel to injection valves provided with the
respective cylinders while rotating a single plunger. A non-uniform
speed cam is used to reciprocatingly move the plunger.
The cam has its characteristic representing a ratio of a
moving speed to a rotation angle of the cam. as shown in Fig.
10. According to the characteristic, the cam speed determines
the moving speed of the plunger. The beginning part of the
characteristic constitutes a low-speed area in accordance with
low and constant speed, which indicates a slow mevement of the
plunger. The end part of the characteristic constitues a
high-speed area in accordance with the relatively high and
changeable speed, indicating the quick movement of the plunger. 
Angleich mechanism is provided at a delivery valve in the
injection pump for changing the areas concerning the movement
of the plunger according to the rotational speed of the diesel
engine. The Angleich mechanism includes a notch provided with
the periphery of a retraction collar of the delivery valve.
The Angleich mechanism adjusts the residual pressure in the
injection pipe that connects the injection pump to the
injection valve. More specifically, with the engine running
at a low speed, the fuel retracted by the delivery valve
escapes through the notch toward the injection pipe, reducing
the amount of retracted fuel, so that the residual pressure
rises. With the engine running at a high speed, the fuel
retracted by the delivery valve is difficult to escape through
the notch toward the injection pipe, so that the residual
pressure becomes as low as the one in the case where no notch
is provided.When the engine speed is as the the residual pressure in the
injection pipe is high, the fuel pressure in the injection
pipe becomes greater than the pressure for opening the
injection valve even when the stroke of the plunger is small.
Consequently, the plunger moves according to the low-speed
area of the cam characteristic shown in Fig. 10, lowering the
injection rate (rate of a change in the amount of fuel supply
to time). When the engine speed is as the residual pressure
in the injection pipe is low, the fuel pressure in the
injection pipe will not become
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fuel injection apparatus comprising:

an injection pump (1) having non-uniform speed cams (8a),
said cams (8a) rotating for reciprocatingly moving a plunger

(12) to press fuel to be supplied to injection valves (2),
said valves (2) accommodating a nozzle needle (36) moved by

fuel pressure to selectively close and open an injection hole
(35), an injection port (45) injecting the fuel when the

injection hole (35) is open;
said plunger (12) being moved at a variable speed in
accordance with a cam characteristic (C) representing a ratio

of a cam speed (V) to a rotation angle () of the cam (8a),
said cam characteristic (C) having a low-speed area (L) where

the fuel supply rate of the pump is low, and a high-speed area
where the fuel-supply rate of the pump is high; and
said nozzle needle (36) being moved to alter a size of a
fuel passage of said injection port (45) to adjust an

injection amount and pressure of the pressed fuel;
wherein each injection valve (2) includes a mechanism for
holding said nozzle needle (36) against the fuel pressure from

the injection pump (1) at a position in the injection port
(45) where a fuel passage becomes constricted for reducing a

fuel injection amount at least during a part of movement of
the plunger (12) according to the low-speed area of the cam

characteristic,

   
characterized in that

each injection valve (2) includes a means including an elongated pin (39b)
formed on the nozzle needle (36) and having a uniform cross-sectional

shape, for keeping the size of the fuel passage of the 
injection port (45) substantially constant when the

pin (39b) is positioned in the injection hole (35) even when
the nozzle needle (36) moves,

whereby said means (39a) controls the fuel
injection amount to be substantially constant during the fuel

injection amount restricting period.
A fuel injection apparatus according to claim 1,

   
characterized in that

said injection port (45) is formed between an outer surface of
the nozzle needle (36) inserted in the injection hole (35) and

an inner wall of the injection hole (35); and wherein the size
of the fuel passage in the injection port (45) varies in

accordance with movement of the nozzle needle (36).
A fuel injection apparatus according to claim 1,

   
characterized in that

said mechanism includes:

a first spring (42) for urging said nozzle needle (36) to
a closed position, said first spring (42) holding the nozzle

needle (36) at the closed position when the fuel pressure from
said injection pump (1) is smaller than a first predetermined

pressure (P1), and allowing the nozzle needle (36) to move to
opened position when the fuel pressure is greater than the

first predetermined pressure (P1);
a push rod (43) abutting on the nozzle needle (36) when
the nozzle needle (36) is open at the predetermined position;

and
a second spring (44) for urging the push rod (43) to the
closed position of the nozzle needle (36), holding the nozzle

needle (36) open at the predetermined position when the nozzle
needle (36) is open at the predetermined position and the fuel

pressure is smaller than a second predetermined pressure (P2)
which is greater than the first predetermined pressure (P1),

and allowing the nozzle needle (36) to move further to the 
open position when the fuel pressure is greater than the

second predetermined pressure (P2) ; and
wherein the nozzle needle (36) is held open at a
predetermined position during a period for restricting the

fuel injection amount.
A fuel injection apparatus according to claim 1,

   
characterized in that

the cam speed (V) in the low-speed area is constant regardless
of the angle () of the cams (8a).
A fuel injection apparatus according to claim 1,

   
characterized in that

the cam speed (V) in the low-speed area slowly changes in
accordance with the rotation of the cams (8a).
A fuel injection apparatus according to claim 1,

   
characterized in that

a high-speed area with a higher cam speed (V) than that of
said low-speed area is provided in a back portion of said cam

characteristic, and said high-speed area includes two portions
where said cam speed (V) increases and decreases at a given

ratio in accordance with the rotation of the cams (8a),
respectively.
A fuel injection apparatus according to claim 3,

   
characterized in that

said low-speed area follows an area where said cam speed (V)
increases at a given ratio in accordance with the rotation of

the cams (8a); and wherein the nozzle needle (36) is arranged
to open at a transitional point between the cam speed

increasing area to the low-speed area by a fuel pressure
applied to the nozzle needle (36) set to exceed said first

predetermined pressure (P1).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
