<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658045</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Timing of deflection waveform correction circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N505	H04N323	H01J2956	H04N322	H04N504	H04N968	H01J2956	H04N968	H04N3233	H04N322	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H01J	H04N	H04N	H04N	H01J	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N3	H01J29	H04N3	H04N5	H04N9	H01J29	H04N9	H04N3	H04N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A video display apparatus has a controllable, 
synchronized switch (Q2) to control current conduction in an 

inductance (T1). Responsive to a switching signal (Vd), a 
modulator (L1, C9, C10, D3, D4) switches the conductive states of 

the controllable switch (Q2). A signal generator (200) is coupled 
to a source (W1) of retrace pulses (Rt1), for generating at an 

output, a horizontal rate sawtooth signal (Hsaw). The sawtooth 
signal (Hsaw) comprising a first ramp of duration within the first 

half of the retrace pulse and a second ramp of duration equal to 
the trace interval. A source of a modulation signal 

(E/W correction) is coupled to a means (U1) for generating the 
switching signal (Vg). Responsive to the modulation and sawtooth 

signals the means (U1) generates the switching signal (Vg) having 
a first polarity which inhibits conduction in the switch (Q2) and a 

second polarity which enables conduction in the switch (Q2). The 
first polarity of switching signal commences within the first half 

of the retrace interval and the second polarity commences within 
the remaining time of the horizontal interval. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRUSKALO WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRUSKALO, WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of cathode ray tube
deflection amplitude control by switched mode circuit and in
particular to the synchronization and timing thereof during the
horizontal interval.The control of current flow in an inductance, by use of a
switched mode driven circuit, is well known,
as illustrated in for example US-A-5 043 637.
The inductance may
comprise a transformer, a choke or a deflection winding, with
current flow therein being controlled by a switching signal. A well
known example of the control of current flow in an inductance is
the correction of pincushion and trapezium display errors by the
use of a switched mode driven diode modulator. The modulator
may comprise a class D amplifier where the output signal is
integrated and coupled to the deflection circuitry. Such a
modulating device is modulated by a constant amplitude signal,
having pulses varying in width responsive to the required
correction characteristic. For example, in an east-west correction
system the modulating pulse repetition frequency is chosen to be
synchronous with the horizontal rate, with a width variation or
modulation, being determined by a vertical frequency, trapezoidal
or parabolic waveform. The switched modulator is coupled to an
inductive load, such as a deflection circuit, thus at turn-on the
conducted current progressively increases from zero. However, at
device turn-off, the energy stored in the inductive load will result
in a voltage transient. Circuit techniques are known to minimize
the various undesirable effects of such inductive turn off transients.
For example, in a video display it is well known to arrange the
timing or phasing of the horizontal frequency pulse signal to be
such that turn off transients resulting from inductive switching
occur during the non-displayed video intervals, thus rendering the
transient invisible. However, positioning the transient to occur
during a horizontal blanking interval may result in interference
with various television signal elements present therein.
Furthermore, since the horizontal frequency pulse is width
modulated by, for example, a vertical frequency signal, the
resulting turn off transient will also vary in position during the
blanking interval. Thus, the transient, though not displayed and
hidden from view, will move in horizontal position and may 
interfere with the color reference burst and or the "back porch" clamping interval. Such
interference with the reference color burst may result in hue or saturation errors which vary in
response to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A video display apparatus with a synchronized switched inductance, comprising:

an inductance (T1);
a controllable switch (Q2) coupled to said inductance to control current
conduction therein;
a modulator (D3, D4, L1, T2) for switching conductive states of said controllable
switch (Q2), responsive to a derived signal (Vm) of a switching signal (Vg);
a source of a modulation signal (E/W Correction);
a source (W1) of horizontal deflection retrace pulses (Rt1);
a signal generator (200) coupled to said source of retrace pulses for generating a
horizontal rate signal (Hsaw), said horizontal rate signal (Hsaw) including a ramp

of duration within the first half of said retrace pulse (Rt1); and characterized by
a comparator (U1) responsive to said modulation and horizontal rate ramp signals

for generating said switching signal (Vg) having a first polarity which inhibits
conduction in said switch and a second polarity which enables conduction in said

switch, said first polarity commencing within said first half of said retrace interval
and said second polarity commencing within the remaining time of a horizontal

interval.
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that
switch (Q2) conduction ceases during a horizontal blanking

interval prior to the occurrence of a back porch interval.
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that
switch (Q2) conduction ceases during a horizontal synchronizing

pulse interval.
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that
switch (Q2) conduction ceases during a chrominance horizontal

blanking interval prior to the occurrence of a color subcarrier
reference burst. 
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that
said signal generator (200) further comprises a differentiating

circuit (C200, D200) coupled to said source (W1) of horizontal
deflection retrace pulse (Rt1) for generating a second pulse (Rt2)

within said retrace interval.
The video display apparatus of claim 5, characterized in that
said differentiating circuit (C200, D200) generates said second

pulse (Rt2) within the first half of said retrace interval.
The video display apparatus of claim 5, characterized in that
said signal generator (200) further comprises a switch (Q200)

coupled in shunt with a capacitor (C202), said pulse being coupled
to control said switch to change charge in said capacitor (C202).
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that
said inductance (T1) comprises a transformer winding (W1).
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that
said controllable switch (Q2) is coupled to said inductance (T1) to

control deflection current.
The video display apparatus of claim 9, characterized in that said modulation
signal (E/W correction) comprises a vertical frequency signal.
The video display apparatus of claim 10, characterized in that
said switching signal (Vg) comprises a pulse of horizontal

frequency and width which varies responsive to said vertical
frequency signal.
The video display apparatus of claim 11, characterized in that
said deflection current is varied responsive to said width variation

of said switching signal. 
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said switching signal
(Vg) having a first polarity which inhibits conduction in said switch (Q2) and a

second polarity which enables conduction in said switch (Q2), said second
polarity commencing within an active picture interval of a video display signal, and

said first polarity commencing in a horizontal blanking interval of said video
display signal before a back porch interval.
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said switching signal
(Vg) having a first polarity which inhibits conduction in said switch (Q2) and a

second polarity which enables conduction in said switch (Q2), said second
polarity commencing within an active picture interval of a video display signal, and

said first polarity commencing in a horizontal blanking interval of said video
display signal between a leading edge of a horizontal frequency synchronizing

pulse and a color subcarrier reference burst.
The video display apparatus of claim 1, characterized in that said switching signal
(Vg) having a first polarity which inhibits conduction in said switch (Q2) and a

second polarity which enables conduction in said switch (Q2), said second
polarity commencing within an active picture interval of a video display signal, and

said first polarity commencing in a time interval corresponding to a chrominance
horizontal blanking interval in a separated chrominance video signal, prior to the

occurrence of a burst of color subcarrier reference frequency.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
