<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Thin film semiconductor device for display and method of producing same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2712	H01L2712	H01L2170	H01L2978	G02F11368	H01L2184	G02F11362	H01L2966	G02F113	H01L21336	G02F1136	H01L29786	H01L2102	H01L2177	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	G02F	H01L	G02F	H01L	G02F	H01L	G02F	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	H01L29	G02F1	H01L21	G02F1	H01L29	G02F1	H01L21	G02F1	H01L29	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An LDD structure of a thin film transistor for pixel 
switching is r
ealized on a large glass substrate by 
low-temperature processes. A thin film semiconductor device 

for display comprises a display part and a peripheral driving 
part formed on a glass substrate (0). Pixel electrodes (9) 

and NchLDD-TFTs are arranged in a matrix in the display part. 
Thin film transistor PchTFTs and NchTFTs which constitute 

circuit elements are formed in the peripheral driving part. 
Each thin film transistor consists of a gate electrode (1), 

an insulating film (2) formed on the gate electrode (1), a 
polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3) formed on the 

insulating layer (2), and a high concentration impurity layer 
constituting a source (4) and a drain (7) formed on the 

polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3). Further, an 
NchLDD-TFT thin film transistor for switching has an LDD 

structure in which a low concentration impurity layer (8) is 
interposed between the polycrystalline semiconductor layer 

(3) and the high concentration impurity layer (7). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI HISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INOUE YUKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINOSHITA YUKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI, HISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INOUE, YUKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINOSHITA, YUKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a thin film semiconductor
device for display and a method of producing same, and in
particular to a thin film semiconductor device for display
used in a large active matrix liquid crystal display with a
built-in peripheral driving part and a method of producing
same.First, a common construction of an active matrix liquid
crystal display device will be briefly explained, with
reference to Fig. 1. As shown in Fig. 1, this active matrix
liquid display device has a flat panel structure comprising
a main substrate (101), a opposed substrate (102) and a
spacer (103) affixing the main substrate (101) to the opposed
substrate (102), and liquid crystal is held between the two
substrates. On the surface of the main substrate are formed
a display part (106) consisting of pixel electrodes (104) and
switching devices (105) for driving the pixel electrodes
(104) arranged in a matrix, and peripheral driving parts
(107) connected to the display part (106). The switching
devices (105) consist of thin film transistors. Thin film
transistors are also formed in the peripheral driving parts
(107) as circuit elements. The main substrate (101) having 
the above-described constitution will hereinafter be called
a "thin film semiconductor device for display".In the field of thin film transistors (TFT) integratedly
formed in thin film semiconductor devices for display,
structures using semiconductor films made from polysilicon
are now being developed intensively and have been applied to
relatively small (a few inches) active matrix liquid display
devices. However, because polysilicon TFTs are made by high
temperature processes, quartz substrates, which have
excellent heat resistance, have been used for them. On the
other hand, for comparatively large active matrix liquid
crystal display panels (ten or so inches to several tens of
inches) quartz substrates are not suitable due to their high
cost and consequently glass substrates are employed. When a
glass substrate is used, because its heat resistance is
inferior, amorphous silicon TFTs, which can be made by
relatively low temperature processes, have been employed.
However, amorphous silicon TFTs have low mobility and
P-channel amorphous silicon TFTs cannot be made. As a result
it is impossible to form a peripheral driving part on the
glass substrate, and an externally attached driver device is
used and mounted by the TAB method or the like. Consequently
the number of pixels is restricted by the size of the screen
and mounting limits. There therefore is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thin film semiconductor device comprising:

a glass substrate (0);
a display part formed on the glass substrate (0), a
plurality of pixel electrodes (9) and first thin film transistors

for switching being formed in a matrix in the display part;
a peripheral drive circuit part formed on the glass
substrate (0), second thin film transistors constituting circuit

elements being formed in the peripheral drive circuit part,
each of the first and second thin film transistors
comprising a gate electrode (1), a polycrystalline semiconductor

layer (3) formed on an insulating film (2) on the gate electrode (1), and
wherein a high concentration impurity layer (4,7) constituting source and

drain regions of the second thin film transistors are formed on the polycrystalline semiconductor
layer (3),
the first thin film transistors being of an LDD
structure wherein a low concentration impurity layer (8) is

interposed between the polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3)
and a high concentration impurity layer (7), wherein the high concentration impurity layer (7) is directly formed on the low concentration impurity layer (8).
A thin film semiconductor device according to claim 1,
wherein the display part comprises an upper region containing

the pixel electrodes (9), a lower region containing the first
thin film transistors, and a planarization layer (25) disposed

between the upper and lower regions.
A thin film semiconductor device according to claim 2, 
further comprising a color filter layer and a black mask

layer (21) between the upper and lower regions.
A thin film semiconductor device according to claim 3,
wherein the black mask layer contains a metal wiring pattern (6)

electrically connected to the high concentration impurity
layer (7).
A thin film semiconductor device according to claim 4,
wherein the pixel electrodes (9) are electrically connected to

the high concentration impurity layer (7) by way of the metal
wiring pattern (6).
A liquid crystal display device comprising:

a glass substrate (0);
a display part formed on the glass substrate (0), a
plurality of pixel electrodes (9) and first thin film transistors

for switching being formed in a matrix in the display part;
a peripheral drive circuit part formed on the glass
substrate (0), second thin film transistors constituting circuit

elements being formed in the peripheral drive circuit part,
each of the first and second thin film transistors
comprising a gate electrode (1), a polycrystalline semiconductor

layer (3) formed on an insulating film (2) on the gate electrode (1), and
wherein a high concentration impurity layer (4,7) constituting source and

drain regions of the second thin film transistors are formed on the polycrystalline semiconductor
layer (3),
the first thin film transistors being of an LDD 
structure wherein a low concentration impurity layer (8) is

interposed between the polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3)
and a high concentration impurity layer (7), wherein the high concentration impurity layer (7) is directly formed on the low concentration impurity layer (8).
an opposed substrate (26) disposed facing the glass
substrate (0); and
a liquid crystal layer (29) held between the glass substrate (0)
and the opposed substrate (26).
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 6,
wherein the display part comprises an upper region containing

the pixel electrodes (9), a lower region containing the first
thin film transistors, and a planarization layer (25) disposed

between the upper and lower regions.
A liquid crystal display device according to claim 7,
further comprising a color filter layer (21) and a black mask

layer between the upper and lower regions.
A method for producing a thin film semiconductor device
comprising a display part and a peripheral drive circuit part

integrally formed on a glass substrate (0), comprising the steps
of:


forming a gate electrode (1) on a glass substrate (0);
forming a semiconductor thin film on an insulating film (2)
on the gate electrode (1);
performing laser annealing on the semiconductor thin
film to transform the semiconductor thin film into a

polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3); 
selectively forming a low concentration impurity layer (8)
on the polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3) in the display

part; and
forming a high concentration impurity layer (7) to
constitute source and drain regions on the low concentration

impurity layer (8), thereby forming a thin film transistor for
switching having an LDD structure, and forming a high

concentration impurity layer (4) to constitute source and drain
regions on the polycrystalline semiconductor layer in the

peripheral drive circuit part, thereby forming a thin film
transistor to constitute a circuit element.
A method for producing a thin film semiconductor device
according to claim 9, further comprising a step of

selectively performing additional laser annealing on the high
concentration impurity layer (4) in the peripheral drive circuit

part to reduce the resistance of the polycrystalline
semiconductor layer.
A stacked LDD structure bottom gate type thin film
transist
or comprising:

a glass substrate (0);
a gate electrode (1) formed on the glass substrate (0);
a polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3) formed on an
insulating layer (2) on the gate electrode (1);
a low concentration impurity layer (8) formed on the
polycrystalline semiconductor layer (3); and 
a high concentration impurity layer (7) constituting source
and drain regions directly formed on the low concentration impurity

layer (8).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
