<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623135</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR RECOVERING BIOTIN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07D49500	C07D49504	C12P1718	C12P1718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07D	C07D	C12P	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07D495	C07D495	C12P17	C12P17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed toward recovering biotin, particularly toward recovering biotin produced by biotin-producing microorganisms. The recovery method includes adsorbing biotin from a biotin-containing medium onto an anion exchange resin, eluting biotin from the resin, precipitating biotin eluted from the resin, dissolving the precipitated biotin, and crystallizing biotin from the solution.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSAL FOODS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSAL FOODS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEUNG ALEX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEUNG ALEX
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR RECOVERING BIOTIN Field of the Invention This invention provides an improved method for recovering biotin, and more particularly to a method for recovering essentially pure biotin from a medium containing biotin-producing microorganisms.Background of the InventionBiotin, also known as vitamin H, is an essential, water-soluble, sulfur-containing vitamin that is widely distributed in nature. Biotin serves as a prosthetic group (co-factor) in a number of carboxylation and transcarboxylation reactions that play essential roles in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic carbohydrate metabolism fatty acid synthesis, amino-acid diminution, purine synthesis and nucleic acid metabolism.Biotin deficiency in both animals and humans causes skin and hair abnormalities as well as locomotor and reproductive problems. Since animals are unable to synthesize biotin, the vitamin is an important supplement to the diet. However, the price of biotin is currently too high to make vitamin supplementation practical, particularly in animal feeds.Biotin has commercial applications in the biotechnology field as a component in biotin-avidin-based labelling systems to identify specific nucleotide sequences, proteins, and other compounds.Currently, biotin is produced synthetically at relatively high costs and low yields. Since only one 

 optical isomer of biotin is active, chemical synthetic methods must separate active and inactive isomers or prepare intermediates that yield only the active isomer. The ability to produce biotin by microbial fermentation is potentially attractive because microbes only produce the active isomer of biotin and biosynthetic biotin meets with the expanding preference for products produced by fermentation as opposed to those produced by chemical synthesis. Although several microorganisms are known to produce some biotin and/or biotin vitamers, the inventors are not aware of any method in the art to obtain substantially pure biotin from microbial fermentations.Investigators have described methods to analyze biotin produced by microorganisms. For example, Ogata("Microbial Synthesis of Dethiobiotin and Biotin", Methods in Enzymology, Vol. 17a, pp. 390-394, 1970) discloses a method which includes the use of activated carbon and anion exchange chro atographies to obtain partially- purified solutions ofmicrobially-producedbiotin suitable for assay. The method is not suitable for a large-scale commercial purification process nor does it provide substantially pure biotin.Ogata also describes a small-scale
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method, for recovering biotin, comprising:
(a) adsorbing biotin from a biotin-containmg medium onto an anion exchange resin; (b) eluting biotin from said resin to obtain a biotin-containing eluent;
(c) precipitating biotin by contacting said biotin-containing eluent with an acid to obtain a biotin precipitate; (d) dissolving said biotin precipitate to form a solution; and
(e) crystallizing biotin from said solution. 

2. A method for recovering biotin from a medium containing biotin-producing microorganisms, comprising:
(a) separating said medium from said biotin- producing microorganisms to obtain a substantially cell-free, biotin-containing medium;
(b) adsorbing biotin from said substantially cell-free, biotin-containing medium onto an anion exchange resin;
(c) eluting biotin from said resin to obtain a biotin-containing eluent;
(d) concentrating said biotin-containing eluent to obtain a first biotin-containing solution;
(e) precipitating biotin by contacting said first solution with an acid to obtain a first biotin precipitate;
(f) dissolving said first biotin precipitate to obtain a second biotin-containing solution;
(g) precipitating biotin by contacting said second solution with an acid to obtain a second biotin precipitate;
(h) dissolving said second biotin precipitate to obtain a third biotin-containing solution; and
(i) crystallizing biotin from said third solution to recover biotin crystals. 3. A method according to Claim 2, wherein said microorganisms are selected from the group comprising recombinant biotin-producing prokaryotes and eukaryotes. 


 4. A method according to Claim 2, wherein said step of eluting is performed using an effective concentration of a volatile acid or salt thereof.
5. A method according to Claim 2, wherein said step of concentrating comprises:
(a) solubilizing any biotin precipitate in said biotin-containing eluent;
(b) drying said solubilized eluent to obtain a biotin composition; and (c) dissolving said composition in an alkaline aqueous solution to obtain said first biotin- containing solution.
6. A method according to Claim 5, wherein said step of solubilizing comprises elevating the pH of said eluent to a pH of from about pH 9 to about pH 12 or raising the temperature of said eluent to a temperature of from about 30°C to about the boiling point of said eluent.
7. A method according to Claim 2, wherein said steps of precipitating comprise: (a) adjusting the pH of said biotin-containing solutions to a pH of from about pH 1 to about pH 4; (b) incubating said pH adjusted solutions at about 4°C for at least about one hour to maximize biotin precipitation; and (c) collecting the biotin precipitate.
8. A method according to Claim 2, wherein recovered biotin crystals are at least about 90% pure. 


 9. A method according to Claim 2, wherein recovered biotin crystals are at least about 97% pure.
10. A method according to Claim 2 further comprising heating said medium containing biotin-producing microorganisms to an effective temperature for an effective amount of time to kill essentially all of said microorganisms prior to said step of separating.
11. A method according to Claim 2 further comprising: (a) dissolving said biotin crystals to obtain a fourth biotin-containing solution; and
(b) crystallizing biotin from said fourth solution to recover biotin crystals having a purity of at least about 96%. 12. A method according to Claim 11, wherein said recovered biotin crystals are at least about 99% pure. 

13. A method for recovering biotin rom a medium, comprising:
(a) adsorbing biotin from said medium onto an anion exchange column; (b) eluting biotin from said column with an acid or salt thereof to obtain a biotin-containing eluent;
(c) drying said pH-adjusted eluent under reduced pressure to obtain a biotin composition; (d) dissolving said composition in an alkaline aqueous solution to obtain a first biotin-containing solution;
(e) precipitating biotin by contacting said first solution with an acid to obtain a first biotin precipitate; i- 
,
(f) dissolving said firs'ϊ biotin precipitate in an alkaline aqueous solution to obtain a second biotin-containing solution;
(g) precipitating biotin by contacting said second solution with acid to obtain a second biotin precipitate;
(h) dissolving said second biotin precipitate in an aqueous solution to obtain a third biotin- containing solution; and (i) crystallizing biotin from said third solution to recover biotin crystals having a purity of least about 90%. 


 14. A method according to Claim 13 further comprising:
(a) dissolving said biotin crystals to obtain a fourth biotin-containing solution; and (b) crystallizing biotin from said fourth solution to recover biotin crystals having a purity of at least about 96%. 

15. Biotin crystals having a purity of at least about 90% wherein said crystals are recovered from a biotin-containing medium by a method comprising:
(a) adsorbing biotin from said medium onto an anion exchange column;
(b) eluting biotin from said resin to obtain a biotin-containing eluent;
(c) concentrating said biotin-containing eluent to obtain a first biotin-containing solution; (d) precipitating biotin by contacting said first solution with an acid to obtain a first biotin precipitate;
(e) 
'
 dissolving said first biotin precipitate to obtain a second biotin-containing solution; (f) precipitating biotin by contacting said second solution with an acid to obtain a second biotin precipitate;
(g) dissolving said second biotin precipitate to obtain a third biotin-containing solution; and (h) crystallizing 
.
 biotin from said third solution to recover biotin crystals having a purity of at least about 90%. 


 16. Biotin crystals having a purity of at least about 96%, wherein said crystals are recovered from a biotin-containing medium by a method comprising:
(a) adsorbing biotin from said medium onto an anion exchange column;
(b) eluting biotin from said resin to obtain a biotin-containing eluent;
(c) concentrating said biotin-containing eluent to obtain a first biotin-containing solution; (d) precipitating biotin by contacting said first solution with an acid to obtain a first biotin precipitate;
(e) dissolving said first biotin precipitate to obtain a second biotin-containing solution; (f) precipitating biotin by contacting said second solution with an acid to obtain a second biotin precipitate;
(g) dissolving said second biotin precipitate to obtain a third biotin-containing solution; (h) crystallizing biotin from said third solution to obtain first biotin crystals;
(i) dissolving said first biotin crystals to obtain a fourth biotin-containing solution; and
(j) crystallizing biotin from said fourth solution to recover biotin crystals having a purity of at least about 96%. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
