<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646354</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self contained gas powered surgical apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1900	A61B17072	A61B17068	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self contained gas powered endoscopic surgical 
apparatus 50 is provided for placing lateral lines of surgical 

fasteners into body tissue. The apparatus includes an anvil 
member 56 and a surgical fastener cartridge member 60mounted to 

the distal end of an elongated endoscopic portion. A tubular 

collar 222 of the endoscopic portion moves distally to engage 
the anvil member and bias the anvil member and the cartridge 

member into cooperative alignment, thereby clamping body tissue 
to be fastened between the anvil member and the cartridge 

member. A self contained pneumatic system 68 is disposed in 
the surgical apparatus and is actuable to eject and/or form the 

surgical fasteners in the clamped body tissue. The apparatus 
further comprises a mechanism 400 for preventing the premature 

actuation of the pneumatic system during shipment of the 
instrument. A mechanism 602, 604 for frictionally engaging 

body tissue inserted between the anvil member and the cartridge 
is also provided. In addition, a mechanism 516, 552 for 

inhibiting external exposure of a tissue cutting structure is 
provided. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to surgical stapling apparatus,
and more particularly to surgical apparatus which are powered
by self contained relatively low pressure gas systems to
perform sequential operations such as tissue clamping, staple
forming and/or tissue cutting. Such an instrument is
disclosed in EP-A-552423.Surgical stapling apparatus is known wherein tissue is
first grasped or clamped between opposing jaw structure and
then fastened by means of fasteners. In some instruments a
knife is provided to cut tissue which has been joined. The
fasteners are typically in the form of surgical staples
however, two part polymeric type fasteners are also known.Instruments for this purpose can comprise two elongated
fingers which are respectively used to capture or clamp
tissue. Typically, one of the fingers carries a disposable
cartridge housing a plurality of staples arranged in at least
two lateral rows while the other finger comprises an anvil for
curling the staple legs into hook form upon their being driven
against the anvil. The stapling operation is effected by a
pusher which travels longitudinally along the cartridge
carrying finger, with the pusher acting upon the staples to
place rows of staples in body tissue. A knife may optionally
be positioned to operate sequentially immediately behind the
pusher and laterally positioned between the staple rows
longitudinally cut and/or open the stapled tissue between the
rows of staples. Such instruments are disclosed in Bobrov et
al. (U.S. Pat. No. 3,079,606) and Green (U.S. Pat. No.
3,490,675). The instruments disclosed therein comprise 
apparatus for simultaneously making a longitudinal incision
and applying a row of staples on both sides of an incision.A later development disclosed in Green (U.S. Pat. No.
3,499,591) applies a double row of staples on each side of the
incision. This is accomplished by a cartridge assembly
wherein a cam member moves within a guide path between two
sets of staggered staple carrying grooves. Staple drive
members located within the grooves each have two staple pusher
plates, and sloping surfaces disposed within the guide path so
as to be contacted by the longitudinally moving cam and be
driven along the groove to effect ejection of two staples.The cartridge assemblies typically come in a plurality of
sizes, each varying in both length and number of staples
contained therein. Depending on the procedure to be
performed, the surgeon must select the appropriate cartridge
assembly. No provision is currently available to adjust the
firin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument (50) having a pneumatic actuation
system (68) disposed within a housing (64, 66) and

including a canister (88) containing compressed gas and a
valve assembly (92), characterized in that the surgical

instrument includes:

means (450) for selectively controlling relative
approximation of said canister and said valve assembly

within said housing to prevent premature actuation of
said instrument during shipment, said means being movable

between a first position in which relative approximation
of said canister and said valve assembly is inhibited and

a second position in which relative approximation of said
canister and said valve assembly is permitted.
An instrument as claimed in claim 1, and including a
cartridge assembly (60) defining a proximal end, a distal

end, and a tissue contacting surface, the cartridge
assembly including a camming mechanism movable from the

proximal end of the cartridge to the distal end of the
cartridge and a knife member adapted to move through the

cartridge with the camming mechanism while a cutting edge
thereof intersects the tissue contacting surface,

characterized in that the cartridge assembly includes:

means for moving the cutting edge out of
intersection with the tissue contacting surface when the

knife member approaches the distal end of the cartridge
assembly to inhibit external exposure of the cutting

edge.
An instrument as claimed in claim 1, which is an
apparatus for applying surgical fasteners to body tissue

comprising: 

a) a body portion (62, 64) extending from a handle
portion (62) and defining a longitudinal axis;
b) an elongated housing (54) defining a proximal
section for engagement in a distal end of said body

portion and a distal section for mounting a cartridge
assembly (60) containing a plurality of surgical

fasteners, said cartridge assembly defining a tissue
contacting surface, a proximal end, and a distal end;
c) an anvil member (56) defining a fastener
forming surface against which fasteners ejected from said

cartridge assembly are driven, said anvil member mounted
relative to said cartridge assembly and movable between

an open position wherein said fastener forming surface is
spaced from said tissue contacting surface and a closed

position wherein said fastener forming surface and said
tissue contacting surface are in close cooperative

alignment;

wherein the apparatus is characterized by means
(602, 604) movably mounted to at least one of said

housing and said anvil member for frictionally engaging
tissue disposed therebetween to inhibit the movement

thereof.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 1, 2 or 3
wherein said approximation controlling means comprises a

blocking member (450).
A surgical instrument as claimed in claim 4, wherein said
canister (88) is permitted to move relative to said valve

assembly (92) when said blocking member is disposed in
said second position.
A surgical instrument as recited in claim 4 or 5, wherein
said blocking member is configured to abut a proximal end

of said canister when disposed in said first position so 
as to inhibit movement of said canister with respect to

said valve assembly.
A surgical instrument as recited in Claim 4, 5 or 6,
wherein said approximation controlling means comprises a

blocking member configured to occupy a space between said
canister and said valve assembly when disposed in said

first position so as to inhibit movement of said canister
with respect to said valve assembly.
A surgical instrument as recited in any one of claims 4,
5, 6 or 7, wherein said housing defines a longitudinally

extending chamber for retaining said canister and said
blocking member is oriented transverse to the elongation

of said chamber.
An instrument as recited in claim 2, or any one of
claims 3 to 8 as dependent on claim 2, wherein said means

for moving said cutting edge out of intersection with
said tissue contacting surface comprises a cavity formed

in a distal end portion of said cartridge.
An instrument as claimed in claim 9 and including
a camming surface formed on said knife member.
An instrument as claimed in claim 10, in which of
the cartridge the camming surface co-operates with an

angled camming wall of the cartridge.
An instrument as recited in claim 10 or 11,
wherein said means for moving said cutting edge out of

intersection with said tissue contacting surface
comprises a spring biased camming member disposed within

the cavity, which is formed in a distal end portion of 
said cartridge to co-operate with the camming surface

formed on said knife member.
An instrument as recited in claim 3, or any one of claims
4 to 12 as dependent on claim 3, wherein said means for

frictionally engaging tissue comprises at least one
atraumatic tissue engaging member mounted to a side wall

of said housing.
An instrument as recited in clam 3 or any one of claims 4
to 13 as dependent on claim 3, further comprising means

for maintaining said tissue engaging member in a desired
position which includes spaced apart reception ports

formed in the side wall for receiving a co-operating
detent formed on the tissue engaging member.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
