<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631244</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and system of information retrieval
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A computerized method for organizing information retrieval based on the 
content of a set of primary documents. The method generates answer hypotheses based on 

text found in the primary documents and, typically, a natural-language input string such as a 
question. The answer hypotheses can include phrases or words not present in the input string. 

Answer hypotheses are verified and ranked based on their verification evidence. A text corpus 
(12) can be queried to provide verification evidence not present in the primary documents. In 

another aspect the method is implemented in the context of a larger two-phase method, of 
which the first phase comprises the method of the invention and the second phase of the 

method comprises answer extraction. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUPIEC JULIAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUPIEC, JULIAN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to computerized information retrieval (IR) systems and
methods, and more particularly to computerized information-retrieval systems and methods
used with textual databases.In prior art IR systems and methods the user often has to proceed iteratively, usually
using a special query language, by beginning with an initial query, scanning the results of that
query (that is, the documents that were retrieved in response to that query), modifying the
query if the results were unsatisfactory, and repeating these steps until satisfactory results are
obtained. The user is responsible for modifying or refining the query and typically receives
little or no help from the system in query construction or refinement.Prior art systems cannot locate or highlight phrases within documents if the phrases
are not found in the input query. For example, in response to a user query regarding what film
pits Humphrey Bogart against gangsters in the Florida Keys, prior art IR systems would accept
from the user a query containing words such as "film," "Bogart," "gangster," and "Florida
Keys," and would search for the co-occurrence of these words within single documents. It
would be left to the user to piece together the various documents thus retrieved to determine
the correct answer.Attempts have been made in the prior art to allow users to formulate queries in
natural language. One such attempt is found in systems called question-answering systems. A
question-answering system can respond to certain natural-language queries, but only because
the data in its database are heavily preprocessed to accommodate such queries. For example, a
question-answering system designed to respond to user queries about moon rocks will typically
employ a database configured as a two-dimensional array, with moon-rock sample numbers
arrayed along one dimension and fact categories, such as ore content of the rocks, arrayed
along the other axis. The system responds to user queries simply by accessing the appropriate
cell of the array. Prior art systems and methods do not automatically perform a sequence of queries designed to include
the optimal query or queries needed to answer a user's natural-language question.EP-A2-0 304 191 discloses a text search system for searching for library documents that match the
content of a given sequence of query words. In such a system a set of
equivalent words are defined for each query word along with a corresponding word equivalence value assigned
to each equivalent word. Target sequences
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for using a processor (5) in a system to organize information
retrieval based on the content of a set of documents (12), the method for organizing

computerized information retrieval being
characterized in that

in response to a query, an answer hypothesis likely to be relevant to the
query and based on text found in at least one document selected from said

set of documents (12) is generated (280, 290) by the
system.
The method of claim 1, comprising the steps of:

accepting the set of documents (200);
analyzing the content of at least one document of the set; and
generating at least one answer hypothesis (280) based on document content thus
analyzed.
The method of claim 1 or 2, comprising the step of:

accepting an input string (200) in which the answer hypothesis is not present.
The method of claims 1 to 3, comprising the steps of: 


verifying the answer hypothesis (260), the processor (5) gathering evidence for the
answer hypothesis; and
determining a best answer hypothesis (280) based on the evidence thus gathered.
The method of claim 4, in which a text corpus (12) is used to provide
verification evidence, the text corpus (12) comprising the documents of the set of

documents, or comprising documents not in the set of documents, or comprising the
documents of the set and additional documents not in the set.
The method of claim 5, comprising the steps of:

using a user interface (7) to accept a user-supplied natural language input string
comprising words and a set of primary documents into an answer extraction

subsystem (15);
using a processor (5) to analyze the input string to detect phrases therein;
using the processor (5) to accept the primary documents into the answer extraction
subsystem (15); and
using the answer extraction subsystem (15) to analyze the primary documents to
detect additional phrases therein, the additional phrases not being present in the

input string.
The method of claim 6, including using the answer extraction subsystem (15)
to verify the additional phrases as answer hypotheses.
The method of claim 5, comprising the steps of:

using a user interface (7) to accept a usersupplied natural language input string
comprising words into a primary query construction subsystem (10); 
using the primary query construction subsystem (10) to analyze the input string to
detect phrases therein;
using the primary query construction subsystem (10) to construct a series of queries
based on the detected phrases, the queries of the series being constructed

automatically by the primary query construction subsystem (10) through a sequence
of operations that comprises successive broadening and narrowing operations;
using the primary query construction subsystem (10), the information retrieval
subsystem, a text corpus (12), and channels to execute the queries of the series;
using the primary query construction subsystem (10) to rank documents retrieved
from the text corpus (12) in response to one or more queries thus executed to

produce a set of primary documents;
using a channel to send the primary documents, the input string, and the phrases
detected in the input string from the primary query construction subsystem to the

answer extraction subsystem;
using the answer extraction subsystem (15) to generate hypotheses (240) not
present in the input string based on text in the primary documents;
using the answer extraction subsystem (15) to verify the hypotheses (260) using the
primary documents; and
using the answer extraction subsystem (15) to score the hypotheses (280).
The method of claim 1, wherein the system or a subsystem thereof is used,
comprising the steps of:


accepting an input string (200); 
accepting a set of primary documents (200);
detecting phrases in the primary documents (220);
generating preliminary hypotheses based on phrases so detected (240);
selecting preliminary hypotheses as answer hypotheses for verification (260);
determining linguistic relations implied by the input string (261);
gathering verification evidence for answer hypotheses; and
ranking answer hypotheses (280).
The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of:

linking sets of equivalent hypotheses (270).
The method of claim 9 or 10, comprising the steps of:

ranking hypotheses by assigning scores to hypotheses (255); and
ordering hypotheses according to the scores thus assigned (287).
The method of claims 9 to 11, in which the step of ranking hypotheses
comprises

taking into account at least some of the verification evidence; and/or

taking into account co-occurrence of hypotheses with input string phrases in primary
documents; and/or

taking into account preliminary scores for preliminary hypotheses. 
The method of claim 1, comprising the steps of:

accepting an input string and a set of primary documents (200);
determining phrases in the input string (220);
generating hypotheses not present in the input string based on text in the primary
documents (240);
verifying the hypotheses using the primary documents (260); and
scoring the hypotheses (280).
The method of claim 1, comprising the steps of:

accepting an input string supplied by a user;
constructing and executing (10) a series of primary queries based on shallow
linguistic analysis of the input string in order to retrieve primary documents; and
performing answer extraction (15), the answer extraction comprising hypothesis
generation and secondary query construction and execution.
A system for information retrieval, the system comprising a processor (5),

characterised in that
 the system utilises a method as claimed in any one of claims 1
to 14.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
