<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651005</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lubricious silicone surface modification
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2734	A61L3110	A61L2700	A61L3108	C08J700	C09D400	A61L2900	C09D400	C08J704	A61L2908	C10M10750	C10M10700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	C08J	C09D	A61L	C09D	C08J	A61L	C10M	C10M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L27	A61L31	A61L27	A61L31	C08J7	C09D4	A61L29	C09D4	C08J7	A61L29	C10M107	C10M107	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Lubricious silicone surface modifying treatments 
and/or coatings for modifying the frictional or slip 

surface characteristics of shaped elastomeric articles are 
provided in surface modifications including a coating or 

surface modifying composition comprising:
 

   a crosslinkable silane having the formula: 

wherein R is selected from unsubstituted and halogen-substituted 

aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic and alkyl 
aromatic groups having less than or equal to about ten 

carbon atoms, R¹ is independently selected from hydrogen, 
hydroxyl, halogen, alkoxy and acyloxy groups, R² is 

independently selected from hydrogen, alkyl and halogen-substituted 
alkyl groups, n is an integer of 1 to 3 

inclusive, and 

m = 3 - n 
 
. The cured, highly crosslinked, 

three dimensional silicone coatings are effective at 
reducing the coefficient of friction of surfaces of shaped 

elastomeric articles, such as those frequently used in 
medical devices, by a factors of from about 50% to about 

80% as compared with the same uncoated substrates. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORVITA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORVITA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINCHUK LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINCHUK, LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to
surface treatments and coatings intended to make the
surfaces of objects more lubricious. More particularly, it
relates to a new and improved highly crosslinked silane
treatment effective to reduce the coefficient of friction
of a surface by at least about 50% and as much as 80% or
more compared to the coefficient of friction of the same
untreated surface.Natural and synthetic elastomers and polymers,
especially silicone rubbers, are used for many medical
applications because they are rather inert materials
exhibiting good biocompatibility. Silicone rubbers and
other natural and synthetic rubber materials suffer from
poor surface lubricity, rendering their use in many medical
and surgical applications undesirably problematic.For example, pacemaker lead insulators made from
silicone rubber do not easily slide past one another within
the venous system, dramatically limiting their use in dual
pacing applications. Hemostasis valves generally require
the addition of silicone oils to enable catheters to slide
through the valve opening. Many other medical devices such
as penile implants suffer from poor lubricity when silicone
tubes are inflated within silicone restraints. Poor contact
surface lubricity causes sticking and/or hampered or
unpredictable sliding performance, which may occur at
inopportune times, such as during insertion of catheters.
Poor slip characteristics between the catheter and the
slide site may result in abrasion or erosion of the coating
and stripped coating particles may contaminate the slide
site. The surfaces of latex gloves are another example of
a rubbery surface which must be powdered to facilitate or
modify the surface friction properties to make it easier to 
slide the gloves on for use. The powder on the gloves gets
everywhere and especially on surgical instruments which is
undesirable.Many prior chemistries and methods have been
developed to render silicones and other rubbers more
slippery, such as, for example, by the application of
hydrophilic coatings, ion beam etching, and lubrication
with silicone oils, to name but a few. Each of these prior
methods suffers from unique problems.More particularly, the coating of the silicone or
other rubber surfaces with hydrophilic coatings, such as
hydrogel coatings, poses a number of problems. First of
all, the chemical bonding between the silicone or rubber
surface and the hydrogel is frequently undesirably low, so
that the hydrogel coating may be abraded, dislodged or
removed from the surface
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use of a curable lubricious surface modification, said surface
modification including a surface modifying composition comprising:


a crosslinkable silane having the formula:


wherein R is selected from unsubstituted and halogen-substituted
aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic and alkyl aromatic groups having less

than or equal to about ten carbon atoms, R
1
 is independently selected
from hydrogen, hydroxy, halogen, alkoxy and acyloxy groups, R
2
 is
independently selected from hydrogen, alkyl and halogen-substituted

alkyl groups, n is an integer of 1 to 3 inclusive, and m = 3 - n; and said
crosslinkable silane surface modification after having been crosslinked

results in a firmly adherent matrix crosslinked with the surface of the
elastomeric article, which matrix forms a plurality of raised micro-nodules

which penetrate and bond into the surface of the elastomeric
article and which reduce the coefficient of friction of the surface of the

elastomeric article, for reducing the coefficient of friction of a surface
of an elastomeric article.
Use of a curable lubricious surface modification as defined in Claim 1,
wherein said surface modifying composition is a coating composition.
Use of a curable lubricious coating as defined in Claim 1 or 2, wherein
in the formula R is C
1
 - C
8
 alkyl, R
1
 is acetoxy or chloro and n = 3. 
Use of a curable lubricious coating as defined in Claim 1 or 2, wherein
in the formula R is polyhalogen-substituted alkyl having from about 1 to

about 8 carbon atoms inclusive, R
1
 is methoxy, R
2
 is methyl, n = 2 and
m = 1.
Use of a curable lubricious coating as defined in Claim 1 or 2, wherein
the silane is methyltriacetoxysilane, ethyltriacetoxysilane,

propyltriacetoxysilane, ethyltrichlorosilane, or 1,1,1 -trifluoropropylmethyldimethoxysilane.
Use of a curable lubricious coating as defined in any of Claims 1 - 5,
further including an organic solvent, preferably a non-polar organic

solvent.
Use of a curable lubricious coating as defined in any of Claims 1 - 6,
further including a minor effective amount of a crosslinking catalyst for

promoting crosslinking and curing reactions between the silanes and
between the silanes and a surface being coated, said catalyst preferably

being selected from organo-metallic catalysts based on lead, tin, zinc
and titanium compounds.
Use of a curable lubricious coating as defined in Claim 7, wherein said
catalyst is selected from stannous octoate and dibutyltin dilaurate.
Use of a curable lubricious coating as defined in any of Claims 1 - 8,
further including a lubricating layer, preferably a silicone lubricant or

silicone oil. 
A shaped elastomeric article including at
least one surface portion characterized by having a

substantially reduced coefficient of friction, said article
comprising:


a shaped elastomeric article including a body
having at least one surface portion; and
a firmly-adherent surface modification disposed
on said surface portion, said surface modification being as

defined in any of Claims 1-9.
A shaped article as defined in Claim 10,
wherein the surface modification portion has a coefficient

of friction of less than 50% of the value for the
coefficient of friction of an uncoated, untreated surface

of said body.
A shaped article as defined in Claim 10 or
11, wherein said shaped elastomeric article comprises a 

natural or a synthetic elastomeric material which is
preferably a molded, extruded or dip-coated thermoplastic

material.
A shaped article as defined in any of Claims
10-12, wherein said thermoplastic material is selected from

polyolefins, vinyl-addition polymers, polyamides,
polyesters, polyurethanes, polysiloxanes and other

synthetic rubbery polymeric materials.
A shaped article as defined in any of Claims
10-13, wherein said shaped article is a medical device

selected from tubing, catheters, gloves, condoms,
prostheses, implants, valves, insulated leads, scopes,

syringes, o-rings, stents, shunts, grafts, and infusion
equipment.
A shaped article as defined in any of Claims
10-13, wherein said shaped article is a rubbery shaped

article adapted to make contact with the human body.
A shaped article as defined in any of Claims
10-13, wherein said shaped article is adapted for use in

marine or aquatic environments. 
A method for reducing the coefficient of friction of a surface of an
elastomeric article, said method comprising:


providing an elastomeric article having at least one surface portion to
be treated;
contacting said surface portion with a curable surface modifying
composition including a crosslinkable silane having the formula:



wherein R is selected from unsubstituted and halogen-substituted
aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic and alkyl aromatic groups having less

than or equal to about ten carbon atoms, R
1
 is independently selected
from hydrogen, hydroxy, halogen, alkoxy and acyloxy groups, R
2
 is
independently selected from hydrogen, alkyl and halogen-substituted

alkyl groups, n is an integer of 1 to 3 inclusive, and m = 3 - n; and
exposing the contacted surface portion to temperatures at or above

room temperature in the presence of moisture until formation of a
firmly-adherent matrix crosslinked with said surface portion of the

elastomeric article, which matrix forms a plurality of raised
micronodules which penetrate and bond into said surface portion of the

elastomeric article and which reduce the coefficient of friction of said
surface portion of the elastomeric article, is substantially complete.
A method as defined in Claim 17, further
comprising the step of pre-humidifying the surface to be

treated before said contacting step.
A method as defined in Claim 17 or 18,
wherein said contacting step is performed by vapor phase

deposition.
A method as defined in any of Claims 17-19,
wherein said contacting step is performed by applying a

solution of said silane onto said surface portion,
preferably by immersing the surface portion into said

silane solution.
A method as defined in any of Claims 17-20,
wherein in said exposing step, the contacted surface

portion is exposed to elevated temperatures of greater than
or equal to 50°C for a period of greater than or equal to

about 5 minutes.
A method as defined in any of Claims 17-21,
furt
her comprising, after said exposing step, applying a
lubricant to said coated surface portion.
A method as defined in any of Claims 17-22,
wherein said method increases the crosslink density,

relative hardness and rebound resiliency of the elastomeric
article.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
