<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652844</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MACHINE FOR FOLDING A WEB IN A ZIGZAG MANNER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H45109	B65H4500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H45	B65H45	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Machine for folding a web (3) in a zigzag manner whereby this machine contains a transport mechanism (2) for the web (3), a receiving device (5) at the bottom for collecting the folded web, a folding mechanism (4) erected between the transport mechanism (2) and the receiving device (5) and a detection means (19, 20) to detect improper folds erected under the folding mechanism (4), characterized in that it contains means to move the web (3) backward in the folding mechanism (2) and a control device (22) which is connected to these means and the detection means (19, 20), so that, at least with a first detection of an improper fold, the web (3) is moved backward in the folding mechanism (4) by said means over such a distance that the improper fold is entirely unfolded and so as to afterwards allow again for the normal forward movement of the web (3) through the folding mechanism (4).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEB CONVERTING EQUIP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEB CONVERTING EQUIPMENT N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DEN BERGH MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DEN BERGH, MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a machine for folding a web in a 
zigzag manner, whereby said machine contains a transport 
mechanism for the web, a receiving device at the bottom 
for collecting the folded web, a folding mechanism 
erected between the transport mechanism and the receiving 
device and a detection means to detect improper folds. Such machines, which may contain a cutting device or 
perforating device, are usually coupled to a printing 
machine. The web may be whether or not prefolded or, in 
other words, the web which is supplied to the printing 
machine may come from a zigzag folded stack as well as 
from a roll. The printing machine/folding machine unit requires 
supervision and thus cannot work overnight or during 
weekends, when no personnel is present. From time to 
time, a fold is not formed correctly. Such an improper 
fold is detected by the detection means which then emits 
a signal or stops the unit. Consequently, the unit is 
frequently inoperative for quite some time during 
unattended periods, which reduces its performance and 
upsets the production scheme or planning. The invention aims to remedy this disadvantage by 
providing a machine for folding a web in a zigzag manner 
which contains a detection means for the detection of 
improper folds and with which improper folds in the web 
folded on a stack can be avoided, but with which the 
standstill of the machine as a result of a detected 
improper fold lasts significantly shorter than with the  
 
known machines. To this aim the folding machine contains means to move 
the web backward in the folding mechanism and a control 
device which is connected to these means and the 
detection weans, so that, at least with a first detection 
of an improper fold, the web is moved backward in the 
folding mechanism by said means over such a distance that 
the improper fold is entirely unfolded and so as to 
allow the web to make the normal forward movement 
through the folding mechanism again. When an improper fold is detected, there is an 
intervention, but the machine is not stopped permanently. 
The improper fold is unfolded and at least one new 
attempt for folding is made. In most cases, the folding 
is done normally and the machine just continues working 
until the next improper fold or until the folding job is 
completed. The folding mechanism may contain a suspended web guide 
which hinges to and fro in the usual manner, means to 
hinge this guide to and fro and smoothing means for 
smoothing the folds of the web put down in a zigzag 
ma
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Machine for folding a web (3) in a zigzag manner 
whereby this machine contains a transport mechanism (2) 

for the web (3), a receiving device (5) at the bottom for 
collecting the folded web, a folding mechanism (4) 

erected between the transport mechanism (2) and the 
receiving device (5) and a detection means (19,20) to 

detect an improper fold erected under the folding 
mechanism (4), characterized in that it contains means to 

move the web (3) backward in the folding mechanism (4) 
and a control device (22) which is connected to these 

means and the detection means (19,20), so that, at least 
with a first detection of an improper fold, the web (3) 

is moved backward in the folding mechanism (4) by said 
means over such a distance that the improper fold is 

entirely unfolded and so as to allow the web (3) 
to make the normal forward movement through the 

folding mechanism (4) again. 
Machine according to the above claim, characterized in 
that the folding mechanism (4) contains a suspended web 

guide (14) which hinges to and fro, means (15) to hinge 
this guide (14) to and fro and smoothing means (16) for 

smoothing the folds of the web (3) put down in a zigzag 
manner by the guide (14). 
Machine according to any of the above claims, 
characterized in that the means for moving the web 

backward are means to reverse the driving direction of 
the transport mechanism (2) and in that the control 

device (22) contains means to, as an improper fold is 
detected, order said means for reversing the driving 

direction to temporarily reverse the driving direction of  
 

the transport mechanism (2) such that this transport 
mechanism (2) itself moves the web backward (3). 
Machine according to the above claim, characterized in 
that the transport mechanism (2) contains pin tractors 

(7-10, 12, 13). 
Machine according to claim 3, characterized in that 
the transport mechanism (2) contains a driven roller (27) 

which works in conjunction with a counter roller (28). 
Machine according to any of the above claims, 
characterized in that the means for moving the web 

backward consist of separate driving means (29) which can 
be switched on and off and which can move the web (3) 

backward. 
Machine according to the above claim, characterized in 
that the control device (22) contains means to switch off 

the transport mechanism (2) when the driving means (29) 
which move the web (3) backward are working. 
Machine according to claim 6, characterized in that 
the control device (22) contains means to reverse the 

driving direction of the transport mechanism (2) when the 
driving means (29) which move the web (3) backward are 

put into action. 
Machine according to any of the above claims, 
characterized in that the control device (22) contains 

means to move the web (3) backward in the folding 
mechanism (2), to be controlled such that during the 

backward movement, the web (3) is moved backward over a 
distance of two to three pages. 
Machine according to any of the above claims,  
 

characterized in that the control device (22) contains 
means to emit a signal after having activated the means 

to move the web (3) backward a predetermined number of 
times after successive detections by the detection means 

(19,20) of an improper fold in one and the same page of 
the web (3). 
Machine according to any of the above claims, 
characterized in that the control device (22) contains 

means to stop the machine after having activated the 
means to move the web (3) backward a predetermined number 

of times after successive detections by the detection 
means (19,20) of an improper fold in one and the same 

page of the web (3). 
Machine according to any of claims 1 to 10, 
characterized in that it contains a cross cutting 

mechanism (35) for cutting the web (3), whereas the 
control device (22) contains means to control the cross 

cutting mechanism (35) such that, after having activated 
the means to move the web (3) backward after a 

predetermined number of times, after successive 
detections of an improper fold by the detection means 

(19,20), it cuts the web (3) after the improper fold, 
after which the machine reassumes its normal operation. 
Machine according to any of claims 1 to 10, 
characterized in that it contains a cross cutting 

mechanism (35) for cutting the web (3), whereas the 
control device (22) contains means to control the cross 

cutting mechanism (35) such that, after having activated 
the means to move the web (3) backward after a 

predetermined number of times, after successive 
detections of an improper fold by the detection means 

(19,20), the part of the web (3) with the improper fold 
is cut off, after which the machine reassumes its normal  

 
operation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
