<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634004</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS FOR WEIGHING AND IDENTIFYING CHARACTERISTICS OF A MOVING VEHICLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G900	G01G900	G01G1902	G01G1902	G01G1903	G01G1904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G9	G01G9	G01G19	G01G19	G01G19	G01G19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORDON JOHN K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAFORGE JOHN V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUHS JEFFREY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOBIN KENNETH W JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JORDON, JOHN, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAFORGE, JOHN, V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUHS, JEFFREY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOBIN, KENNETH, W., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS FOR WEIGHING AND IDENTIFYING CHARACTERISTICS OF A MOVING VEHICLEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to apparatus for weighing a vehicle motion, and more particularly to such apparatus employing fiber-optic sensors a switching mechanisms for determining the weight and other characteristics of the vehi in motion including the number of axles, weight distribution on the axles, wheel base, a width, number of tires on each axle, weight distribution on the tires of each axle, spe of the vehicle, and tire footprint.This invention was made with the support of the United States Government un contract No. DE-AC05-84OR21400 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy, Office Arms Control. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention. At the present time the weighing of vehicles is primarily achieved by using sta weighing systems utilizing hydraulic load cells and/or mechanical lever mechanisms. T use of such static weighing systems is fairly common at truc-κ weighing stations and mining and agricultural facilities. However, recent efforts have been made to provi vehicle weighing systems that are capable of accurately determining the weight o vehicle while it is in motion since many benefits can be derived from such a capabili For example, in the transportation industry the use of weigh-in-motion systems on t various highways traveled by trucks and other heavy vehicles would be highly benefi since such vehicles would no longer be required to stop at weighing stations using st weighing systems and thereby significantly reducing law enforcement costs associa with the installation, maintenance, and operation of such road side weighing statio Further, the dangers associated with the roadside weighing stations as created by truck traffic in the area of the weighing stations will be obviated. Also, airports commercial and/or military air traffic would benefit from the use of a relatively low c weigh-in-motion system. For example, at a commercial or military air field a weigh motion system placed on the taxiway could be used to weigh the aircraft prior to take so as to instantly provide the pilot and control tower personnel with information pertain to the weight of the aircraft as well as the weight distribution on the individual axles 

tires of the aircraft for promoting inflight safety and enhancing fuel efficiency. Additionally the replacement of the static weighing systems usually employed at mines, agricultural and landfill sites with weigh-in-motion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
Claim 1. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a vehicle motion including the weight thereof comprising, elongated base means having upper a lower surfaces and positionable on a vehicle roadway transverse to the path of a movi vehicle for traverse thereby, a plurality of parallel elongated groove means in the up surface of said base means extending over substantially the length thereof with s groove means being spaced apart from one another and transverse to the path of t vehicle, an elongated fiber-optic sensing means supported by said base means in ea of said plurality of groove means and extending over substantially the length thereof, li source means located at one end of each fiber-optic sensing means for transmitting li therethrough, light receiving means located at an opposite end of each fiber optic sensi means for receiving light transmitted therethrough, and contact grid means in contact w each of the fiber-optic sensing means for varying the intensity of light transmitt therethrough when subjected to the weight of a moving vehicle, each said contact g means adapted to provide a different level of contact with the fiber-optic sensing me contacte i thereby for providing each of the plurality of fiber-optic sensing means wit different sensitivity to vehicular weight so that different levels of light are transmit through each of the plurality of fiber-optic sensing means when subjected to the sa weight.
Claim 2. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mov vehicle as claimed in Claim 1 , wherein each of said contact grid means comprise plurality of discrete pin means transversely positioned over each of said fiber-o sensing means at spaced apart locations along substantially the length thereof, wherein the different level of contact with the fiber-optic sensing means provided by e contact grid means is achieved by providing each contact grid means with a differ spacing between adjacent pin means over substantially the length of each fiber-o sensing means.
Claim 3. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mov vehicle as claimed in Claim 1 , wherein each fiber-optic sensing means comprise substantially round optical fiber of silicone rubber.
Claim 4. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mo vehicle as claimed in Claim 3. wherein each optical fiber of silicone rubber is embed 


in an encasement of elastomeric material of a size and configuration substantiall corresponding to that of the groove means containing the encasement.
Claim 5. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movin vehicle as claimed in Claim 1 , wherein a plurality of signal providing on/off switch mean are disposed in a plane parallel to and are substantially coextensive with said fiber-opti sensing means, and wherein said switch means are adapted to be contacted by tires o each axle on the moving vehicle as the vehicle traverses the switch means for providin signals indicative of the speed of the vehicle, number of axles on the vehicle, tire positio and the wheel base of the vehicle.
Claim 6. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movin vehicle as claimed in Claim 5, wherein a least one of said switch means is disposed o each side of the plurality of the fiber-optic sensing means.
Claim 7. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movin vehicle as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the plurality of switch means comprises firs second and third elongated switches, wherein the first and second. switches are dispose parallel to one another on one side of said plurality of fiber-optic .ensing means preselected transversely spaced apart locations in the path of the moving vehicle for tr verse thereby, wherein the third switch is positioned between the spaced apart first a second switches and disposed diagonally thereto so as to provide the first, second an third switch means with a generally N-shaped configuration, and wherein contacting t third switch means with one or more tires on each axle of the moving vehicle provides signal with the duration thereof being indicative of the number of tires and the ti footprint on each axle of the moving vehicle.
Claim 8. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 5, wherein pressure plate means are supported by said ba means on the upper surface thereof and extend over said contact grid means and t fiber-optic sensing means, wherein said pressure plate means are contactable by tires each axle of the moving vehicle for displacing said grid means into said fiber-op sensing means.
Claim 9. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Ciaim 7. wnerein the first, seconα and third switches each compris normally open electrical contacts that are closabie uoon contact with the tires on ea 


axle of the moving vehicle for providing signals from said first, second, and third switch Claim 10. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the first, second and third switches each compris an elongated optical fiber supported by housing means, wherein light source means at one end of each optical fiber, and wherein light receiving means is at an opposite e of each optical fiber.
Claim 11 . Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 10, wherein the optical fiber is a substantially round silico rubber optical fiber.
Claim 12. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 1 1 , wherein the housing means comprises elastom material forming an encasement about the optical fiber.
Claim 13. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mov vehicle as claimed in Claim 5, wherein interface means are coupled to each of said li receiving means and said switch means for receiving signals therefrom, and wher signal processing means are adapted to 
<
 ceive signals from said interface means.
Ciaim 14. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mov vehicle as claimed in Ciaim 13, wherein temperature sensing means are supported said base means and coupled to said interface means.
Claim 15. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mov vehicle as claimed in Claim 5, wherein said base means including said groove me said fiber-optic sensing means, said light transmitting means, said light receiving me and said contact grid means form a discrete vehicle weighing unit, and wherein the ap ratus comprises two of said vehicle weighing units disposed end-to-end across the p of the moving vehicle.
Claim 16. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mo vehicle as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said plurality of switch means defines a se switch means, wherein each of said units is provided with a set of said switch means, wherein the sets of said switch means are disposed side-by-side across the patn of moving vehicle.
Claim 17. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a mo vehicle as claimed in Ciaim 5, wnerein eionαateα ramp means are disooseα on oppo 


sides of the base means in a plane parallel to said fiber-optic sensing means and tran verse to the path of the vehicle traversing the fiber-optic sensing means.
Claim 18. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 17, wherein at least a portion of said switch means supported by at least one of said ramp means and said base means.
Claim 19. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 5
r
 wherein said base means, said fiber-optic sensing mean and each of said switch means are embedded in a roadway defining the path for t moving vehicle.
Claim 20. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 5, wherein said base means, said fiber-optic sensing mea and each of said switch means are supported in a single housing having ramp means opposite sides thereof disposed parallel to the fiber-optic sensing means and transver to the moving vehicle for providing a path for the moving vehicle over the switch mea and the fiber optic sensing means, and wherein at least a portion of said switch mea are supported «. n the ramp means.
Claim 21. Apparatus for weighing and identifying characteristics of a movi vehicle as claimed in Claim 5, wherein said switch means comprise a plurality of individ contact switches positioned at substantially uniformly spaced apart locations in said pla over substantially the length of said switch means, wherein a number of said plurality contact switches are contacted by one or more tires on each axle of the moving vehi with the number of contacted switches providing signals indicative of the number of tir on each axle, tire position, and the footprint of the tires on each axle.
Claim 22. Apparatus for determining the weight, speed, number of axles, wei distribution on each axle, number of tires on each axle, tire position, and the footprint each tire on each axle of a moving vehicle comprising, first, second and third elongat optical-fiber assembly means positionable on a vehicle roadway in the path of a movi vehicle, said first and second optical-fiber assembly means being disposed parallel each other and transverse to the path of the moving vehicle at spaced apart locations said pathway, said third optical-fiber assembly means being positioned diagon between the first and second optical-fiber assembly means so as provide the first, seco and third ootical-fiber assembiv means with a αenerallv N-shaped confiαuration. li 


source means at one end of each of the optical-fiber assembly means, and light receivin means at an opposite end of each optical-fiber assembly means for receiving lig transmitted therethrough with the intensity of light being transmitted through the optica fiber assembly means changing upon being contacted by the one or more tires on eac axle on the moving vehicle, whereby the extent of change in the light intensity i dependent upon the portion of the vehicle weight supported by the one or more tires o the axle contacting each optical-fiber assembly means for providing signals indicative the total vehicle weight and the portion of the vehicle weight on each axle, whereby th time between the contact of the first and second optical-fiber assembly means by the tir on same axle of the vehicles is indicative of the speed of the moving vehicle, an whereby the duration of change in light intensity transmitted through the third optical-fib sensing means during contact with one or more tires on each axle of the moving vehic is indicative of the number of tires on each axle and the footprint of each tire.
Claim 23. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 22, wherein each optical-fiber assemb means comprises a substantially round optical fiber of silicone rubber embedded in encasement of elastomeric material.
Claim 24. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 23, wherein each encasement provided with a generally rounded upper surface for providing the pathway for the movi vehicle over the optical fiber embedded therein. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
