<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630395</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLEANER COMPOSITIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09D900	C09D900	C09D904	C11D343	C11D343	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09D	C09D	C09D	C11D	C11D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09D9	C09D9	C09D9	C11D3	C11D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cleaner composition for removing graffiti including ink, marking pen marks and paint from a variety of substrates or surfaces. The base composition for all five embodiments comprises N-methylpyrrolidone, propylene carbonate, isocetyl alcohol, an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate, a thickening agent and a surfactant. Each species or embodiment varies the range of these ingredients and some embodiments include other ingredients, such as dimethyl sulfoxide, a tertiary amine and mineral oil and lavender oil. Each embodiment is directed to a different type substrate or surface to maximize the removal of graffiti on that surface without any deleterious effects to that surface.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSCONTINENTAL MARKETING GRO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSCONTINENTAL MARKETING GRO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEYS CASSIUS W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEYS CASSIUS W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE: CLEANER COMPOSITIONSRELATED APPLICATIONSThis application is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/694,463, filed May 11, 1991, which in turn is a continuation of application Serial No. 07/400,564, filed August 30, 1989, now U.S. Patent No. 5,024,780, which issued June 18, 1991, and this application is also a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/423,258, filed October 18, 1989.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to cleaner compositions. More particularly, the present invention relates to such cleaner compositions that 
remove graffiti including conventional graffiti, such as oil based paints including enamels, epoxies, lacquers and urethanes, ink, marking pen marks, paint, lipstick, shoe polish and nail polish from a variety of surfaces without damage to the protective coat on the surface and without altering the surface or causing damage to any area in close proximity thereto. Also, the present invention relates to cleaner compositions that have very low evaporation rate and very high flash point.The present invention includes five particular cleaner compositions each for different kinds of surface. Each of the five compositions include certain active ingredients and additives, however the range of the active ingredients and the use of additional ingredients varies in each composition.In recent years, there has been an increase concern over the rapidly growing problem of graffiti. In modern times, the term graffiti has come to acquire a meaning that differs substantially from it's historical meaning. Specifically, the modern observer views graffiti not as an art form, but rather, as a form of destruction and vandalism. 

 The application of graffiti has become most prevalent in institutions, such as, schools, school buses, public and private buildings, automobiles, trucks, trains, cars and rest rooms that are available to the public at large. Graffiti is even more problematic in open areas, such as, support walls and piers, bridges, retaining walls, sound barriers, the exterior walls of buildings and various structures in parks, which incidentally were put there in the first place to cosmetiσally improve the parks and the like.The methods for the removal of graffiti, that for the most part are cost prohibitive, have included, sandblasting, hydrosanding and hydroblasting the surfaces on which the graffiti appears. These methods often involve a subsequent re-painting of the surface to restore its aesthetically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A base composition for removing graffiti from a surface comprising in percentage by volume of the composition:
(a) N-methylpyrrolidone in an amount between about 10 and about 60 percent;
(b) propylene carbonate in an amount between about 5 and about 60 percent;
(c) an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate in an amount between about 2 and about 25 percent;
(d) isocetyl alcohol in an amount between about 7.5 and about 25 percent;
(e) hydroxypropyl cellulose in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.5 percent; and
(f) a nonyl phenol surfactant in an amount between about 0.5 and about 3.0 percent. 


 2. The composition of claim 1, further comprising dimethyl sulfoxide in an amount between about 4 percent and about 30 percent by volume of the composition.
3. The composition of claim 1, further comprising a tertiary amine.
4. The composition of claim 1, wherein the ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
5. A composition for removing graffiti from a coated or non-porous surface, the composition comprising in percentage by volume of the composition:
(a) N-methylpyrrolidone in an amount between about 32 and about 40 percent;
(b) propylene carbonate in an amount between about 15 and about 25 percent;
(c) an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate in an amount between about 15 and about 25 percent; 


 (d) isocetyl alcohol in an amount between about 15 and about 25 percent;
(e) dimethyl sulfoxide in an amount between about 4 and about 8 percent;
(f) hydroxypropyl cellulose in an amount between about 2 and about 3 percent; and
(g) a nonyl phenol surfactant in an amount between about 0.5 and about 3.0 percent.
6. The composition of claim 5, wherein the ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
7. The composition of claim 5, wherein the N-methylpyrrolidone is present in an amount about 35 percent, the propylene carbonate is present in an amount about 20 percent, the ingredient is present in an amount about 20 percent, the isocetyl alcohol is present in an amount about 20 percent, and the dimethyl sulfoxide is present in an amount about 5 percent, by volume of the composition. 


 8. A composition for removing layers of graffiti and underlying paint from a non-coated or porous surface, the composition comprising in percentage by volume of the composition:
(a) N-methylpyrrolidone in an amount between about 40 and about 60 percent;
(b) propylene carbonate in an amount between about 10 and about 20 percent;
(c) an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate in an amount between about 3 and about 7 percent;
(d) isocetyl alcohol in an amount between about 7.5 and about 14 percent;
(e) dimethyl sulfoxide in an amount between about 7.5 and about 14 percent;
(f) hydroxypropyl cellulose in an amount between about 2.5 and about 3.5 percent; and 


 (g) a nonyl phenol surfactant in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.0 percent.
9. The composition of claim 8, wherein the. ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
10. The composition of claim 8, wherein the N-methylpyrrolidone is present in an amount about 59.7 percent, the propylene carbonate is present in an amount about 15.2 percent, the ingredient is present in an amount about 5.24 percent, the isocetyl alcohol is present in an amount about 9.95 percent, and the dimethyl sulfoxide is present in an amount about 9.95 percent, by volume of the composition.
11. A composition for removing graffiti and all underlying paint from all non-plastic surfaces, equipment and machinery, the composition comprising in percentage by volume of the composition:
(a) N-methylpyrrolidone in an amount between about 40 and about 60 percent;
(b) propylene carbonate in an amount between about 5 and about 20 percent; 


 (c) an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate in an amount between about 2 and about 6 percent;
(d) isocetyl alcohol in an amount between about 7.5 and about 14 percent;
(e) dimethyl sulfoxide in an amount between about 10 to about 30 percent;
(f) hydroxypropyl cellulose in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.0 percent; and
(g) a nonyl phenol surfactant in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.0 percent.
12. The composition of claim 11, wherein the ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
13. The composition of claim 11, wherein the N-methylpyrrolidone is present in an amount between about 59.5 and about 60 percent, the propylene carbonate is present in an amount between about 6.87 


and about 7.37 percent, the ingredient is present in an amount about 2.63 percent, the isocetyl alcohol is present in an amount between about 9.5 and about 10 percent, and the dimethyl sulfoxide is present in an amount between about 19 and about 20 percent, by volume of the first part of the composition.
14. A composition for removing graffiti from a surface of coated polycarbonate, methyacrylate, methyl methacrylate, hard polyvinyl chloride compounds, acrylic, plexiglass, glass, melamine plastics or a combination thereof, the composition comprising in percentage by volume of the composition:
(a) N-methylpyrrolidone in an amount between about 16 and about 22 percent;
(b) propylene carbonate in an amount between about 45 and about 55 percent;
(c) an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate in an amount between about 12 and about 20 percent; 



 (d) isocetyl alcohol in an amount between about 16 and about 22 percent;
(e) hydroxypropyl cellulose in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.0 percent; and
(g) a nonyl phenol surfactant in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.0 percent.
15. The composition of claim 14, wherein the ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
16. The composition of claim 14, further comprising a tertiary amine.
17. The composition of claim 14, wherein the N-methylpyrrolidone is present in an amount about 14.4 percent, the propylene carbonate is present in an amount about 52.3 percent, the ingredient is present in an amount about 17.4 percent, and the isocetyl alcohol is present in an amount about 14.4 percent, by volume of the composition. 


 18. The composition of claim 16, wherein the N-methylpyrrolidone is present in an amount about 14.4 percent, the propylene carbonate is present in an amount about 52.3 percent, the ingredient is present in an amount about 14.4 percent, and the isocetyl alcohol is present in an amount about 14.4 percent, by volume of the composition.
19. A composition for removing graffiti from soft vinyl surfaces, the composition comprising in percentage by volume of the composition:
a first part that includes:
(a) N-methylpyrrolidone in an amount between about 10 and about 14 percent;
(b) propylene carbonate in an amount between about 50 and about 60 percent;
(c) an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate in an amount between about 10 and about 15 percent; 


 (d) isocetyl alcohol in an amount between about 10 and about 18 percent;
(e) hydroxypropyl cellulose in an amount between about 1.0 and about 2.0 percent; and
(g) a nonyl phenol surfactant in an amount between about 0.5 and about 1.5 percent; and
a second part that includes mineral oil and lavender oil.
20. The composition of claim 19, wherein the ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
21. The composition of claim 19, wherein the N-methylpyrrolidone is present in an amount about 14 percent, the propylene carbonate is present in an amount about 58.4 percent, the ingredient is present in an amount about 11.6 percent, and the isocetyl alcohol is present in an amount about 14 percent, by volume of the first part of the composition. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 2 August 1993 (02.08.93); original claims 3 and 16 amended; other claims unchanged (2 pages)]
2. The composition of claim 1, urther comprising dimethyl sulfoxide in an amount between about 4 percent and about 30 percent by volume of the composition.
3. The composition of claim 1 , further comprising a modified aliphatic polyamine as a tertiary amine.
. The composition of claim 1 , wherein the ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
5. A composition for removing graffiti from a coated or non-porous surface, the composition comprising in percentage by volume of the composition:
•(a) N-methylpyrrolidone in an amount between about 32 and about 40 percent;
(b) propylene carbonate in an amount between about 15 and about 25 percent;
(c) an ingredient selected from the group consisting of dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate and dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate in an amount between about: 15 and about 25 percent; 


 (d) isocetyl alcohol in an amount between about 16 and about 22 percent;
(e) hydroxypropyl cellulose in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.0 percent; and
(g) a nonyl phenol surfactant in an amount between about 1.0 and about 3.0 percent.
15. The composition of claim 14, wherein the ingredient is dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate.
16. The composition of claim 14, further comprising a modified aliphatic polyamine as a tertiary amine.
17. The composition of claim 14, wherein the N-methylpyrrolidone is present in an amount about 14.4 percent, the propylene carbonate is present in an amount about 52.3 percent, the ingredient is present in an amount about 17.4 percent, and the isocetyl alcohol is present in an amount about 14.4 percent, by volume of the composition. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
