<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640055</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VERSATILE DOUBLE ACTUATION TRASH CONTAINER LID
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F116	B65F116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B65F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F1	B65F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAYLOR CRAIG V
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAYLOR, CRAIG V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR CRAIG V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, CRAIG V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a double actuation lid 
assembly for trash containers and to a trash container 
having a lid assembly of this kind. One known type of commercial trash container 
includes a main generally rectangular body portion and 
a slanted front access portion which has generally been 
covered by a two section lid. These trash containers 
come in various sizes and dimensions ranging from a 
capacity of about 4 cubic metres (6 cubic yards) to 
about 12 cubic metres (16 cubic yards). The original units had a slanted access portion 
covered by two hinged steel plates. A long lever was 
coupled to a hinge rod of the rear section and, as the 
lever was rotated, the rear section pivoted up, 
carrying the pivoting front section with the rear 
section and holding the front section against the rear 
section until they finally both lie flat on the top of 
the rear portion of the unit with the front access 
opening wide open. A double hinged lid assembly design was disclosed 
in United Kingdom Registered Design No. D2011302, 
granted to Craig V. Taylor on 2 May 1991. For adequate 
rigidity, both the front and the rear sections of the 
lid assembly include upper and lower layers joined to 
form a lid assembly of increased strength and rigidity. 
In the closed configuration, the two adjacent edges of 
the front and rear sections engage one another, so that 
to deposit trash both lid sections move together. This 
is, of course, inconvenient, particularly when small 
parcels of trash are to be deposited. Incidentally, U.S.-A-4,771,940 
discloses a 
two-layer lid assembly for a somewhat different type of 
container and, in this case, made of plastic material.  
 Another known design of cover is illustrated in 
Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings. The prior art lid 
depicted in Fig. 1 is a double-hinged lid assembly for 
a trash container having a main rear, generally 
rectangular portion and a front slanted trash receiving 
portion. More particularly, the double-hinged lid 
assembly 26 illustrated in Fig. 1 comprises a front lid 
section 28 and a rear lid section 30 which are 
pivotally joined. Rear lid section 30 is pivotally 
mounted to container 20 at 23. A pair of angle irons 
27 are fixedly attached to rear lid section 30 along 
both edges thereof, and to a pivoting torsion bar 
extending across the assembly along the pivot axis 23. 
The pivoting torsion bar is operatively coupled to the 
actuating lever 32. Operation of this double-hinged 
lid assembly involves physically manipulating the 
actuating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A double actuation lid assembly for trash 
containers having a trash receiving opening, said 

double actuation lid comprising a front lid section 
(44) and a rear lid section (46), said lid sections 

having aligned lower edge surfaces (50) for resting on 
the edges of said opening and being pivotally joined 

together at their adjacent edge regions by a hinge 
arrangement (52, 54, 60) such that a user can open said 

front lid section (44) while said rear lid section (46) 
remains resting on a container opening, there being 

rear mounting means (52) for pivotally mounting the 
rear lid section (46) on a trash container enabling the 

lid sections (44, 46) to be pivotally displaced 
together about said rear mounting means, 
characterised 
in that
 the hinge arrangement is formed by a plurality 
of extending hinge lugs (52) on each of the lid 

sections, each of said hinge lugs having an opening 
(54), and a pivot bar (60) extending through the 

openings (54), said pivot bar having a central axis 
that is aligned substantially with a plane defined by 

the lower edge surface of each of said lid sections, 
said front lid section (44) having an angled surface (102) 

which abuts the upper surface of said rear lid section 
(46) when said front lid section (44) is in a partially 

open position with said rear lid section (46) remaining 
in a closed position, said angled surface being 

disposed so that, when considering the rear lid section 
(46) resting on a horizontal opening, the partially 

open position is a stable position in which the front 
lid section (44) is disposed slightly beyond the 

vertical. 
A lid assembly according to claim 1, 
comprising means (80) for rotating said rear lid 

section (46) about the rear mounting means (52). 
A lid assembly according to claim 2, wherein  
 

the rotating means comprise an actuating lever (80) for 
facilitating, in use, pivotting of the lid assembly 

about said rear mounting means (52). 
A lid assembly according to claim 3, wherein 
said actuating lever (80) comprises an arm which is 

secured to and extends perpendicularly from a further 
pivot bar (58). 
A lid assembly according to claim 4, wherein 
said actuating lever (80) is removable from said 

further pivot bar (58). 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein each of said hinge lugs (52) 

on each of said lid sections (44, 46) extends toward 
the other lid section (46, 44). 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein each of said lid sections 

(44, 46) is formed of two spaced layers of plastic 
material. 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said rear section (46) has a 

portion of said hinge arrangement which comprises a 
series of at least three of said hinge lugs (52) all of 

which having openings for receiving said pivot bar 
(60), and with the opening or openings of the or each 

of the intermediate one or ones of the lugs of the 
series being higher than the openings of the two 

endmost lugs of the series, to compensate for sag 
toward the middle of said lid sections (44, 46). 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein there is sufficient freedom 

of movement about the hinge arrangement (52, 54, 60) to 
allow the respective lower surfaces of the front and 

rear lid sections to be folded towards one another in a 
folded configuration in which, when fitted to a trash 

container, the upper surface of the rear lid section is 
situated at the underside of the lid assembly to rest  

 
on a rear portion of a trash container. 
A lid assembly according to claim 9, wherein 
the lid sections (44, 46) are shaped and dimensioned so 

that in said configuration the front lid section (44) 
is flat on top of the rear lid section (46). 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein both the front lid section 

(44) and the rear lid section (46) are ribbed and have 
edges forming a box-like lower structural 

configuration, with the lid sections (44, 46) being 
recessed on their lower sides and raised on their upper 

surfaces, with matching slanted surfaces at the sides 
of the recesses and the sides of the raised areas, so 

that the lid sections (44, 46) may be nested for 
shipment or storage with the raised areas fitting into 

the recessed areas for a plurality of the front lid 
sections (44) or a plurality of the rear lid sections 

(46). 
A lid assembly according to claim 11, wherein 
said hinge lugs (52) have recesses on their upper 

surfaces to receive the lower portion of hinge lugs for 
adjacent nested parts. 
A lid assembly according to claim 3, 4 or 5, 
or any one of claims 6 to 12 when appended to claim 3, 

wherein said rear mounting means comprises rear hinge 
lugs (52) on the rear portion of the rear lid section 

(46) and said further pivot bar (58), which extends 
through openings in said rear hinge lugs. 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said front lid section (44) 

has rounded front corners which, when the lid assembly 
is fitted to a trash container, facilitate the movement 

of the said front lid section (44) along the opening of 
the trash container and into position. 
A lid assembly according to claim 14, 
comprising means immediately adjacent to said rounded  

 
corners, which means, when the lid assembly is fitted 

to a trash container, guide said front lid section (44) 
and prevent misalignment as the lid assembly is being 

closed. 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said angled surface is such 

that said stable position can be achieved when fitted 
to a trash container having a slightly slanted opening. 
A lid assembly according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said angled surface is such 

that said stable position can be achieved when fitted 
to a trash container having an opening with an angle of 

approximately twenty five degrees relative to the 
horizontal. 
A trash container having a lid assembly 
according to any one of the preceding claims fitted 

thereto. 
A trash container according to claim 18, 
wherein said rear lid section (46) is pivotally 

attached to said trash container at the rear edge 
portion of said rear lid section (46) by said mounting 

means (52). 
A trash container according to claim 18, 
wherein said lid assembly includes means for rotating 

said rear lid section (46) about said rear edge portion 
where it is pivotally mounted to said trash container. 
A trash container according to any one of 
the claims 18 to 20, wherein th
e trash container has a 
trash receiving opening which makes an angle of 

substantially zero degrees relative to the horizontal 
to give a substantially flat trash receiving opening. 
A trash container according to any one of 
the claims 18 to 20, wherein the trash container has a 

trash receiving opening which makes an angle of close 
to zero relative to the horizontal to give a slightly 

slanted trash receiving opening.  
 
A trash container according to any one of 
the claims 18 to 20, when appended to claim 17, wherein 

the trash container has a trash receiving opening which 
makes an angle of approximately twenty five degrees 

relative to the horizontal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
