<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650784</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for forming curved rectangular bodied needles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21F100	B21F100	B21G100	B21G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21F	B21F	B21G	B21G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21F1	B21F1	B21G1	B21G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus 10 for forming at least one curved, 
rectangular bodied surgical needle which comprises frame means 

22, flat press means 14 associated with said frame means for 
imparting first flat surfaces to opposite sides of at least a 

portion of at least one needle blank, curving means 16 
associated with said frame means for imparting an arcuate 

profile to at least a portion of the at least one needle blank 
and side press means 18 mounted on said frame portion for 

imparting second flat surfaces to opposite sides of the needle 
blank, wherein said second flat surfaces are imparted 

substantially perpendicular to said first flat surfaces. There 
is also disclosed a method of forming a curved rectangular 

bodied needle from a substantially round-elongated needle blank 
comprising the steps of flat pressing opposite sides of the 

needle blanks between a pair of flat press dies 30 - 32, drawing 
the needle blanks from at least one of said flat press dies onto 

a rotatable mandrel 62, curving the needle blanks between said 
rotatable mandrel and a reciprocable belt 72, rotating the 

needle blanks adjacent side press dies and depositing the needle 
blanks therebetween and side pressing opposite sides of the 

needle blanks between said side press dies, on sides of the 
needle blanks substantially perpendicular to the flat pressed 

sides. A surgical needle is also disclosed having a tapered 
distal portion, a rectangular central portion and a bored 

proximal portion formed according to the apparatus and method 
described above. The tapered distal portion of the needle has a 

generally circular cross-section, the rectangular central 
portion is generally square and the bored proximal portion also 

has a generally circular cross-section. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED STATES SURGICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGART MICHAEL W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH RICHARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGART, MICHAEL W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, RICHARD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to needle forming 
devices. More particularly, the invention relates to a 
multistation needle forming device for flat pressing, curving 
and side pressing one needle blank, or a multiplicity of needle 
blanks, to form curved rectangular bodied needles. The device 
is capable of transferring the blanks from one die station 
directly to the next die station. The production of needles involves many processes and 
different types of machinery in order to prepare quality needles 
from raw stock. These varying processes and machinery become 
more critical in the preparation of surgical needles where the 
environment of intended use is in humans or animals. Some of 
the processes involved in the production of surgical grade 
needles include: straightening spooled wire stock, cutting 
needle blanks from raw stock, tapering or grinding points on one 
end of the blank, providing a bore for receiving suture thread 
at the other end of the blank, imparting flat surfaces on 
opposite sides of the blank by flat pressing a portion of the 
needle blank to facilitate grasping by surgical instrumentation  
 
and curving the needle where curved needles are desired. 
Additional processing may be done to impart flat surfaces 
substantially perpendicular to the flat pressed portions of the 
needle blank by side pressing a portion of the needle blank to 
further facilitate grasping by surgical instrumentation and 
insertion into humans or animals. Conventional needle processing is, in large part, a 
labor intensive operation requiring highly skilled workmen. 
Generally, extreme care must be taken to ensure that only the 
intended working of the needle is performed and the other parts 
of the needle remain undisturbed. Curved rectangular bodied needles have advantages over 
other needle configurations in many surgical procedures for a 
variety of reasons including, uniformity of entry depth for 
multiple sutures and proper "bite" of tissue surrounding the 
incision or wound. When providing curved rectangular bodied 
needles for surgical procedures it is desirable for the needles 
to have a specified rectangular cross-section and a specified 
curvature, i.e., a predetermined radius of curvature. The 
desired cross-section and radius of curvature for the finished 
needle varies with specific applications. Known methods of forming curved rectangular bodied 
needles require several separate and distinct operations on 
various machinery. The needle blank must first be flat pressed 
to impart initial
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for forming at least one curved, flat 
sided surgical needle which comprises: 


a) frame means; 
b) flat press means associated with said frame means 
for imparting first flat surfaces to opposite sides of at least 

a portion of at least one needle blank; and 
c) curving means associated with said frame means 
for imparting an arcuate profile to at least a portion of the at 

least one needle blank. 
The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said 
flat press means is mounted to said frame means and comprises 

upper die means and lower die means, said lower die means 
adapted to support at least one surgical needle blank, said 

upper die means engagable against said lower die means to impart 
first flat surfaces to opposite sides of the at least one needle 

blank positioned therebetween. 
The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
lower die means comprises a plate member reciprocally movable 

from a first position remote from said upper die means to a 
second position adjacent said upper die means. 
The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said 
plate member is reciprocally movable from said second position 

adjacent said upper die means to a third position adjacent said 
curving means to directly transfer the at least one needle blank 

between said plate member and said curving means. 
The apparatus according to claim 2, 3 or 4 wherein 
said upper die means and said lower die means include needle die 

portions having lead in tapers dimensioned and configured for 
flat pressing only a center portion of the needle blank, said 

lead in tapers providing a clearance to prevent flat pressing of 
a tapered end and a drilled end portion of the needle blank, 

 
wherein said lower die means includes at least one longitudinal 

die channel to support the at least one needle blank. 
The apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein said curving means is mounted to said 

frame means and comprises mandrel means for imparting an arcuate 
profile to at least a portion of the at least one needle blank; 

and 
   reciprocating means for biasing and reciprocally 

moving said at least one needle blank against said mandrel 
means. 
The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said 
mandrel means comprises a rotatable shaft having at least a 

portion configured to impart said arcuate profile to the at 
least one needle blank. 
The apparatus according to claim 6 or 7, wherein 
said reciprocating means cooperates with said mandrel means to 

accept a needle blank therebetween from said flat press means. 
The apparatus according to claim 6, 7 or 8, 
wherein said reciprocating means comprises: 

   at least one pair of rotatable members positioned in 
adjacency; and 

   belt means positioned about said at least one pair of 
rotatable members for biasing and reciprocally moving the at 

least one needle blank against said mandrel means. 
The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said 
belt means comprises an elastic belt. 
The apparatus according to claim 9 or 10, further 
comprising biasing means for applying a continuous force to at 

least one of said pair of rotatable members such that a friction 
fit is maintained between said curving means, said at least one 

pair of rotatable members and the at least one needle blank when 
said curving means is engaged with said reciprocating means. 
The apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising side press means mounted on 

said frame means for imparting second flat surfaces to opposite 
sides of the needle blank, wherein said second flat surfaces are 

imparted substantially perpendicular to said first flat 
surfaces. 
The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said 
side press means comprises side die means for supporting the 

needle blank and clamp means for pressing said side die means 
about the needle blank. 
The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said 
side die means comprises a plurality of adjacent plate members, 

each said adjacent plate member having at least one die slot 
coacting with a corresponding die slot in said next adjacent 

plate member to support a needle blank therebetween, and wherein 
said corresponding die slots cooperate to form side press dies, 

said dies having lead in tapers of approximately 3° to 
approximately 15°. 
The apparatus according to claim 13 or 14, 
wherein said side die means is rotatable from a first position 

adjacent said curving means for direct receipt of the needle 
blanks therefrom to a second position adjacent said clamp means 

for side pressing the needle blank therebetween. 
The apparatus according to claim 13, 14 or 15, 
wherein said side die means is rotatable from said second 

position adjacent said clamp means to a third position removed 
from said clamp means. 
The apparatus according to claim 16, further 
comprising means to remove said needle blank from said side die 

means when said side die means is in said third position. 
The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said 
removal means comprises air jet means to blow said needle blank 

free from said side die means. 
The apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising detection means for sensing 

the presence of the at least one needle blank in said flat press 
means. 
The apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further comprising detach
able feed means for 
supplying a plurality of needle blanks to said flat press means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
