<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621544</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for context extraction of a realtime database.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1900	G06F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F19	G06F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for transferring patient 
information from a source patient monitor having a source 

patient database to a destination patient monitor having a 
destination patient database. In a preferred embodiment, a 

transport module is connectable to a source patient monitor 
and a destination patient monitor. The transport module is 

also connectable to a patient for receiving patient 
information. The transport module contains a transport 

database for storing patient information. The transport 
module is connected to the patient. The transport module is 

then connected to the source patient monitor. Upon receiving 
a request to move the patient, patient information is uploaded 

from the source patient database to the transport database. 
The transport module is then disconnected from the source 

patient monitor. The patient is then moved. The transport 
module is then connected to the destination patient monitor 

and patient information is downloaded from the transport 
database to the destination patient database. In a preferred 

embodiment, the uploading and downloading of patient 
information occur concurrently with read/write access to the 

destination and source patient databases by a central monitor 
or data collection module. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPACELABS MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPACELABS MEDICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINCH DAVID P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKEAG GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WADE KENNETH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINCH, DAVID P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKEAG, GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WADE, KENNETH S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to a computer 
system for extracting information from a database and, 
more specifically, to a method and system of extracting 
time-dependent data from a database. In a hospital environment, patient monitors are 
commonly used to monitor a patient. A patient monitor is 
a computer system with various input sensors for 
collecting patient information, a database for saving the 
information, and a display for displaying the information 
to a health care provider. Patient information typically 
includes heart rate, blood pressure, electrocardiographic 
and electroencephalographic information. Patient 
information may also include patient descriptive 
information, such as, patient name, age, etc. The information collected by the patient monitor 
is typically categorized as being general or periodic. 
General information includes patient descriptive 
information and episodic information. Episodic 
information are various measurements that are sampled on 
an ad hoc basis. For example, a health care provider may, 
from time to time, determine a patient's blood pressure 
and manually enter the blood pressure reading into the 
monitor. Periodic information includes various 
measurements of activity that are sampled continuously, 
such as, heart rate and electrocardiographic activity. Figure 1 is a block diagram illustrating a 
network of patient monitors in a typical hospital 
environment. The network comprises a central monitor 
computer system 101 connected to various patient monitors  
 
102. The central monitor 101 is typically located at a 
nursing station and allows the activity of many patients 
to be monitored from the nursing station. The central 
monitor 101 comprises a central database 111, a controller 
program 112, and communications program 113. To collect 
patient information from the patient monitors 102, the 
controller program 112 instructs the communications 
program 113 to retrieve the patient information from the 
patient monitors 102. When the communications program 113 
receives the information, it passes the information to the 
controller program 112. The controller program 112 stores 
the information in the central database 111. In response 
to a request to review the information, the controller 
program 112 retrieves data from the central database 111 
and displays the data. The patient monitors 102 comprise 
a communications program 103, a controller program 104, a 
patient database 105, and a sensor interface program 106. 
The controller program 104
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method in a computer system for extracting 
information from a database, the database having a plurality 

of information streams, each information stream having a 
plurality of entries, each entry having an associated entry 

time, the method comprising the steps of: 
   selecting an information stream with an entry not 

yet extracted from the database with the most recent entry 
time; 

   copying entries from the selected information stream 
to a transfer buffer; and 

   repeating the steps of selecting and copying until 
an indication of completion is detected. 
The method of claim 1 wherein an indication of 
completion is detected when all the entries in the trend 

information streams are copied. 
The method of claim 1 including the step of 
storing entries copied into the transfer buffer into a storage 

area. 
The method of claim 3 wherein an indication of 
completion is detected when the storage area is full. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the transfer 
buffer has a predetermined size and wherein the step of 

copying copies entries to the transfer buffer until the 
transfer buffer is as full as possible of entries. 
The method of claim 1 including the step of 
before transferring the first entry of each information 

stream, copying state information of the stream to the 
transfer buffer. 
The method of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 
including the step of allowing concurrent read/write access to 

the database while repeating the steps of selecting and 
copying. 
A method for transferring patient information 
from a source patient monitor having a source patient database 

to a destination patient monitor having a destination patient 
database through a transport module, the transport module 

being connectable to the source patient monitor and 
destination patient monitor, the transport module being 

connectable to a patient for receiving patient information, 
the transport module having a transport database for storing 

patient information, the method comprising the steps of: 
   connecting the transport module to the patient; 

   connecting the transport module to the source 
patient monitor; 

   uploading patient information from the source 
patient database to the transport database of the connected 

transport module; 
   disconnecting the transport module from the source 

patient monitor; and 
   connecting the transport module to the destination 

patient monitor; and 
   downloading the patient information from the 

transport database of the connected transport module to the 
destination patient database. 
The method of claim 8 wherein the transport 
module is disconnected from the source patient monitor and the 

transport module is connected to the destination patient 
monitor without disconnecting the transport module from the 

patient. 
The method of claim 8 includes the steps of: 
   determining a period of time between start of 

uploading and start of downloading of the patient information; 
and 

   downloading the determined period of time to the 
destination patient monitor. 
The method of claim 10 including the step of 
downloading a time indicative of the start of the uploading of 

patient information from the transport module to the 
destination patient monitor. 
The method of claim 8 wherein the patient 
information includes a plurality of information streams, each 

information stream having a plurality of time-ordered entries 
and wherein the step of uploading includes the steps of: 

   selecting an information stream with an entry that 
has not been uploaded to the transport database and that has 

the most-recent time-ordering; and 
   transferring information from the selected 

information stream to the transport database. 
The method of claim 12 wherein the step of 
uploading includes the step of transferring context data for 

an information stream to the transport database before 
transferring information from the information stream to the 

transport module. 
The method of claim 13 including the steps of 
timing an elapsed time period from the uploading of the 

patient information to the downloading of the patient 
information and transferring the elapsed time period to the 

destination patient monitor. 
The method of claim 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, or 14 
wherein the steps of uploading and downloading patient 

 
information include the step of allowing concurrent read/write 

access to the database. 
A computer system for extracting information 
from a database, the database having a plurality of 

information streams, each information stream having a 
plurality of entries, each entry having an associated entry 

time, comprising means for selecting an information stream 
with an entry not yet extracted from the database with the 

most recent entry time; and means for copying entries from the 
selected information stream to a transfer buffer. 
The computer system of claim 16 including means 
for detecting an indication of completion when all the entries 

in the trend information streams are copied. 
The computer system of claim 16 including means 
for storing entries copied into the transfer buffer into a 

storage area. 
The computer system of claim 18 including means 
for detecting when an indication of completion when the 

storage area is full. 
The computer system of claim 16 wherein the 
transfer buffer has a predetermined size and wherein the means 

for copying copies entries to the transfer buffer until the 
transfer buffer is as full as possible of entries. 
The computer system of claim 16 including means 
for copying state information of the stream to the transfer 

buffer before transferring a first entry of each information 
stream. 
The computer system of claim 16, 17, 18, 19, 
20, or 21 wherein the means for copying entries includes means 

for allowing concurrent read/write access to the database 
while copying entries. 
A method for downloading patient information 
stored in a transport patient database on a transport module 

to a destination patient monitor having a destination patient 
database, the transport patient database having patient 

information uploaded from a source patient monitor, the 
destination patient database having a time history list for 

tracking adjustments of time and a next entry number for 
tracking entries added to the destination patient database, 

the method comprising the steps of: 
   connecting the transport module to the destination 

patient monitor; 
   sending from the transport module to the destination 

patient monitor a signal indicative of time since start of 
upload from the patient source monitor; 

   updating the time history list based on the sent 
signal; 

   sending from the transport module to the destination 
patient monitor a next entry number; 

   collecting patient information and storing the collected 
patient information in the destination patient database 

identified based on the sent next entry number; and 
   transferring patient information from the transport 

patient database to the destination patient monitor and 

storing the transferred patient information in the destination 
patient database. 
The method of claim 23 wherein the step of 
transferring patient information from the transport patient 

database to the destination patient monitor transfers the 
patient information in the same order as the patient 

information was uploaded from the source patient monitor. 
The method of claims 23 or 24 wherein the steps 
of collecting patient information and transferring patient 

information occur concurrently. 
A method of collecting patient information 
after connecting a transport module containing uploaded 

patient information to a destination patient monitor, the 
method comprising the steps of: 

   connecting the transport module uploaded with 
patient information to the destination patient monitor; 

   allocating a temporary patient database in the 
destination patient monitor; 

   collecting patient information; and 
   storing the collected patient information in the 

temporary patient database. 
The method of claim 26 including the steps of: 
   electing to download the patient information from 

the transport module to the destination monitor; 
   replacing the patient database of the destination 

monitor with the patient information from the transport 
module; and 

   merging the temporary patient database with the 
patient database of the destination monitor. 
The method of claim 26 including the steps of: 
   electing to discard the patient information of the 

transport module; and 
   merging the temporary patient database with the 

patient database of the destination monitor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
