<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647195</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLLAPSIBLE CONTAINER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D122	B65D122	B65D618	B65D618	B65D2102	B65D2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D1	B65D1	B65D6	B65D6	B65D21	B65D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A collapsible container for use in the shipping of goods is formed from a single sheet (10) of a plastic material to form a box. The container has a bottom panel (12) and first (14) and second (16) pairs of like wall panels integrally hingedly connected to the bottom panels so that the walls can be erected from a collapsed position to an upright position and vice versa. The end panels include hinged locking flaps (f) formed with locking ribs to releasably engage with the adjacent edges of the side panels. The container is adapted to nest in superposed relationship with a like container when the containers are in a collapsed condition so that the height of a stack of collapsed containers is minimized.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIDELITY INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STROMBERG ENTERPRISES AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FIDELITY INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STROMBERG ENTERPRISES A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STROMBERG PER S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STROMBERG, PER, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COLLAPSIBLE CONTAINERThis invention relates to a collapsible container and particularly, although not exclusively, a container for the shipping of perishable goods such as fish. A container according to this invention is formed from a single moulding of a plastics material such as polyethylene to form a box or transport case which comprises a bottom panel and first and second pairs of like wall panels hingedly connected to the bottom panel. A lid or cover may be provided preferably as a separate item to close the open top of the box. Containers according to the invention may also be stacked one upon the other so that it is often unnecessary to provide a lid for each container.Non-collapsible cases with insulating properties for shipping fish and formed from expanded or foamed polystyrene are known but these known cases are not returnable and have become regarded by virtue of their composition, as being environmentally unacceptable.Such containers do have the advantage of low cost. A collapsible, returnable and reusable container is desirable for the shipping of fresh (chilled) or frozen fish. A unitary knockdown foamed polystyrene shipping container is know from US- A-3 675 808 but is not robust enough for repeated return (round- trip) journeys. Moreover, the foamed material, at least to some extent, absorbs fluids and would on this count alone be unsuitable as a reusable fish box. US-A-4 235 346 discloses a 

lightweight collapsible shipping container having a unitary moulded construction in which a bottom panel is integrally hinged to four peripheral side panels and a top panel is hinged to one of the side panels. However, this container is also intended to be formed from a foamed plastics material and is unsuitable for use as a reusable fish box for the reasons given above.Collapsible containers having a more robust and acceptable composition are known from e.g. US-A-4 005 795 which discloses a container formed from a unitary blank of polypropylene in which side panels are integrally hinged to a bottom panel. There are provisions to lock together with side and end panels when they are brought into an upright position comprising stud and socket connections. However, the particular arrangement disclosed is insufficiently secure in view of the anticipated static and impact loading imposed upon a container according to the present invention utilized as a shipping container for fish. US-A-3 675 808 discloses a collapsible box in which the side and end panels are secured together by means of a dovetail
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A collapsible container for use in the shipping, handling and/or storing, of goods comprises a single moulding of a plastics material to form a box which comprises a bottom panel and first and second pairs of like wall panels hingedly connected to said bottom panel wherein each wall panel and said bottom panel are hinged together so that the walls can be erected from a collapsed position to an upright position and vice versa, wherein complementary locking means are provided at adjacent edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels so that said side and end panels are mutually lockable when the corners of the container are formed by putting the wall panels into an upright attitude said locking means comprising an integrally hinged part of the panels of one pair of panels.
2. A collapsible container according to a claim wherein said container is adapted to nest in superposed relationship with respect to another like container when said containers are in collapsed condition.
3. A collapsible container according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said panels include elements which protrude beyond the medial planes of said panels, said elements being formed and positioned so as to permit nesting of superposed containers.
4. A collapsible container according to claim 1, wherein said locking means comprises a retaining face provided by the panels of one pair of panels engagable with a retaining face provided 


by the panels of the other pair of panels to prevent collapse of said wall panels.
5. A collapsible container according to claim 4, wherein the retaining face of a panel of one pair of panels is mutually engaged with the retaining face of a panel of the other pair of panels when the corners of the container are formed and locked thereby to prevent collapse of the containers.
6. A collapsible container according to claim 5, the retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels and the retaining face of a panel of said one pair of panels having complementary alignment means.
7. A collapsible container according to claim 6, wherein said complementary alignment means comprises a tab member extending from a retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels and wherein the retaining face of a panel of said one pair of panels defines a complementary notch adapted for receiving said tab member.
8. A collapsible container according to claim 5, further comprising a tab member extending from a retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels and wherein the retaining face of a panel of said one pair of panels defines a complementary notch adapted for receiving said tab member. 


9. A collapsible container according to claim 8, wherein said tab member tapers outwardly from said retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels.
10. A collapsible container according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the retaining face of said one panel is provided by a rib adjacent an end face of that panel.
11. A collapsible container according to claim 10, wherein said rib is received in a channel provided by the said other panel, one face of the channel providing the retaining face of said other panel to prevent collapse of said one panel.
12. A collapsible container according to claim 11, wherein a releasable locking face is hanged to said other panel for engagement with the retaining face of said one panel to prevent collapse of said other panel.
13. A collapsible container according to claim 12, wherein the locking face is carried by a locking flap hinged to said other panel which locking flap is integral with said other panel or forms a part of said retaining channel face when locked.
14. A collapsible container according to claim 13, wherein said locking face comprises a rib extending perpendicularly from said locking flap. 


15. A collapsible container according to claim 14, wherein said locking rib and said one panel comprise releasable complementary fastening means.
16. A collapsible container according to claim 15, wherein said complementary fastening means are a push-snap fit.
17. A collapsible container according to claim 16, wherein said fastening means comprise complementary notches and pegs formed along the mating adjacent vertical edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels and which are hinged into engagement when the locking flap is engaged after said wall panels are put into their fully upright positions to form said box.
18. A collapsible container according to claim 17, further comprising secondary pegs formed along the mating adjacent vertical edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels.
19. A collapsible container according to any of claims 10 to 18, wherein a secondary retaining face is provided within the channel of said other panel to engage an end edge of said one panel within said channel.
20. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said wall panels are formed with integral handling recesses adjacent their uppermost ends.
21. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the underface of said bottom panel of one 


 container is formed with locating means adapted to engage complementary locking means formed upon an uppermost rim of another like container, said complementary locating means being 95 engagable to enhance secure stacking of those containers.
22. A collapsible container according to claim 21, wherein the complementary locating means formed upon said uppermost rim is adapted to engage locating means provided on the underside of a lid so that the lid can be secured to close said container and
100 wherein the upwardly exposed face of said lid also includes locating means adapted to be engaged by the said locating means provided on the underface of the bottom panel of another like container thereby to enhance secure stacking of those containers.
23. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding 105 claims wherein, said integral hinges between each wall panel and said bottom panel are continuous along the length of the respective wall panel.
24. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said container is substantially sized to fit a
110 standard European pallet measuring 1.2m x 0.8m for return shipment when said container is in a collapsed substantially flat condition.
25. A collapsible container for use in the shipping and/or storing of goods comprises a single moulding of a plastics
115 material to form a box which comprises a bottom panel and first and second pairs of like wall panels hingedly connected to said 


 bottom panel wherein each wall panel and said bottom panel are integrally hinged together so that the walls can be erected from a collapsed position to an upright position and vice versa,
120 wherein complementary locking means are provided at adjacent edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels so that said side and end panels are mutually lockable, when the corners of the container are formed by putting the wall panels into an upright attitude, said locking means comprises a retaining face
125 provided by the panels of one pair of panels engagable with a retaining face provided by the panels of the other pair of panels to prevent collapse of said wall panels, wherein the retaining face of said one panel is provided by a rib adjacent an end face of that panel and wherein a releasable locking face is hinged to
130 said other panel for engagement with the retaining face of said one panel, said locking face being carried by a locking flap hinged to said other panel and forming a part of the retaining face of said other panel when locked.
26. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding 135 claims which container is wholly formed by injection moulding.
27. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims wherein said container is sized to fit a standard European pallet such that in each tier of a stack of said containers on the pallet two such containers can be received in side by side
140 relationship and a third container can be received in transverse and abutting relationship with respect to the ends of said other two containers. 


 28. A collapsible container for use in the shipping and/or storing of goods comprises a single moulding of a plastics
145 material to form a box which comprises a bottom panel and first and second pairs of like wall panels hingedly connected to said bottom panel wherein each wall panel and said bottom panel are hinged together so that the walls can be erected from a collapsed position to an upright position and vice versa, wherein
150 complementary locking means are provided at adjacent edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels so that said side and end panels are mutually lockable when the corners of the container are formed by putting the wall panels into an upright attitude, said container being adapted to nest in superposed
155 relationship with respect to another like container when said containers are in collapsed condition, wherein said panels include elements which protrude beyond the interior surface of said panels, said elements being formed and positioned so as to permit nesting of superposed containers.
160 29. A collapsible container according to claim 23, wherein said elements comprise integral handle means provided adjacent their uppermost ends. 

r
[ received by the International Bureau on 14 October 1993 ( 14 . 10 . 93 ) ; original claims 1- 29 repl aced by amended cl aims 1- 32
( 8 pages ) ]
1. A collapsible container for use in the shipping, handling and/or storing, of goods comprises a single moulding of a plastics material to form a box which comprises a bottom panel and first and second pairs of like wall panels hingedly connected to said bottom panel wherein each wall panel and said bottom panel are hinged together so that the walls can be erected from a collapsed position to an upright position and vice versa, wherein complementary locking means are provided at adjacent edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels so that said first and second pairs of wall panels are mutually lockable when the corners of the container are formed by putting the wall panels into an upright attitude said locking means comprising flaps integrally hinged to the panels of said one pair of panels, which flaps are locakable when brought into overlying relationship with respect to the panels of said other pair of panels and configured so that when locked the exposed face of each said flaps do not project beyond the outermost surface of the respective panels to which they are locked.
2. A collapsible container according to claim 1, wherein said panels include moulded features which protrude beyond the medial planes of said panels, said moulded features all being contained in a common plane on either side of said medial planes.
3. A collapsible container according to claim 1 or claim 2 , wherein said container is adapted to nest in superposed relationship with respect to another like container when said containers are in collapsed condition. 


4. A collapsible container according to claim 1, wherein said locking means comprises a retaining face provided by the panels of one pair of panels engagable with a retaining face provided by the panels of the other pair of panels to prevent collapse of said wall panels.
5. A collapsible container according to claim 4, wherein the retaining face of a panel of one pair of panels is mutually engaged with the retaining face of a panel of the other pair of panels when the corners of the container are formed and locked thereby to prevent collapse of the containers.
6. A collapsible container according to claim 5, the retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels and the retaining face of a panel of said one pair of panels having complementary alignment means.
7. A collapsible container according to claim 6, wherein said complementary alignment means comprises a tab member extending from a retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels and wherein the retaining face of a panel of said one pair of panels defines a complementary notch adapted for receiving said tab member.
8. A collapsible container according to claim 5, further comprising a tab member extending from a retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels and wherein the retaining face of a panel of said one pair of panels defines a complementary notch adapted for receiving said tab member. 


9. A collapsible container according to claim 8, wherein said tab member tapers outwardly from said retaining face of a panel of said other pair of panels.
10. A collapsible container according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the retaining face of said one panel is provided by a rib adjacent an end face of that panel.
11. A collapsible container according to claim 10, wherein said rib is received in a channel provided by the said other panel, one face of the channel providing the retaining face of said other panel to prevent collapse of said one panel.
12. A collapsible container according to claim 11, wherein a releasable locking face is hinged to said other panel for engagement with the retaining face of said one panel to prevent collapse of said other panel.
13. A collapsible container according to claim 12, wherein the locking face is carried by a locking flap hinged to said other panel which locking flap is integral with said other panel and forms a part of said retaining channel face when locked.
14. A collapsible container according to claim 13, wherein said locking face comprises a rib extending perpendicularly from said locking flap. 


 15. A collapsible container according to claim 14, wherein said 75 locking rib and said one panel comprise releasable complementary fastening means.
16. A collapsible container according to claim 15, wherein said complementary fastening means are a push-snap fit.
17. A collapsible container according to claim 16, wherein said 80 fastening means comprise complementary notches and pegs formed along the mating adjacent vertical edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels and which are hinged into engagement when the locking flap is engaged after said wall panels are put into their fully upright positions to form said box.
85 18. A collapsible container according to claim 17, further comprising secondary pegs formed along the mating adjacent vertical edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels.
19. A collapsible container according to any of claims 10 to 18, wherein a secondary retaining face is provided within the channel
90 of said other panel to engage an end edge of said one panel within said channel.
20. A collapsible container according to claim 1, wherein each of said recesses is sized such that a space is left between a free edge of the flap remote from its hinged connection and the
95 adjacent face of the associated recesses so as to facilitate unlocking said flap but inhibit accidental unlocking of said flap. 


 21. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said wall panels are formed with integral
100 handling recesses adjacent their uppermost ends.
22. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the underface of said bottom panel of one container is formed with locating means adapted to engage complementary locking means formed upon an uppermost rim of
105 another like container, said complementary locating means being engagable to enhance secure stacking of those containers.
23. A collapsible container according to claim 22, wherein the complementary locating means formed upon said uppermost rim is adapted to engage locating means provided on the underside of a
110 lid so that the lid can be secured to close said container and wherein the upwardly exposed face of said lid also includes locating means adapted to be engaged by the said locating means provided on the underface of the bottom panel of another like container thereby to enhance secure stacking of those containers.
115 24. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said integral hinges between each wall panel and said bottom panel are continuous along the length of the respective wall panel.
25. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding
120 claims, wherein said container is substantially sized to fit a standard European pallet measuring 1.2m x 0.8m for return 


 shipment when said container is in a collapsed substantially flat condition.
26. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding 125 claims, wherein said first and second pairs of wall panels are connected to said bottom panels along hinges disposed at locations spaced from said first and second pairs of wall panels and said bottom panel such that no substantial loads are transmitted through to said hinges.
130 27. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said container is sized such that three erected containers occupy substantially the same surface area as a collapsed container.
28. A collapsible container for use in the shipping and/or
135 storing of goods comprises a single moulding of a plastics material to form a box which comprises a bottom panel and first and second pairs of like wall panels hingedly connected to said bottom panel wherein each wall panel and said bottom panel are integrally hinged together so that the walls can be erected from
140 a collapsed position to an upright position and vice versa, wherein complementary locking means are provided at adjacent edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels so that said side and end panels are mutually lockable, when the corners of the container are formed by putting the wall panels into an
145 upright attitude, said locking means comprises a retaining face provided by the panels of one pair of panels engagable with a retaining face provided by the panels of the other pair of panels 


 to prevent collapse of said wall panels, wherein the retaining face of said one panel is provided by a rib adjacent an end face 150 of that panel and wherein a releasable locking face is hinged to said other panel for engagement with the retaining face of said one panel, said locking face being carried by a locking flap hinged to said other panel and forming a part of the retaining face of said other panel when locked.
155 29. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims which container is wholly formed by injection moulding.
30. A collapsible container according to any of the preceding claims wherein said container is sized to fit a standard European pallet such that in each tier of a stack of said containers on
160 the pallet two such containers can be received in side by side relationship and a third container can be received in transverse and abutting relationship with respect to the ends of said other two containers.
31. A collapsible container for use in the shipping and/or 165 storing of goods comprises a single moulding of a plastics material to form a box which comprises a bottom panel and first and second pairs of like wall panels hingedly connected to said bottom panel wherein each wall panel and said bottom panel are hinged together so that the walls can be erected from a collapsed 170 position to an upright position and vice versa, wherein complementary locking means are provided at adjacent edges of said first and second pairs of wall panels so that said side and end panels are mutually lockable when the corners of the 


 container are formed by putting the wall panels into an upright 175 attitude, said container being adapted to nest in superposed relationship with respect to another like container when said containers are in collapsed condition, wherein said panels include elements which protrude beyond the interior surface of said panels, said elements being formed and positioned so as to 180 permit nesting of superposed containers.
32. A collapsible container according to claim 31, wherein said elements comprise integral handle means provided adjacent their uppermost ends. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
