<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619935</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-LAYER CIRCUIT CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND STRUCTURES WITH CUSTOMIZATION FEATURES AND COMPONENTS FOR USE THEREIN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2352	H01L2148	H05K340	H05K346	H05K111	H05K300	H05K346	H05K111	H01L2102	H05K340	H05K100	H01L23538	H05K100	H05K300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H01L	H05K	H05K	H01L	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L21	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	H01L21	H05K3	H05K1	H01L23	H05K1	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-layer circuit panel assembly is formed by laminating circuit panels (10) with interposers (12) incorporating flowable conductive material (48) at interconnect locations and a flowable dielectric material (30, 38) at other locations. Excess materials are captured in reservoirs (20) in the circuit panels. The flowable materials and reservoirs allow the interposers to compress and take up tolerances in the components. The stacked panels may have contacts (538) on their top surfaces, through conductors (527) extending between top and bottom and terminals (530) connected to the bottom end of each through conductor. The terminals and contacts are nonselectively connected to one another at each interface so that wherever a terminal and contact an adjacent panels are aligned with one another, these are connected to one another. This forms composite vertical conductors extending through a plurality of the panels. The selective treatment of the panel top and bottom surfaces provides selective interruptions in the vertical conductors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TESSERA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TESSERA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DISTEFANO THOMAS H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EHRENBERG SCOTT G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUBE GARY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHANDROS IGOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DISTEFANO, THOMAS, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EHRENBERG, SCOTT, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUBE, GARY, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHANDROS, IGOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of 
electrical circuitry, and more particularly relates to 
multi-layer circuit structures such as multi-layer 
circuit boards, to components and methods utilized in 
fabrication of such structures and to methods of making 
the same, see e.g. US 3 616 532. Electrical components are commonly mounted on 
circuit panel structures such as circuit boards. 
Circuit panels ordinarily include a generally flat 
sheet of a dielectric material with electrical 
conductors disposed on a major, flat surface of the 
panel or on both major surfaces. The conductors are 
commonly formed from metallic materials such as copper 
and serve to interconnect the electrical components 
mounted to the board. Where the conductors are 
disposed on both major surfaces of the panel, the panel 
may have additional conductors extending through the 
dielectric layer so as to interconnect the conductors 
on opposite surfaces. Multi-layer circuit board 
assemblies have been made heretofore which incorporate 
plural, stacked circuit boards with additional layers 
of dielectric materials separating the conductors on 
mutually facing surfaces of adjacent boards in the 
stack. These multi-layer assemblies ordinarily 
incorporate interconnections extending between the 
conductors on the various circuit boards in the stack 
as necessary to provide the required electrical 
interconnections. Electrical components which can be mounted to 
circuit panel structures include so-called "discrete" 
components and integrated circuits which include 
numerous components in a single chip. Chips of this  
 
nature can be mounted on elements commonly referred to 
as "chip carriers" which are specialized circuit panel 
structures . A chip carrier may be incorporated in a 
package which is mounted to a larger circuit board and 
interconnected with the remaining elements of the 
circuit. Alternatively, the chip can be mounted 
directly to the same circuit panel which carries other 
components of the system. This arrangement is 
ordinarily referred to as a "hybrid circuit". 
Relatively large circuit panels are commonly made of 
polymeric materials, typically with reinforcement such 
as glass, whereas very small circuit panels such as 
those used as semiconductor chip carriers may be formed 
from ceramics, silicon or the like. There have been increasing needs for circuit 
panel structures which provide high density, complex 
interconnections. The needs have been particularly 
acute in the case of circuit panel structures
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of making a multi-layer circuit assembly 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) stacking elements including a plurality of circuit 

panels (10) having electrical conductors (24, 22) thereon 
and at least one generally lamellar interposer (12) so that 

one said interposer is disposed between each pair of 
adjacent circuit panels and so that major surfaces (34, 36) 

of said interposers confront major surfaces (16, 18) of 
said circuit panels, so that preselected interconnect 

locations (46, 47) on the major surfaces of each said 
interposer are aligned with interconnet locations (56, 58) 

on the confronting major surfaces of adjacent circuit 
panels, and so that electrically conductive material (22, 

24) carried on said circuit panels abuts electrically 
conductive material (48) on said interposer at each set of 

aligned interconnect locations, at least some of the 
conductive material at each set of aligned interconnect 

locations being flowable, at least one said interposer 
including a flowable dielectric material (38, 40) extending 

over at least one major surface, at least one of said 
elements having hollow vias (26) extending into it from at 

least one major surface thereof at the interconnect 
locations; and 
(b) joining said elements by causing said flowable 
dielectric material to flow while also causing said 

flowable conductive material to flow so that the flowable 
conductive material joins said conductive material on said 

circuit panels and said interposer into continuous 
electrical conductors extending between adjacent circuit 

panels at said aligned interconnect locations; and  
 
(c) capturing flowable electrically conductive 
material and flowable dielectric material in said vias 

during said joining step. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that 
at least one of said circuit panels has said vias extending 

into it from at least one major surface thereof and at 
least one of said interposers has said flowable conductive 

material exposed at least one major surface thereof. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that 
each said interposer has said flowable electrically 

conductive material exposed at said interconnect locations 
on two oppositely-directed major surfaces, and each said 

circuit panel has vias extending into at least one major 
surface thereof, said stacking step including the step of 

placing the flowable material on both sides of each said 
interposer sheet into abutment with vias of said circuit 

panels. 
A method as claimed in claim 3 characterized in that 
each said interposer has holes extending through it between 

its major surfaces and bodies of said flowable conductive 
material disposed within said holes so that each such body 

of conductive material extends to both of said major 
surfaces of the interposer. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 characterized in that 
the electrical conductors on at least one of said circuit 

panels include conductive elements extending into said vias 
and characterized in that said flowable conductive material 

contacts said conductor portions in said vias. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 characterized in that 
the conductive elements on at least one of said circuit 

boards include hollow conductive liners disposed within  
 

said vias. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 characterized in that 
said steps of causing said dielectric material to flow and 

causing said conductive material to flow include the step 
of applying heat and pressure to said stacked circuit 

panels and interposers. 
A method as claimed in claim 7 characterized in that 
said steps of causing flowable conductive and dielectric 

materials to flow includes the step of compressing said 
stacked elements so as force adjacent circuit panels toward 

one another and compress each said interposer between the 
adjacent circuit boards. 
A method of making a multi-layer circuit assembly 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) stacking a plurality of circuit panels (10) and at 
least one generally lamellar interposer (12) so that each 

said interposer is disposed between two adjacent circuit 
panels and so that major surfaces (34, 36) of each said 

interposer confront major surfaces (16, 18) of two adjacent 
circuit panels, so that preselected interconnect locations 

(46, 47) on each said interposer sheet are aligned with 
interconnect locations (56, 58) on the confronting circuit 

panel surfaces, so that flowable dielectric material (38, 
40) on the major surfaces of each said interposer abuts the 

confronting circuit panels except at said interconnect 
locations, and so that electrically conductive material 

(22, 24) carried on each of said circuit panels abuts 
electrically conductive material (48) on an interposer at 

said aligned interconnect locations, at least some of said 
electrically conductive material being flowable; and 
b) joining said elements by causing said flowable 
dielectric material to flow and conform to the major 

surfaces of said circuit panels so that said flowable  
 

dielectric material initially present on each said 
interposer substantially fills irregularities on the major 

surfaces of said circuit panels and also causing said 
flowable conductive material to flow and join said 

conductive material on said circuit panels and on said at 
least one interposer into continuous electrical conductors 

extending between said circuit panels. 
A method as claimed in claim 9 characterized in that 
each said interposer includes a generally sheetlike 

interior element (42) and flowable dielectric material (38, 
40) on opposite surfaces of such interior element. 
A method as claimed in claim 10 characterized in that 
said interior element has apertures (43) and characterized 

in that the flowable dielectric material of each said 
interposer sheet penetrates into such apertures during said 

step of causing said dielectric material to flow. 
A method as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11 
characterized in that each said circuit panel has 

electrical conductors (24, 22) extending along its major 
surfaces and each said interior element includes an 

electrically conductive potential plane element (42), 
whereby said conductors or said circuit panels and said 

potential plane element are juxtaposed with one another 
with said flowable dielectric material disposed between the 

conductors and potential plane elements. 
A method as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11 further 
comprising the step of setting said flowable dielectric 

material so that said set flowable dielectric material 
secures said circuit boards and said interposer to one 

another.  
 
A method as claimed in claim 9, claim 10 or claim 11 
characterized in that at least one of said circuit panels 

has raised electrical conductors (22, 24) extending along 
at least one of its major surfaces and depressions between 

said raised conductors, and characterized in that said 
flowable dielectric material substantially fills said 

depressions. 
An interconnection and bonding interposer (12) for an 
electrical circuit assembly comprising a generally lamellar 

body (32) having a pair of oppositely-facing major surfaces 
(34, 36), said interior element including a sheetlike 

electrically conductive potential plane element (42), the 
interposer further including electrically conductive 

elements (48) extending through said body between said 
major surfaces so that said conductive elements are exposed 

at preselected interconnect locations (46, 47) on said 

major surfaces, said body including a flowable dielectric 
material (38, 40) incorporating a polymeric constituent 

distributed over said major surfaces except at said 
interconnect locations. 
An interconnection and bonding interposer (12) for an 
electrical circuit assembly comprising a generally lamellar 

body (32) having a pair of oppositely-facing major surfaces 
(34, 36), and a generally lamellar interior element (42') 

disposed between said major surfaces, said interior element 
having apertures (43) therein, a flowable dielectric 

material overlying said apertures in said interior element 
whereby said flowable dielectric material can be displaced 

into said aperatures when said flowable dielectric material 
is in a fluid condition, and electrically conductive 

elements (48) extending through said body between said 
major surfaces so that said conductive elements are exposed 

at preselected interconnect locations (46, 47) on said 
major surfaces, said body including a flowable dielectric  

 
material (38, 40) incorporating a polymer constituent 

distributed over said major surfaces except at said 
interconnect locations. 
An interposer as claimed in claim 16 characterized in 
that said interior element includes a fibrous material 

(42'') having plural fibers (70) cooperatively defining 
said apertures (72) therebetween. 
An interposer as claimed in any of claims 15 or 16 or 
17 characterized in that each said electrically conductive 

element includes a flowable electrically conductive 
material, said flowable conductive material being exposed 

at each of said major surfaces. 
An interposer as claimed in claim 18 characterized in 
that each said electrically conductive element includes a 

unitary mass of flowable electrically conductive material 
extending entirely through said body. 
An interposer as claimed in claim 19 characterized in 
that each said electrically conductive element further 

includes a metallic conductor extending from the vicinity 
of one said major surface to the vicinity of the other said 

major surface and further characterized by said flowable 
conductive material includes a nonmetallic material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
