<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658194</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAMMALIAN MULTIPOTENT NEURAL STEM CELLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K67027	A01K67027	C12N506	C12N506	C12N510	C12N510	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12P2108	C12P2108	C12R191	G01N33577	G01N33577	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	C12R	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K67	A01K67	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N5	C12N15	C12N15	C12P21	C12P21	C12R1	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention includes mammalian multipotent neural stem cells and their progeny and methods for the isolation and clonal propagation of such cells. At the clonal level the stem cells are capable of self regeneration and asymmetrical division. Lineage restriction is demonstrated within developing clones which are sensitive to the local environment. The invention also includes such cells which are transfected with foreign nucleic acid, e.g., to produce an immortalized neural stem cell. The invention further includes transplantation assays which allow for the identification of mammalian multipotent neural stem cells from various tissues and methods for transplanting mammalian neural stem cells and/or neural or glial progenitors into mammals. A novel method for detecting antibodies to neural cell surface markers is disclosed as well as a monoclonal antibody to mouse LNGFR.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALIFORNIA INST OF TECHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEMPLE DEREK L CARDIOVASCULAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANDERSON, DAVID, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STEMPLE, DEREK, L. CARDIOVASCULAR RESEARCH CENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MAMMALIAN MULTIPOTENT NEURAL STEM CELLSThis is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/996,088, filed October 29, 1992 which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/920,617, filed July 27, 1992.Field of the InventionThe invention relates to the isolation, regeneration and use of mammalian multipotent neural stem cells and progeny thereof.Background The neural crest is a transient embryonic precursor population, whose derivatives include cells having widely different morphologies, characteristics and functions. These derivatives include the neurons and glia of the entire peripheral nervous system, melanocytes, cartilage and connective tissue of the head and neck, stro a of various secretory glands and cells in the outflow tract of the heart (for review, see Anderson, D.J. (1989) Neuron 3:1-12) . Much of the knowledge of the developmental potential and fate of neural crest cells comes from studies in avian systems. Fate maps have been established in aveε and provide evidence that several different crest cell derivatives may originate from the same position along the neural 

tube (Le Dourain, N.M. (1980) Nature 286:663-669). Schwann cells, melanocytes and sensory and sympathetic neurons can all derive from the truncal region of the neural tube. On the other hand, some derivatives were found to originate from specific regions of the crest, e.g., enteric ganglia from the vagal and sacral regions. These studies also revealed that the developmental potential of the neural crest population at a given location along the neural tube is greater than its developmental fate. This suggests that the new environment encountered by the migrating crest cells influences their developmental fate.Single-cell lineage analysis in vivo , as well as clonal analysis in vitro , have reportedly shown that early avian neural crest cells are multipotential during, or shortly after, their detachment and migration from the neural tube. In avian systems, certain clones derived from single neural crest cells in culture were reported to contain both catechola inergic and pigmented cells (Sieber-Blum, M. et al . (1980) Dev. Biol. 80:96-106). Baroffio, A. et al . (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85:5325-5329, reported that avian neural crest cells from the cephalic region could generate clones which gave rise to highly heterogeneous progeny when grown on growth-arrested fibroblaεt feeder cell layers.In vivo demonstration of the multipotency of early neural crest cells was reported in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An iεolated cellular compoεition compriεing at leaεt one mammalian multipotent neural εtem cell capable of self-renewal in a feeder cell-independent culture medium and capable of differentiation to at least neuronal or glial progenitor cells.
2. A cellular composition according to Claim 1, wherein said stem cell is capable of differentiating to at least peripheral nervous εyεtem neuronal or glial progenitor cellε and iε further characterized by the preεence of a low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor
"1"
.
3. A cellular composition according to Claim 2, wherein εaid εtem cell iε further characterized by being nestin+.
4. A cellular composition according to Claim 3, wherein said cells are further characterized aε lacking one or more markerε characteriεtic of mature neuronal or glial cellε of the peripheral nervous εyεtem.
5. The cellular compoεition of Claim 4 wherein εaid markerε are εelected from the group conεisting of sulfatide, glial fibrillary acidic protein, peripherin and a neurofilament.
6. An isolated cellular composition comprising a mammalian peripheral nervouε εystem glial progenitor cell.
7. A method for obtaining a cellular composition compriεing mammalian neural creεt εtem cellε, εaid method comprising: 


 a) contacting an embryonic neural tube with a firεt culture medium and a firεt εubεtrate to produce a εuεpenεion comprising a population of neural creεt cellε that have emigrated from εaid embryonic neural tube and b) contacting at leaεt a portion of said suspenεion compriεing one or more cellε of εaid population with a εecond culture medium and a second substrate which permit self-regeneration and differentiation of one or more neural crest stem cells in εaid population.
8. A method according to Claim 7 further compriεing the εtep: c) identifying at leaεt one εtem cell by itε ability to εelf-renew and differentiate in feeder cell- independent culture.
9. The method of Claim 8 further comprising prior to or after step b) the step of identifying at leaεt one neural creεt εtem cell which iε characterized by the preεence of low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor on the εurface of εaid neural creεt εtem cell.
10. The method of Claim 7, wherein εaid differentiation of said εtem cells is to at least peripheral nervouε εyεtem neuronal or glial progenitor cellε.
11. The method of Claim 7, wherein εaid firεt and second substrateε compriεe fibronectin.
12. The method of Claim 7, wherein εaid firεt and εecond εubstrateε compriεe poly-D-lyεine in combination with fibronectin. 


13. The method of Claim 7 , wherein εaid second culture medium further compriseε a factor permiεεive for peripheral nervouε system neuronal cell differentiation.
14. The method of Claim 13, wherein said factor permiεεive for peripheral nervouε εystem neuronal cell differentiation is a εubstrate comprising poly-D-lyεine in combination with fibronectin.
15. The method of Claim 7, wherein εaid εecond culture medium further compriεeε a factor permiεsive for peripheral nervouε εyεtem glial cell differentiation.
16. The method of Claim 15, wherein εaid factor permiεεive for peripheral nervouε εyεtem glial cell differentiation iε a substrate comprising fibronectin.
17. The method of Claim 15, wherein εaid factor permiεεive for peripheral nervouε εyεtem glial cell differentiation iε forεkolin.
18. An iεolated cellular compoεition compriεing a mammalian peripheral nervouε εystem neuronal progenitor cell made according to the method of Claim 13.
19. An iεolated cellular compoεition compriεing a mammalian peripheral nervouε εystem neuronal cell made according to the method of Claim 13.
20. An isolated cellular composition according to Claim 19, wherein said neuronal cells are characterized by being nestin
"
, low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor
"
, peripherin
4
, and neurofilament
+
. 


21. An isolated cellular compoεition compriεing mammalian peripheral nervouε εyεtem glial progenitor cellε made according to the method of Claim 15.
22. An iεolated cellular compoεition compriεing mammalian peripheral nervouε εyεtem glial cellε made according to the method in Claim 15.
23. An isolated cellular composition according to Claim 22, wherein said glial cells are characterized as being low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor
"1"
, nestin
"1"
, glial fibrillary acidic protein , and sulfatide .
24. A method for obtaining a cellular composition from a mammalian tissue compriεing one or more cells having at leaεt one property characteriεtic of a glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent εtem cell precursor of said progenitor cellε, εaid method compriεing: a) preparing a εuεpenεion compriεing a population of cellε from said mammalian tiεεue, b) contacting εaid cell εuεpenεion with a first culture medium and a firεt εubεtrate which permit εelf- renewal of one or more glial or neuronal progenitor cellε or multipotent εtem cell precurεorε, and c) identifying εaid glial or neuronal progenitor cellε or multipotent εtem cell precurεorε, if preεent, by their ability to εelf-renew and differentiate in feeder-cell independent culture.
25. A method according to Claim 24 further compriεing the εtep: c) contacting εaid glial or neuronal progenitor cellε or multipotent stem cell precursorε of εaid progenitor cellε with a second culture medium and a second substrate which permit differentiation of one or 


more of said glial or neuronal progenitor cells or multipotent stem cell precurεorε.
26. A method according to Claim 25 further comprising prior to step b) : e) iεolating one or more cells expressing a neural cell-specific surface marker.
27. A method according to Claim 26 wherein said neural cell-εpecific surface marker compriεeε the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor.
28. A method according to Claim 24 wherein εaid cellε have at leaεt one property characteristic of a peripheral nervouε εystem glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent stem cell precursor thereof.
29. An iεolated cellular compoεition compriεing a glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent εtem cell precurεor thereof made according to the method of Claim 24.
30. An isolated cellular composition compriεing a peripheral nervouε εyεtem glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent stem cell precurεor thereof made according to the method of Claim 28.
31. A method for obtaining a cellular composition from a mammalian tissue comprising one or more cells having at least one property characteristic of a glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent stem cell precursor of εaid progenitor cellε, said method comprising: a) preparing a suεpension comprising a population of cellε from εaid mammalian tiεεue and b) tranεplanting at leaεt of cell of εaid population into a suitable host animal and 


 c) identifying a glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent εtem cell precurεor, if preεent, by the ability of εaid cell to εelf-renew and differentiate into at leaεt the glial and neuronal lineageε in vivo.
32. A method according to Claim 31 further compriεing prior to step b) : d) isolating one or more expresεing a neural cell-εpecific surface marker.
33. A method according to Claim 32 wherein said neural cell-εpecific εurface marker compriεeε the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor.
34. A method for obtaining a cellular compoεition from a mammalian tiεsue comprising one or more cells having at least one property characteriεtic of a glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent εtem cell precurεor of εaid progenitor cellε, εaid method compriεing: a) preparing a εuεpension comprising cells from said mammalian tiεεue, b) contacting said suεpenεion with an antibody capable of forming a firεt complex with a neural cell- specific surface marker on said glial or neuronal progenitor cells or multipotent stem cell precursor, and c) isolating said firεt complex, if formed, from εaid suspenεion to obtain εaid cellular compoεition.
35. A method according to Claim 34 wherein εaid neural cell-specific surface marker compriεeε the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor.
36. A method according to Claim 34 wherein εaid iεolating compriεeε forming a εecond complex by 


contacting said first complex with a reagent comprising a first member of a binding pair wherein the second member of εaid binding pair compriεes said antibody or a conjugate of εaid antibody.
37. A method according to Claim 36 wherein εaid reagent containε a fluorescent label and εaid isolating further comprises εeparating εaid εecond complex, if formed, by fluoreεcence-activated cell εorting.
38. A method according to Claim 34 wherein εaid one or more cellε have at leaεt one property characteristic of peripheral nervous syεtem glial or neuronal progenitor cells or multipotent stem cell precurεorε of εaid peripheral nervouε εyεtem progenitor cellε.
39. A method comprising introducing one or more cells compriεing neuronal or glial progenitor cellε or multipotent εtem cell precursors thereof into a host animal.
40. A method according to Claim 39 wherein εaid cellε are made according to the method of Claimε 24 or 34.
41. A method according to Claim 39 wherein said cellε compriεe peripheral nervouε system glial or neuronal progenitor cells or multipotent neural creεt εtem cell precursors of said peripheral nervous system progenitor cells.
42. A method according to Claim 41 wherein said cells are made according to the method of any one of Claims 7, 13, 15 and 29.
43. A method according to Claim 39 or 41 wherein εaid hoεt animal haε a diεorder of the nervouε system. 


44. A method for immortalizing a cell line having at least one property characteristic of a glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent stem cell precursor thereof compriεing tranεfecting said cell with a vector comprising an immortalizing gene.
45. A method according to Claim 44 wherein said cell line has at leaεt one property characteriεtic of a peripheral nervouε system glial or neuronal progenitor cell or multipotent stem cell precursor thereof.
46. An immortalized cell line made according to the method of Claim 44 or 45.
47. A cellular compoεition comprising at least one genetically-engineered multipotent neural stem cell.
48. The cellular composition of Claim 47 wherein εaid εtem cell compriεes a neural crest stem cell.
49. A cellular compoεition compriεing at leaεt one differentiated progeny of a genetically-engineered multipotent neural stem cell.
50. The cellular compoεition of Claim 49 wherein εaid εtem cell compriεeε a neural creεt εtem cell.
51. A cellular composition according to Claim 50, wherein εaid progeny of εaid differentiated progeny compriεeε a peripheral nervouε εyεtem neuronal progenitor cell.
52. A cellular compoεition according to Claim 50, wherein said progeny of said differentiated progeny compriεeε a peripheral nervouε system glial progenitor cell. 


53. A method for generating a genetically-engineered multipotent neural εtem cell, εaid method compriεing contacting a multipotent neural stem cell with foreign nucleic acid under conditions permissive for the uptake of said foreign nucleic acid into εaid εtem cell.
54. A method according to Claim 53 , wherein εaid conditionε permiεεive for the uptake of said foreign nucleic acid compriεe calcium phoεphate-mediated tranεfection.
55. A method according to Claim 53, wherein εaid conditionε permiεεive for the uptake of εaid foreign nucleic acid compriεe retroviral infection.
56. A monoclonal antibody capable of binding to mouεe low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor.
57. A method for detecting the preεence of an antibody capable of binding a εurface marker characteriεtic of a neural cell compriεing: immunizing an animal with εaid εurface marker; contacting a live neural cell diεplaying εaid εurface marker with antibody-containing εera from εaid immunized animal or antibody produced by a hybridoma formed from a cell obtained from εaid immunized animal, and detecting whether antibody εpecific for εaid εurface marker bindε to εaid neural cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
