<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610604</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multiple processing of radiographic images based on a pyramidal image decomposition.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T100	G06T100	G06T120	G06T120	G06T500	G06T500	G21K400	G21K400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G21K	G21K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T1	G06T1	G06T1	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	G21K4	G21K4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of multiple processing a digital representation of a 
radiographic image is disclosed that is based on a pyarmidal 

decomposition of said image. A pyramidal decomposition is stored 
and retrieved to be applied to at least two different processing 

cycles, processed images are obtained by application of a 
reconstruction algorithm. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA GEVAERT NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA-GEVAERT NAAMLOZE VENNOOTSCHAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VUYLSTEKE PIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VUYLSTEKE,PIETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for 
producing multiple differently processed digital images. More in particular the invention relates to such a method for 
use in a medical radiographic imaging system, such as a computed 
radiography system or a computed tomography system. In the field of digital radiography a wide variety of image 
acquisition techniques have been developed rendering a digital 
representation of a radiographic image. Among such techniques are computerised tomography, nuclear 
magnetic resonance, ultrasound detection, detection of a radiation 
image by means of a CCD sensor or a video camera, radiographic film 
scanning etc. In still another technique a radiation image, for example an X-ray 
image of an object, is stored in a screen comprising a 
photostimulable phosphor such as one of the phosphors described in 
European patent publication 503 702, published on 16.09.92 and US 
Ser. 07/842,603. The technique for reading out the stored radiation 
image consists of scanning the screen with stimulating radiation, 
such as laser light of the appropriate wavelength, detecting the 
light emitted upon stimulation and converting the emitted light into 
an electric representation for example by means of a photomultiplier 
and finally digitizing the signal. One of the benefits of a digital radiographic system resides in 
the possibility of processing the digital image representation 
before display or hard copy recording. The term "processing" in 
this context means any kind of image-processing such as noise 
filtering, contrast enhancement, data compression etc. In some digital imaging systems the same original has to be 
processed in different ways to produce multiple hard-copies or 
displays originating from the same image. These different versions 
of one image may be helpful for a radiologist in making a specific 
diagnosis.  For example different versions of one original image may be 
generated that are processed taking into account different contrast 
enhancing modifying curves or different window level settings etc. 
Time-consuming, mostly convolution or non-linear neighbourhood 
operations, such as unsharp masking for edge enhancement, have to be 
repeated if e.g. several images processed according to different 
kernel sizes have to be produced. A digital radiographic image is commonly represented by about 10 
MB digital data. The computation time required for processing such 
an amount of data may extend to orders of minutes per processing 
cycle. Hence, in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of processing a digital representation of an original 
radiographic image, comprising steps of: 


1)-transforming said image into a multiresolution representation 
which represents localised image detail at multiple scales, 
2)-storing said multiresolution representation into a memory, 
3)-producing at least two differently processed images by applying 
at least two individual processing cycles, each processing cycle 

comprising the steps of: 
4)-retrieving said multiresolution representation from said memory, 
5)-modifying the multiresolution representation at at least one 
resolution level according to a non-identity function of a 

neighbourhood of retrieved values, said neighbourhood consisting of 
values of the same resolution level which correspond to a spatially 

coherent region of pixels in said image, 
6)-obtaining a processed image by applying the inverse of said 
transform to the modified multiresolution representation. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the multiresolution 
representation is a pyramidal representation wherein the number of 

pixels in each detail image decreases at each coarser resolution 
level. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said multiresolution 
representation is obtained as a sequence of detail images at 

multiple resolution levels and a residual image at a resolution 
level lower than the minimum of said multiple resolution levels. 
A method according to claim 3 wherein the detail image at the 
finest resolution level is obtained as the pixel wise difference 

between the original image and an image obtained by low pass 
filtering the original image, and wherein the successive coarser 

resolution level detail images are obtained by taking the pixelwise 
difference between two low pass filtered versions of the original 

image, the second having a smaller bandwidth than the former. 
A method according to claim 3 

wherein the detail images at successive coarser resolution levels 
are obtained as a result of K iterations of the following steps: 


a) computing an approximation image at a next coarser level by 
 

applying a low pass filter to the approximation image corresponding 
to the current iteration, ans subsampling the result in proportion 

to the reduction in spatial frequency bandwidth, using the original 
image as input to said low pass filter in the course of the first 

iteration; 
b) computing a detail image as the pixelwise difference between the 
approximation image corresponding to the current iteration and the 

approximation image at a next coarser resolution level computed 
according to the method sub 4a;both images being brought into 

register by proper interpolation of the latter image; 
and wherein the residual image is equal to the approximation image 
produced by the last iteration, 
and wherein said processed image is computed by iterating K times 
the following procedure starting from the coarsest detail image and 

the residual image: 
computing the approximation image at the current resolution level by 

pixelwise adding the modified detail image at the same resolution 
level to the approximation image at the coarser resolution level 

corresponding to the previous iteration, both images being brought 
into register by proper interpolation of the latter image, using the 

residual image instead of the coarser approximation image in the 
course of the first iteration. 
A method according to claim 5 wherein said subsampling factor is 
2, and said low-pass filter has an impulse response which 

approximates a two-dimensional gaussian distribution. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said multiresolution 
representation comprises detail transform images at multiple 

resolution levels and a residual coefficient, each detail image 
comprising a set of transform coefficients expressing the relative 

contribution to the original image of the corresponding basis 
function out of a set of predetermined basis functions, each of said 

functions representing local detail at a specific resolution level 
and being non-periodic, and having zero mean value, and wherein said 

transform is characterised by the existence of an inverse transform 
which returns the original image or a close approximation thereof 

when being applied to said transform coefficients and said residual 
coefficient. 
A method according to claim 7 wherein said basis functions are 
 

orthogonal. 
A method according to claim 7 wherein said basis functions are 
discrete wavelets. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said radiographic image is 
stored in a photostimulable phosphor screen and wherein said digital 

image representation is obtained by scanning said screen with 
stimulating irradiation, detecting light emitted upon stimulation 

and converting said detected light into a digital representation. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said function depends on 
the value of a corresponding pixel in said original image. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said function has a slope 
that gradually decreases with increasing argument values with the 

exception of a region of lowest absolute argument values where the 
slope is constant or increasing. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said function is not 
identically defined at each resolution level in said decomposition, 

such that modifications applied to finer resolution levels ampplify 
image detail more than modifications applied to intermediate 

resolution levels. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said function is not 
identically defined at each resolution level in said decomposition, 

such that modifications applied to coarser resolution levels amplify 
image detail less than modifications applied to intermediate 

resolution levels. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said values are modified 
as a function of the estimated amount of image content and in 

accordance with an estimated noise level. 
A method according to claim 15 wherein said noise level is 
determined as the estimated noise level in each detail image. 
A method according to claim 15 wherein a set of noise 
suppression functions are computed , each being associated with one 

of said detail images, said functions being monotonically non-decreasing 
 

in one variable and parametrically depending on said 
noise variance in a non-increasing monotonic way and said 

suppression functions being positive and asymptotically reaching a 
maximum value equal to one and wherein each detail image is 

attenuated by multiplying it with an associated noise suppression 
function evaluated at an abscissa equal to said local detail image 

variance. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
