<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625085</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CRIMPER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B1788	A61B1788	B25B700	B25B716	B25B722	B25B2714	B25B2714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	B25B	B25B	B25B	B25B	B25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	B25B7	B25B7	B25B7	B25B27	B25B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A crimp tool for deforming a crimp tube (10) around wires used in surgical procedures has a pair of relatively long handles (107, 108) pivotal about a rear pivot axis (106). Each handle extends forwardly of the rear pivot axis (106) to form a rear jaw member (101a, 101b). The handles have co-operating cam surfaces formed thereon so that when the handles are pivoted towards one another, the free ends of the rear jaw members move apart. The free ends of the rear jaw members (101a, 101b) each carry an intermediate pivot (103, 104). Forward jaw members (111, 112) are pivotable about the intermediate pivot (103, 104) and are pivotable about a common forward pivot axis (110). The forward jaw members (111, 112) extend forwardly of the forward pivot axis (110) so that the forward end portions thereof may engage the crimp tube to deform it. The length of the handles (107, 108) is substantially greater than the length of the rear jaw members (101a, 101b) and the length of the forward jaw members (111, 112) is substantially greater than the length of the forward end portions thereof. Consequently, the compressive force applied by the forward end portions of the foward jaw members is substantially greater than the compressive force applied by a user to the handles (107, 108). A latching ratchet system prevents interruption of the crimping operation before an adjustable completion state. Alternatively, a visual indicator gives information concerning the pressure exerted.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HILLWAY SURGICAL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HILLWAY SURGICAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROCKARD ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUGO BRENDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELLOUL RAPHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CROCKARD, ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUGO, BRENDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MELLOUL, RAPHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CRIMPERThe present invention relates to a crimp tool for crimping a hollow tube around a wire or cable to form a joint and, in particular, to a crimp tool for use in surgical procedures.A number of surgical techniques have evolved over recent years which involve the fastening of loops of wire or thin flexible cables around bony structures. One such procedure is described in our United Kingdom patent application no. 9202635.0. This procedure involves passing at least one wire loop around the site of a fracture to support and stabilize bone fragments. The ends of the wire or cable are passed through a generally cylindrical metal crimp tube from opposite ends thereof so that they extend substantially- parallel to one another but in opposite directions through the tube. The loop is then tightened to the required degree and the tube crimped to form a permanent joint to close the loop. The free ends of the wire or cable can then be snipped off where they protrude from the crimp tube.This particular form of crimped joint is particularly advantageous in surgical procedures because, once the loop is closed, the crimp tube lies flat against underlying structures and there are no projecting wire ends which might cause damage to surrounding tissues. The commonly used alternatives are to close the loop by twisting the ends of the wire together or to form a different kind of crimp joint by passing both wire ends through the crimp tube from the same end, leaving the crimp tube projecting from the closed loop.Both of these alternative methods leave projecting wire ends but, nevertheless, have the advantage that they permit the wire loop to be closed relatively easily. The wire loop can be tightened to the required degree by further twisting of the wire ends or by sliding the crimp tube towards the bone, as the case may be. The crimp can be formed relatively easily since the tube projects away 

from the bone into 'free space' .The method described in our co-pending application, no. 9202635.0 has the advantage that it leaves no projecting wire ends but has the disadvantage that it has hitherto been more difficult to form a reliable crimp joint with the crimp tube lying flat against the bone. It will be appreciated that the crimping operation must be sufficiently reliable to minimise the risk of the loop coming undone and the bone fragments becoming free to move at the site of a fracture. It is also important that the crimping operation should not be such that it causes the loop to loosen as the crimp is formed..In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A crimp tool for deforming a crimp tube around at least one wire or cable; the tool having a pair of relatively long handles pivotable about a rear pivot axis toward and away from one another, each handle being extended forwardly of the rear pivot axis to form a rear jaw member, the handles having co-operating cam surfaces formed thereon such that pivoting of the handles towards one another causes the free ends of the rear jaw members to move apart; the free ends of the rear jaw members each carrying an intermediate pivot and the tool further comprising a pair of forward jaw members, the forward jaw members being pivotable about the intermediate pivots carried by the free ends of the rear jaw members and being pivotable about a common forward pivot axis; the forward jaw members extending forwardly of the forward pivot axis so that the forward end portions thereof may engage the crimp tube to deform it; the length of the handles being substantially greater than the length of the rear jaw members and the length of the forward jaw members being substantially greater than the length of the forward end portions thereof so that the compressive force applied by the forward end portions of the forward jaw members is substantially greater than the compressive force applied by a user to the handles.
2. A crimp tool according to claim 1 including a latching mechanism disposed between the handles, the latching mechanism including a first latching member carried by one handle and a second latching member carried by the other handle, the first and second latching members, in use, engaging one another when the forward end portions of the forward jaw members are in a partially-closed position and being so arranged that they cannot be disengaged from one another until the forward end portions of the forward jaw members have been moved together to a predetermined fully closed position. 


3. A crimp tool for deforming a crimp tube around at least one wire or cable, the tool having a pair of handles pivotable toward and away from one another to bring a pair of opposed jaws into engagement with a crimp tube to crimp it, the tool including a first latching member carried by one handle and a second latching member carried by the other handle, the first and second latching members, in use, engaging one another when the jaws are in a partially-closed position and being so arranged that they cannot be disengaged from one another until the jaws have been moved together to a predetermined fully closed position.
4. Apparatus according to claim 2 or 3 in which the first latching member includes a plate carrying at least one ratchet tooth and the second latching member includes a pair of opposed parallel tabs each bearing at least one co-operating ratchet tooth, pivoting movement of the handles toward one another being such as to bring the plate between the pair of opposed tabs at the partially-closed position so that the interengagement of the ratchet teeth prevents withdrawal of the plate from between the tabs, the plate being displaceable laterally of the tabs in the fully closed position so as to permit the handles to move apart again.
5. Apparatus according to any of claims 2 to 4 in which at least one of the first and second latching members is provided with a plurality of ratchet teeth so as to permit the handles to be retained by the interengagement of the teeth in a plurality of predetermined positioned.
6. Apparatus according to any preceding claim further including indicator means for providing a visual indication as to when the handles have been pivoted toward one another to the fully closed position.
7. A crimp tool for deforming a crimp tube around at least one wire or cable, the tool including indicator means for providing a visual indication as to when the handles have been pivoted toward one another to the fully closed position. 


8. Apparatus according to claim 6 or 7 in which the indicator means includes a first indicator member mounted on one handle and projecting towards the other, and a second indicator member carried by the other handle and projecting towards the first handle, the first and second indicators and indicator members being so arranged that as the handles are pivoted towards one another, the first and second indicator members slide one over the other; at least one of the indicator members being provided with at least one indicator marking with which the end of the other indicator member is aligned in the fully closed position.
9. Apparatus according to any preceding claim in which the forward end portions of the forward jaw members engageable with the crimp tube are shaped to define 
"
co-operating die surfaces which in use extend substantially parallel to the length of the crimp tube, the forward jaw members being so shaped that no part thereof extends forwardly of the die surfaces.
10. Apparatus according to any preceding claim in which the said co-operating die surfaces are shaped to form complementary concave and convex surfaces curved along a direction transverse to the crimp tube.
11. Apparatus according to any preceding claim in which the said co-operating die surfaces are shaped to form complementary concave and convex surfaces curved along a direction longitudinally to the crimp tube.
12. A crimp tool for deforming a crimp tube around at least one wire or cable, the crimp tube being substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any of Figures 2 to 7. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
