<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640395</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Plate position measuring system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21D130	G01B714	D21D100	G01B714	G01B700	B02C714	G01B700	B02C700	D21B100	D21B114	D21D100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21D	G01B	D21D	G01B	G01B	B02C	G01B	B02C	D21B	D21B	D21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21D1	G01B7	D21D1	G01B7	G01B7	B02C7	G01B7	B02C7	D21B1	D21B1	D21D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus is disclosed for 
calibrating a gap sensing probe (12) in a refiner having 

first (76) and second (80) grinding plates facing each 
other and supported by respective first and second plate 

holders, each grinding plate having a face (78, 82) 
defining a grinding gap (86). The gap measuring device, 

which is secured within one of the plates, includes a 
sensor probe (12) for measuring gap width data having a 

substantially cylindrical tip (14) with a flat frontal 
portion (16), an attached conical portion (18) and a 

longitudinal axis (20) therebetween. A cable (22) is 
electrically connected to the conical portion of the 

probe, for transmitting the gap width data. A protective 
sleeve (24) can be positioned around and contact the 

cylindrical tip, wherein the flat frontal portion of the 
tip is exposed through the sleeve. A substantially 

crucible-shaped ceramic housing (28) having a closed 
front (30), an open back (32) is provided, wherein the 

flat frontal portion of the tip abuts the front of the 

housing and the cable protrudes from the rear of the 
housing. A threaded mounting adapter (42) is situated 

around the housing and an adapter plug (60) is situated 
within the mounting adapter. The housing, the mounting 

adapter, and the adapter plug have flanges (38, 48, 68) 
and shoulders (52) which interact so as to prevent 

movement of the housing. In the preferred embodiment, 
the probe is calibrated from the rear of the housing by 

turning the probe by the threaded mounting adapter. The 
calibration can be completed without actually measuring 

the plate gap width by rotating the probe through threads 
which are of a known and predetermined width. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPROUT BAUER INC ANDRITZ
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANDRITZ SPROUT-BAUER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLSHOUSE GARY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAWTHERN JAMES E JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS RANDALL K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLSHOUSE, GARY W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAWTHERN, JAMES E., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOPKINS, RANDALL K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to devices used
to measure a variable gap between two relatively rotating
surfaces, and more particularly to devices used to
measure and control the gap between refining surfaces in
a wood pulp refining system.The paper industry uses grinding machines,
commonly known as refiners, to convert wood chips into
wood pulp. These refiners have co-axially mounted
rotating grinding plates with a narrow gap therebetween.
Refiners are of several designs. The first has a
stationary plate and a rotating plate. The second has a
single double sided plate in between two stationary
plates. A third has two rotating plates. Wood chips are
introduced between the plates, where grooves in the
grinding plates tear the wood fibers apart, finally
converting the chips into pulp.The gap between the rotating plates is very
important. For example, the gap size and shape directly
affects the quality and consistency of the wood pulp.
The plate gap, which is measured in thousandths of an
inch, must be uniformly maintained during the conversion
process to ensure constant wood pulp quality.This gap width is difficult to control for
several reasons. First, the wood chips are very rough
and tend to wear away the plate surface, thus increasing
the gap size. If the gap becomes too large, the wood
pulp becomes coarser. This results in inconsistent wood
pulp quality. Second, if the plate gap is too small, the
plates may clash in an undesirable fashion due to metal-on-metal
contact.Various probes have been invented which attempt
to measure this plate gap to ensure optimal working
conditions. One probe is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No.
4,820,980 to Dodson-Edgars. Dodson-Edgars discloses a
method and apparatus for measuring the plate gap, tram,
deflection, and wear of the rotating plates, wherein
inductive sensors are mounted in a recessed inset. These
sensors can measure this important data; however, these 
sensors are exposed to the harsh environment of the high
temperature steam and chemicals, as well as contact by
wood chips. Such sensors have tips which deteriorate and
must be routinely replaced. The replaced tips must be
accurately positioned and calibrated, but a drawback of
the Dodson-Edgars probe is that its calibration is quite
complicated. The calibration of this probe requires
determining several coefficient values. This is time
consuming, and, hence costly. Other examples of prior art according to the
preamble of claim 1 herein can be found for example in US-A-4 950 986 and
US-A-4 878 020.It is an object of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A non-contacting gap measuring device of the
type having a probe assembly means (10) comprising an eddy

current detector for generating a signal indicative of
a particular gap, characterized in that the probe means

has a non-metallic, non-magnetic ceramic wear resistant
housing (28).
The non-contacting gap measuring device of
claim 1, wherein the housing is a zirconium ceramic.
The non-contacting gap measuring device of
claim 1 or 2, in combination with:


a mounting adapter (42) having a generally
cylindrical shape; and
an adapter plug (60) having a generally cylindrical
shape sufficiently small to fit in the mounting adapter;

and
wherein the probe assembly is held by mechanical
force between the mounting adapter and adapter plug.
A non-contacting gap measuring device of claim
1 or 2 wherein:


the probe means comprises a sensing means (14) for
the eddy current measuring of gap width data, the

sensing means having a tip with a frontal portion (16)
and a back portion (18) and a side surface (12)

extending between the front and back portions,
transmitting means (22) electrically connected to the

back portion of the sensing means for transmitting the
gap width data;
a sleeve means (24) at least partially
encapsulating the side surface of the sensing means tip;
sealing means (26) encapsulating the back portion
of the sensing means and encapsulating a portion of the

transmitting means; and 
the non-metallic, non-magnetic wear resistant
ceramic housing encapsulating the sleeve means and the

frontal portion of the sensing means tip, and partially
encapsulating the sealing means and the transmitting

means.
A refiner of the type having first and second
grinding plates (76, 80) facing each other and supported

by respective first and second plate holders (75, 77),
each grinding plate having a face (78, 82) defining one

side of a grinding gap (86), a bore (77) passing through
the first plate holder to the first grinding plate, a

probe assembly means (10) carried in the bore by one
plate holder for measuring the grinding gap and

comprising an eddy current detector for generating a signal indicative
of a particular gap

characterized in that:

the probe assembly has a displacement sensing tip
(14) surrounded by a non-metallic non-magnetic, wear

resistant ceramic housing (28) at one end and means (42)
at the other end for securing the probe assembly to and

displacing the probe assembly in the plate holder;
means for locking (72) the probe assembly as
secured at a particular position in the first plate

holder; and
a means for performing a measurement and recording
a signal value commensurate with the distance between

the tip and the second grinding plate.
The refiner of claim 5 wherein:

the means for securing the probe assembly to and
displacing the probe assembly in the plate holder can

move the probe assembly a known distance from a grinding
surface without changing said gap.
The refiner of claim 5 or 6 wherein:

the probe assembly is mounted through the bore in
the st
ationary plate so as to be recessed relative to
the stationary plate grinding surface.
A method for calibrating a gap sensing
probe assembly (10)

in a refiner having first and second grinding
plates (76, 78) facing each other and supported by

respective first and second plate holders (75, 77), each
grinding plate having a face (78, 82) defining one side

of a grinding gap (86), characterised by:

installing the probe (99) through the first plate
holder (75) and into the first grinding plate (76), the

probe having a displacement sensing tip (14) at one end
and a locking means (72) for securing the probe to the

first plate holder at the other end;
securing the probe (99) in the first plate holder
(75) by tightening the locking means (72);
moving the refiner plates (76, 78) until the first
grinding plate face (78) contacts the second grinding

plate face (82) to eliminate the gap (86);
loosening the probe locking means (72);
moving the probe (99) within the first plate (76)
until the tip (30) contacts the second plate (78);
performing a measurement and recording the signal
value so as to set a probe zero position;
withdrawing the probe (99) a first predetermined
distance;
securing the locking means (72);
performing another measurement and recording
another signal value so as to set a probe span;
moving the probe (99) within the first plate (76)
until the tip (30) contacts the second plate (78);
withdrawing the probe (99) a second predetermined
distance;
securing the locking means (72);
reading a gap measurement between the probe (99)
and the second plate (78); and
confirming that the measured gap equals the second
predetermined distance.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
