<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656124</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF AND APPARATUS FOR NMR TESTING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3348	G01R3354	A61B5055	G01R33565	G01R3320	A61B5055	G01R33561	G01R3320	G01R3348	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	A61B	G01R	G01R	A61B	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01R33	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a method of and apparatus for NMR testing in wich an object to be imaged is subjected to a magnetic field, the field having a gradient component for encoding spatial information about the object, applying excitation pulses at selected intervals to excite nuclear magnetic resonance, (at least two of the intervals and the encoding gradient component during those intervals being selected such that, for such intervals, the values of the integral of the gradient component with respect to the interval duration are proportioned according to consecutive powers of an integer, I, greater than two); and detecting the resonance response signals. The invention in one embodiment overcomes disadvantages suffered by the prior art in that no special equipment is required to switch rapidly oscillating field gradients.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECH GROUP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECHNOLOGY GROUP LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUNSELL CHRISTOPHER JOHN ROBE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUNSELL, CHRISTOPHER, JOHN, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of and apparatus for nuclear magnetic resonance
(NMR) testing an object. The invention has particular application to the generation of
images of animals or humans by NMR.NMR imaging techniques are well-known. One such technique is described in a
paper entitled "Planar Spin Imaging by NMR", P. Mansfield and A.A. Maudsley (J. Magn.
Resonance, 27, pp 101-119). Another technique is known as the "Echo Planar Imaging"
(EPI) technique, and is disclosed in United Kingdom Patent No. 1596160 to the National
Research Development Corporation (now British Technology Group Ltd.). This technique
involves subjecting the object to be tested to a magnetic field which includes three mutually
orthogonal gradient components for encoding spatial information about the object. One of
the gradient components has an oscillatory waveform. A radiofrequency excitation pulse
is applied to the object in the presence of the magnetic field. The oscillating gradient
causes resonance response echoes to be formed subsequent to the application of the
excitation pulse. Detection of these echoes rapidly yields an image of the object.The EPI technique suffers from the drawback that the oscillating gradient
component is required to oscillate at a frequency so high that special and expensive
hardware is required to effect the requisite rapid gradient switchings.In an abstract of the 11th Annual Meeting of the SMRM, August
8-14, 1992, Berlin, Germany, appearing on page 433 of vol. 1
of the book of abstracts, the QUEST technique is described by
Heid and Deimling in which NMR imaging signals are generated
along different coherence transfer pathways by a sequence of
rf excitation pulses applied in the presence of a constant
readout gradient. From fig. 2 of the abstract it appears that
the time intervals between rf pulses splitting the coherence
transfer pathways are proportioned according to the sequence
1:4:12:36 etc. (only three such intervals are shown in fig. 2
of the abstract). The sequence generates a plurality of
equally spaced resonance signals (numbered 1-8 in fig. 3 of
the abstract) as well as a number of spurious signals, in between
some of the equidistant signals, which are discarded
for reconstruction.The same technique is disclosed in EP-A-0 560 168 (prior art
according to Article 54(3) EPC) in which document the first
rf excitation pulse is specified to be a 90° pulse.According to the present invention, there is provided a method of NMR testing an
object, comprising  
subjecting the object to a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of nuclear magnetic resonance testing an object comprising:

subjecting the object to a static magnetic field, the field having
a time varying gradient component for encoding spatial information

about the object,
applying excitation rf pulses at selected intervals to excite nuclear
magnetic resonance, the first excitation rf pulse being a

non-90° pulse,
selecting the encoding gradient component during at least the
first three consecutive intervals such that the values of the time

integral of the gradient component with respect to the respective
interval duration are proportioned according to any permutation of

distinct, consecutive powers of an integer I, where I is greater
than two, and
detecting the resonance response signals generated along different
coherence transfer pathways by at least the excitation rf pulses

applied at said first three consecutive intervals.
A method according to Claim 1 wherein said time varying gradient component and/or the excitation
pulses are adjusted to provide the desired resonance response signals.
A method according to Claim 2 wherein the adjustment is based on experimentally
predetermined information.
A method according to Claim 2 or 3 wherein the adjustment is to provide the
desired timing for the signals.
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein resonance response
signals are adjusted after detection.
A method according to Claim 5 wherein the adjustment is carried out before Fourier
transformation.
A method according to Claim 5 or 6 wherein the phase, timing and/or amplitude of
the resonance response signals are adjusted.
A method according to Claim 5, 6 or 7 wherein the adjustment is based on
experimentally predetermined information.
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein the time interval between
the excitation pulse terminating the last interval the time integral of the gradient component with respect to which is proportioned according to a power of I and a succeeding

excitation pulse is less than I
L
.t
min
, where L is the number of intervals the time integral of the gradient component with respect to which
is proportioned according to any permutation of consecutive powers of I and t
min
 is the
smallest such interval.
A method according to Claim 9 in which said time interval is 
equal to  (I
L
+1) / 2.t
min
.
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein the gradient component
is substantially constant during the intervals the time integral of the gradient component with respect to which

is proportioned according to any permutation of consecutive powers of I, and the intervals themselves are proportioned
according to any permutation of said consecutive powers.
A method according to any of Claims 1 to 9 wherein said gradient component is
zero during each excitation pulse adjacent the intervals the time integral of the gradient component with respect to which is proportioned according to any permutation of consecutive powers of I, rises in each such interval for a

rise time t, to a value which is equal for each such interval, remains at such value for a
dwell time t
2
 and falls back to zero for a fall time t
3
, and the respective values of t
2
+(t
1
+t
3
)/2
for each such interval are proportioned according to said consecutive powers.
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein said gradient
component is a read gradient component and is zero during each excitation pulse adjacent

intervals the time integral of the gradient component with respect to which is proportioned according
to any permutation of consecutive powers of I.
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein a further excitation

pulse is applied to refocus the resonance response signals.
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein slice selection is
performed via a non-filtering gradient pulse.
A method according to Claim 15 wherein a slice selection excitation pulse is applied
during the gradient pulse, and the integral of the gradient pulse with respect to time up to

the centre of the slice selection excitation pulse and the equivalent integral taken after the
centre are both equal to zero. 
Apparatus for nuclear magnetic resonance testing an object comprising:

means (10) for subjecting the object to a static magnetic field
and to a time varying gradient component for encoding spatial information

about the object,
means (14,18,20) for applying excitation rf pulses at selected intervals
to excite nuclear magnetic resonance, the first excitation

rf pulse being a non-90° pulse,
means (14) arranged for selecting the encoding gradient component
during at least the first three consecutive intervals such that

the values of the time integral of the gradient component with respect
to the respective interval duration are proportioned according

to any permutation of distinct, consecutive powers of an integer
I, where I is greater than two, and
means (20,22) for detecting the resonance response signals generated
along different coherence transfer pathways by at least the

excitation rf pulses applied at said first three consecutive intervals.
Apparatus according to Claim 17 further comprising storage means (36) in which is
stored information concerning how to adjust the time varying gradient component and/or the excitation pulses

to provide the desired resonance response signals, and means (40) for so adjusting the gradient component
and/or pulses.
Apparatus according to Claim 17 or 18 wherein the time interval between the
excitation pulse terminating the last interval the time integral of the gradient component with respect to which is

proportioned according to a power of I and a succeeding excitation pulse
is less than I
L
.t
min
, where L is the number of intervals the time integral of the gradient component with respect to
which is proportioned according to any permutation of consecutive powers of I and t
min
 is the smallest such interval.
Apparatus according to Claim 19 wherein said time interval is
equal to  (I
L
+1) / 2.t
min
.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 17 to 20 wherein the application means (14,
18,20) is arranged to apply a further excitation pulse to refocus the resonance response

signals.
Apparatus according to any of Claims 17 to 21 further comprising means for
performing slice selection via a non-filtering gradient pulse.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
