<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646204</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRYWELL COVER AND DRYWELL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E03F300	E03F302	E03F510	E03F510	E04B100	E04B100	E04D1304	E04D1308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E03F	E03F	E03F	E03F	E04B	E04B	E04D	E04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E03F3	E03F3	E03F5	E03F5	E04B1	E04B1	E04D13	E04D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drywell cover to cover a drywell and a drywell system employing the drywell and cover wherein the drywell cover comprises a base cover having a raised, central wall section such as a round cylinder and an open inner section and a plurality of at least three therein supporting rib elements on the top surface of the base cover and extending from the periphery of the base cover to the raised wall section.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWL 1990 TRUST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWL 1990 TRUST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLORENCE THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLORENCE, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 _ι_DESC IPTIONDrywell Cover and DrywellReference to Prior ApplicationThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Appln. S.N. 07/619,115, filed November 28, 1990, to COMPOSITE DRYWELL, DRYWELL SYSTEM AND METHOD.Background of the InventionThe control and flow of surface water such as rain water is important in preventing the buildup of surface water adjacent foundations of other structures. Generally, drywells are employed to store large quantities of surface water therein and to discharge the surface water beneath the ground away from the foundation wall or structure and over a defined distribution area. Typically, drywells are composed of heavy, precast concrete structures, generally cylindrical in shape, but may also be square or rectangular, with one or more side wall holes of large diameter for inlet and outlet pipe. A plurality of generally smaller diameter holes, are usually uniformly distributed over a substantial part of the side walls and, precast in the cylindrical concrete wall, permit the drainage of water radially outward from the drywell. Typically, the drywell includes a heavy, solid, concrete bottom and top cover, such as a removable bottom and top cover. Generally, the top cover may have an opening therein in the top surface to serve as an opening with or without a grate for receiving surface water or the bottom cover may have an opening therein for the discharge of water.The parent application is directed to a composite drywell and drywell system and method for employing a composite drywell, which composite drywell has a removable top and bottom section. The drywell is composed of a plurality of separate edge interlocked arcuate wall sections, which together form the peripheral wall of the drywell. Each section having a one side edge with an opening extending substantially the length of the side edge and the other side edge having a beaded side edge, or other means, for interlocking the side edges of related sections together, typically to form a cylindrical drywell wall. The sections have a plurality of large and small diameter, or other, ports for the introduction and distribution ofSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

water from the drywell. The composite drywell comprises an injection-molded plastic or polymeric drywell, which is lightweight and, with the arcuate sections, may be easily stored together in a nesting-type arrangement for easy transport. Such composite drywell may include removable top and bottom sections which may be fitted to the top and bottom of the drywell.It is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS Claim 1. A cover for a drywell, which cover comprises: a) a base cover having an outer periphery and a top and bottom surface and which base cover extends over the drywell to be covered; b) a generally central, raised, wall section of defined height extending from the top surface of the base cover and defining an inner section; and c) a plurality of at least three, generally uniformly, radially distributed, raised supporting rib elements on the top surface and extending between the outer periphery of the top surface and raised wall section to provide support for the raised wall section to provide a drywell cover adapted to be employed as a top or bottom cover on a drywell.
Claim 2. The cover of Claim 1 wherein the base cover is circular and the raised wall section is a raised cylinder.
Claim 3. The cover of Claim 2 wherein the raised cylinder wall section has a diameter ranging from about 4 to 12 inches.
Claim 4. The cover of Claim 2 wherein the raised wall section is generally circular and defines an open, circular, inner section.
Claim 5. The cover of Claim 2 wherein the inner section of the wall section includes a knock-out plastic cover with mechanically weakened supports, which knock-out cover is adapted to be easily removed to open the inner section.
Claim 6. The cover of Claim 1 wherein the raised rib sections are generally triangular in shape and extend generally perpendicularly and uniformly upwardly from the top surface.
Claim 7. The cover of Claim 1 which includes solid, rod-like elements extending generally perpendicularly from the top surface of the base cover and on the periphery where the rib elements extend inwardly.
Claim 8. The cover of Claim 6 wherein the raised rib sections extend generally to the defined height of the raised wall section.
Claim 9. The cover of Claim 1 wherein the inner section of the raised wall section is open for the introduction of surface water and which includes a grate element in the inner section.
Claim 10. The cover of Claim 1 wherein the raised wall section is generally rectangular, and which includes four raised rib elements extending from the outer periphery of the base cover, and each rib
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


element generally perpendicular to each respective, raised, wall, section.
Claim 11. The cover of Claim 1 wherein the raised wall section has a defined height of about 6 to 18 inches from the base cover.
Claim 12. A composite drywell which comprises a plurality of arcuate, edge-interlocked, plastic, wall sections to form a cylindrical drywell wall, the composite drywell having the drywell cover of Claim 1.
Claim 13. A composite drywell which comprises: a) three arcuate plastic sections having interlocked edges to form a cylindrical drywell wall; and b) a drywell top cover of Claim 7 which includes three raised rib elements and with the three rod-like elements at the peripheral end of the rib elements positioned directly over the top of the respective three interlocked edges.
Claim 14. A drywell which comprises a drywell to receive water therein and which drywell includes the drywell cover of Claim 1.
Claim 15. A drywell drainage system for the collection and distribution of surface water and which system comprises: a) a water source; b) a drywell positioned beneath the ground to receive water from the water source; and c) the drywell containing the drywell cover of Claim 1.
Claim 16. A plastic, molded drywell cover for a cylindrical drywell, which cover comprises: a) a base cover having a circular periphery and a top surface and which cover has a diameter sufficient to cover the top or bottom of the drywell with which the cover is to be used; b) a raised, cylindrical wall section having a defined height of about 6 to 18 inches and a diameter of about 4 to 12 inches extending from the top surface of the base cover and generally, centrally disposed thereof and having an inner section which is open, or adapted to be opened; and c) three or four generally uniformly, radially distributed, raised, supporting, rib elements of generally raised, triangular, shape integral with and extending between the outer periphery of the base cover and the raised, cylindrical wall section; the
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 rib element angled upwardly from the outer periphery to about 50% or more of the defined height of the raised, cylindrical, wall section.
Claim 17. A cylindrical drywell which includes the drywell cover of Claim 16 as a top cover.
Claim 18. A cylindrical drywell which includes the cover of Claim 16 and which also includes a cylindrical pipe, the end of the pipe snugly fitting into the base cylindrical wall section for the introduction of water into the interior of the drywell.
Claim 19. A cylindrical drywell which includes the cover of Claim 16 and which includes a grate-type surface on the inner sections of the raised cylindrical wall section.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
