<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643984</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PLAYING MACHINE ISLAND, PLAYING GROUND FACILITIES IN WHICH SAID PLAYING MACHINE ISLAND IS INSTALLED, AND FLOORING BLOCK MATERIAL USED FOR SAID FACILITIES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F700	A63F702	A63F702	A63F736	G07F1732	G07F1732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F7	A63F7	A63F7	A63F7	G07F17	G07F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Playing ground facilities comprising one or more playing machine islands each (1) comprising in turn a plurality of apparatuses 
mounted adjacent to each other and including at least a plurality of playing machines (11), and a floor (31) on which said 

playing machine islands are installed. These playing machine islands each comprise island pillar units (10) adapted to secure and 
support each apparatus and disposed in two rows to constitute a playing machine island body, a base frame (22) mounted on the 

floor for securing and supporting said island pillars, and a plurality of projecting frames (21) disposed along the longitudinal direction 
of base frames at predetermined intervals and attached to said base frames in a state in which they intersect said base 

frames transversely of said base frames. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACE DENKEN KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA ACE DENKEN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWASHIMA KAZUNARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEMOTO TAKATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWASHIMA, KAZUNARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEMOTO, TAKATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to gaming machine islands, each 
comprising a plurality of gaming machines placed side by side, 
gaming house facilities where the gaming machine islands are 
installed, and floor block members to form a double floor 
structure in the gaming house. A plurality of gaming machine islands each comprising a 
plurality of gaming machines placed side by side are situated in a 
gaming house. Hitherto, a gaming machine island has been installed on the 
floor of a gaming house as follows: First, marks indicating 
positions at which the corners of the island are to be placed are 
drawn on the floor. Next, support members for supporting the 
gaming machine island are placed according to the marks. Holes  
 
are bored in the floor with a drill, and the island is then fixed 
with anchors for each support member. After the gaming machine island is installed, chairs, one 
corresponding to each gaming machine in the island, are fixed on 
the floor. Thus, additionally, holes are bored in the floor and the 
chairs are attached. By the way, signal and power cables are connected to the 
gaming machine island. These cables are hung from the ceiling 
for wiring purpose for reasons that there is a danger that players 
may stumble over the cables, that exposed cables will spoil the 
appearance of the interior of the gaming house, etc. For example, 
the cables are trained over the ceiling and passed through the 
inside of a stainless pipe extending from the ceiling to the island 
top, for wiring purpose. However, such conventional art involves fixing the support 
members for forming the gaming machine island on the floor and 
the additional installation of chairs; it is cumbersome and takes 
time, increasing execution costs. Also, the conventional art involves training the signal and 
power cables, etc., over the ceiling and bringing down the wiring 
to the island top from the ceiling; excessive equipment is 
installed on the ceiling of the gaming house and there is a danger 
of spoiling the appearance of the interior of the gaming house. It is therefore a first object of the invention to provide a 
gaming machine island that can be installed on a floor of a gaming 
house rapidly and easily for reducing execution costs and gaming 
house facilities where the gaming machine island is installed. It is a second object of the invention to provide a gaming 
machine island for facilitating installation of chairs and gaming 
house facilities where the gaming machine island is installed. It is a third object of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Gaming house facilities having one or more gaming 
machine islands each comprising a plurality of machines 

containing at least a plurality of gaming machines placed side by 
side and a floor on which the gaming machine islands are placed, 

which are characterized by: 
   an island pillar unit for fixing and supporting the machines 

and placing the machines in two rows for forming the gaming 
machine island; 

   a base frame being installed on the floor for fixing and 
supporting said island pillar unit; and 

   a plurality of extending frames being placed at 
predetermined intervals along a length direction of said base 

frame and being attached to said base frame in a condition of 
crossing said base frame in a width direction thereof. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 1 
wherein said extending frames are attached to positions being in 

contact with the floor. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 2 
wherein said extending frames are placed corresponding to 

positions at which the gaming machines are placed. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 3 
wherein each of said extending frames has a horizontal part being 

 
in contact with the floor and vertical parts formed vertically at 

ends of the horizontal part. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 4 
wherein 

   said gaming machine island has chairs being in a one-to-one 
relationship with said gaming machine 

   said chairs having a seat and a support for supporting the 
seat, and wherein 

   each of said vertical parts of said extending frame has an 
end as a support reception part for supporting said support. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 5 further 
including a plurality of block members spread all over the floor 

for forming a second floor face on a top of said block members, 
   each of said block members consisting of a top part 

providing the second floor face separately from said floor face 
and leg parts extending downward from said top part for 

supporting said top part in a substantially horizontal condition. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 6 
wherein each of said block members has a height virtually 

substantially equivalent to that of said base frame. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 7 
wherein the leg parts of said block member each have a length 

 
such that a height of a space between a rear face of the top and a 

floor face which is provided by the leg parts is greater than a 
height of the horizontal part of said extending frame from the 

floor face. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 8 
wherein the horizontal parts of said extending frames are each 

housed in a space between the rear face of the top of said block 
member and the floor face. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 9 
wherein said block members each have the top part of a form and 

size that can surround said base frame without any clearance 
when they are spread on the surroundings of said base frame. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 5 
wherein each of said extending frames is integrally formed by the 

horizontal and vertical parts as a unit. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 12 
wherein each of said extending frames is made of a pipe. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 8 
further including signal and power cables connected to said 

gaming machine islands, said signal and power cables being 
housed in the space between the rear face of the top of said block 

members and the floor face. 
A gaming machine island comprising a plurality of 
machines containing at least a plurality of gaming machines 

placed side by side and being placed in a gaming house, which is 
characterized by: 

   an island pillar unit for fixing and supporting the machines 
and placing the machines in two rows for forming the gaming 

machine island; 
   a base frame being installed on the floor for fixing and 

supporting said island pillar unit; and 
   a plurality of extending frames being placed at 

predetermined intervals along a length direction of said base 
frame and being attached to said base frame in a condition of 

crossing said base frame in a width direction thereof. 
The gaming house facilities as claimed in claim 14 
further including a plurality of game play media lending machines 

as the machines, said game play media lending machines being 
placed alternately with the gaming machines in a row. 
A plurality of block members spread all over a floor of a 
gaming house for forming a second floor face on a top of said 

block members, 
   each of said block members consisting of a top part 

providing the second floor face separately from said floor face 
and leg parts extending downward from said top part for 

supporting said top part in a substantially horizontal condition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
