<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639284</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW LOSS RECIRCULATION APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05F110	G05F156	H01F708	H01F718	H02H904	H02H904	H02P700	H02P700	H03K1700	H03K1700	H03K1708	H03K1708	H03K170814	H03K17695	H03K17695	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05F	G05F	H01F	H01F	H02H	H02H	H02P	H02P	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05F1	G05F1	H01F7	H01F7	H02H9	H02H9	H02P7	H02P7	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	H03K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low loss recirculation apparatus for recirculating current through an inductive load (101) includes an active recirculation circuit. The low loss recirculation apparatus includes a control device (201) with a drive output (203) that provides a drive signal (205), and a recirculate output (207) that provides a recirculation signal (209). A device (103) provides drive current, along a path (109), to the inductive load (101) responsive to the drive signal (205). A gated recirculation circuit (202), recirculates current, along a path (115), through the inductive load (101) responsive to the recirculation signal (209).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLOLID GREGORY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELLI CHRISTOPHER JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINGER MARC D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLOLID, GREGORY, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELLI, CHRISTOPHER, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINGER, MARC, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LOW LOSS RECIRCULATION APPARATUSField of the InventionThis invention is generally directed to the field of inductive load based drive circuits, and particularly to drive circuits for recirculating current in an inductive load.Background of the InventionMany contemporary inductive load drivers that provide drive current from a power supply include provision for periodically recirculating current in an inductive load. This is in order to reduce power dissipation of the driver while maintaining operative current through the load, and also to optimize the physical performance of the load. These loads may include direct current motors, electromechanical solenoids, electromechanical actuators, and other inductive loads. These loads are typically energized by a drive circuit that provides current to the particular load. Drive circuits, or drivers, come in many varieties ranging from simple solenoid drivers to complex bridge circuits. The more complex circuits not only activate and deactivate the load but control it's action precisely to overcome inherent mechanical deficiencies. Some of these drivers have the capability to recirculate current through the load to effectively prolong the drive action after the drive current provided from the power supply is removed. Referring to FIG. 1, a prior art inductive load driver is shown.A control module 100 has an output 102 that provides a control signal 104 with a drive state 106 and a recirculation state 108. An 

inductive load 101 is provided drive current from a power supply terminal 105, through a transistor 103 along a drive path 109, to a second power supply terminal 111. This action is controlled by the drive state 106 of the control signal 104 provided at an input, or control terminal 107 from the control module 100.When this path 109 is deactivated, by applying recirculation state 108 of the control signal 104 at terminal 107, the transistor 103 is turned off and a recirculating path 115 is invoked. This recirculating path 115 includes the inductive load 101 and a conducting diode 113. Because, under this circumstance, the diode 113 has a forward voltage drop, the diode 113 will dissipate power while the recirculating current is active. For small currents this is generally not a significant issue. However, with inductive loads that require larger drive currents, thereby larger recirculating currents, this power dissipation becomes a very significant problem. For instance with a recirculation current of 100 amps, and a forward voltage drop of 1.0 volts the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A low loss recirculation apparatus for recirculating current through an inductive load, said apparatus comprising: control means having a drive output for providing a drive signal, and a recirculate output for providing a recirculation signal; means for providing drive current, coupled to the drive output of said control means, wherein responsive to the drive signal, drive current is provided to said inductive load; and gated recirculation means for recirculating current, coupled to the recirculate output of said control means, wherein responsive to the recirculation signal, current is recirculated through said inductive load. 

2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said gated recirculation means comprises a three terminal device having a control terminal coupled for receiving said recirculation signal, and two current conducting output terminals, coupled across said inductive load, wherein responsive to the recirculation signal current is recirculated through said inductive load and the two current conducting output terminals.
3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein said gated recirculation means comprises a field effect transistor having a gate terminal, a drain terminal, and a source terminal, and in response to the recirculation signal, at the gate terminal, current is recirculated between the source and drain terminals and said inductive load.
4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 further comprising passive recirculation means coupled across said inductive load, also for recirculating said current when said means for providing drive current is not providing current to said inductive load, and when said gated recirculation means is not recirculating current in said inductive load.
5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4 wherein said passive recirculation means comprises a diode having an anode and a cathode coupled across said inductive load. 

6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said gated recirculation means comprises a three terminal device including a field effect transistor having a gate terminal, a drain terminal, and a source terminal, and passive recirculation means, provided as part of said field effect transistor, including a diode having an anode coupled to the source terminal of said field effect transistor, and a cathode coupled to the drain terminal of said field effect transistor, wherein said current is recirculated through said passive recirculation means and said inductive load only when said means for providing drive current and said gated recirculation means are not providing current to said inductive load, and in response to the recirculation signal, at the gate terminal, current is recirculated between the source and drain terminals and said inductive load. 

7. A low loss recirculation apparatus for recirculating current through an inductive load having two terminals, said apparatus comprising: control means having a drive output for providing a drive signal, and a recirculate output for providing a recirculation signal; driver means having an input terminal, a supply terminal, and a drive terminal, wherein the input terminal is coupled to the drive output of said control means for receiving the drive signal, the supply terminal is coupled to a to be provided power source, and the output terminal is coupled to a first of the two terminals of said inductive load, and wherein drive current is provided to said inductive load from the drive terminal, corresponding to power supplied to the supply terminal from the to be provided power source when the input terminal receives the drive signal; and transistor means having a control terminal, a first output terminal, and a second output terminal, wherein the control terminal is coupled to the recirculate output of said control means for receiving the recirculate control signal, the first output terminal is coupled to the first of the two terminals of said inductive load, and the second output terminal is coupled to the second of the two terminals of said inductive load, and wherein responsive to the recirculation signal, said current is recirculated through said inductive load, in a path including the first terminal of said transistor means, the first terminal of said inductive load, the second terminal of said inductive load and the second terminal of said transistor means. 



 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 further comprising passive recirculation means coupled across said inductive load, also for recirculating said current when said driver means is not providing current to said inductive load, and when said gated recirculation means is not recirculating current in said inductive load.
9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 8 wherein said passive recirculation means comprises a diode having an anode and a cathode coupled across said inductive load. 

10. A low loss recirculation apparatus for recirculating current through an inductive load, said apparatus comprising: control means having a drive output for providing a drive control signal, and a recirculate output for providing a recirculate control signal; means for providing drive current, coupled to the recirculate output, and the drive output of said control means, wherein responsive to the recirculate control signal, and the drive control signal, current is provided through a drive path including said inductive load; gated recirculation means for recirculating current, coupled to the recirculate output, and the drive output of said control means, wherein responsive to the recirculate control signal, and the drive control signal current is recirculated through a slow recirculation path including said inductive load; and second means for recirculating current, coupled to the recirculate output, and the drive output of said control means, wherein responsive to the recirculate control signal, and the drive control signal current is recirculated through a fast recirculation path including said inductive load. 

11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 10 wherein said gated recirculation means for recirculating current comprises a field effect transistor having a gate terminal, a drain terminal, and a source terminal, and in response to the recirculate control signal, and the drive control signal current is recirculated through said slow recirculation path including said drain terminal, and a source terminal, of said field effect transistor.
12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11 further comprising passive recirculation means coupled across said inductive load, also for recirculating said current when said means for providing drive current is not providing current to said inductive load, and when said gated recirculation means, and said second means for recirculating current, are not recirculating current in said inductive load.
13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12 wherein said passive recirculation means comprises a diode having an anode and a cathode coupled across said inductive load. 

14. A low loss recirculation bridge apparatus for recirculating current through an inductive load having two terminals, said bridge apparatus comprising: a first power terminal, and a second power terminal, said terminals for supplying current to said inductive load from a to be provided power supply; control means having a first output for providing a northwest control signal, a second output for providing a southeast control signal, a third output for providing a northeast control signal, and fourth output for providing a southwest control signal; northwest transistor means having a northwest control input coupled to the first output of said control means, said northwest transistor means coupled to the first power terminal of said to be provided power supply, and coupled to a first of said two terminals of said inductive load, said northwest transistor means for providing current from the first power terminal of said to be provided power supply to the first of said two terminals of said inductive load, responsive to the northwest control signal at the northwest control input; a southeast transistor having a southeast control input coupled to the second output of said control means, said southeast transistor having a southeast power input terminal coupled to the second power terminal of said to be provided power supply, and a southeast power output terminal coupled to a second of said two terminals of said inductive load, said southeast transistor for providing drive current from the second of two said terminals of said inductive load via the southeast power output terminal via the southeast power input terminal to the second power terminal of said to be provided power supply, and for providing recirculating current from the southeast power input terminal via the southeast power output terminal to the second of the two said terminals of said inductive load, the provision of each of said currents by said southeast transistor being at different times and 


being responsive to the southeast control signal at the southeast control input; a northeast transistor having a northeast control input coupled to the third output of said control means, said northeast transistor having a northeast power input terminal coupled to the first power terminal
'
 of said to be provided power supply, and a northeast power output terminal coupled to the second of said two terminals of said inductive load, said northeast transistor for providing current from the first power terminal of said to be provided power supply via the northeast power input terminal via the northeast power output terminal to the second of the two said terminals of said inductive load, and for providing current from the second of two said terminals of said inductive load via the northeast power output terminal to the northeast power input terminal, the provision of each of said currents by said northeast transistor being at different times and being responsive to the northeast control signal at the northeast control input; and southwest transistor means having a southwest control input coupled to the fourth output of said control means, said southwest transistor means coupled to the second power terminal of said power supply, and coupled to the first of said two terminals of said inductive load, said southwest transistor means for providing current from the first of said two terminals of said inductive load to the second power terminal of said to be provided power supply, responsive to the southwest control signal at the southwest control input. 

15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein said northeast transistor comprises a field effect transistor having a gate, a drain, and a source, wherein the gate is coupled to the third output of said control means, the drain is coupled to the first power terminal of said to be provided power supply and a cathode of a diode, and the source is coupled to the second of said two terminals of said inductive load and an anode of the diode, wherein said current is recirculated when said northwest transistor means is not providing current to said inductive load, and wherein responsive to the northeast control signal, current is recirculated through said inductive load, in a path including the second terminal of said inductive load, the source of said field effect transistor, the drain of said field effect transistor, and the first power terminal of said to be provided power supply. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
