<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611244</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rosette maker router accessory used in concert with a router attached to a router table.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23Q125	B23Q148	B44B300	B44B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23Q	B23Q	B44B	B44B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23Q1	B23Q1	B44B3	B44B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A router accessory used in concert with a 
router attached to a router table (2). The accessory can 

be used to produce rosettes, model wheels, buttons, 
coasters, and other circular decorated projects, for 

example. In the preferred embodiment, a wooden workpiece 
(6) can be positioned horizontally above a selected 

router bit (9). The workpiece zero point, which may be 
the workpiece center, can be off-set horizontally from 

the router bit (9). The accessory can then be used to 
lower the workpiece (6) onto the router bit (9), so that 

rotation of the workpiece (6) routs a circular cut 
equidistant from the workpiece zero point. The maximum 

depth of cut can be set. The off-set can be changed to 
make additional circular cuts into the workpiece (6), as 

desired. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERMONT AMERICAN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERMONT AMERICAN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOSSETT RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAKHAR VED P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOSSETT, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAKHAR, VED P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
(a) Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a router accessory used in 
concert with a router attached to a router table. The accessory 
can be used to produce rosettes, model wheels, buttons, coasters, 
and other circular decorated projects, for example. The 
accessory is used to permit the routing of at least one circular 
cut about the zero point of a wooden workpiece. Usually, for 
making rosettes, a square workpiece is used, with the zero point 
being the center point of the square workpiece. However, 
circular-shaped or other-shaped workpieces can also be used to 
make rosettes. Also, a plurality of concentric circular cuts are 
usually routed into the workpiece. The router bit selected 
determined the shape of the circular cut. (b) Description of the Prior ArtBasic routers are generally power-operated hand tools which 
can be used to cut patterns in wooden workpieces. Many types of 
cuts can be made, depending on the router bit selected. Router 
attachments are also known. For example, U.S. Patent Numbers 
4,942,912 and 5,090,461 teach attachments which aid a router user 
in making router cuts for biscuit joinery and dentil moulding, 
respectively. Router tables have been developed which permit a router to 
be attached underneath the table so that the router bit can be 
extended upward through an opening in the table. For example, 
under the trademark "CRAFTSMAN", Sears sells an industrial router  
 
table model #9-25490 and standard router tables, such as models 
#9-25475 and #9-25479. Router table attachments, such as, for 
example, a miter gauge, are available to permit a wooden 
workpiece to be accurately routed. The tables mentioned above 
have a miter guide slot thereacross. The rosette maker of the 
present invention is designed to be used with such a router 
table, wherein a workpiece is moved to engage a fixed router bit 
to rout a rosette. Throughout the application the following term is used as 
defined below:
 
   A rosette is generally defined in Webster's Dictionary as "a 
carved, painted, or sculptured architectural ornament having 
a circular arrangement of parts resembling the petals of a 
rose." Ornamental rosettes are often found in the upper 
corners of door facings. Generally, rosettes have a 
plurality of concentric circles to resemble a rose. The present invention is for a router accessory, primarily 
used in the making of rosettes, and the like. The router 
accessory of the preferred embodiment of the present invention is 
designed to be used in concert with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A router accessory, comprising: 

a. a housing connectable to a router table and securable 
thereon; 
b. means to vertically position a workpiece above a router 
bit, said router bit being contained by a router attached to 

said router table, said workpiece having a preselected zero 
point; 
c. means to horizontally off-set said zero point of said 
workpiece a preselected horizontal radial distance from said 

router bit; 
d. means to vertically move said workpiece to engage said 
router bit; and, 
e. means to rotate said workpiece about said zero point to 
rout a circular cut, said circular cut being equidistant 

from said zero point. 
The router accessory of Claim 1, further comprising: 
means for limiting the maximum possible downward vertical 

movement of said workpiece. 
The router accessory of Claim 1, further comprising: 
means to exert an upward vertical force on said means to 

vertically move said workpiece to engage said router bit. 
The router accessory of Claim 1, further comprising: 
means to indicate the radial horizontal off-set distance of said 

workpiece zero point from said router bit. 
A router accessory attachable to a horizontal router 
table which has a router attached thereto, the router having a 

preselected router bit, the router bit extending vertically 
upward, the router accessory comprising: 


a. a housing having a rear router table connecting 
portion, a center portion, and a front router table 

connecting portion; said rear router table connecting 
portion and said front router table connecting portion 

connectable to a router table and securable thereon; said 
center portion having legs which can support said housing on 

said router table; said center portion having a vertical 
opening therethrough, said opening being an index flange 

receiving portion; said center portion having a pair of 
vertical lock knob bores therethrough; 
b. a pair of lock knobs, each lock knob having a lock knob 
washer inserted thereon, and a pair of lock knob nuts; 
c. an index flange having a received portion, a lockable 
lip portion, and a top portion; said received portion being 

received in said index flange receiving portion of said 
housin
g center portion and rotatable therein about a 
vertical index flange center of rotation; said lock knobs 

each having a washer inserted thereon being inserted into 
said pair of vertical lock knob bores, each lock knob having 

one of said lock knob nuts threaded thereon, said lock knobs 
and lock knob nuts being securable so that said lock knob 

washers engage said lockable lip portion and said housing 
 

top portion to prevent rotation of said index flange 
received portion within said index flange receiving portion 

of said housing center portion; said index flange having a 
vertical shaft bore therethrough, said vertical shaft bore 

not intersecting said vertical index flange center of 
rotation, said shaft bore having a topmost adjustment 

bushing receiving portion having a first preselected uniform 
diameter, a middle compression spring receiving portion 

having a preselected minimum diameter, a bottommost shaft 
receiving portion having a second preselected uniform 

diameter, said middle portion minimum diameter being greater 
than said second preselected diameter such that there is a 

compression spring lip between said middle and said 
bottommost portions; 
d. a face plate having a central vertical shaft receiving 
bore therethrough, a threaded horizontal bore connecting to 

said vertical shaft receiving bore, at least one horizontal 
rib for attaching a workpiece; said at least one rib having 

at least one vertical bore therethrough for attaching a 
workpiece to be routed; said threaded horizontal bore 

connecting to said vertical shaft receiving bore having a 
shaft securing screw threaded therein; 
e. an E-ring; 
f. a compression spring; 
g. an adjustment bushing having an inner threaded portion 
and a downward limiter portion; 
h. a threaded adjustment knob; 
i. a handle having a vertical shaft bore therein and a 
horizontal pin bore therethrough, said vertical shaft bore 

and said horizontal pin bore intersecting; 
j. a handle attaching pin; 
k. a rotatable vertical shaft having a handle portion, a 
threaded adjustment portion, a spring receiving portion, and 

a face plate portion; said spring receiving portion and said 
face plate portion having a horizontal groove therebetween; 

said handle portion having a horizontal pin bore 
therethrough; said face plate portion having a flat side 

portion; said adjustment bushing and said threaded 
adjustment knob being threaded onto said shaft threaded 

adjustment portion; said handle vertical shaft bore being 
inserted onto said shaft handle portion so that said handle 

horizontal pin bore and said shaft handle portion pin bore 
are aligned, said handle attaching pin inserted therethrough 

securing said handle to said shaft; said threaded adjustment 
knob being between said handle and said adjustment bushing; 

said compression spring being placed over said shaft; said 
shaft with said compression spring inserted into said index 

flange shaft bore, said shaft face plate portion extending 
vertically downward below said index flange vertical shaft 

bore bottommost shaft receiving portion with said E-ring 
being retained by said horizontal groove between said shaft 

spring receiving portion and said shaft face plate portion; 
 

said adjustment bushing being received by said index flange 
shaft bore topmost adjustment bushing receiving portion; 

said compression spring being retained between said 
adjustment bushing and said index flange compression spring 

lip; the rotation of said index flange about said vertical 
index flange center of rotation causing said shaft to move 

in a horizontal direction with respect to a router bit; 
 
whereby a workpiece can be attached to said face plate at least 

one rib and said face plate central vertical shaft receiving bore 
can be placed onto said shaft face plate portion so that said 

shaft securing screw can be tightened to engage said shaft face 
plate portion flat side portion thereby permitting said handle, 

said shaft, said face plate, and said workpiece to be rotated in 
unison by the turning of said handle; whereby said adjustment 

bushing can be threadable moved on said shaft threaded adjustment 
portion to select a desired maximum routing depth; whereby said 

index flange can be rotated about said vertical index flange 
center of rotation to move said shaft to a desired horizontal 

distance from said router bit, said lock knobs being tightened to 
prevent said distance from changing; and, whereby said handle can 

be rotated and have a downward vertical force exerted thereon to 
cause said workpiece to engage said router bit and thereby rout a 

circular cut into said workpiece as limited by said adjustment 
bushing. 
The router accessory of Claim 5, wherein: 

a. said index flange top portion includes a radius 
 

pointer; and, 
b. said housing top portion includes a plurality of 
graduated radius indicators, said radius pointer aligned to 

indicate the horizontal distance between said shaft and said 
router bit. 
The router accessory of Claim 5, wherein: said 
adjustment bushing includes at least one marking thereon to aid 

when threadably moving said adjustment bushing on said shaft 
threaded adjustment portion to select a desired maximum routing 

depth. 
The router accessory of Claim 5, further comprising: a 
washer, said washer being on said rotatable vertical shaft at a 

location between said adjustment bushing and said threaded 
adjustment knob, said washer functioning to help maintain said 

adjustment bushing and said threaded adjustment knob as 
positioned on said shaft. 
The router accessory of Claim 5, wherein: said housing 
rear router table connecting portion includes a horizontal bore 

therethrough, said horizontal bore functioning to receive a 
connecting rod associated with a router table rear bracket to 

hingedly connect said accessory to said router table. 
The router accessory of Claim 9, wherein: said housing 
front router table connecting portion includes a vertical bore 

therethrough, said bore receiving a router table clamp rod, said 
router table clamp rod having a nut thereon, wherein said nut is 

tightenable to secure said accessory onto said router table. 
The router accessory of Claim 5, further comprising: a 
pair of downward extending feet, said feet being attached to said 

housing center portion and extending downward further than said 
legs which can support said housing on said router table, said 

feet being positioned to engage a horizontal router table slot. 
The router accessory of Claim 5, wherein: said index 
flange can be rotated about said vertical index flange center of 

rotation to move said shaft to a zero point position, wherein 
when said shaft is at said zero point, said shaft is at a 

position vertically above said router bit. 
The router accessory of Claim 5, wherein: said 
compression spring retained between said adjustment bushing and 

said index flange compression spring lip exerts an upward force 
onto said adjustment bushing. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
