<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647895</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for preventing inadvertent betrayal of stored digital secrets by a trustee
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09C100	H04L932	G06F1214	H04L928	G06F100	G06F2100	H04L908	G06F2100	G06F2124	H04L930	G06F1214	H04L932	G09C100	H04L908	G06F100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09C	H04L	G06F	H04L	G06F	G06F	H04L	G06F	G06F	H04L	G06F	H04L	G09C	H04L	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09C1	H04L9	G06F12	H04L9	G06F1	G06F21	H04L9	G06F21	G06F21	H04L9	G06F12	H04L9	G09C1	H04L9	G06F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention employs a voluntary identification/definition phase performed, for 
example, shortly after a computer is purchased, and a secret information retrieval phase. In 

the definition phase, the true owner/customer defines an escrow record which provides self-identification 
data together with encrypted password data. The present invention prompts a 

user to voluntarily escrow password or other secret information for later retrieval by entering 
a series of information uniquely describing himself or herself. The identification indicia is 

combined with the secret information (such as the user's encryption password) and is then 
encrypted under the control of the trustee's public key. The combined information may be 

encrypted, for example, under a random symmetric key (such as DES) which is then 
encrypted under the trustee's public key. After unique identification data has been entered, 

the user is asked to select a password to protect the system. Thereafter, all the personal 
identifying data, together with the password, is encrypted with the trustee's public key and is 

stored, for example, in the user's computer as an escrow security record. The password is 
then used to encrypt all data on the user's disk. If at some point in time in the future, the 

user forgets the password, the retrieval phase of the applicant's invention is performed. Under 
such circumstances, the user contacts the trustees, e.g., the vendor or manufacturer. The 

trustee utilizes documentary evidence presented by the alleged legitimate user and determines 
whether such evidence matches with the previously encrypted escrow information stored in 

the escrow record created by the user. If they agree, then the trustee has confidence that the 
true owner is making the request, and that revealing the secret key will not betray the owner's 

interest. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHER ADDISON M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISCHER, ADDISON M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER ADDISON M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISCHER, ADDISON M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to computer data security. More particularly, the invention relates to a method and apparatus for preventing a trustee holding escrowed security information from revealing the information to someone other than a party legitimately entitled to receive such information.In modem computer systems, especially those using a PC or laptop computer, it is common for the data stored in, for example, disk memory to be encrypted. This offers the user great protection against the stored data being discoverable by a thief -- even when the computer is stolen.Typically, such stored the information is encrypted with a key which is derived in some fashion from a password known only to the user. The password is converted via well known cryptographic processing techniques into a cryptographic key, which is used to decrypt (and thereby access) all information stored in the computer.Particularly if sensitive data is being stored, most standard security practices urge users not to record passwords - lest they be discovered by an adversary. Since the data stored in the computer is present only in its encrypted form, without knowledge of the password, it is, for all practical purposes, inaccessible. Accordingly, a serious problem is created if the user forgets the password.In practice, from time to time users do forget their passwords. The problem is compounded by the possibility that a disgruntled employee may refuse to supply or "forget" the password to a corporate computer which has previously been assigned to the employee.One attempted solution to this problem is to "escrow" the password (or some other key information associated with the encryption) with a trustee, i.e., a trusted entity, such as, for example, a computer security software officer in the user's organization. The user may use the trustee's public key to encrypt the secret information and store the information in, for example, with the trustee, with a 3rd party or with the protected computer itself . In this fashion, the trustee could, in case of emergency, be given the resulting escrowed cipher text and use its private key to decrypt and retrieve the escrowed secret.When the user is well know to the escrow agent, the process for retrieving the secret information is relatively straightforward. The known user presents the escrowed information (possibly including the entire computer) to the trustee, who then retrieves the escrowed information with the trustee's private key (the other half of the public/private key pair)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating a computer to permit a computer user's secret digital information to be subsequently recovered by a trustee having a trustee public key and a trustee private key, said method comprising the steps of:

establishing digital private identifying information that identifies a specified computer user (1020);
combining the digital private identifying information with the computer user's secret digital information to generate combined digital information (1030);
encrypting, using the trustee's public key, said combined digital information such that said combined digital information can be decrypted only by the trustee's private key (1050) to generate an escrowed record having at least the encrypted combined digital information;
storing the escrowed record;
providing the trustee with the escrowed record;
providing the trustee with credentials identifying the specified computer user; and
receiving the secret digital information from the trustee.
A method according to claim 1, wherein at least part of the identifying information is hashed.
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein at least part of the identifying
 information is stored in plaintext.
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein said step of establishing includes the step of prompting the computer user (1020) to provide a plurality of user identifying characteristic data.
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein said step of establishing includes the step of the user providing physical characteristic information.
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein said step of establishing includes the step of the user providing the user's public key.
A method in accordance to claim 1, further including the step of soliciting from the computer user (1020) instructions to be followed by the trustee if an attempt is made to recover said secret information.
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein said step of establishing includes the step of the user providing at least one question (70) to be asked by the trustee to a person attempting to recover said secret information.
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein said step of encrypting includes the step of generating an encrypting key and encrypting at least said secret information with said encrypting key.
A method in accordance to claim 9, wherein said step of encrypting includes the step of encrypting said encrypting key using the public key of the trustee (1050).
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein said step of storing includes the step of storing said encrypted digital information on a memory media of the computer user.
A method in accordance to claim 1, wherein said step of storing includes the step of storing, in plain text, information describing the trustee.
A method of operating a computer for permitting a trustee public key and a trustee private key to safely reveal escrowed digital secret information contained in an escrow record to an applicant comprising the steps of:

obtaining the escrowed record (2010):

obtaining credentials identifying the applicant (2020);
decrypting at least part of the escrowed record using the trustee private key (2030);
comparing the applicant's credentials with identifying information embodied in the escrowed record (2080); and
revealing the escrowed digital secret information to the applicant if the credentials match with the escrowed identifying information embodied in the escrowed record (2140).
A method according to claim 13, wherein the identifying information is encrypted as part of the information available to the trustee.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the hash of the identifying information is encrypted as part of the information available of the trustee.
A method according to claim 13, wherein said escrow information is printed in digital form on paper.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the identifying digital information (18) includes at least one of the following:

name; address; telephone number; height; weight; birth date; complexion; race; eye color; birthplace; employer; title; place of business; employee identification; supervisor; identification number; digitized fingerprint; digitized photograph; digitized voice sample; digitized retina information; information relating to the user's DNA; digitized handwriting sample; digitized key typing; stroke analysis; DNA pattern; and facts unlikely to be generally
 known except to the computer user.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of decrypting (2030) includes the step of using the private key of the trustee to decrypt at least part of said escrow record.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of decrypting (2030) includes the step of using the private key of the trustee to decrypt the escrow record to access a random encrypting key that is used to encrypt other fields in the escrow record.
A method according to claim 13, further including the step of computing the hash of a plurality of fields in the escrow record (2050).
A method according to claim 13, further including the step of requesting further credentials (2100) from the applicant if the credentials do not sufficiently match the escrow data.
A method according to claim 21, wherein said step of requesting further credentials includes the step of posing questions to the applicant as specified in the escrow record.
A method according to claim 13, further including the step of acquiring different portions of the secret information from a plurality of trustees.
A method according to claim 13, wherein at least part of the identifying digital information is indicated by the hash of said information.
A computer system arranged to permit a computer user's secret digital information to be subsequently recovered by a trustee having a trustee public key and a trustee private key, the computer system comprising:

means for establishing digital private identifying information that identifies a specified computer user (1020);
means for combining the digital private identifying information with the computer user's secret digital information to generate combined digital information (1030);
means for encrypting, using the trustee's public key, said combined digital information such that said combined digital information can be decrypted only by the trustee's private key (1050) to generate an escrowed record having at least the encrypted combined digital information;
means for storing the encrypted digital information;
means for providing the trustee with the escrowed record;
means for providing the trustee with credentials identifying the specified computer user; and
means for receiving the secret digital information from the trustee.
A computer system in accordance with claim 25, arranged to store data (18) identifying said trustee.
A computer system in accordance with claim 25, arranged to store an encrypted version of the encrypting key used to encrypt said secret digital information.
A computer system in accordance with claim 25, arranged to store a hash of said identifying information and said secret digital information.
A computer system in accordance with claim 25, wherein the identifying information (18) includes at least one of the following:

name; address; telephone number; height; weight; birth date; complexion; race; eye color; birthplace; employer; title; place of business; employee identification; supervisor; identification number; digitized fingerprint; digitized photograph; digitized voice sample; digitized retina information; information relating to the user's DNA; digitized handwriting sample; digitized key typing; stroke analysis; DNA pattern; and facts unlikely to be generally known except to the computer user.
A computer system in accordance with claim 25, arranged to store instructions to be followed by the trustee in the event an applicant seeks to gain access
 to said secret information.
A computer system in accordance with claim 25, arranged to store at least one question (70) to be posed by the trustee to a person attempting to recover said secret information.
A computer system for permitting a trustee public key and a trustee private key to safely reveal escrowed digital secret information contained in an escrow record to an applicant, the computer system comprising:

means for obtaining the escrowed record (2010),
means for obtaining credentials identifying the applicant (2020);
means for decrypting at least part of the escrowed record using the trustee private key (2030);
means for comparing the applicant's credentials with identifying information embodied in the escrowed record (2080); and
means for revealing the escrowed digital secret information to the applicant if the credentials match with the escrowed identifying information embodied in the escrowed recorded (2140).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
