<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640235</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A DEVICE FOR DETECTING AND INFORMATION TRANSFER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1356	G01S1374	G01S1387	G06K700	G06K700	G06K1907	G06K1907	G07B1502	G07B1502	G08B1324	G08B1324	H01Q132	H01Q132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G07B	G07B	G08B	G08B	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G06K7	G06K7	G06K19	G06K19	G07B15	G07B15	G08B13	G08B13	H01Q1	H01Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for detection and information transmission comprises a first unit (1) for transmitting and receiving microwaves and shows at least a first antenna (6). It is primarily characterized in that the unit is so arranged that within a first antenna lobe (12, 19) through Doppler shift of a transmitted first microwave signal it detects movements in an object. The unit is further arranged to communicate within a second antenna lobe (7, 13, 20) with a so-called transponder.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAAB SCANIA COMBITECH AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAAB-SCANIA COMBITECH AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUNNARSSON STAFFAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUNNARSSON, STAFFAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A DEVICE FOR DETECTING AND INFORMATION TRANSFER.The present invention relates to a device for detection and information transmission, with a first unit for transmitting and receiving electro¬ magnetic waves within the microwave range, with at least a first antenna. The device is intended to be used for alarm surveillance, admission control and for otherwise affecting limited spaces such as entrances to localities such as public buildings, offices, industrial buildings, private houses, vehicles, particularly cars, etc.Background of the inventionIt is known to surveille by alarm such limited spaces with the aid of electromagnetic waves.One method uses infrared technique, in which heat sensitive elements are provided with a light intersection device which makes the combination of heat and movement in the surveilled area possible to detect.Another alarm surveillance method uses a radar device which senses the Doppler shift that occurs when a reflecting object is moving in the space in front of the transmission and reception antenna of the device.Both technologies require separate devices for alarm surveillance and admission control/delocking/disarming, which add to costs and lessens reliability in the device.They have also the disadvantage that the disarming of the alarms must be effected without the surveilled space being entered, which can lead to less convenience.A further disadvantage is that domestic animals unintentionally can initiate the alarm.Partilularly the optic alarm equipnent is furthermore difficult to conceil, because its ray path is hindered by opaque material. The risk of sabotage is thereby increased. 

The object and most important characteristics of the inventionThe object of the invention is to achieve a device of the kind mentioned in the introduction, for:surveillance and alarm, in buildings and vehicles, surveillance of passages in corridores, etc,admission control, that is locking and unlocking of buildings and vehicles, opening and closing of doors, gates, level crossings etc,acting upon and adjusting, for instance, seats and mirrors in vehicles or rocm selective heat sets in buildings.The device shall be deactivated from contactlessly.Such a device is primarily characterized in that the unit is so arranged that, in a first antenna lobe through Doppler shift of a first microwave signal emitted from the unit it detects existing movement in an object, and, further, is so arranged that, within a second antenna lobe through the transmission of a second microwave signal, it
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A device for detection and information transmission, with a first unit (1) for transmitting and receiving electrαnagnetic way-es. within the microwave range with at least a first antenna (6) c h a c r a c t e r i z e d in that the unit is arranged within a first antenna lobe (12, 19) through Doppler shift of a first microwave signal emitted frαn the unit to detect possible movement in an object, and further is arranged within a second antenna lobe (7, 13, 20) through emitting a second microwave signal to communicate with a second unit in the form of a so-called transponder (9, 10) arranged so that on receiving said second microwave signal it,re-emits a third, information carrying microwave signal, which the first unit is arranged to receive.
2. A device according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the second antenna lobe (7, 13, 20) at least partly covers a volume, which is not covered by the first antenna lobe (12, 19) .
3. A device according to claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at a distance from the first antenna (6) , it comprises at least a second antenna (2, 3) , arranged to communicate with a transponder
(9, 20) through emitting a fourth microwave signal.
4. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at least one antenna (3, 6) is integrated in the internal and/or external mirror of a passenger car coupe, alternatively in its switch panel.
5. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 4 ch a r a c t e r i z e d in that the microwave signals emitted frαn the first unit (1) have the same frequency and/or are comprised within the same frequency band, such as one of the ISM bands 915 MHz, 2.45 GHz, 5.72 GHz or 24 GHz. 


6. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 5 c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that said transponder (9, 10) is arranged to re-emit the third microwave signal without supplying any energy frαn the transponder.
7. A device according to any one of the preceding claims, c h ar a c t e r i z e d in that at least one transponder (9, 10) comprises a memory, with a first part, which is unique for every individual transponder, which part is not writeable, and a second part which is writeable by means of microwave signal.
8. A d vi-TS according to claim 7, char a cte r i z ed in that he second, writable part of the transponder memory is written with ceded information under use of an --.^algorithm with a coding key, the contents of the not writable part and not coded information of the memory constituting inputs to the coding process.
9. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 8 c h ar a c t e r i z e d in that the first unit (1) is so arranged that on the detection of movement in an object within the first -antenna lobe (12, 19) it initiates an activity such as the giving of an alarm signal.
10. A device according to claim 9, c hara c te r i z ed in that the first unit (1) is blocked from initiating an activity such as an alarm signal, if it through microwave cαmtunication with a second transponder (9, 10, 17) receives a corresponding code signal.
11. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the first unit (1) is arranged to transmit a fifth microwave signal within a second antenna lobe, which covers a space, which is not covered by the first antenna lobe, the first unit (1) being arranged so that on the reception and possible approval of an information carrying microwave signal 



 transmitted frαn a transponder, and furthermore through Doppler signal processing of signals reflected from a movable object, for example a part of the body, it determines with quadrature technique if the object is coming nearer or is leaving, and thereafter gives a corresponding, unlocking/opening or locking/ closing signal to a locking/opening function.
12. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the first unit (1) is arranged to transmit a fifth microwave signal within a second antenna lobe, which covers a space that is not covered by the first antenna lobe, the first unit (1) being so arranged that on the reception and possible approval of an information carrying microwave signal transmitted from a transponder, and furthermore through signal-processing of the amplitude/time funcrtion of reflected signals of a movable object, such as a part of the body, it also determinesif the object is coming nearer or is leaving and emits a corresponding unlocking/opening or locking/closing signal to a locking/opening funcrtion.
13. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 10, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the first unit (1) is arranged to transmit a fifth microwave signal within a second antenna lobe (7) which covers a space that is not covered by the first antenna lobe (12), the first unit (1) being so arranged, that on the reception of an information carrying microwave signal emitted frcm a transponder (9, 10) through signal processing of its answer signal mixed to quadrature signals, it determines if the transponder is caning nearer or is leaving, and emits a corresponding unlocking or locking signal to a locking function.
14. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 11, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the first unit (1) is arranged to transmit a fifth microwave signal within a second antenna lobe (7) which covers a space that is not covered by the first antenna lobe (12), the first unit (1) being so arranged that on the reception of an information carrying microwave 


 signal emitted frαn a transponder (9, 10) , it determines through signal-processing of the amplitude/time function of its answer signal if the transponder is coming nearer or is leaving and emits a corre¬ sponding unlocking or locking signal to a locking function.
15. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 14, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the transponder 9, 10) is personally carried and is designed as a thin card, a watch, key or an easily carried box.
16. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 15, char a ct e r i z ed in that the first unit (1) is arranged to initiate an automatic adjustment of seats and mirrors with the aid of the code that is in the trans¬ ponder (9, 10).
17. A device according to any one of the preceding claims, for a vehicle ch a r a c ter i z ed in that it is arranged to cαππunicate with road side equipment in the form of transponders or tranceivers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
