<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633095</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical power tool
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25B2100	H02P718	B25F500	B25B2100	B25B2314	B25B2314	B23P1906	B23B4502	B23B4500	B25B23151	B23P1906	B25F500	B25B23147	H02P729	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25B	H02P	B25F	B25B	B25B	B25B	B23P	B23B	B23B	B25B	B23P	B25F	B25B	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25B21	H02P7	B25F5	B25B21	B25B23	B25B23	B23P19	B23B45	B23B45	B25B23	B23P19	B25F5	B25B23	H02P7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power tool (10) such as an electric drill 
typically contains a gear train (20) that couples the 

output spindle of the motor (16) to the tool bit-receiving 
chuck (22) and has associated therewith a 

degree of looseness which must be taken up before 
torque from the motor is applied to the tool bit. A 

control circuit (12) for the power tool increases the 
effective torque output of the tool by alternately 

turning the motor on and off, with the duration of the 
off-time sufficient to permit the gear train to relax, 

thus giving the motor a "running start" when power is 
reapplied. Various alternative schemes for 

transitioning to this ratcheting mode of operation are 
disclosed including the sensing of a predetermined 

threshold current, a predetermined increase in motor 
current, and a predetermined rate of deceleration in 

motor speed. The control circuit preferably provides 
the operator with means (14,15) for adjusting the 

transition point as well as for varying the duration of 
the on-time in the ratcheting mode. A corresponding 

method for controlling the operation of the electric 
motor of a power tool is also disclosed. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLACK 
&
 DECKER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BLACK 
&
 DECKER INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILMORE ALAN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILMORE, ALAN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electrically driven 
power tools and, in particular, to a power tool such as 
a variable speed drill having a motor control that is 
adapted to increase and better control the effective 
torque output of the tool. EP-A-291 215 discloses a method for tightening a fastener in a 
gasketed joint comprising pulsed application of torque, such 
that with each successive pulse of torque the amount of gasket 
relaxation following the torque pulse becomes progressively 
less. Electrical power tools, such as variable speed 
drills and power screwdrivers, typically include a 
motor control circuit that is adapted to control the 
speed of the output spindle of the tool by controlling 
the amount of current supplied to the motor. The 
desired motor speed is usually selected by the operator 
by varying the position of the trigger switch. If the power tool is provided with an open loop 
motor control circuit, the speed of the output spindle 
of the tool will decrease as the tool is loaded and the 
current drawn by the motor will increase. Accordingly, 
if a relatively constant output speed is desired, the 
operator must manually compensate for the reduction in 
motor speed as the tool is loaded by further retracting 
the trigger switch to increase the power applied to the 
motor. If the power tool is provided with a closed 
loop motor control circuit, the control circuit is 
typically designed to automatically increase the amount 
of power supplied to the motor as the output spindle of 
the tool is loaded in order to maintain the desired 
speed. Thus, when employed in a power screwdriver to 
drive a screw into a workpiece, for example, the 
current drawn by the motor will increase as the torque 
required to drive the screw increases, regardless of 
whether the control circuit provides open or closed 
loop control. This operation will continue until 
either the operator releases the trigger or the motor  
 
stalls as the increased torque required to drive the 
screw exceeds the torque capacity of the tool. 
Consequently, the effectiveness of many portable power 
tools, particularly power screw-drivers, is directly 
related to the tool's maximum torque output capacity. 
Obviously, the greater the output capacity of the tool, 
the more useful and versatile the tool. However, in 
order to significantly increase the torque output 
capacity of a tool, it is generally regarded as being 
necessary (assuming changes to the gear train are not 
an option) to increase the size of the motor and, 
consequent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power tool (10) having: 

a tool holder (22), 
gear train (20) coupled to said tool holder, 
and 
an electric motor (16) for driving said tool 
holder via said gear train, said gear train having 

associated therewith a degree of looseness which 
must be taken up before torque from said motor is 

transferred to said tool holder and which further 
causes said gear means to relax after power to 

said motor is interrupted; characterized by: 
a control circuit (12) for controlling the 
application of power to said motor including 

controller means (26) for cyclically interrupting 
power to said motor for an off-time sufficient to 

enable said gear train to at least partially relax 
and reapplying power to said motor for an on-time 

to enable said motor to build up kinetic energy as 
the looseness in said gear means is taken up to 

thereby increase the effective torque output of 
said motor. 
The power tool of claim 1 wherein: 

the control circuit comprises sensing means 
(30, 36) for sensing an operating parameter of the 

motor; and 
the controller means is responsive to the 
sensing means for detecting a predetermined 

occurrence in the operating parameter to initiate 
the cyclical interruption of power of the motor. 
The power tool of claim 2 wherein the sensing 
means comprises a current sensor (30) for sensing the 

current being drawn by said motor and said controller  
 

means is adapted to detect a predetermined change in 
said motor current. 
The power tool of claim 3 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to detect when said motor 

current exceeds a predetermined level. 
The power tool of claim 3 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to detect when said motor 

current has increased by a predetermined amount. 
The power tool of claim 3 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to detect when said motor 

current has increased by a predetermined percentage 
amount. 
The power tool of claim 3 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to detect when the rate of 

increase in motor current exceeds a predetermined 
level. 
The power tool of claim 2 wherein said 
sensing means comprises a speed sensor (36) for sensing 

the rotational speed of the motor and said controller 
means is adapted to detect a predetermined change in 

motor speed. 
The power tool of claim 8 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to detect a predetermined 

decrease in motor speed. 
The power tool of claim 8 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to detect a predetermined 

percentage decrease in motor speed.  
 
The power tool of claim 8 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to detect a predetermined 

rate of deceleration in motor speed. 
The power tool of claim 4 wherein said 
control circuit further includes adjustment means (14) 

for varying said predetermined current level. 
The power tool of claims 1 or 2 wherein said 
control circuit further includes adjustment means (15) 

for varying said on-time. 
The power tool of claim 12 wherein said 
controller means is adapted to automatically vary said 

on-time in accordance with the setting of said 
predetermined current level. 
The power tool of claim 4 further including 
a speed sensor (36) for sensing the rotational speed of 

said motor, and further wherein said controller means 
is further adapted to vary said predetermined current 

level in accordance with the sensed rotational speed of 
the motor. 
The power tool of claim 1 wherein: 

the control circuit includes a trigger switch 
(24) and a power switching circuit (32) connected 

to said motor; 
said controller means supplies to said power 
switching circuit a pulse width modulated (PWM) 

control signal having associated therewith off-time 
portions and on-time portions with a duty 

cycle that is varied in accordance with the 

position of said trigger switch; and 
the controller means changes the frequency of 
said PWM control signal between a relatively high 

frequency the period of which is substantially shorter  
 

than the response time of said motor to a relatively 
low frequency the period of which is sufficiently long 

to permit said gear means to at least partially relax 
during the off-time portions of said PWM control signal 

for a range of positions of said trigger switch. 
The power tool of claim 16 wherein said 
controller means controls the duty cycle of said PWM 

control signal in accordance with the position of said 
trigger switch after the frequency of said PWM control 

signal has changed to said relatively low frequency. 
The tool of claim 3 wherein: 

switching means (32) is provided for 
controlling said current flow through said motor; 
a memory means (28) is in communication with 
said controller means and is for storing 

information corresponding to a plurality of 
predetermined on-time intervals; and 
when said current flow detected by said 
current sensor exceeds said predetermined current 

threshold signal, said controller means causes 
said switching means to cyclically interrupt 

current flow through said motor for a time 
interval in accordance with a predetermined 

off-time interval sufficient to allow a gear train 
(20) associated with said motor to at least 

partially relax, and apply a maximum current 
signal to said motor in accordance with a selected 

one of said predetermined on-time intervals. 
A method of controlling a power tool having 
a tool holder (22), a gear train (20) coupled to said 

tool holder, and an electric motor (16) for driving 
said tool holder via said gear train, said gear train 

having associated therewith a degree of looseness which 
must be taken up before torque from said motor is  

 
transferred to said tool holder and which further 

causes said gear train to relax after power to said 
motor is interrupted; the method comprising the steps 

of: 

applying power to said motor,
 
characterized by: 
cyclically interrupting power to said motor 
for an off-time sufficient to enable said gear 

means to at least partially relax and reapplying 
power to said motor for an on-time to enable said 

motor to build up kinetic energy as the looseness 
in said gear means is taken up to thereby increase 

the effective torque output of said motor. 
The method of claim 19 further characterized 
by the steps of: 


monitoring an operating parameter of the 
motor; and 
detecting a predetermined occurrence in the 
operating parameter and initiating the step of 

cyclically interrupting the power to the motor 
responsive to the detecting step. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said 
monitoring step comprises sensing the current being 

drawn by said motor and said detecting step comprises 
detecting a predetermined change in said motor current. 
The method of claim 21 wherein said detecting 
step comprises detecting when said motor current 

exceeds a predetermined level. 
The method of claim 21 wherein said detecting 
step comprises detecting when said motor current has 

increased by a predetermined amount.  
 
The method of claim 21 wherein said detecting 
step comprises detecting when said motor current has 

increased by a predetermined percentage amount. 
The method of claim 22 wherein said detecting 
step comprises detecting when the rate of increase in 

motor current exceeds a predetermined level. 
The method of claim 20 wherein said 
monitoring step comprises sensing the rotational speed 

of the motor and said detecting step comprises 
detecting a predetermined change in motor speed. 
The method of claim 26 wherein said detecting 
step comprises detecting a predetermined decrease in 

motor speed. 
The method of claim 26 wherein said detecting 
step comprises detecting a predetermined percentage 

decrease in motor speed. 
The method of claim 26 wherein said detecting 
step comprises detecting a predetermined rate of 

deceleration in motor speed. 
The method of claim 22 characterized by the 
step of selectively setting said predetermined current 

level. 
The method of claim 30 characterized by the 
step of automatically adjusting said on-time in 

accordance with the setting of said predetermined 
current level. 
The method of claim 22 characterized by the 
steps of sensing the rotational speed of the motor and  

 
adjusting said predetermined current level in 

accordance with said sensed speed. 
A method of claim 19 wherein: 

power is applied to the motor by producing a 
relatively high frequency pulse width modulated 

(PWM) control signal having on-time portions and 
off-time portions and controlling the power 

supplied to said motor in accordance with the duty 
cycle of said PWM control signal, and 
power to the motor is cyclically interrupted 
by changing the frequency of said PWM control 

signal to a relatively low frequency the period of 
which is sufficiently long to permit said gear 

means to at least partially relax during the off-time 
portions of said PWM control signal. 
The method of claim 33 further including the 
step of continuing to control the power supplied to 

said motor in accordance with the duty cycle of said 
PWM control signal after the frequency of said PWM 

control signal has changed to said relatively low 
frequency. 
The method of claim 21 characterized by the 
steps of: 


providing a motor voltage in accordance with 
the position of an operator-actuable trigger 

switch (24); 
taking a first reading of the current (I
1
) 
through said motor; 
waiting a predetermined time interval; 
taking a second current reading (I
2
) through 
said motor; 
comparing I
2
 with I
1
 to determine if I
2
 is 
greater than I
1
 by at least a predetermined 
factor;  

 
when I
2
 is greater than I
1
 by at least said 
predetermined factor initiating the step of 

cyclically interrupting current flow to said 
motor; 
when said on-time duration has expired, 
determining whether said trigger switch is still 

being actuated; and 
if said trigger is still being actuated, 
repeating said steps of alternately interrupting 

current flow and applying a maximum current flow 
until said trigger is released by the operator. 
The method of claim 26 characterized by the 
step of: 


providing a motor voltage in accordance with 
the position of an operator-actuable trigger (24); 
taking a first reading of the speed of said 
motor; 
waiting a predetermined time interval; 
taking a second reading of the speed of said 
motor; 
when said second reading has decreased in 
magnitude from said first reading by a 

predetermined amount, initiating the step of 
cyclically interrupting current flow to said 

motor; 
determining if said trigger switch is still 
actuated; and 
if said trigger switch is still actuated, 
repeating said steps of alternately interrupting 

current flow and applying a maximum current flow 
until said trigger switch is released by the 

operator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
