<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641465</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ZERO-VOLTAGE COMPLEMENTARY SWITCHING HIGH EFFICIENCY CLASS D AMPLIFIER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F320	H03F3217	H05B4128	H05B4128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F3	H03F3	H05B41	H05B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIABLO RESEARCH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIABLO RESEARCH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIAO ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIAO, ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ZERO-VOLTAGE COMPLEMENTARY SWITCHING HIGH EFFICIENCY CLASS D AMPLIFIERCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is related to, and incorporates by reference, the following U.S. patent applications filed on the same date as the present application: the application entitled "Stable Power Supply in an Electrically Isolated System Providing a High Power Factor and Low Harmonic Distortion" filed by Roger Siao, Serial No. 07/886718 filed May 20, 1992; and the application entitled "Impedance Matching and Filter Network for Use With Electrodeless Discharge Lamp" filed by Roger Siao, Serial No. 07/887166 filed May 20, 1992.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to Class D amplifiers and in particular to high-efficiency Class D amplifiers which are suitable for providing a high-frequency signal to an induction coil in an electrodeless discharge lamp.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONA basic form of Class D amplifier is illustrated in Figure 1A. Two transistors QA and QB are driven by a transformer to switch on and off 180 degrees out of phase with each other. The two transistors in combination are equivalent to the double-pole switch illustrated in Figure IB, and at their common node produce a square-wave output similar to the waveform illustrated in Figure 1C. Ideally, a Class D amplifier should be 100% efficient, i.e., no power should be consumed in transistors QA or QB as they are repeatedly switched on and off. In reality, however, transistors QA and QB have their own on-stage resistances, commonly known as the on- resistance of the transistor. They also have inherent capacitances, illustrated as capacitors CA and CB in Figure 

1A, which permit charge to build up when either transistor is turned off. Therefore, a voltage difference exists across the transistor when it is turned on, and the resulting current flow through the transistor dissipates energy as heat. This energy loss can be expressed as c f, where c is the inherent capacitance of the transistor (the value of CA or CB) , v is the DC input voltage (VDD) and f is the frequency at which the amplifier is driven. In reality, high frequency Class D amplifiers typically operate at an efficiency of about 50% to 60%. A large portion of this efficiency loss is attributable to the inherent capacitances of the transistors. This inefficiency has seriously limited the suitability of Class D amplifiers for electrodeless discharge lamps and other devices in which significant power losses cannot be tolerated.In actual operation, transistors QA and QB
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
I claim:
1. An amplifier comprising: first and second switching means connected in series; first gating means for controlling said first switching means; second gating means for controlling said second switching means; a signal source connected to said first gating means and said second gating means, said signal source operative to cause each of said first switching means and said second switching means to open and close in sequence, one of said first and second switching means being open whenever the other of said first and second switching means is closed, and there being a time interval during which both of said first and second switching means are open; wherein said amplifier has an inherent capacitance which stores energy when one of said first and second switching means is open; and means for storing energy, said means for storing energy being operative during said time interval to receive energy stored in said inherent capacitance so as to reduce the voltage across each of said first and second switching means to approximately zero when it changes from an open to a closed condition.
2. The amplifier of Claim 1 wherein said signal source comprises said means for storing energy.
3. The amplifier of Claim 1 wherein said signal source comprises a transformer having a primary winding and a secondary winding, said means for storing energy comprising said primary winding.
4. The amplifier of Claim 3 wherein said first 


switching means comprises a first transistor and said second switching means comprises a second transistor.
5. The amplifier of Claim 3 wherein said transformer comprises a Balun transformer.
6. The amplifier of Claim 1 wherein said means for storing energy comprises an inductance having a value substantially equal to L,, such that
4Δt
:
Lb' π"
wherein Δt is the length of said time interval in seconds and C
0
 is the value of said inherent capacitance of said amplifier.
7. An electrodeless discharge lamp comprising: an amplifier according to Claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14; and an induction coil positioned adjacent to a sealed vessel, said sealed vessel containing gas comprising a metal vapor, said amplifier being connected to said induction coil.
9. The amplifier of Claim 5 wherein said signal source further comprises a conventional transformer, said Balun transformer being connected to said first gating means and said conventional transformer being connected to said second gating means.
10. The amplifier of Claim 9 wherein said conventional transformer and said Balun transformer each comprise a primary winding and a secondary winding, said primary and secondary windings of both said conventional transformer and said Balun transformer being wound on a toroidal core. 


 11. The amplifier of Claim 10 wherein the primary winding of said Balun transformer has a self inductance L,, which is substantially equal to a self inductance L
t
 of the secondary winding of said Balun transformer, the primary winding of said conventional transformer has a self inductance L
c
 which is substantially equal to a self inductance L
d
 of said conventional transformer, and each of L, and 1^ is substantially greater than each of L
c
 and L
d
.
12. The amplifier of Claim 11 wherein the ratio LyJL,, constitutes an attenuation factor that represents a reduction in a positive feedback signal that is delivered from a common node between said first and second switching means to a common node between the respective primary windings of said Balun and conventional transformers.
13. The amplifier of Claim 11 comprising an inductor connected between said conventional transformer and said second gating means.
14. The electrodeless discharge lamp of Claim 7 wherein said sealed vessel is coated with phosphors.
15. The electrodeless discharge lamp of Claim 7 wherein visible light is generated by the gas contained in said sealed vessel.
16. An electrodeless discharge lamp comprising: a source of an oscillating signal; an induction coil positioned adjacent to a sealed vessel, said sealed vessel containing a metal vapor; and an amplifier connected to said induction coil, said amplifier comprising: first and second switching means connected in series; first gating means for sequentially opening 


 and closing said first switching means; second gating means for sequentially opening and closing said second switching means; wherein (i) said amplifier is fabricated such that there is a time interval during which both of said first and second switching means are open and (ii) said amplifier has an inherent capacitance which stores energy when one of said first and second switching means is open; and a means for storing energy, said means for storing energy being operative to receive energy stored in said inherent capacitance so as to reduce the voltage across each of said first and second switching means to substantially zero when each of said first and second switching means changes from an open condition to a closed condition.
17. The electrodeless discharge lamp of Claim 16 wherein said induction coil is positioned within a central cavity formed by an exterior surface of said vessel.
18. The electrodeless discharge lamp of Claim 17 wherein said means for storing energy comprises an inductance.
19. The electrodeless discharge lamp of Claim 18 wherein said first switching means comprises a first transistor and said second switching means comprises a second transistor.
20. The electrodeless discharge lamp of Claim 19 further comprising a Balun transformer connected to said first gating means wherein said means for storing energy is at least partially included within said Balun transformer. 


 21. The electrodeless discharge lamp of Claim 20 further comprising a conventional transformer wherein said Balun transformer and said conventional transformer are arranged so as to ensure that said first and second switching means are open during said time interval.
22. The amplifier of Claim 13 wherein said inductor has a value selected so as to impose a phase delay in the signal applied to said second gating means.
23. The amplifier according to Claim l wherein the means for storing energy comprises an inductance having a value selected such that substantially all the energy stored in said inherent capacitance is transferred to said inductance during said time interval. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
