<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617775</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIPE RESTRAINT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16F700	F16F714	F16L316	F16L3205	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16F	F16F	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16F7	F16F7	F16L3	F16L3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Helical isolator (I
<
1
>
) in a turnbucle frame (16) on a central tube (4) with an adjustable gapped central rod (2) with connector rods (34, 36) of opposite handed threads, are for mounting between a pipe and an adjacent structure. The wire energy absorbing rope bights (32) of the isolator (I
<
1
>
) is placed in a state of precompression and have bi-linear spring properties which are adjustably provided by means of the diameter of the structural tube (16) and spacer bar (30) held in place relative to the tube wall (18) as part of the base (28) of the isolator.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB IMPELL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB IMPELL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOZIUK LAWRENCE ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOZIUK, LAWRENCE, ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PIPE RESTRAINT BACKGROUNDThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application No. 07/915,477 filed July 16, 1992 which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application No. 07/808,132 filed December 16, 1991 for PIPE RESTRAINT.Piping systems are typically anchored at two or more ends by the process equipment they connect. As the pipe expands due to thermal growth induced by a hot process fluid,it will deform as shown in Fig. 1. If restraints are required to limit dynamic displacements at locations on the pipe which also have thermal movements, a design conflict will exist. This is true in electrical generating plants, for example, where thermal pipe growth may approach 450 mm (18 inches). For example, if one was to place rigid restraint at PointA, as shown in Fig. 1A, the pipe would not expand as shown in Fig. 1 and may result in an over-stressed condition in the pipe or an unacceptable load on the process equipment. Industry traditionally has resolved this conflict with the use of snubbers. Snubbers allow the pipe to freely expand but momentarily restrain the pipe during a dynamic event. Both mechanical and hydraulic snubbers commonly have been used to restrain piping systems. The problems with snubbers are that they are complex, require maintenance and have a history of failure. These problems have resulted in costly inspection programs in, for example, the nuclear industry. This in turn has prompted many utilities to reduce snubber populations and consider alternatives. 

 An alternative to snubbers is the use of gapped supports. The disadvantage of this form of dynamic restraint is that it absorbs no energy and imparts very high impact loads on the structure.Another alternative to snubbers is the use of energy absorbers. Others have proposed varying forms of energy absorbers. One type uses steel plates to absorb energy through plastic deformation of the plates as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,620,688. A drawback of this device is its low cycle fatigue life. Other proposed types of energy absorbers are shown in U.S.Patent Nos. 4,955,467 and 4,901,829- Energy is absorbed by friction in these devices. A major drawback of these patented devices are the large amount of variability in the resulting friction force.In yet another device, the basic element of the restraint is the multi-stranded helical cable trapped between two plates such that energy is absorbed by the deformation of the cable when vibration occurs. This component of the device, known as an "isolator", has been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C LA IMS:
1. An improved energy absorption and pipe displacement limiting device of simple construction, ease of inspection and minimal maintenance, said device for connection between a pipe subject to movement due to dynamic loads and thermal deformation and an adjacent structure and possessing symmetric force-deflection properties in both tension and compression which resists buckling under load being characterized by: an assembly with an adjustable gap which includes a central rod which telescopes within a hollow central cylinder and a second hollow cylinder slidingly telescopically receiving one end of said central cylinder; a tube frame connected to said second cylinder and defining walls spaced from and surrounding an intermediate portion of the central cylinder for axial movement relative thereto; a first base member mounted at the intermediate portion of the central cylinder; a second base member held in place at a wall location opposite said first base member; a sliding bearing or friction member mounted between the second base member and the central cylinder; an arrangement of wire energy absorbing rope bights, each having portions in a state of precompression fixed to said first base member and to said second base member which when combined with said sliding gapped central rod, provide a pipe movement restraint having tri-linear force-deflection properties.
2. The device of claim 1 in which gaps between wire rope base members fastened to the central cylinder and housing end walls limit relative axial movement of said central and second hollow cylinders.
3. The device of claim 1 in which the base members include spacers to determine the extent of precompression of the wire energy absorbing rope bights. 


 4. The device of claim 1 in which adjacent bights are individual lengths of wire energy absorbing rope each forming substantially parallel planes to one another which provide for bi-linear spring stiffness properties. 5. The device of claim 1 in which adjacent bights are formed from a continuous length of wire energy absorbing rope each forming near parallel planes to one another which provide for bi¬ linear spring stiffness properties.
6. The device of claim 1 in which the bights are arranged in an asymmetric manner around the central rod which provide for a compact geometry.
7. The device of claim 1 in which the ends of said first and second hollow cylinders remote from said intermediate portion of the central cylinder and central rod have threads, one of which is a right hand thread and one of which is a left hand thread, for adjustment of the relative length of the tube frame and therefore the limit of pipe travel by means of a connecting rod adjustably mounted at each cylinder's remote ends in said cylinder threads for a turnbuckle type of adjustment. 8. The device of claim 1 in which gaps between the wire rope base member and housing end walls are adjustable means which provide a means of limiting the deformation of the wire energy absorbing rope bights.
9. The device of claim 8 in which a shear pin between the central cylinder and the stop cylinder act as weak links to control the failure mode of the device, absorb additional amounts of energy under failure, and limit the load on the building structure.
10. The device of claim 1 in which said central rod has two stops, one of which is adjustable by means of threads on one end of said central rod which mate with internal threads of one of the stops and provide for adjustment of the gap and thus the allowed free relative travel of the central rod within the central cylinder.
11. The device of claim 1 in which a slide bearing mounted between the second base member and the central cylinder limits the deflections and bending stresses of the central cylinder and central rod due to an unsym etric bight arrangement. 


 12. The device of claim 1 in which the slide bearing is left unlubricated act as a friction member and has a friction force which absorbs additional energy and which magnitude is a function of the amount of deflection of the wire energy absorbing rope and has relatively little effect on limiting pipe thermal expansion and becomes increasingly larger as the restraint travels towards the ends of its stroke during a pipe transient event.
13. The device of claim 1 in which the wire rope bights are mounted external to the structural housing to provide for ease of inspection of the wire rope without disassembly of the structural components of the restraint.
14. The device of claim 10 in which the gap does not result in an impact load on the structure or pipe when the gap suddenly closes during the load transfer to the wire rope bights and deceleration and energy absorption provided by the said wire rope bights and optional friction member.
15. The device of claim 10 in which the gap does not result in an impact blow to the internal stops of the restraint when the gap suddenly closes due to the load transfer through Belleville disk springs. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
