<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616584</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ADVANCED MARINE VEHICLES FOR OPERATION AT HIGH SPEEDS IN OR ABOVE ROUGH WATER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63B130	B63B3906	B63B128	B63B116	B60V122	B60V300	B60V308	B63B3900	B64C3500	B64C3500	B60V100	B63B124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63B	B63B	B63B	B63B	B60V	B60V	B60V	B63B	B64C	B64C	B60V	B63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63B1	B63B39	B63B1	B63B1	B60V1	B60V3	B60V3	B63B39	B64C35	B64C35	B60V1	B63B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYNAFOILS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DYNAFOILS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAYNE PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAYNE, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
advanced marine vehicles ("AMV") and, specifically, to 
hydrofoil craft and wing in ground effect ("WIG") 
aircraft which are capable of being operated at high 
speeds in or above rough water. Dynamically supported AMVs cannot be operated 
comfortably at high speeds in or above rough water. 
Examples of such AMVs include air cushion vehicles, 
surface effect ships, wing in ground effect ("WIG") 
aircraft, and hydrofoil craft. Hydrofoil craft are boats which typically possess 
a more or less conventional planing boat hull and which 
have one or more vertical struts extending from beneath 
the hull into the water. Each vertical strut typically 
carries at least one foil. When the hydrofoil craft 
has accelerated to a sufficient velocity through the 
water, the lift created by the foils raises the hull 
above the water's surface, thus eliminating the hull's 
resistance. WIG aircraft, in contrast, are "flying boats" 
intended to cruise just above wave crests so as to 
avoid all but very occasional water contact during 
flight. WIG aircraft possess one or more wings which 
are generally three orders of magnitude larger than the 
foils of hydrofoil craft. When a WIG aircraft has 
accelerated to a sufficient velocity through the water, 
the aerodynamic lift created by these wings lifts the 
aircraft entirely out of the water. By remaining close 
to the water's surface, WIG aircraft encounter  
 
significantly less resistance than they would encounter 
at higher altitudes because their resistance due to 
aerodynamic lift is much less close to the water's 
surface than it would be at higher altitudes. Hydrofoils are often used to transport people and 
cargo across varying sea states. However, hydrofoils 
are typically used in rough water only at reduced 
speeds, because of their uncomfortable motions and 
because their foils occasionally loose lift entirely, 
causing their hulls to crash into the water. WIG 
aircraft have not yet been built commercially. To determine how a hydrofoil craft could be 
operated at high speeds in rough waters without 
resulting in an uncomfortable ride, I engaged in a 
"time-domain analysis" in which the actual forces on a 
craft were calculated at successive time intervals. 
From these calculations, the craft's motion in space 
could be determined. I performed a time-domain computer analysis to 
reconstruct the detailed shape of a random sea's 
surface (i.e., the random wave patterns), as a function 
of both time and space. The real random
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A craft comprising: 

(a) a main body section; 
(b) at least one support arm which extends from the main 
body section; 
(c) means for connecting the support arm at or near the 
main body section; 
(d) at least one lift creating section attached to the 
support arm; and 
(e) means for allowing the support arm and lift creating 
section to move in concert with the changes of vertical velocity 

of a fluid located around the lift creating section so as to 
enable the craft to maintain approximately constant lift. 
The craft of claim 1, wherein the support arm is 
pivotally connected at or near the bottom of the main body and 

extends angularly downward from said hull into the fluid. 
A hydrofoil craft comprising: 

a hull having a longitudinal centerline plane; 
a support arm rigidly connected to the hull and extending 
from the hull into the water; and 
a foil attached to the support arm and extending 
transversely with respect to the centerline plane, wherein the 

support arm is sufficiently flexible to enable the support arm 
and the foil to move with respect to the hull parallel to the  

 
centerline plane in concert with upgusts and downgusts of water 

located around the foil by bending of the support arm with 
respect to the hull so that the hull maintains an approximately 

constant elevation above the water. 
A hydrofoil craft comprising: 

a hull having a longitudinal centerline plane; 
a support arm extending from the hull into the water and 
comprising a first portion connected to the hull, a second 

portion coupled to the first portion for reciprocating movement 
with respect to the first portion, and biasing means for biasing 

the second portion in a direction away from the first portion; 
a foil extending transversely with respect to the centerline 
plane and having a first pivot point and a second pivot point, 

the second pivot point being pivotably connected to the second 
portion of the support arm so that an angle of incidence of the 

foil varies as the second portion reciprocates; and 
a link having a first end pivotably mounted on the first 
portion of the support arm and a second end pivotably mounted on 

the first pivot point of the foil. 
A hydrofoil craft comprising: 

a hull having a longitudinal centerline plane; 
a first foil and a second foil each extending transversely 
with respect to the centerline plane; 
a first support arm connected between the hull and the first 
foil; and 
a second support arm connected between the hull and the  
 

second foil for supporting the second foil in contact with a 
body of water so that the second foil generates lift, 
the first support arm being movable independently of 
the second support arm, while the hull is moving and raised 

above the surface of the body of water, by pivoting about an 
axis extending in a transverse direction of the hull, between 

a lowered position in which the first foil is nested or in 
tandem with the second foil and in contact with the body of 

water so as to generate lift and a raised position in which 
the first foil is raised above the water surface and the 

second foil is contacting the body of water. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 5 wherein the first and 
second foils are nested when the first support arm is in its 

lowered position. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 6 wherein the first foil 
has an opening which receives the second support arm when the 

first support arm is in its lowered position. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 7 wherein the opening is 
formed in a leading edge of the first foil.  

 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 5 wherein the first foil 
has a larger surface area than the second foil. 
A method of operating a hydrofoil craft comprising: 

supporting a moving hull above a water surface by a 
first foil and a second foil nested or in tandem with one 

another when the speed of the hull is in a first speed range; 
and 
raising the first foil above the water surface by 
pivoting a support arm for the first foil about an axis 

transverse to the hull and supporting the hull with the second 
foil when the speed is in a second speed range higher than the 

first speed range. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 1 including a propeller 
supported by the main body section, and a ventilating tube 

connecting the atmosphere with a suction side of the propeller 
when the propeller is submerged and the main body section is 

supported above a water surface by the lift creating section. 
A hydrofoil craft according to claim 11 further 
comprising a cowling at least partially surrounding the 

propeller, the ventilating tube communicating with the inside of  
 

the cowling. 
A hydrofoil craft comprising: 

a hull; 
a forward strut extending downward from the hull; 
a forward foil connected to the forward strut beneath 
the hull; 
a first aft strut extending downward from the hull aft 
of a forward strut; 
a first aft foil connected to the first aft strut 
beneath the hull; and 
strut control means for controllably yawing the first 
aft strut and controllably varying an inclination of the first 

aft strut about an axis extending transversely with respect to 
the hull. 
A hydrofoil craft comprising: 

a hull; 
a support arm extending diagonally rearwards from the 
hull and having a first end pivotally connected to the hull 

and a second end; 
a foil connected to the second end of the support arm 
and supported by the support arm in a manner permitting the  

 
foil to move in concert with upgusts and downgusts of water 

surrounding the foil, 
 
   wherein the Support arm is shaped to provide a pathway 

for atmospheric air to ventilate an upper surface of the foil 
when the foil is submerged. 
A hydrofoil craft according to claim 14 wherein the 
support arm has a blunt trailing edge. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 1, wherein the support arm 
is sloped backwards from the main body section at an angle of 

approximately 30 degrees with respect to a horizontal line in 
calm water. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 1, wherein the lift 
creating section is pivotably connected to the support arm to 

permit feathering of the lift creating section with respect to 
the support arm. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 1, wherein the lift 
creating section comprises a supercavitating-type foil. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 11, wherein the  
 

ventilating tube ventilates approximately an upper half of the 
propeller. 
The hydrofoil craft of claim 14, wherein the foil is 
a supercavitating-type foil. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
