<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641155</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Convertible heat exchanger for air or water cooling of electronic circuit components and the like
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F28F922	F28D700	F28D716	F28F900	F28D102	F28D1053	F28D102	F28F132	F28D104	H05K720	F28F900	G06F120	G06F120	F28F132	H05K720	F28F922	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F28F	F28D	F28D	F28F	F28D	F28D	F28D	F28F	F28D	H05K	F28F	G06F	G06F	F28F	H05K	F28F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F28F9	F28D7	F28D7	F28F9	F28D1	F28D1	F28D1	F28F1	F28D1	H05K7	F28F9	G06F1	G06F1	F28F1	H05K7	F28F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A heat exchanger, especially for use in 
conjunction with a wide range of computer systems 

ranging from work stations to massively parallel 
processors is employable with both air and water 

cooling systems. In particular, a heat exchanger is 
provided which is convertible from a heat sink modality 

to an air cooling modality and finally to a liquid 
cooling modality in response to either increased 

performance demands or an increase in the number of 
processors or circuit components employed. The 

conversion may be carried out in the field and provides 
a flexible and less costly upgradeability path for data 

processing customers. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is generally directed to a 
heat exchanger which is especially useful for either 
air or water cooling of electronic circuit components, 
particularly those used in computer systems. More 
particularly, the present invention is directed to a 
flexible heat exchanger which may be employed in a 
range of computer systems extending from work station 
devices to massively parallel processing system 
complexes. Even more particularly, the apparatus of 
the present invention provides increased thermal 
flexibility and cooling upgradeability to computer 
installations at lower cost, with greater reliability 
and without the necessity of system down time. It has been the trend in data processing 
installations to link a number of computer systems 
together. Typically, these can take the form of a 
local area network (LAN) to facilitate cooperative work 
between the users and to ensure the maximum utilization 
of each computer system. Additionally, in some 
installations groups of work stations are being linked 
together to form loosely coupled parallel processing 
machines. In the limit, large numbers of work station 
processors may be packaged together to form massively 
parallel supercomputer systems. It is therefore seen 
that one of the trends in the computer industry is the 
combination of sub-assemblies of electronic circuit 
boards into larger systems. Accordingly, it is seen 
that it is very desirable that these sub-assemblies be 
configured to facilitate their use in work stations,  
 
work station clusters and also in massively parallel 
machines. However, the cooling requirements of these 
various systems are very different. Nonetheless, it 
would still be desirable to have a cooling methodology 
which extends across this whole range of computational 
devices, which is relatively inexpensive to implement 
and yet which provides flexible and field upgradeable 
systems. One of the possibilities for cooling advanced 
processors circuit modules is the employment of arrays 
of parallel plates (fins) which may be employed as heat 
sinks. Heat generated in an electronic component is 
conducted into the plates and dissipated through the 
passage of a forced flow of ambient air within high 
aspect ratio flow channels between the fins. In future 
machines, as power levels per module increase, the 
combined heat dissipated by many machines in a confined 
workspace, whether they are independent or part of a 
large LAN, could exceed the capacity of the room air 
conditioning system in which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A convertible heat exchanger, especially 
for air or liquid cooling of electronic 

circuit components, said heat exchanger 
comprising: 


a base plate (14); 
a plurality of liquid flow conduits (11) in 
fluid flow communication with manifold means (15a, 15b) 

suppliable with fluid through said base 
plate; and 
a plurality of fins (12, 13a, 13b, 13c) arranged in parallel 
with respect to one another and through which 

said liquid flow conduits pass and with which 
said fins are in thermal contact, said fins 

also being configured so as to define a 
serpentine liquid flow path in conjunction 

with a shroud (30, 40) which may be disposed around 
said fins said manifold means and said 

conduits, said shrouds being sealably 
affixable to said base plate. 
The heat exchanger of Claim 1 further 
including an air or gaseous flow Cooling 

adaptor which comprises a shroud (30) which is 
disposed at least partially around said 

conduits and said fins, such shroud including 
air moving means (32) on one side of said shroud, 

such shroud being disposed so as to supply a 
gaseous flow through said fins and across 

said conduits and out of the opposite side of 
said shroud.  

 
The heat exchanger of Claim 1 further 
including a liquid flow cooling adaptor which 

comprises a shroud (40) which is sealably disposed 
against said base plate and which surrounds 

said fins and said liquid flow conduits, said 
shroud defining, in conjunction with said 

base plate and said fins, a serpentine liquid 
flow path substantially parallel to said fins 

and across said conduits. 
The heat exchanger of Claim 1 further 
including means (32) for causing fluid to flow 

between or through said fins. 
The heat exchanger of Claim 1 in which 
said fins comprise copper. 
The heat exchanger of Claim 2 in which 
said shroud includes a flat mating portion (41) 

which is sealably affixed to said base plate. 
The heat exchanger of Claim 2 in which 
said air moving means comprises a fan (32). 
The heat exchanger of Claim 2 in which 
there is
 present a second air moving means at 
the opposite side of said shroud from said 

first air moving means, whereby operational 
reliability is enhanced via air moving means 

redundancy or whereby higher air flow rates 
may be provided. 
The heat exchanger of Claim 2 in which said shroud 
comprises a polymeric material. 
The heat exchanger of Claim 3 in which said 
shroud comprises a polymeric material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
