<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636005</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ATHLETIC SHOE HAVING BREAK-AWAY PORTIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B1314	A43B1326	A43C1500	A43C1516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43C	A43C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B13	A43B13	A43C15	A43C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An athletic shoe (10) having break-away cleats on the shoe sole (14) including releasably engageable connection units (18) portions (24 and 26) of the sole.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALKER ANDREW S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALKER, ANDREW S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALKER ANDREW S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALKER, ANDREW S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ATHLETIC SHOE HAVING BREAK-AWAY PORTIONSTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates generally to safety athletic foot wear having break away sole or cleat portions, and more particularly relates to break away sole or cleat portions on an athletic shoe which respond to particular load restrictions and exhibit shearing of the break away sole or cleat portions upon a significant lateral force.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONPrevious athletic shoes which have been designed to reduce soft tissue injury have included soft cleats which will bend, or a particular configuration of cleats designed to reduce injury. These other shoes have not succeeded in preventing injuries. This can be seen because there are still approximately 200,000 injuries per year to the knee and ankle ligaments of athletes. Athletic cleated shoes are inherently dangerous because they grip the ground and do not allow the athlete's foot to follow the course it would normally follow when a blow is applied to the athlete's lower extremities. This causes torque stresses and lateral strains on the legs of the athlete. These strains often lead to ligament damage requiring surgery and tendon augmentation. With the consequent incidence of pain and incapacity, there are millions of man-days lost at work, as well as millions of dollars spent on repairing these athletic injuries. The annual surgical cost of repairing the knees of American high school football players is more than $50,000,000.00. Also, recovering patients undergo several weeks of post- operative immobilization followed by graduated rehabilitation regiments lasting from several weeks to several months. In the event of anterior cruciate 

 ligament injuries, the most common knee injury, full recovery is the exception.Therefore, a stress reduction system is required which will allow the athletes foot to "give away" under predetermined forces which prevent harm to soft tissues and which does not compound previous injuries caused by the initial accident.Athletes today also tape their shoes to their feet to give their ankles maximum support. The taping has sufficiently reduced ankle injuries, however, it has caused the forces which would have been absorbed by the ankle to translate up toward the knee thereby injuring the knee ligaments. A review of the literature about prophylactic taping of ankles along with the use of other ankle supports has shown an increase incidence of knee injuries. Because prophylactic ankle taping has limited lateral mobility without interfering with the flexion and .
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An athletic shoe having break-away cleats on the shoe sole, comprising: an upper shoe body having a sole attached thereto; releasablyengageable adhesive connectionunits attached to at least portions of the sole; and at least one complementary mating cleat base having at least one cleat attached thereto, said cleat base having a mating adhesive connection unit adapted for releasably engaging the at least one cleat base to the adhesive connection units attached to the sole of the upper shoe body, whereby the respective complementary mating connection units attached to the shoe sole and the at least one cleat base are sequentially disposed for releasably engaging the at least one cleat base to the portions of the sole also having adhesive connection units so that the cleat bases will sever across the shoe sole in response to a substantially lateral loading force at least equal to the total shear breakaway force of individual pairs of said mating connection units, whereby low non-injury potential lateral forces subject the connection units to sufficient shear loading to deform the connection units and sequentially break the mating connections so that the at least one cleat base, and consequently the at least one cleat attached thereto, is broken away from the shoe sole in a substantially lateral direction only.
2. The athletic shoe of claim 1, wherein said releasably engageable adhesive connection units will have a peel strength and a shear strength in order to break away before about 350 to 950 Newtons of force would be translated to soft tissues in and around the knee, said 


 soft tissues including the anterior crucient, posterior crucient, medial collateral and lateral collateral ligaments.
3. The athletic shoe of claim 1, wherein said mating releasably engageable adhesive connection units include an interlocking pair of fasteners made from a material selected from the group consisting of rubbers, plastics, thermoplastics, elastomers, elastomeric resins and urethanes.
4. The athletic shoe of claim 1, wherein the releasably engageable adhesive connection units attached to the sole and the at least one complementary mating cleat base include male and female complementary physical connections which interlock to provide an adhesive fastener such that the tensile strength of said fastener is much greater than the shear or peel strength of said fastener, so that a substantial lateral force upon the leg of the athlete wearing the athletic shoe will cause the male and female interlock connection unit to shear apart, and consequently to break away from the sole attached to the upper shoe body, thereby substantially reducing soft tissue injury to the knee and ankle of the wearer of the shoe.
5. The athletic shoe of claim 4, wherein said male and female interlocking connection units include male protrusions in the sole, and female indentations in the cleat units.
6. The athletic shoe of claim 1, wherein said releasably engageable adhesive connection units include hook and loop fasteners. 


 7. The athletic shoe of claim 1, wherein said releasably engageable adhesive connection units attaching the cleat base having a cleat attached thereto to the sole of the upper shoe, body breaks away from the upper shoe body sole in response to lateral load stresses which translate to stresses in the anterior crucient, posterior crucient, medial collateral and lateral collateral ligaments of between about 350 and 950 Newtons.
8. The athletic shoe of claim 1, wherein the fastening strength capability of said connection units may be individually selected in response to the individual weight or other medical requirements of the athletic shoe wearer, so that the shear and peel strength may be individually responsive, and dependent upon the predetermined break away force in order to substantially reduce injuries to the soft tissues of the individual wearer of the shoe.
9. The athletic shoe of claim 1, wherein the tensile strength remains sufficiently high to keep the cleat bases attached to the sole of the upper shoe body, while being responsive to lateral load forces being applied against the leg of the wearer, so that the lateral load force response will break away the cleat base, with the cleat attached thereto, and thereby substantially reduce soft tissue injury to the wearer of the shoe.
10. An athletic shoe having break-away shoe sole portions, comprising: an upper shoe body having a first sole attached thereto; releasably engageable adhesive connectionunits attached to at least portions of the first sole; and 


 at least one complementary mating second sole portion having at least one mating adhesive connection unit adapted for releasably engaging the at least one second sole portion to the adhesive connection units attached to the first sole of the upper shoe body, whereby the respective complementary mating connection units attached to the shoe sole and the at least one second sole portion are sequentially disposed for releasably engaging the at least one second sole portion to the first sole also having adhesive connection units so that the second sole portion will sequentially sever across the first shoe sole in response to a substantially lateral loading force at least equal to the total shear breakaway force of individual pairs of the interlocking connection units, whereby low non-injury potential lateral forces subject the connections to sufficient shear loading to deform the connection units and sequentially break the interlocking connections so that the at least one second sole portion is broken away from the first sole attached to the upper shoe body in a substantially lateral direction only.
11. The athletic shoe of claim 10, wherein said releasably engageable adhesive connection units will have a peel strength and a shear strength in order to break away the second sole before about 350 to 950 Newtons of force would be translated to soft tissues in and around the knee, said soft tissues including the anterior crucient, posterior crucient, medial collateral and lateral collateral ligaments.
12. The athletic shoe of claim 10, wherein said mating releasably engageable adhesive connection units include an interlocking pair of fasteners made from a material selected from the group consisting of rubbers. 


 plastics, thermoplastics, elastomers, elastomeric resins and urethanes.
13. The athletic shoe of claim 10, wherein the releasably engageable adhesive connection units attached to the first sole and the at least one complementary mating adhesive second sole portion include male and female complementary physical connections which interlock to provide an adhesive fastener such that the tensile strength is much greater than the shear or peel strength, so that a substantial lateral force upon the leg of the athlete wearing the athletic shoe will cause the male and female interlock connection units to shear apart, and consequently to break away the second side portion from the first sole attached to the upper shoe body, thereby substantially reducing soft tissue injury to the knee and ankle of the wearer of the shoe.
14. The athletic shoe of claim 13, wherein said male and female interlocking connection units included male protrusions in the sole, and female indentations in the second sole portion.
15. The athletic shoe of claim 10, wherein said releasably engageable adhesive connection units include hook and loop fasteners.
16. The athletic shoe of claim 10, wherein said releasably engageable adhesive connection units attaching the second sole portion to the first sole of the upper shoe body breaks away from the upper shoe body first sole in response to lateral load stresses which translate to stresses in the anterior crucient, posterior crucient, medial collateral and lateral collateral ligaments of between about 350 and 950 Newtons. 


 17. The athletic shoe of claim 10, wherein force required to break the second sole portion from the first sole may be individually selected in response to the individual weight or other medical requirements of the athletic shoe wearer, so that the shear and peel strength may be individually responsive, and dependent upon a predetermined break away force in order to substantially reduce injuries to the soft tissues of the individual wearer of the shoe.
18. The athletic shoe of claim 10, wherein the tensile strength remains sufficiently high to keep the at least one second sole portion attached to the first sole of the upper shoe body, while being responsive to lateral load forces being applied against the leg of the wearer, so that the lateral load force response will break away the second sole portion and thereby substantially reduce soft tissue injury to the wearer of the shoe. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
