<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654985</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LASER REPROFILING SYSTEM FOR CORRECTION OF ASTIGMATISMS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1820	A61F9008	B23K26073	A61F9007	A61B1820	A61F901	A61F9007	A61F900	A61F900	B23K2606	B23K2606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61F	B23K	A61F	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	B23K	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B18	A61F9	B23K26	A61F9	A61B18	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	B23K26	B23K26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus (10) and methods are disclosed for astigmatically ablating surfaces in order to impart new profiles and curvatures to such surfaces. A laser means (12), e.g., a rapidly pulsed laser radiation source, is aligned with a surface (24) to provide photoablative pulses of energy along an optical path to a target region on the surface. A light restricting means (14), such as an adjustable iris or profiled mask, is disposed within the optical path to spatially control the extent of the laser radiation striking the target surface. The light restricting means is adapted to permit orientation (e.g., tilting) in various planes relative to the optical path in order to modify the symmetry of the laser beam, e.g., from a circular shape to an elliptical shape, and thereby provide astigmatic ablation of the surface in a single step.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMMIT TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMMIT TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOPOTEK PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLOPOTEK, PETER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to methods 
and apparatus for eroding or ablating surfaces by 
lasers. In particular, this invention relates to 
methods and apparatus for ablating surfaces 
astigmatically. Excluded from the present invention are however methods 
for the surgical correction of 
myopic or hyperopic astigmatism through laser 
keratoplasty, keratomileusis or photorefractive 
keratectomy (PRK), as well as any other method for treatment 
of a human or animal body by surgery or therapy. It is known to employ laser sources to erode 
surfaces of workpieces and the like. Such apparatus 
is in general relatively complex and demands highly 
skilled use. It is an object of the present 
invention to provide improved and simplified 
apparatus and method for eroding surfaces, 
particularly aspherical surfaces where it is 
typically desirable to reshape the surface into a 
more spherical shape having a symmetric and usually 
uniform curvature. It is also an object of the present 
invention to provide a laser system which 
can be applied to sensitive surfaces and, 
in particular, to objects in which it would be 
undesirable to affect underlying layers. This is 
particularly important in corneal surgery to correct 
vision defects, where upper layers of the cornea are 
sculpted to achieve the proper refractive power. 
Extreme care must be taken to avoid damage to the 
basement membrane and the posterior endothelial 
lining of the cornea in such operations.  
 In the field of medicine, a known technique 
for the treatment of certain forms of myopia is 
surgically to remove a segment of the collagen 
sub-surface layer of the eye, to reshape the removed 
segment as by surgical grinding, and to restore the 
reshaped segment in the eye. The eye heals by 
reformation of the outer cellular layer over the 
reshaped collagen layer. Alternatively, a layer of 
the cornea is opened up as a flap, an artificial or 
donor lenticular implant is inserted under the flap, 
and the flap is sutured up again. Various other surgical techniques for 
reprofiling of the corneal surface have also been 
proposed. One increasingly common technique is 
radial keratotomy in which a set of radial incisions, 
i.e., resembling the spokes of a wheel, are made in 
the eye to remedy refractive errors, such as myopia 
(nearsightedness). As the incisions heal, the 
curvature of the eye is flattened, thereby increasing 
the ocular focal distance. The operation is not 
particularly suitable for correction of astigmatic 
(non-spherical)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for ablating a surface astigmatically by laser energy, the 
method comprising the steps of: 


aligning a surface (24) with a laser means (12), which is operable to 
deliver a beam of laser energy along a path to the surface (24); 
generating with the laser means (12) a beam of radiation at an energy 
level such that the beam of radiation can be absorbed at the surface (24) to induce photoablation; 
disposing a light restricting means (14) within the beam path for 
selectively transmitting a portion of the laser radiation and for spatially varying the 

exposure area on the surface over time; and characterized by: 
tilting the light restricting means (14) at an angle relative to the 
beam path to define an asymmetric ablation profile, 
subject to a disclaimer of methods for treatment of a human or animal 
body by surgery or therapy. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of orienting the light 
restricting means (14) further comprises forming a time-varying, astigmatic distribution of 

energy on said exposure area (24). 
The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises tilting 
the light restricting means (14) to select a particular orientation for the shaped beam. 
The method of claim 3 wherein the step of tilting the light restricting 
means (14) further comprises forming a time-varying, elliptical distribution of energy on 

said area (24) in which the direction of tilt defines orthogonal axes on said surface (24) for 
astigmatic ablation.  

 
The method of claim 4 wherein the method further includes the step 
of adjusting the tilt of the light restricting means (14) to select an astigmatic ratio on said 

surface (24) for astigmatic ablation. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of disposing a light 
restricting means (14) within the beam path farther comprises disposing an adjustable iris 

(13) or 
a profiled mask 

within the beam path, and optionally 
the step of disposing a profiled mask 

within the beam path further comprises disposing an erodible mask within the beam path. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises 
activating the laser means (12) to generate ablative radiation and activating the light 

restricting means (14) to selectively ablate the surface by changing the size, shape or 
location of the exposure area (24) over time, and for example 

the step of activating the laser means 
(12) further comprises activating a pulsed excimer laser means.  

 
A laser system for astigmatically reprofiling a surface, said laser 
system comprising: 


laser means (12) for generating pulses of laser light along a beam 
path at an energy level, such that the pulses can be absorbed at a surface (24) to induce 

photoablation; 
light restricting means (14) disposed within the beam path for 
selectively transmitting the laser light and for spatially varying the exposure area (24) on 

the surface over time; characterized by: 
orientation means (15) for tilting the light restricting means (14) at an 
angle relative to the beam path to define 

an asymmetric 
ablation profile. 
A laser system according to claim 8 wherein the laser means (12) 
comprises an excimer laser, for example an 

Argon-Fluoride laser. 
A laser system according to claim 8 wherein said light restricting 
means (14) comprises an adjustable iris (13) 

or a profiled mask for varying the diameter of said laser beam, 
said mask optionally being erodible.  

 
A laser system according to claim 8 wherein said 
orientation means (15) 

permits the light restricting means (14) to be tilted at various angles relative 
to the beam path to select a particular orientation of elliptically shaped beam. 
A laser system according to claim 8 wherein the system further 
comprises imaging means for imaging the light restricting means (14) onto an image plane 

at the surface. 
A laser system according to claim 11 or 
12 in which the orientation means comprises 

a gimbal mount (15). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
