<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657075</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLEXIBLE NETWORK CONCEPT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B10207	H04B10207	H04J1402	H04J1402	H04Q1100	H04Q1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	H04J14	H04J14	H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an optical network with a number  of nodes. Information is transmitted and, respectively, received in the nodes. The information is transmitted over a number of frequencies. Receiving and, respectively, transmitting of frequencies in the nodes is variable. The information is only converted to electrical signals in those nodes where the information is retrieved. Optical signals are amplified and distributed in the network via optical splitters and amplifiers. The capacity in the network can be redistributed depending on the capacity requirement in different parts of the network.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELIA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELIA AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAESSEN JONAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHANSEN LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLAESSEN, JONAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHANSEN, LARS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title of the invention: Flexible network conceptTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates to optical networks which are used, for example, for communications trans- mission. The optical network includes terminals and one or more networks which interact. The optical network has an information capacity which is predetermined.PRIOR .ARTOptical networks have been previously known. In these, each node is allocated a number of channels with a predetermined frequency. Furthermore, each node can obtain access to one or a number of channels via filters or demultiplexers. Each of the nodes transmits to the network, which distributes each channel to all nodes. Individual nodes select a required channel by selecting with frequency division multiplexing or time division multiplexing. Furthermore, it is known to use hierarch¬ ical networks with active and passive star couplers.Examples of the above situations are given in patents GB 2 114 902, US 4 957 340, US 4 957 899, WO 90/09710 and GB 2 199 209.TECHNICAL PROBLEMIn optical communication networks, among others, there is a need for changing the utilisation of capacity, between different points in the network, in dependence on the information requirement between respective points in the network.During the transmission of information in optical networks, there is a need, for information users in the network, to separate relevant information from irrelevant information. In this connection, it is desirable that signals are separated in the optical phase.There is a also a need for users to have access to all the information which is accessible in the network. For example, when handling information from a plurality of sources at the same time. 

 There is also a need for reusing the same fre¬ quency in different parts of the network for different requirements. This presupposes that there are no con¬ flicts of interest. There is also a need for nodes in the optical network to be able to receive and, respectively, send out a plurality of frequencies. In this connection, there is a requirement that the receiving equipment and, respect¬ ively, transmitting equipment of the nodes can be switched over to different frequencies.In an optical network, it is desirable to mini¬ mise the number of band width-limiting elements such as optical filters. Each optical band-limiting element entails an undesirable degeneration of the band widths, which must be avoided.It is desirable for accessible channels in the optical network to be reusable.It is also desirable that the network can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
PATENT CLAIMS
1. Method for producing a flexible utilisation of capacity in an optical network, characterised in that nodes in the network are allocated a number of frequency- variable transmitters and receivers, in that an optical signal is only terminated when information is to be extracted, in that the nodes are connected via optical power splitters, and in that the capacity in the network can be redistributed by selection of information at the receiver end.
2. Method according to Claim 1, characterised in that the receivers select frequencies containing informa¬ tion intended for the node.
3. Method according to either of the preceding claims, characterised in that the transmission capacity from a node is distributed amongst the other nodes.
4. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that transmission information from a node reaches the receivers in all the nodes. 5. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that all the information in the network is accessible in all the nodes.
6. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that capacity between individual point- to-point connections is allowed to follow the traffic variations in the network.
7. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that frequency selection is carried out by optical filtering and or optical switching. 8. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that only optical splitters and ampli¬ fiers are used.
9. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the splitters are allowed to have arbitrary location in the network.
10. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the splitters are allowed to have asymmetric location in the network.
11. Method according to any of the preceding claims. 


characterised in that cascade connection of frequency filters is avoided.
12. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that wavelength reuse is allowed if two nodes are not directed to the same receiving node.
13. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that a node distributes information in different information channels.
14. Method according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that bottlenecks which are constituted by electronics in optical networks are avoided.
15. Arrangement for producing a flexible utilisation of capacity in an optical network, characterised in that the network comprises a number of nodes with frequency- variable transmitters and receivers, in that an optical signal is only terminated when information is to be retrieved, in that the nodes are connected via optical power splitters, and in that the capacity in the network can be moved by selection at the receiver end. 16. Arrangement according to Claim 15, characterised in that the receivers select frequencies containing information intended for the node.
17. Arrangement according to either of Claims 15-16, characterised in that transmission capacity from a node is distributed between the other nodes.
18. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-17, characterised in that transmission information from a node reaches the receivers in all the nodes.
19. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-18, characterised in that all the information in the network is accessible in all the nodes.
20. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-19, characterised in that capacity between individual point- to-point connections is allowed to follow traffic variations in the network.
21. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-20, characterised in that frequency selection is carried out by means of optical filtering and/or optical switching.
22. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-21, 


characterised in that only optical splitters and ampli¬ fiers are utilised.
23. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-22, characterised in that the splitters are allowed to have arbitrary location in the network.
24. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-23, characterised in that the splitters are allowed to have asymmetric location in the network.
25. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-24, characterised in that cascade connection of frequency filters is avoided.
26. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-25, characterised in that wavelength reuse is allowed if two nodes are not directed to the same receiving node. 27. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-26, characterised in that bottlenecks which are constituted by electronics in a optical networks are avoided.
28. Arrangement according to any of Claims 15-27, characterised in that received information in a node is separated at different frequencies and distributed to different receiving nodes/users.
29. Arrangement in a communications network for distributing/directing one or more information channels in the network, characterised in that the communications network comprises or forms a passively and optically operating trunk network, in that respective nodes are arranged for flexibly selecting and forwarding parts of the information quantity(ies) allocated to them, in that the transmission between the nodes is frequency-based and in that asymmetrically arranged power splitters are arranged in and/or outside the nodes.
30. Arrangement according to Claim 29, characterised in that switching nodes in the network receive information at one or more frequencies and that the said node, after assembling incoming information, distributes it to one or more receivers/nodes, whereby each receiver/node only receives that information which it is intended to receive. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
