<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650694</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for diseased tissue type recognition
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B812	A61B5103	A61B5103	A61B505	A61B505	A61B500	A61B812	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B8	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus (21,150) is disclosed for identifying tissue which is 
suspected of being physiologically changed as a result of pre-cancerous or cancerous 

activity. The apparatus (21,150) includes a probe (1,10;151) configured to contact the 
tissue and which includes an arrangement (3-7,17-47;158-163) to subject the tissue to a 

plurality of different stimuli such as electrical, light, heat, sound, magnetic and to 
detect plural physical responses to the stimuli. The probe (1,10;151) connects to an 

analogue section (23;152) which buffers signals between the probe (1,10;151) and a 
processor (22;153). The processor (22;153) processes the responses in combination in 

order to categorise the tissue, and then compares the categorisation with a catalogue of 
expected tissue to identify the tissue, the processing occurring in real-time with an 

indication of the tissue type (eg. normal, pre-cancerous/cancerous, or unknown) being 
provided to an operator of the apparatus. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLARTECHNICS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLARTECHNICS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPLESON JOHN VICTOR MALCOLM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REID BEVAN LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKLADNEV VICTOR NICKAELOVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPLESON, JOHN VICTOR MALCOLM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REID, BEVAN LESLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKLADNEV, VICTOR NICKAELOVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for identifying
different tissue types including those displaying modifications involving pre-cancerous
or cancerous stages, diseased tissues, and those that are in a transitional stage.The identification of different tissue types is provided via a set of
measurements of the tissue's physical properties. The present invention relates
particularly to the identification of different types of tissues, including external skin and
those that can be inspected by means, such as an endoscope, that enable direct access
inside the body. A specific application of the invention relates to the inspection of the
cervix.The early detection of tissues displaying pre-cancer or cancer modifications is
important for successful medical treatment. Presently-used detection techniques suffer
from inaccuracy and are subject to operator error as well as being time-consuming.
A
good example of this is the Pap smear for cervical cancer. X-ray diagnosis, which can
also be used for detecting advanced cancer modifications, can lead to detrimental
exposure to radiation.A positive result produced by a Pap smear test is generally followed by a
visual examination using a colposcope which provides a magnified view of the cervix.
Suspect regions of the cervix are evaluated by a skilled practitioner who then makes a
subjective judgement of the tissue observed. There are many tissue types in the cervix,
some of which display analogous appearances, including visual and textural
characteristics, that make clinical diagnosis very difficult and subject to error.Similar subjective assessments play a major role in the detection and treatment
of other locations of neoplastic pre-activity and activity, for example skin melanoma.Methods and devices have been developed in an attempt to use measurements
of physical characteristics of the tissue for distinguishing cancerous tissue from non-cancerous
tissue. Electrical measurements of the skin or tissue have been used. Such
electrical measurements on their own do not provide the information needed for an
effective diagnosis.In US Patent No. 4,537,203 to Machida, an abnormal cell detecting device
having a pair of electrodes attached to a portion of the body is disclosed. Two voltages
at different frequencies are applied between the pair of electrodes. The capacitance
measured at the two frequencies gives an indication of the presence of abnormal cells.In US Patent No. 4,955,383 to Faupel, a method and apparatus for
determining the presence or absence of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for categorization of a tissue type,
including


(a) a probe tip configured to contact a tissue
surface area (32) selected by contacting said area with

said probe tip, said probe tip including

a source of a first energy type, and
a first sensor adapted to sense from a tissue
volume proximate said tissue surface a response to

energy from said source of a first energy type,
characterised in that the apparatus further includes
a source of a second energy type, and
a second sensor adapted to sense from said tissue
volume proximate said tissue surface a response to

energy from said source of a second energy type,
both of said sensors being adapted to sense
responses from the same tissue volume before the probe

(1) is moved to contact another surface area,
(b) a controller (153) coupled to each of said
first and second sensors to receive each corresponding

tissue response, said controller including a memory
(179) adapted to store a known catalogue of expected

tissue types and associated paired first energy
type/second energy type responses, and
(c) a processor (178) for processing paired
responses from said tissue selected by contact with

said probe tip and for analysing said processed paired
tissue responses, said processor processing the paired

responses of said selected tissue to both of said
sources to provide a categorization of the tissue type

in accordance with a comparison of the paired tissue
responses with said known catalogue of expected tissue

types and associated paired responses.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein

the source of the first energy type is a source of
electrical current, 
the source of the second energy type is a source
of electromagnetic radiation,
the first sensor is adapted to sense a response to
an electrical current from said current source,
the second sensor is adapted to sense a response
to electromagnetic radiation from said source of

electromagnetic radiation, and
the controller is adapted to store a known
catalogue of expected tissue types and associated

paired potential/electromagnetic radiation responses.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2
wherein the apparatus further includes a calibration

instrument (120) wherein said probe is contacted with a
synthetic tissue (123), and said probe response is

compared to predetermined limits.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2
wherein the apparatus further includes a calibration

instrument (125) wherein said probe contacts a
complementary array (127) adapted to stimulate probe

sensors, and said probe response is compared to
predetermined limits.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said probe includes multiple arrays of source

and sensor elements configured to sample physical
properties of selected tissue along the contour of a

body organ.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said probe is configured to inspect the cervix (32).
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein said probe is flexible and conformable to the

contours of a body organ. 
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,
wherein


said probe tip has a distal end to contact said
tissue surface area,
one of said first or second sensors adapted to
sense a response to said first or second energy types

includes at least three sensor elements (15, 16, 17)
receiving signals from the distal end of said probe

tip,
said controller includes circuitry to measure the
differences in response between different pairs of said

sensor elements and to extend signals representative of
said differences in response to said processor, and
said processor is adapted to compare said measured
differences in response between pairs of sensor

elements to determine that the probe is correctly
oriented relative to said tissue surface, whereupon the

processing of the paired responses of said selected
tissue is enabled.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein

the sensor elements are electrodes terminating at
the distal end of said probe tip;
said controller includes circuitry to measure the
potential differences between different pairs of said

electrodes and to extend signals representative of said
potential differences to said processor, and
said processor is adapted to compare said measured
pot
ential differences between pairs of electrodes.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein the
probe includes


a source of a first energy type,
the at least three first sensor elements
terminating at the distal end of said probe tip are

adapted to sense from a tissue volume proximate said 
tissue surface a response to the first energy type from

said source of a first energy type, and
the controller coupled to said sensor elements
includes circuitry to sequentially measure the

difference in response between different pairs of said
sensor elements,
An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein,

the probe tip includes a source of electrical
current,
the electrodes are adapted to sense a response to
an electrical current from said current source, and
the controller coupled to said sensor electrodes
includes circuitry to sequentially measure the

potential difference between different pairs of said
electrodes.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 8 to
11 wherein the probe tip further includes a source of a

second energy type and a sensor comprising second
sensor elements terminating at the distal end of said

probe tip adapted to sense from a said tissue volume
proximate said tissue surface a response to the second

energy type from said source of a second energy type.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said
first energy type is ultrasonic energy.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 8 to
11, wherein the enablement of processing of paired

responses is confirmed by a signal from the apparatus
to an operator thereof.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said
processor determines a value for the voltage decay

after removal of an applied voltage to the tissue. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said
processor determines a value for the complex impedance

of the tissue over a range of frequencies.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said
processor determines the current flow into the

electrodes as a voltage is applied.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein the
current flow is determined as a function of time.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein the
current flow is determined as a function of frequency.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said
processor determines a value for the current flow cut

of the tissue after the cessation of a voltage pulse
applied to the electrodes.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein the
current flow is determined as a function of time.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein the
current flow is determined as a function of frequency.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said
processor determines a value for the conductivity of

the selected tissue.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein said
conductivity is determined from a value of the in-phase

current flowing when a sine wave voltage is applied to
the electrodes.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 24, wherein said
sine wave voltage is applied over a range of 

frequencies.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the
probe tip includes a plurality of electrodes, and

wherein at least some of said electrodes are metal.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein said
probe has a face and said metal electrodes are formed

from wires truncated at the probe face.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 26 or claim 27,
wherein each of at least some of said metal electrodes

has a shape selected from circles, ellipses, squares,
rectangles, triangles, segments of circles, or segments

of annuli.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 26 to
28, wherein at least one of said electrodes includes an

electrolytic cell coupled to the tissue by a salt
bridge.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 26 to
29, wherein said metal electrodes are arranged

symmetrically around the centroid of the probe tip.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 30, wherein said
probe includes an external tube (2) having an internal

surface and said metal electrodes include at least one
electrode (3) positioned in the centre of a bundle of

optical fibers (4) and a plurality of cylindrical metal
tube segments (5, 6, 7) positioned adjacent and

abutting against the internal surface of said external
tube.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein at
least one of said electrodes is non-metallic. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 32, wherein said
at least one non-metallic electrode is a non-metallic

semiconductor, silicon, carbon or titanium oxide bonded
upon titanium.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim
wherein


the probe tip includes
a first optical fiber, having a terminal end for
delivering light to a first region of tissue and
a second optical fiber having a terminal end for
receiving backscattered light from an adjacent second

region of tissue.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 34 wherein the
probe further includes a reflection shield to prevent

light emitted from said first region of tissue from
entering said terminal end of the second fiber while

permitting light from said second region of tissue
surface to enter said terminal end of the second fiber.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 35, wherein said
reflection shield is a light impermeable barrier.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 36, wherein said
probe includes a transparent refractive ball (73) to

refract light from a light source (76) contacted by the
ball.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
