<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651535</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multi-port repeater.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R2902	G01R29027	H03K522	H03K526	H04B336	H04B336	H04L1228	H04L1228	H04L1244	H04L1244	H04L1246	H04L1246	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	H03K	H03K	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R29	G01R29	H03K5	H03K5	H04B3	H04B3	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A discrete integrated repeater device (50) and port MAU/AUI
functions shares resources among its several ports. The device

satisfies an IEEE 802.3 specification for execution of a link integrity
test. The device is able to selectively disable or enable the link

integrity test function for particular ports. A plurality of latches,
one associated with each port, is set upon carrier sense detection at

the particular port. A token passing mechanism implemented with a
daisy chained line coupled to each latch enables a polling of each

latch to provide carrier sense information about each port in a serial
format. The device shares a single PLL among all its ports by

producing a logical sum of carrier sense inputs to enable activation of
the PLL. A collision indication signal will override operation of the

PLL to ensure data integrity and to allow the PLL to reacquire lock on
its reference clock.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STAAB DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIJEH NADER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STAAB, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VIJEH, NADER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to repeaters for, for example, 
computer communication network. We will describe an arrangement which 
relates to sharing resources of a repeater and a plurality of Medium 
Attachment Units integrated into a single integrated circuit device. Prior art repeaters typically comprise multiple discrete devices 
for implementing an IEEE 802.3 Standard. The IEEE 802.3 Standard 
specifies a relay function and a port function. The repeater's purpose 
is to extend a local area network and to allow multiple nodes 
physically separated from each other to communicate with each other. 
The relay function receives a data packet from a first node at a first 
port with the data packet destined for another node at another port. 
Prior art repeaters may have almost any number of ports. The relay 
function re-times the data packet and restores proper amplitude to the 
received data packet. The repeater then retransmits the data packet to 
all its ports, and the proper node is able to respond. Prior art 
repeaters include a number of discrete ports which receive and transmit 
data as appropriate. The port function is different from the relay 
function. Construction of the network may use different media types for 
transmission of a signal. These media include, for example, coaxial 
cable, shielded twisted pair cable and fiber optic cable. The 
different media types require different signal parameters to optimize 
performance of the network when using any particular medium. The 
network may also include a combination of medium types. The IEEE 802.3 
Standard specifies general signalling characteristics and signal 
requirements for using these media. The general signal characteristics 
provide a convention for each node or repeater in presenting or 
receiving a signal to the network medium. A device referred to as a 
Medium Attachment Unit (MAU) translates the general signal information 
from a node or repeater to a medium specific signal. The MAU also 
translates the medium specific signal into the general signal. Thus, 
a repeater must have a MAU associated with each port. The MAU function 
is different than either the port function or the relay function.  A standard IEEE 802.3 10BASE-T defines this translation function 
for a twisted pair medium. Networks using twisted pair wiring have a 
star configuration, with a repeater as a hub of a star. Linking 
segments may interconnect a port of one repeater with another repeater 
port. A single node connects to the other ports of the repeater. Due 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A serial scan circuit for a repeater, comprising: 
   a plurality of ports, each port asserting a carrier sense signal 

when receiving information; 
   means, coupled to each particular port of said plurality of 

ports, for storing a first value if said particular port asserted its 
carrier sense signal during a particular sampling period, otherwise 

said storing means storing a second value; and 
   means for polling said storing means to provide a serial signal 

indicating each port's carrier sense activity during said sampling 
period. 
A serial scan circuit for a repeater, comprising: 
   a plurality of ports, each port asserting a carrier sense signal 

when receiving information; 
   means, coupled to said plurality of ports, for storing a 

plurality of values identifying whether each port's carrier sense 
signal had been asserted during a sampling period; and 

   means for polling said storing means and providing a serial 
signal derived from said plurality of values. 
A method for providing carrier sense signals from a repeater, 
comprising the steps of: 

   storing a plurality values identifying whether each port of a 
plurality of ports of the repeater asserted, during a sampling period, 

a carrier sense signal in response to receipt of information; 
   polling each said stored plurality of values; and 

   output a serial signal derived from said polled stored plurality 
of values. 
A multi-port repeater, comprising: 
   a first and a second port for receiving encoded information, each 

asserting a first and a second carrier sense signal, respectively, when 
receiving said encoded information;

 
   a decoder having a data input and an enable input for decoding 

information provided at said data input when an enable signal provided 
at said enable input is asserted; and 

   a multiplexer circuit producing a logical sum of said first and 
second carrier sense signals as said enable signal and providing said 

enable signal to said enable input of said decoder. 
The multi-port repeater of claim 4, further comprising: 
   means, coupled to said first and second port, for asserting a 

control signal if more than one carrier sense signal is asserted, and 
wherein 

   said multiplexer circuit further includes means, responsive to an 
assertion of said control signal, of deasserting said enable signal 

irrespective of whether any of said first and second signals are 
asserted. 
The multi-port repeater of claim 5, further comprising: 
   means for enabling particular ports to receive information and 

asserting a qualification signal associated with said particular ports 
when said particular ports are enabled; and wherein 

   said multiplexer circuit further qualifies each first and second 
signal with said qualification associated with said signal's port's 

qualification signal by producing a logical product of said 
qualification signal and said signal before producing said logical sum. 
A method of sharing a decoder in a multi-port repeater, 
comprising the steps of: 

   producing a carrier sense signal from each port of a plurality of 
ports when receiving information; 

   multiplexing each port's carrier sense signal to produce a 
logical sum of said plurality of port's carrier sense signals; and 

   enabling a decoder to decode encoded information from said 
plurality of ports when said logical sum is asserted. 
The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of:
 

   asserting a control signal if more than one carrier sense signal 
is asserted; and 

   overriding said production of said carrier sense logical sum to 
deassert said logical sum if said control signal is asserted. 
The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of: 
   producing a qualification signal associated with each port 

indicating whether a particular port is enabled to receive information; 
and 

   qualifying each port's carrier sense signal with its associated 
qualification signal prior to production of said logical sum. 
A repeater having a link integrity test disabling feature, 
comprising: 

   an integrated multiport repeater (50) having a plurality of ports 
(60,62i) and a control means (102) for receiving control informat
ion 
and asserting a control signal; 

   a link integrity test circuit coupled to a particular one of said 
plurality of ports for implementing a link integrity test for said 

particular one port; and 
   linktest control means, coupled to said link integrity test 

circuit and to said control means, for disabling said link integrity 
test circuit from failing said link integrity test for said particular 

one port in response to said control signal. 
A repeater, comprising: 
   an integrated multiport repeater (50) having a plurality of ports 

(60,60i) and a control means (102) for receiving control information 
and asserting a first control signal; 

   a link integrity test circuit coupled to a particular one of said 
plurality of ports for implementing a link integrity test for said 

particular one port; 
   linktest control means, coupled to said link integrity test 

circuit and responsive to a second control circuit, for inhibiting said 
link integrity test circuit from disabling said particular port for 

 
non-receipt of linktest pulses; and 

   a memory associated with said particular one port and coupled to 
said control means and responsive to said first control signal, for 

asserting said second control signal if said first control signal is 
asserted. 
The repeater of claim 11, wherein a plurality of memories are 
coupled to said plurality of ports. 
The repeater of claim 12, wherein said plurality of memories 
respond separately to control information to individually disable said 

link integrity test for particular ports. 
The repeater of claim 11, wherein said memory is further 
responsive to said control information to deassert said control signal 

and thereby re-enable linktest reception for said particular one port. 
A method of disabling a link integrity test function, comprising 
the steps of: 

   receiving control information at a circuit, said circuit 
including a port and a linktest control circuit coupled to said port 

for controlling a linktest and disabling said linktest responsive to 
assertion of a control signal; 

   if said control information indicates said linktest for said port 
is to be disabled, setting a memory associated with said port and 

coupled to said linktest control circuit; and 
   asserting said control signal from said to said linktest control 

circuit if said port is to be disabled. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
