<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0555974</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Safety needle device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B515	A61B515	A61M532	A61M532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A safety needle device (20) includes a barrel (21) having 
an inside surface (22) defining a chamber (23) and an open 

proximal end (25). A distal end (27) includes a needle 
cannula (28) attached thereto. The needle cannula (28) 

includes a distal tip (31) and a lumen therethrough in 
fluid communication with the chamber (23). A needle 

guard (32) is mounted on the barrel (21) for movement relative 
to the barrel from a retracted position in which the 

needle guard (32) does not materially obstruct access to 
the distal tip (31) of the needle cannula (28) and an extended 

position in which the needle guard (32) obstructs access 
to the distal tip (31). The safety needle device (20) includes 

structure for releasably retaining the needle 
guard in the retracted position and for locking the 

needle guard in the extended position. A safety 
indicator (39) is provided on the distal end of the 

barrel for visually indicating that the needle guard (32) 
is not in the locked extended position and an 

obscurement means (41) is provided on the needle guard (32) 
for obscuring or changing the appearance of the 

safety indicator (39) when the needle guard (32) is in the 
locked extended position. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWANDOWSKI RAYMOND D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWANDOWSKI, RAYMOND D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention 
relates to medical devices containing a needle 
cannula such as syringes, evacuated tube holders and 
the like. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to safety needle devices having self-contained 
safety shields which can be positioned to 
help prevent accidental contact with the needle 
point. Generally 
speaking, a hypodermic syringe includes of a 
cylindrical barrel, commonly made of thermoplastic 
material or glass, having a distal end connected to 
a sharpened needle cannula and a proximal end 
adapted to receive a stopper and plunger assembly. In recent years there has developed an 
increased concern regarding the transfer of disease, 
infection or the like to syringe users and health-care 
professionals who accidentally stick themselves 
with hypodermic needles while disposing of used 
hypodermic syringe products. In many areas in a 
hospital, where needle cannula products are used, 
contain disposal bins so that a syringe or other 
needle cannula product may be immediately discarded 
in a safe rigid container. However, there are areas 
of medical practice such as in emergency rooms, or 
other areas where disposal containers are not 
readily available or practical, where products 
having self-contained shielding devices are 
desirable. In theory, after the syringe is used to  
 
inject medication or for another purpose, a shield 
which surrounds the syringe barrel is advanced to an 
extended position and locked to prevent further 
contact with the sharp needle tip. The syringe, in 
this condition, can be safely transported to a 
disposal system. Such a syringe is taught in U.S. Patent No. 
4,631,057 to Mitchell. This syringe contains a 
needle guard which is releasably retained in a 
retracted position, for allowing the syringe to be 
used for injection, and lockably retained in the 
extended position. To lock the needle guard in the 
extended position the user moves the needle guard 
axially distally along the syringe barrel until it 
snaps in the locked position. No further manipulation 
of the needle guard, such as rotation, is 
required. A similar syringe is taught in U.S. Patent No. 
4,747,837 to Hauck. This patent teaches a syringe 
having a cylindrical sheath sleeve which can be 
advanced axially to a locked irreversible position 
which prevents further access to the needle cannula 
tip. Other shielded syringe designs such as the 
syringe as taught in U.S. Patent No. 4,998,920 to 
Johnson, U.S. Patent No. 4,801,295 to Spencer and 
U.S. Patent No.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A safety needle device (20) that provides a user with clear visual 
indication that a needle guard is in a locked safe position, the device 

comprising:
 
   a barrel (21) having a inside surface (22) defining a chamber (23), a open 

proximal end (25), a distal end (27) having a needle cannula (28) attached 
thereto, said needle cannula (28) having a lumen therethrough in fluid 

communication with said chamber (23), said needle cannula (28) projecting 
distally outwardly from said distal end (27) of said barrel (21) and terminating 

in a distal tip (31);
 
   a needle guard (32) mounted on said barrel (21) for movement relative to 

said barrel (21) from a retracted position in which said needle guard does not 
materially obstruct access to said distal tip (31) of said needle cannula to an 

extended position in which said needle guard (32) obstructs access to said distal 
tip (31);
 
   means (33,34,35) for releasably retaining said needle guard (32) in said 

retracted position;
 
   means (33,34,37,38) for locking said needle guard in said extended 

position;
 
   
characterized in that
 the safety needle device (20) also provides a user with 
clear visual indication that the needle guard is in a potentially unsafe position, 

the device further including:
 
   safety indicator means (39) on said distal end (27) of said barrel (21) for 

visually indicating that said needle guard (32) is not locked in said extended 
position and for thereby visibly indicating the potentially unsafe position; and
 
   obscurement means (41) on said needle guard (32) for obscuring 

said safety indicator means (39) when said needle guard (32) is 
in said locked extended position and for thereby visibly indicating the safe 

position. 
The safety needle device of Claim 1 wherein said safety indicator means 
is red. 
The safety needle device of Claim 1 wherein said safety indicator means 
includes a coloured segment.  

 
The safety needle device of Claim 3 wherein said coloured segment is a 
colour selected from the group consisting of blue, red, orange and yellow. 
The safety needle device of Claim 4 wherein said coloured segment is an 
annular ring. 
The safety needle device of any of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said 
obscurement means is green. 
The safety needle device of any of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said 
obscurement means covers said safety indicator means when said needle guard 

is in said locked extended position. 
The safety needle device of Claim 7, wherein said obscurement means 
includes an opaque segment. 
The safety needle device of Claim 8 wherein said opaque segment is a 
colour selected from the group consisting of green, black, blue or white; 
The safety needle device of Claim 7 wherein said obscurement means 
includes a translucent segment. 
The safety needle device of Claim 10 wherein said translucent segment 
is a coloured segment. 
The safety needle device of Claim 11 wherein said coloured segment is a 
colour selected from the group consisting of yellow, blue and green.  

 
The safety needle device of any preceding Claim, wherein said means 

for locking includes a collar mounted on said distal end of said barrel and 
interlocking means on said collar and said needle guard for locking said needle 

guard in said extended position. 
The safety needle device of ay preceding Claim, wherein said barrel 
(21) is a syringe barrel having a stopper (43) slidably positioned in fluid-tight 

engagement inside said barrel (21), said stopper (43) being capable of moving 
fluid from said chamber (23) through said lumen upon its movement toward 

said distal end (27), said stopper (43) being capable of facilitating the drawing 
of fluid into said chamber (23) through said lumen upon its movement away 

from said distal end (27). 
The safety needle device of Claim 1, wherein the visual indication of the 
locked safe position comprises a word which indicates safety. 
The safety needle device of Claim 1, wherein said barrel (21) is a 
syringe barrel having a stopper (43) slidably positioned in fluid-tight 

engagement inside said barrel (21), said stopper (43) being capable of moving 
fluid from said chamber (23) through said lumen upon its movement toward 

said distal end(27), said stopper (43) being capable of facilitating the drawing 
of fluid into said chamber (23) through said lumen upon its movement away 

from said distal end (27), wherein said safety indicator means includes a 
coloured segment which is an annular ring coloured red, and wherein said 

obscurement means includes a coloured segment which is coloured green and 
which covers the red safety indicator means when the needle guard is in the 

locked extended position.  
 
The safety device of any preceding Claim, wherein the safety indicator means 
and the obscurement means are coloured by using inks, coatings or moulding. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
