<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616375</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Photocoupler apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L3112	H03K17785	H01L3112	H03F304	H03K1778	H03K17785	H03F308	H01L31167	H03K1778	H01L3116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H03K	H01L	H03F	H03K	H03K	H03F	H01L	H03K	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L31	H03K17	H01L31	H03F3	H03K17	H03K17	H03F3	H01L31	H03K17	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photocoupler apparatus includes a light emitting 
diode, a first photodiode array which generates a first 

electromotive force by being activated with a light signal 
from the light emitting element, and an output MOSFET which 

is driven by the first electromotive force. This apparatus 
further includes a current limiting circuit and a second 

photodiode array which generates a second electromotive 
force by being activated with the light signal from the 

light emitting diode. The current limiting circuit 
controls the behavior of the MOSFET so as to limit an 

output current below a predetermined value. In addition, 
this circuit is driven by the second electromotive force 

generated by the second photodiode array. So, the whole 
resistance of this apparatus as a product can be greatly 

reduced and a photocoupler apparatus having a high current 
capacity can easily be obtained in this invention. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a photocoupler apparatus 
having an output MOSFET at the secondary side in general, 
and more particularly, to the photocoupler apparatus which 
is capable of limiting the output current flowing through 
the conducting electrodes of the output MOSFET below a 
certain value. In Fig. 1, the circuit structure of a photocoupler 
apparatus is shown according to one prior art of this 
invention. This apparatus is described in "Optically 
Coupled Power MOS FET Technology : A Monolithic Replacement 
For Electromechanical Relays", Electro '83, Session Record 
7/3, IEEE 1983. As shown in Fig. 1, this photocoupler apparatus has a 
light emitting diode 1 at its primary side for emitting 
light when receiving input signals through terminals 6 and 
6'. In the secondary side of this apparatus, there are 
provided a first photodiode array 2a, a discharging MOSFET 
10b, a second photodiode array 10a, a first and a second 
output MOSFETs 5 and 5', a first and a second parasitic 
diodes 5a and 5a', a first and a second current detecting 
resistors 4 and 4', and a first and a second bipolar 
transistors 3a and 3a'. In this apparatus, first 
photodiode array 2a generates electromotive force when 
receiving a light signal from light emitting diode 1. On 
the other hand, the second photodiode array 10a drives 
discharging MOSFET 10b by receiving the light signal from 
light emitting diode 1. In addition, bipolar transistors  
 
3a and 3a' operate as current limiting circuits. In said apparatus, current detecting resistors 4 and 
4' are connected in series with the conducting electrodes 
of first and second output MOSFETs 5 and 5'. The base-emitter 
junctions of bipolar transistors 3a and 3a' are 
biased by the voltage difference developed across resistor 
4 or 4', thus controlling the gate-source voltages of the 
first and the second output MOSFETs. As a result, the 
current which flows through the conducting electrodes of 
MOSFETs 5 and 5' are limited below a certain value. So, the output current flowing across terminals 7 and 
7' are limited depending on the resistance values of 
current detecting resistors 4 and 4' and the base-emitter 
voltages VBE (that is, VF of base-emitter junction) of 
bipolar transistors 3a and 3a'. In usual, the VBE of 
bipolar transistors 3a and 3a' made of Si is about 0.5 V. 
Therefore, a voltage greater than 0.5 V should be developed 
across each resistor 4 and 4' in order to limit the output 
current. Due to the above mentioned reason, the resistance of 
current
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A photocoupler apparatus, comprising 

a light emitting element (1) for emitting a light signal when activated by an input 
signal; 
a first photodiode array (2a) for generating electromotive force when receiving 
said light signal from said light emitting element (1); 
an output MOSFET (5) which is driven by said electromotive force generated 
by said first photodiode array (2a); 
a current limiting circuit (3) for controlling the behavior of said output MOSFET 
(5) so as to limit a current flowing through conducting electrodes of said output 

MOSFET (5) below a predetermined value; 
a second photodiode array (2b) which generates second electromotive force by 
being activated by said light signal from said light emitting element (1) and drives said 

current limiting circuit (3) with said second electromotive force; and 
a current detecting resistor (4) whose one end is connected to the source of said 
output MOSFET (5), 
 
   characterized in that
 
   said current limiting circuit (3) is comprised of a bipolar transistor (3a) whose 

collector is connected to the gate of said output MOSFET (5), whose emitter is connected 
to said one or to the other end of said current detecting resistor (4), and whose base is 

connected, through said second photodiode array (2b), either to the junction of the source 
of said output MOSFET (5) and said current detecting resistor (4), or, in case the emitter 

of said bipolar transistor (3a) is connected to said one end of the current detecting resistor 
(4), to said other end of said current detecting resistor (4). 
A photocoupler apparatus according to claim 1, comprising 

a second output MOSFET (5') which is connected to the first output MOSFET 
(5) so as to short the respective gates, and is driven by said electromotive force generated  

 
by said first photodiode array (2a), 
a second current limiting circuit (3') which controls the behavior of said second 
output MOSFET (5') so as to limit a current flowing through conducting electrodes of said 

second output MOSFET below a predetermined value; and 
a third photodiode array (2b') which generates electromotive force by being activated 
by said light signal from said light emitting element (1) and drives said second current 

limiting circuit (3') respectively with said electromotive force. 
The photocoupler apparatus as claimed in claim 2, further comprising a second 
current detecting resistor (4') one end of which is connected to the source of said second 

output MOSFET (5') and the other end of which is shorted to the other current detecting 
resistor (4). 
The photocoupler apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein
 
   said second current limiting circuit (3') is comprised of a second bipolar transistor 

(3a') whose collector is connected to the gate of said second output MOSFET (5'), 
whose emitter is connected either to the junction between said first and second current detecting 

resistor (4, 4') or to the source of said second output MOSFET (5'), and whose 
base is connected, through said third photodiode array (2b'), either to the junction of the 

source of said second output MOSFET (5'), and said second current detecting resistor (4'), 
or, in case the emitter of said second bipolar transistor (3a') is connected to the source of 

said second output MOSFET (5'), to the junction between said first and second current detecting 
resistors (4, 4'). 
The photocoupler apparatus as claimed in claim 4, further comprising, 

a third resistor (8) which is inserted between the respective bases and collectors 
of said first and second bipolar transistors (3a, 3a'); and 
a rectifier diode (9) which is inserted between said second photodiode array and 
the junction between said first and second current detecting resistors (4, 4'), said rectifier 

diode (9) being connected in series-opposition to said second photodiode array (2b). 
The photocoupler apparatus as claimed in claim 3 or 4, further comprising: 

a differential amplifier (AMP) which detects the voltage difference arising 
across said first and second current detecting resistors (4, 4') and supplies said first and 

second current limiting circuits with driving signals which correspond to said voltage difference; 
and 
a fourth photodiode array (2b"), which generates a third electromotive force by 
being activated by said light signal from said light emitting element (1) and drives said 

differential amplifier (AMP) with said third electromotive force. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
