<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629885</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical waveguiding component comprising a band-pass filter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B528	G02B528	G02B6293	G02B6293	G02B634	G02B634	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical filter is adapted for selectively transmitting electromagnetic radiation 
within a wavelength passband bounded by a pair of stop bands of relatively low 

transmissivity. The filter comprises two Bragg gratings with slightly different Bragg 
wavelengths. The corresponding reflection bands form the stop bands of 

the filter. In a special case the filter includes only one Bragg grating 
formed in the optical fiber or waveguide. The Bragg grating has at least one 

wavelength band of relatively low transmissivity. This low-transmissivity 
band corresponds to at least a portion of one of the stop bands of the filter. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZRAHI VICTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZRAHI, VICTOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical waveguiding bodies, such as optical 
fibers, that are made spectrally selective by forming Bragg gratings in these bodies. 
More particularly, the invention relates to spectrally selective waveguiding bodies 
that are used as optical bandpass filters or demultiplexers. Wavelength-division multiplexing is a valuable technique for increasing 
the information capacity of an optical communication network. In a multiplexed 
network, it is essential to provide wavelength-selective components that can separate 
a particular wavelength channel from a group of multiplexed channels. It is 
advantageous to use Bragg gratings to provide spectral selectivity, because they are 
readily made with passbands that match desired channel widths, and because they 
are readily integrated with optical fibers. Channel-selective filters using Bragg 
gratings have, in fact, been reported. However, at least some of these filters suffer 
from relatively high coupling losses, and others are difficult to manufacture because 
they must be made to extremely close tolerances. For example, one well-known filter configuration includes an input fiber 
coupled to a fiber-based Bragg grating through a directional optical coupler. Light 
reflected from the grating is coupled to an output waveguide through the same 
coupler. In this manner, the narrow reflection band of the grating is effectively 
transformed into a transmission band for the filter as a whole. However, this 
arrangement suffers 6 dB of coupling loss, to which is added the intrinsic loss in the 
directional coupler. Another example is a filter described in K.O. Hill et al., "Narrow-Bandwidth 
Optical Waveguide Transmission Filters", ElectronicsLetters23 (1987) 
465 - 466. This filter consists of a loop of single-mode optical fiber which includes a 
fused-taper directional coupler at the point where the loop branches off from the 
straight part of the fiber. A Bragg grating is situated symmetrically midway in the 
fiber loop. This filter can be made to have relatively low loss. However, this filter is 
difficult to manufacture because exact placement of the Bragg grating is required in 
order to achieve the desired transmission characteristics.  Compound Bragg reflection filters made in planar waveguides are 
described in C.H. Henry et al., "Compound Bragg Reflection Filters Made by Spatial 
Frequency Doubling Lithography", J. Lightwave Technol. 7 (1989) 1379 - 1385. As 
reported therein, a filter having desirable spectral properties can be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. An optical filter for selectively transmitting electromagnetic 
radiation within a passband of wavelengths that is bounded by first and second 

wavelength regions of relatively low transmissivity, said low-transmissivity regions 
to be referred to as first and second stop bands, respectively, wherein: 


a) the filter comprises at least one Bragg grating formed in a 
waveguiding optical medium; 
b) the Bragg grating has at least one wavelength band of relatively low 
transmissivity; 
c) the low-transmissivity band of the Bragg grating coincides with at 
least a portion of one of the stop bands of the filter; 
d) the Bragg grating has a spatial period that is constant or continuously 
varied in the neighborhood of every longitudinal position therewithin; and 
e) the passband is at least 5 Å wide. 
Apparatus of claim 1, wherein the passband is at least 10 Å wide. 
Apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the stop bands is at least 
10 Å wide. 
Apparatus of claim 1, wherein the waveguiding optical medium is an 

optical fiber. 
Apparatus of claim 1, wherein: 

a) the Bragg grating is adapted to reflect a first range of wavelengths 
such that the reflected radiation is substantially guided within the waveguiding 

optical medium, and to cause a second range of wavelengths to be radiated out of the 
waveguiding optical medium; 
b) at least a portion of the first stop band corresponds to the first range; 
and 
c) and at least a portion of the second stop band corresponds to the 
second range. 
Apparatus of claim 5, wherein at least some of the radiated 
wavelengths correspond to a leaky mode of the waveguiding optical medium. 
Apparatus of claim 5, wherein the Bragg grating is tilted, and the 
second range is determined, in part, by the tilt angle. 
Apparatus of claim 1, comprising at least a first and a second Bragg 
grating formed in the optical medium, said gratings having, respectively, a first and a 

second wavelength band of relatively low transmissivity, wherein the first stop band 
comprises said first low-transmissivity band, and the second stop band comprises 

said second low-transmissivity band. 
Apparatus of claim 8, wherein each of the low-transmissivity bands 
corresponds substantially to wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation that are 

reflected by the corresponding Bragg grating and substantially guided within the 
waveguiding optical medium. 
Apparatus of claim 9, wherein: 

a) the first Bragg grating has a wavelength band, to be referred to as a 
radiation band, such that electromagnetic radiation within said radiation band that 

impinges on the first Bragg grating is at least partially radiated out of the 
waveguiding optical medium; 
b) the first stop band occurs at longer wavelengths than the second stop 
band; 
c) the first stop band occurs at longer wavelengths than the radiation 
band; and 
d) the passband occurs entirely at longer wavelengths than the radiation 
band. 
Apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a third Bragg grating 
formed in the optical medium and having a third wavelength band of relatively low 

transmissivity, wherein the first and third low-transmissivity bands overlap such that 
the first stop band is wider than the first low-transmissivity band. 
Apparatus of claim 11, wherein the third Bragg grating is tilted, such 
that multiple reflections that would otherwise occur between the first and third Bragg 

gratings are suppressed. 
Apparatus of claim 1, comprising precisely one Bragg grating. 
Apparatus of claim 1, comprising precisely two Bragg gratings. 
An optical demultiplexer comprising an input waveguide, at least two 
output waveguides, means for splitting optical transmissions from the input 

waveguide into the output waveguides, and wavelength-selective means for 
selectively transmitting electromagnetic radiation within a respective wavelength 

passband in each of the output waveguides, wherein: 

a) the wavelength-selective means comprise a respective optical filter 
included in each of the output waveguides; 
b) each of said filters is adapted for selectively transmitting 
electromagnetic radiation within a passband of wavelengths and at least partially 

reflecting electromagnetic radiation in first and second stop bands of wavelengths 
adjacent and respectively above and below the passband; 
c) each of said filters comprises at least one Bragg grating; 
b) each of said Bragg gratings has at least one wavelength band of 
relatively low transmissivity; and 
c) each of said low-transmissivity bands coincides with at least a portion 
of one of the stop bands of the corresponding optical element. 
Apparatus of claim 15, wherein the input waveguide and the output 
waveguides are optical fibers. 
Apparatus of claim 15, wherein: 
   a) each of the optical filters comprises at least a first and a second Bragg 

gratings, each said grating having, respectively, a first and a second wavelength band 
of relatively low transmissivity, wherein the first stop band comprises the 

corresponding first low-transmissivity band, and the second stop band comprises the 
corresponding second low-transmissivity band. 
Apparatus of claim 15, further comprising an optical broad-band 
filter for limiting the optical transmissions that are split from the input waveguide 

into the output waveguides to a predetermined range of wavelengths that includes 
the passbands of all of the optical filters. 
Apparatus of claim 18, wherein: 
a) the optical broadband filter comprises at least two Bragg gratings, to 
be referred to as first and second BBF gratings, respectively; 
b) said BBF gratings have, respectively, a first and a second BBF 
wavelength band of relatively low transmissivity; and 
c) the first and second BBF low-transmissivity bands overlap such that 
the optical broadband filter has at least one wavelength band of relatively low 

transmissivity that is broader than either of said first and second BBF low-transmissivity 
bands. 
Apparatus of claim 19, wherein at least the first BBF grating is tilted 
such that multiple reflections that would otherwise occur between the first and 

second BBF gratings are suppressed. 
Apparatus of claim 15, wherein each of the passbands is at least 5 Å 
wide. 
Apparatus of claim 15, wherein each of the passbands is at least 10 Å 
wide. 
Apparatus of claim 15, wherein, with respect to each of the output 
waveguides: 


a) the corresponding passband is at least 5 Å wide; and 
b) at least one of the corresponding stop bands is at least 10 Å wide. 
Apparatus of claim 15, wherein each of said Bragg gratings has a 
spatial period that is constant or continuously varied in each portion thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
