<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658224</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A CHEMICAL SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING FIBROUS MATERIALS WITH STAIN RESISTANCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06M1300	D06P144	D06P504	D06M1521	C11D1700	C11D1700	D06M15576	D06M1537	D06P510	D06P1673	D06M1541	D06P500	D06P502	D06M13432	D06M15277	D06P500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06M	D06P	D06P	D06M	C11D	C11D	D06M	D06M	D06P	D06P	D06M	D06P	D06P	D06M	D06M	D06P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06M13	D06P1	D06P5	D06M15	C11D17	C11D17	D06M15	D06M15	D06P5	D06P1	D06M15	D06P5	D06P5	D06M13	D06M15	D06P5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method for imparting stain resistance to fibers, especially wool, which is adaptable to current wool processing methods. Steps comprise: A) treating fibers with a mordant; B) treatment with a combination of sulfonated or disulphonated surfactant together with a stain resist (e.g., syntan); and C) providing treatment with a fluorochemical in either step A, or B, in an amount sufficient to improve stain resistant properties. The improved method may be undertaken in the liquor remaining in a dye bath after dyeing fiber (spent bath process). Process pH is acid - 1.5 - 3.0 percent. Advantage: lowers the proportion of stain resist chemical to wool necessary to impart stain resistance. Tip sealing, using polymethacrylic resin and fluorochemical, may be an added step.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN VAN GIAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NGUYEN, VAN, GIAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a chemical system 
for providing fibrous materials with stain resistance 
to common household stains, particularly acid 
colorants. Although the system is useful for the 
treatment of synthetic materials such as nylon, its 
principal application is in respect of keratinous 
materials of which wool is of first importance. Keratinous articles such as wool carpets are 
susceptible to staining by natural and artificial 
colorants including acid colorants commonly found in 
many foods and beverages. A need has long been felt 
for processes for economically providing such 
keratinous articles with resistance to staining. 
Particularly desirable are processes by which durable 
stain resistance can be imparted to keratinous articles 
during conventional processing and treating operations. The object of this invention is to provide a 
system for the protective treatment of fibrous 
materials, particularly wool carpets, such system being 
reasonably durable through wearing (dryfastness) and 
wet cleaning (wetfastness). The present invention provides a chemical 
system for imparting to fibrous, particularly 
keratinous materials, such as wool fibers used in 
carpets, stain resistance to common household stains  
 
particularly acid colorants. The method involves first 
treating the fibrous material with a mordant. After 
mordant treatment, the fiber is subjected to a bath 
which includes a surfactant, stain resist chemical, a 
fluorochemical and, if required, an acid to lower the 
bath pH. A tip sealing process to enhance the carpet 
surface protection may also be utilized as a final 
treatment, if desired. The method of this invention can be applied 
to undyed fibers or to already dyed fibers. Where it 
is desired to provide a dyed fibrous product with stain 
resistance in accordance with the method of this 
invention, the product may be pre-dyed or the mordant 
may be incorporated in the bath in which the fiber is 
dyed. Further, the process of this invention, when 
incident to the dyeing of fabric, is useful with 
nonmordant dyes as well as with mordant dyes. The 
process of this invention is useful with finished 
fabrics as well as with unfinished fabrics. Broadly, the process of manufacturing woolen 
carpets involves the following steps: 
1. Wool is cropped from the sheep and is 
processed in a scouring bath where the wool is cleaned 
and bleached, the end product being known as wool stock 
fiber. 2. The stock fiber is blended. 3. The blended stock fiber is carded. 4. The carded wool
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for imparting to synthetic or 
keratinous fibrous material stain resistance to acid 

colorants, said method comprising the steps of: 

A. treating said material with a trivalent or 
tetravalent mordant in an amount effective to impart to 

the fiber improved stain resistance; 
B. treating the material from step A. in an 
aqueous bath containing a surfactant, selected from 

sulphonated and disulphonated surfactants, in an amount 
effective to allow diffusion of a stain resist chemical 

into the fibrous material, and stain resist chemical in 
an amount sufficient to substantially decrease adsorption 

of staining material by the fiber, the pH of the bath 
being at 1.5 to 3.0; and 
 
   a fluorochemical is present, in either step A. 

or B. in an amount sufficient to provide improved stain 
resist proprieties to the fibrous material. 
The method of claim 1 in which: 

i) the fibrous material is wool; 
ii) the mordant
 
   is selected from the group consisting of aluminum 

sulfate, aluminum hydroxide or a zirconium salt selected 
from zirconium sulfate or zirconium hydroxide; and 
iii) the proportion of mordant used is 0.5 to 2 
weight percent, based upon the weight of wool being 100 

percent. 
The method of claim 1 in which the fibrous 
material is wool and to which the following conditions 

apply: 

i) step A. is undertaken in a dye bath, at 80°C to 
98°C, in the presence of a dye; 
ii) the dye bath is emptied after dyeing is complete 
and before step B.; 
iii) in the aqueous bath of step B.: 

a) the weight ratio of water to wool is in the 
range of 15 - 100:1; 
b) the surfactant comprises an anionic 
surfactant mixture of sodium xylene sulfonate 

or derivatives thereof and 
dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid or derivatives 

thereof, and the weight proportion of 
surfactant to wool is 0.5 - 1.5 percent, 

based on the wool weight being 100 percent; 
c) the weight proportion of fluorochemical to 
wool is 0.5 - 1.5 percent based upon the wool 

weight being 100 percent; 
d) the stain resist chemical comprises 
naphthalene sulfonic acid or a derivative 

thereof and the weight proportion of stain 
resist chemical to wool is 0.5 - 5 percent, 

based on the wool weight being 100 percent; 
and 
e) the weight ratio of stain resist chemical to 
surfactant is in the range of 62/38 to 80/20, 

and, within the 38 - 20 surfactant portion, 
the sodium xylene sulfonate type surfactant 

is about 13-25 parts, and the 
dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid type surfactant 

is about 7-13 parts. 
The method of claim 3 wherein the temperature of 
the aqueous bath of step B. is 45°C to 80°C, and it is 

maintained at that temperature for 15 to 60 minutes. 
The method of claim 1 in which: 

i) step A. is undertaken in a dye bath in the presence 
of a dye, and the bath of step A. remaining after dyeing is 

retained as a spent bath, the temperature of the spent bath 
being adjusted to one at which stain release proprieties can 

be imparted to the fibrous material; and 
ii) the stain resist chemical and surfactant are added 
to the spent bath as part of step B., said surfactant being 

added in sufficient amount to reduce the quantity of stain 
resist chemical. 
The method of claim 5 in which: 

i) the temperature of step B. is 65°C to 75 °C, and 
the duration of step B. is 10-40 minutes; and 
ii) the proportions of stain resist chemical and 
surfactant, stated as percentages based upon the weight of 

fibrous material being 100 percent, are respectively 1.5 - 
5.0 percent and 0.5 - 1.5 percent. 
The method of claim 6 in which the pH of the 
bath in step B. is 2.0 - 2.5. 
The method of claim 7 in which fluorochemical 
is used in a proportion of 0.3 - 1.0 percent, based upon 

the weight of fibrous material being 100 percent, and the 
fluorochemical is added either immediately after addition 

of the dye in step A. or immediately before the addition 
of the stain resist chemical step B. 
The method of claim 8 in which the stain resist 
chemical comprises naphthalene sulfonic acid or a derivative 

thereof, and the surfactant is a mixture of sodium xylene  
 

sulfonate or derivatives thereof and dodecylbenzenesulfonic 
acid or derivatives thereof. 
The method of claim 9 in which the weight 
proportion of stain resist chemical to surfactant is in the 

range of 62/38 to 80/20, and, within the 38 - 20 surfactant 
portion, the sodium xylene sulfonate type surfactant is 

about 13-25 parts, and the dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid type 
surfactant is about 7-13 parts. 
The method of claim 1 in which the fibrous 
material is keratinous; the material is tufted and a backing 

material is applied to the underside of the tufting; and 
after tufting and the application of the backing, the 

further step of tip sealing is performed, said tip sealing 
step comprising applying to said tufted material a solution 

comprising a polymethacrylic resin and a surfactant blended 
fluorochemical. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the surfactant 
is anionic and is selected from the group consisting of 

alkyl aryl sulphonated fatty amines; hydroxyethylated 
fatty amines; sodium alkyl diphenyl ether disulphonate; 

sodium dodecyl diphenyl oxide disulphonate; dodecyl 
(sulfophenoxy) benzene sulphonic acid, disodium salt; 

oxybis (dodecylbenzene sulphonic acid) disodium salt; 
hydrotrope sodium xylene sulfonate; aryl sulphonates; 

fatty amine polyglycol ether (sulphonate ethylene oxide 
condensate); sodium salt of highly sulphonated oil/ethylene 

oxide condensate; oxybis (dodecylbenzene sulphonic acid) 
disodium salts containing at least 1 percent sodium 

sulfate and at least 3 percent sodium chloride; groups 
of alkylated diphenyl oxide disulphonates having the 

formula:  
 


 
   sulfated monoesters of fatty acid, containing 

sodium, ammonium or potassium salt; and benzene sulphonic 
acid, dodecyl (sulphophenoxy) disodium salt, monosodium 

and didodecyl disulphonated diphenyl oxide. 
The method of claim 1 in which the fluorochemical 
is selected from the group consisting of fluorochemical 

allophantes, fluorochemical polyacrylates, fluorochemical 
urethanes, fluorochemical carbodiimides and fluorochemical 

guanidines. 
The method of claim 1 in which the stain resist 
chemical is selected from the group consisting of sulfonated 

phenolic resins, naphthalene sulphones and derivatives 
thereof. 
The method for imparting to keratinous material, 
stain resistance to acid colorants, said method comprising 

the step of: 

A. preparing said keratinous material in tufted form; 
B. conveying said tufted keratinous material through a 
pre-wetting station and adding a first surfactant thereto; 
C. adding a trivalent or tetravalent mordant to the 
pre-wet keratinous material from step B. in an amount 

effective to impart to the fiber improved stain resistance; 
and 
D. contacting the keratinous material with an aqueous 
mixture of a second surfactant together with a divalent 

salt, an anionic fluorochemical, and a stain resist chemical 
in an amount sufficient to substantially decrease adsorption 

of staining material by the fiber, which mixture has a pH of 
1.5 - 3.0. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the keratinous 
material is wool and: 


i) said first surfactant is anionic, comprises a 
mixture of sodium xylene sulfonate or derivatives thereof 

and dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid or derivatives thereof, and 
is added to the tufted wool in a weight ratio of 0.5 - 4 

percent, based on the weight of wool being 100 percent; 
ii) the stain resist chemical comprises naphthalene 
sulfonic acid or a derivative thereof; and 
iii) the weight ratio of stain resist chemical to 
surfactant is in the range of 62/38 to 80/20, and, within 

the 38 - 20 surfactant portion, the sodium xylene sulfonate 
type surfactant is about 13-25 parts and the 

dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid type surfactant is about 7-13 
parts. 
The method of claim 16 wherein the mordant is 

i) selected from the group consisting of aluminum 
sulfate, aluminum hydroxide or a zirconium salt selected 

from zirconium sulfate or zirconium hydroxide; and 
ii) present in proportion of 0.5 to 2 percent by 
weight, based upon the weight of wool being 100 percent. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the weight 
proportions of various ingredients, based on the weight of 

keratinous material being 100 percent, are as follows: 

i) second surfactant - 0.5 - 4.0 percent; 
ii) divalent salt - 0.5 - 2.0 percent; 
iii) anionic fluorochemical - 0.5 - 2.0 percent; 
and 
iv) stain resist chemical - 1.6 - 5.0 percent. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the second 
surfactant is selected from the group consisting of alkyl 

aryl sulphonated fatty amines; hydroxyethylated fatty 
amines; sodium alkyl diphenyl ether disulphonate; sodium  

 
dodecyl diphenyl oxide disulphonate; dodecyl (sulfophenoxy) 

benzene sulphonic acid, disodium salt; oxybis 
(dodecylbenzene sulphonic acid) disodium salt; hydrotrope 

sodium xylene sulfonate; aryl sulphonates; fatty amine 
polyglycol ether (sulphonate ethylene oxide condensate); 

sodium salt of highly sulphonated oil/ethylene oxide 
condensates; oxybis (dodecylbenzene sulphonic acid) 

disodium salts containing at least 1 percent sodium 
sulfate and at least 3 percent sodium chloride; 
groups 
of alkylated diphenyl oxide disulphonates having the 

formula: 

 
   sulfated monoesters of fatty acid, containing 

sodium, ammonium or potassium salt; and benzene sulphonic 
acid, dodecyl (sulphophenoxy) disodium salt, monosodium 

and didodecyl disulphonated diphenyl oxide. 
The method of claim 15 in which the stain 
resist chemical is selected from the group consisting of 

sulfonated phenolic resins, naphthalene sulphones and 
derivatives thereof. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
