<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611555</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Quick disconnect multi-line connector.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C1900	A61C1900	F16L3900	F16L3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C19	A61C19	F16L39	F16L39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A quick disconnect multi-line utility connector (10) 
including a first body member (19) configured and sized to 

permit passage, end to end, through the hollow interior 
of an upstanding tubular mounting post (18). The first body 

member (19) is connected to a second body member (20) associated 
with primary utility support conduits (15) at a junction box. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MDT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MDT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSON RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANSON RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Field of the Invention: This invention relates 
to post mounted dental delivery systems. It is 
particularly directed to multi-line delivery systems used 
to connect control head units to the necessary fluid 
utilities. State of the Art: Post mounted dental delivery 
systems commonly require utility connections to water, 
air, vacuum, and drain service lines. Such systems 
typically include a hollow mounting post and a delivery 
arm separating the utility sources from a handpiece 
control head. The utility sources are normally 
accessible at a junction box at the base of the post. 
Primary utility supply lines are conventionally tapped or 
otherwise connected to secondary supply lines at the 
junction box. The secondary supply lines are fed from 
the junction box, through the post and arm, to the 
control head. The arm may be connected to the post 
and/or the control head through articulated connecting 
structures. Dental handpieces (control head units) are 
operably associated with the secondary utility supply 
lines through the control head. Individual utility lines are conventionally fed 
through the arm, post and any articulating joints to 
connect the control head units to the appropriate utility 
sources. Trained field personnel have been required for 
installation to assure that leak proof couplings are 
effected with the various utilities. In addition, local 
building codes subject field connections to obligatory 
inspections. A significant amount of coordination is 
required to accomplish the delivery, installation and 
inspection of post mounted dental delivery systems of 
current construction. Field assembly problems and costly customer 
down time are the primary drawbacks experienced with 
currently available post mounted dental delivery systems.  
 
Control heads, unit hand devices, accessories, delivery 
arms, support arms, and mounting posts are now packed and 
shipped unassembled. It is not practical to ship these 
components in assembled condition because of the need for 
feeding utility lines through the post and arm at the 
installation site. Packing errors occur, and errors in 
field assembly of the various components are not 
uncommon. Field assembly errors in utility connections 
may lead to water running into valves and turbines meant 
for air. Coordination with trained field service 
representatives and inspectors is required during 
assembly and installation. Such coordination 
requirements often lead to lengthy delays. Modification or replacement of post mounted 
dental
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector for a multi-line dental 
utility delivery systems in which a source for utilities 

is separated from a handpiece control head by a hollow 
post, said connector comprising: 

   a first body member having a first planar mating surface 
at one side of said first body member, a 

plurality of spaced apart fittings projecting 
from a first exterior surface at the opposite 

side of said body member, a passage through 
each fitting continuing through said body 

member to said first planar surface; 
   a second body member having a second planar surface at 

one side of said second body member, a 
plurality of spaced apart fittings projecting 

from a second exterior surface at the opposite 
side of said second body member, a passage 

through each fitting continuing through said 
second body member to said second planar 

surface; and 
   connection means for releasably holding said first and 

second planar surfaces in juxtaposed 
relationship with said fittings of said first 

body member projecting in the opposite 
direction of said fittings of said second body 

member, and with said passages through each 
fitting of said first body member aligned with 

a passage through a fitting of said second body 
member; 

   said first body member being configured and sized to 
permit its travel from end to end through the 

hollow interior of said post. 
A connector as in Claim 1, including 
gasket means between said first and second planar 

surfaces of said first and second body members, whereby 
 

to provide a fluid tight seal around each of said 
passageways at the interface between said first and 

second planar surfaces. 
A connector as in Claim 2, in which said 
connection means is constructed and arranged to assure 

the fail safe alignment of said passageways in said first 
and second body members when said first and second planar 

surfaces are held in juxtaposed position by said 
connection means. 
A connector as in Claim 1, wherein 
   said first body member and said second body member each 

have spaced apart fastener holes therethrough, 
said fastener holes in said first body member 

being aligned with said fastener holes in said 
second body member when said passages through 

said fittings of each body member are aligned 
with said body member planar surfaces in face-to-face 

relationship; and 
   wherein said fastener holes through one of said body 

members are threaded and said means for holding 
said planar surfaces in face-to-face 

relationship includes screws inserted through 
said fastener holes of said other body member 

and threaded into said threaded fastener holes. 
A connector as in Claim 1, further 
including at least one friction boss encircling each of 

said fittings at the ends thereof remote from the 
connection of said fittings and said body member. 
For use in a dental operatory, the 
combination of 

   a tubular mounting post having one end adapted to be 
fixed to a predetermined location;

 
   a tubular support arm or arms adapted to be attached to 

said tubular mounting post; 
   a plurality of conduits, each adapted to be connected for 

fluid flow therethrough; 
   a connector having a first body member with a plurality 

of passages extending therethrough, said 
plurality of conduits each being connected to 

said first body member at a passage 
therethrough, said first body member being 

sized to fit through each of said tubular post 
and arm, and a second body member having a 

plurality of passages therethrough; 
   means to releasably secure said first and second body 

member together with said passages through said 
first body member aligned with said passages of 

said second body member; and 
   means on said second body member for connecting fluid 

conduits thereto in alignment with said 
passages therethrough. 
The combination of Claim 6, wherein 
   said first body member has a first mating surface at one 

side of said first body member, a plurality of 
spaced apart fittings projecting from a first 

exterior face at an opposite side of said body 
member, a passage through each fitting aligned 

with one of said passages through said body 
member; 

   a second body member having a second mating surface at 
one side of said second body member, a 

plurality of spaced apart fittings projecting 
from a second exterior face at the opposite 

side of said second body member, a passage 
through each fitting aligned with one of said 

passages through said second body member; and 
   said means to releasably secure said first and second 

body members together holds said first and 
 

second body mating surfaces in face-to-face 
relationship with said fittings of said first 

body member projecting in a direction opposite 
to the projection of said fittings of said 

second body member, and with each of said 
passages through a fitting of said first body 

member aligned with a passage through a fitting 
of said second body member. 
The combination of Claim 7, wherein 
   said first body member and said second body member each 

have spaced apart fastener holes therethrough, 
and with said fastener holes in said first body 

member aligned with said fastener holes in said 
second body member when said passages through 

said body members are aligned and with said 
body member mating surfaces in face-to-face 

relationship, said fastener holes through one 
of said body members being threaded; and 

   wherein said means for holding said mating surfaces in 
face-to-face relationship comprises screws 

inserted into fastener holes of said other of 
said body members and into said threaded 

fastener holes. 
The combination of Claim 8, further 
including gasket means between said mating faces of said 

first and second body members, said gasket means having 
holes therethrough aligned with said passages and said 

fastener holes through said body members. 
The combination of Claim 8, further 
including at least one friction boss encircling each of 

said fittings at the ends thereof remote from the 
connection of said fittings and said body member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
