<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619754</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHOTOIONIZATION ION MOBILITY SPECTROMETER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2764	G01N2764	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved photoionization ion mobility spectrometer is disclosed which utilizes a flashlamp (12) as the source for ionization. A gas sample is introduced via a carrier gas into an ionization chamber (30) which is part of the spectrometer cell. Ionizable molecules contained in the injected gas sample are ionized by the ultraviolet light emitted from the flashlamp. The ionized molecules are attracted by an electrostatic drift field into a drift chamber (20) and travel therethrough against the flow of a drift gas counter-current thereto until they are captured by a collector located in the drift chamber opposite to the ionization chamber. A dopant with an effective ionization potential lower than the photon energy of the emitted light can be introduced into the ionization chamber to further improve the sensitivity and specificity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a photoionization ion mobility 
spectrometer for the detection of ionizable chemical species. More 
particularly, this invention relates to an improved photoionization 
ion mobility spectrometer system utilizing flashlamp technology as 
the ionization source. Ion mobility spectrometry is a technology to detect and 
identify the presence of an ionizable chemical species, and provide 
quantitative information. Conventionally, such an ionizable 
chemical species is ionized using a radioactive source. The 
ionized samples, which can be positively or negatively charged, are 
then subject to an electrostatic field which causes the ions to 
migrate against a counter current flow of a drift gas. Different 
chemical species migrate with different mobilities and arrive at an 
ion collector with different elapsed times. Data from such an ion 
collector can be stored and analyzed to provide information about 
the ionized chemical species in terms of the elapsed time, and the 
quantity of the ionizable chemical species contained in the test 
sample. Beta particles from a 63Ni radioactive source generates 
reactant ions which ionize the chemical species. The use of a 
radioactive source limits the acceptance of ion mobility spectrometry 
in the market place due to licensing and waste disposal  
 
requirements. Furthermore, an ionizer based on radioactivity 
provides little specificity for ionization and the ion mobility 
spectrometer suffers severe interferences, often caused by false 
positives and false negatives, and matrix effects from components 
in complex samples. U.S. Patents Nos. 4,839,143 and 4,928,033 
disclosed the use of alkali cation emitters as an ionisation source 
to replace the radioactive source in ion mobility spectrometry. 
With the alkali cation emitters, ionization can be accomplished in 
the positive ion mode but not the negative ion mode. Therefore, a 
large number of electronegative chemical species could not be 
detected with a ion mobility spectrometer using alkali emitter as 
the ionization source. Furthermore, significantly high power 
(greater than one Watt) was required to heat the alkali emitters to 
the operating temperature (600 - 800 degrees Celsius). U.S. Patent No. 3,933,432 disclosed a low pressure gas filled 
lamp that excites H2, Kr, or Xe in a capillary arc discharge to 
generate the required vacuum ultraviolet radiation for photoionization. 
Replacing the 63Ni radioactive ionization source with a 
photoionization source removes the radioactive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A photoionisation ion mobility spectrometer for the 
detection of ionisable chemical species, comprising a housing 

having a main chamber (10) comprising a photoionisation chamber 
(30) and a drift chamber (20), a drift gas inlet passage (21) in 

communication with the drift chamber (20) for a drift gas to 
enter therethrough, an exhaust passage (33) in communication with 

the photoionisation chamber (30) for the drift gas to exit, 
pumping means (60) for forcing the drift gas to travel in the 

main chamber in a first direction, a carrier gas inlet passage 
(32) in communication with the photoionisation chamber (30) for 

introducing a carrier gas into the photoionisation chamber (30), 
a gas sample inlet means (45) in communication with the 

photoionisation chamber (30) for introducing a gas sample to be 
analysed into the photoionisation chamber (30), a lamp means (12) 

exposed to the photoionisation chamber (30) for ionising the gas 
sample therein to form an ionised gas sample, electrode means 

(41,42) for driving the ionised gas sample in the main chamber 
(10) in a second direction countercurrent to the said first 

direction, and detector means (36) placed in the drift chamber 
(20) for detecting the ionised gas sample, characterised in that 

the lamp means comprise an electrical pulse transformer (11), an 
UV-flashlamp (12) filled with about two atmospheres of nobel gas and 

sealed with an UV-window for transmitting light of desired 
wavelength, the flashlamp containing two electrodes (13,14) and 

at least one trigger probe (15) connected to the pulse 
transformer (11), the electrodes (13,14) being connected to a 

capacitor of high energy adapted to discharge when a trigger 
pulse from the pulse transformer (11) causes an ionisation of the 

noble gas in the flashlamp (12) and a discharge of the capacitor, 
the flashlamp having a pulse duration in the microsecond range. 
A spectrometer as claimed in Claim 1 in which the noble 
gas is krypton. 
A spectrometer as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in 
which the window is a magnesium fluoride window.  

 
A spectrometer as claimed in any preceding claim in 
which the at least one trigger probe (15) is disposed between the 

two electrodes (13,14) to form a guided arc when the capacitor 
is discharged. 
A spectrometer as claimed in Claim 4 in which the 
flashlamp (12) contains two or more trigger probes (15) disposed 

between the two electrodes (13,14) to form a guided arc when the 
capacitor is discharged. 
A spectrometer as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 in 
which the flashlamp (12) is a bulb-type flashlamp having an 

unconfined arc. 
A spectrometer as claimed in any preceding claim in 
which the flashlamp (12) has a pulse duration of 0.7 to 15 

microseconds when the capacitor is discharged. 
A spectrometer as claimed in any preceding claim in 
which the main chamber (10) further comprises an ion shutter grid 

(31) separating the photoionisation chamber (30) and the drift 
chamber (20), the ion 
shutter grid (31) being adapted to be 
electrically pulsed to allow an intermittent passage of the 

ionised gas sample therethrough. 
A spectrometer as claimed in claim 8 in which the 
flashlamp (12) and the ion shutter grid (31) are pulsed 

simultaneously. 
A spectrometer as claimed in Claim 8 in which the ion 
shutter grid (31) has a delayed pulse relative to the flashlamp 

(12). 
A spectrometer as claimed in any of claims 8 to 10 in 
which the shutter grid (31) and the flashlamp (12) have the same 

pulse width. 
A spectrometer as claimed in any of claims 8 to 10 in 
which the shutter grid (31) and the flashlamp (12) have different 

pulses widths. 
A spectrometer as claimed in any preceding claim in 
which both the drift gas and the carrier gas are purified air. 
A spectrometer as claimed in any preceding claim 
further comprising separate control means (A,B) for 

controlling flow rates of the carrier gas and the drift gas into  
 

the main chamber (10). 
A spectrometer as claimed in any preceding claim 
further comprising means (63) for introducing a dopant into the 

photoionisation chamber (30). 
A spectrometer as claimed in Claim 15 in which the 
means (63) for introducing a dopant into the photoionisation 

chamber (30) comprise a blending means by which the dopant is 
introduced into the carrier gas using a permeation tube or 

diffusion tube before the carrier gas enters the carrier gas 
inlet passage. 
A spectrometer as claimed in Claim 15 or Claim 16 in 
which the dopant comprises chemical species having an ionisation 

potential less than the photon energy corresponding to the 
wavelength of the light of maximum intensity emitted by the 

flashlamp (12). 
A spectrometer as claimed in any of claims 15 to 17 in 
which the dopant is acetone. 
A spectrometer as claimed in Claim 15 or Claim 16 in 
which the dopant comprises chemical species having an ionisation 

potential greater than the photon energy corresponding to the 
wavelength of the light of maximum intensity emitted by the 

flashlamp (12) and is photoionised by indirect means. 
A method for improving the sensitivity of a 
photoionisation ion mobility spectrometer, the photoionisation 

ion mobility spectrometer having photoionisation means (12), a 
photoionisation chamber (30), a drift chamber (20), a drift gas 

inlet passage (21) for introducing a drift gas into the drift 
chamber (20), a carrier gas inlet passage (32) for introducing 

a carrier gas containing gas sample to be analysed into a 
photoionisation chamber (30), characterised in that an UV-flashlamp 

(12) is used as the photoionisation means, the flashlamp (12) 
being driven by a pulse transformer (11), and the flashlamp (12) 

having a pulse duration in the microsecond range. 
A method as claimed in Claim 20 further comprising 
introducing a dopant into the carrier gas, the dopant comprising 

chemical species having an ionisation potential less than the 
photon energy corresponding to the wavelength of the light of 

maximum intensity emitted by the flashlamp (12).  
 
A method as claimed in Claim 20 further comprising 
introducing a dopant into the carrier gas, the dopant comprising 

chemical species having an ionisation potential greater than the 
photon energy corresponding to the wavelength of the light of 

maximum intensity emitted by the flashlamp (12) and is 
photoionised indirectly. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
