<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620954</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SWITCHING AMPLIFIER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F320	H03F3217	H03K700	H03K708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F3	H03F3	H03K7	H03K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INFINITY SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INFINITY SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER WHEELER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TURNER, WHEELER, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION SWITCHING AMPLIFIERTECHNICAL FIELDIt is well-known that signal processing systems using digital or two-state signals (i.e. those that have only two amplitude levels) have numerous advantages over systems using continuous signals. Two-state signals are less sensitive to variations in the operating characteristics of the electronic devices making up the system because all that is important is the discrimination between the two amplitude levels. It is therefore also not necessary that the devices operate linearly. Also, since the active circuit elements can be operated in a switching mode, which consumes less power than a continuous mode, digital systems are inherently more efficient than purely analog systems.One common signal processing application to which digital techniques have been applied is that of amplification. Audio power amplifiers for automobile sound systems, where efficiency is a very important consideration, are particularly suitable for the application of digital techniques.Shown in Fig. 1 is a basic schematic of a type of two-state or switching amplifier well known to the art. (In all the following descriptions, each designation of electrical components such as resistors or capacitors will be taken to refer both to the component and to its 

 value.) The inverting input terminal of comparator Ul is connected to ground through capacitor C. , and to the Ul output terminal via negative feedback resistor R-. The voltage applied to the inverting terminal is designated V and to the noninverting terminal Vp. The noninverting input terminal is connect to ground via resistor R- and to the Ul output terminal by resistor R_. An input signal V. is applied to the inverting input of Ul, a signal Vo appears at the Ul output. R is made very large so as to isolate the amplifier input from the input signal source. The operation of the amplifier is as follows. Assume that Ul is connected to a power supply such that its output swings between -10 and +10 volts, depending upon whether the voltage difference between its noninverting and inverting terminals is negative or positive, respectively. We will first assume that resistor _ is grounded so that no input signal V. is applied to the amplifier. Assume further that we are at a point in time where the output voltage V is at +10 volts. At this point, capacitor C. is being charged through'negative feedback resistor Rf toward the positive output voltage. The charging of capacitor C. takes place with a time constant approximately equal to RfC. since
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A pulse-width modulation circuit, comprising: a comparator whose output swings between . first and second voltage levels in accordance with the polarity of the voltage difference between the comparator's non-inverting and inverting inputs; wherein the comparator's inverting input is connected to the comparator output through a feedback resistor, to ground through a capacitor, and to an input signal through an input resistor; wherein the comparator's non-inverting input is maintained at a constant potential; means for providing a sufficient propagation delay in a path comprising the comparator and feedback resistor so that the capacitor charges for some time after a change in the polarity of the voltage difference between the comparator's inverting and non-inverting inputs, the capacitor voltage being substantially a triangular waveform which thereby causes the comparator output to be a square wave at a frequency determined by the values of the capacitor, feedback resistor, and first and second voltage levels; and, wherein an input signal applied to the comparator's inverting input causes the comparator output to be pulse width modulated by the input signal. 2. The modulation circuit as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a low pass filter between the capacitor and the inverting input of the comparator for converting the triangular capacitor voltage waveform into a substantially sinusoidal waveform. 


 3. The modulation circuit as set forth in claim 2 wherein the low pass filter comprises a resistor and capacitor connected between the comparator inverting input and ground. 4. The modulation. circuit as set forth in claim 1 wherein the propagation delay means comprises an all-pass filter network.
5. The modulation circuit as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a first low pass filter at the output of the comparator for recovering the input signal from the pulse width modulated comparator output signal, the circuit thereby becoming a switching amplifier.
6. The circuit as set forth in claim 5 further comprising a second low pass filter between the capacitor and the inverting input of the comparator for converting the triangular capacitor voltage waveform into a substantially sinusoidal waveform in order to improve the signal to noise ratio of the amplifier.
7. The circuit as set forth in claim 5 wherein the propagation delay means comprises an all-pass filter network.
8. The circuit as set forth in claim 5 wherein the propagation delay means comprises an additional amplifier stage between the comparator output and the feedback resistor.
9. A switching amplifier, comprising: a comparator with inverting and non-inverting inputs having its output connected to its inverting input through a feedback resistor and its inverting input connected to an input signal through an input resistor; a capacitor connecting the inverting input of the comparator to ground; 



 a comparator whose output swings between first and second voltage levels in accordance with the polarity of the voltage difference between the comparator's 
5
 non-inverting and inverting inputs; wherein the comparator's inverting input is connected to the comparator output through a feedback resistor, to ground through a capacitor, and to an input signal
10 through an input resistor; a first resistor connecting the comparator non-inverting input to ground; a second resistor connecting the comparator output to the comparator
15 non-inverting input, the first and second resistors thereby forming a voltage divider for feeding back a portion of the comparator's output to its non-inverting input so that after a change in the
20 comparator output the capacitor charges up to the voltage across the first resistor before the comparator output changes, the capacitor voltage thereby being substantially a triangular waveform;
2
5 a first low pass filter for recovering the input signal from the comparator output; and a second low pass filter between the capacitor and the inverting input of the
30 comparator for converting the triangular capacitor voltage waveform into a substantially sinusoidal waveform in order to improve the signal to noise ratio of the amplifier. 


 10. The amplifier as set forth in claim 9 wherein the second low pass filter comprises a resistor and capacitor connecting the inverting input of the comparator to ground. li. The circuit as set forth in claim 6 wherein the second low pass filter comprises a resistor and capacitor connected between the comparator inverting input and ground.
12. The circuit as set forth in claim 6 wherein the propagation delay means comprises an all-pass filter network.
13. The circuit as set forth in claim 6 wherein the propagation delay means comprises an additional amplifier stage between the comparator output and the feedback resistor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
