<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636325</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lumbar support garments
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41F902	A63B7108	A41F900	A41D1305	A41D1305	A41D1300	A41C100	A41C114	A41D1300	A41C102	A61F502	A63B7112	A41C100	A61F501	A61F501	A61F502	A41F900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41F	A63B	A41F	A41D	A41D	A41D	A41C	A41C	A41D	A41C	A61F	A63B	A41C	A61F	A61F	A61F	A41F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41F9	A63B71	A41F9	A41D13	A41D13	A41D13	A41C1	A41C1	A41D13	A41C1	A61F5	A63B71	A41C1	A61F5	A61F5	A61F5	A41F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lumbar support garment for surrounding at least the 
lumbar region of a wearer of the garment comprises a main 

cloth, a stretchable auxiliary belt, and longitudinal sheet-form 
support bones. The main cloth comprises a single-sheet 

of cloth made of stretchable fabric, or a face cloth (1) 
and a lining cloth (2) made of stretchable knit fabric, and 

extends in use from the lumbar region of the wearer's back, 
around the wearer's sides, to at least the sides of the 

wearer's abdomen; and wherein the main cloth includes 
vertical seam parts (4,4') in the vicinity of the side regions or 

seam parts at least extending from the waist sides and 
slant downwards in the front of the main cloth. Darts are 

formed at the seam parts configuring the vertical-sectional 
form of convex shape to the skin side. The stretchable 

auxiliary belt (3) is made of stretchable knit fabric narrower 
than the main cloth and is provided on the skin side 

surface of the main cloth or the outermost surface of the 
main cloth at the position between the face cloth and the 

lining cloth of the main cloth, extends from the back at 
least to the side regions and is fixed to the above-mentioned 

main cloth at least at both right and left ends 
of the auxiliary belt. The longitudinal sheet-form support 

bones (8,8') are made of an elastomer resin or an amorphous resin 
in the vicinity of the portions in contact wi
th right and 
left M. latissimus dorsi (32,32') 

and M. gluteous maximus (33,33') of the 
wearer's back side of the lumbar support garment, and are 

mounted directly to the outermost surface of the main cloth 
or to the face cloth and/or lining cloth at the portion 

between the face cloth and lining cloth of the main cloth. 
The present invention provides lumbar support garments 
which are preferable for relieving and preventing lumbago 

suited for sports applications. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WACOAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WACOAL CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWATA TETSUYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWATA, TETSUYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to lumbar support
garments, and more specifically to lumbar support
garments suited for athletic applications.With the growing popularity of various sports, lumbago
has become an epidemic among athletes in recent years. Even
amateurs who are good enough to play in the finals of
various athletic meetings frequently suffer from lumbago, as
well as professionals.Such athletes cannot easily cancel their participation
in the matches for slight lumbago. Even people
enjoying sports for pleasure seldom quit practicing sports
for lumbago. Rather, many desire to keep practicing sports
while receiving treatment for lumbago.Lumbar support garments, such as corsets, are said to
function to relieve or prevent lumbago by reducing burdens
to back muscles by compressing around the portion from the
abdomen to the lumbar area to increase the interabdominal
pressure (pressure in the interabdomen), by compressing 
lumbar muscles to relieve the pain, and by stabilizing the
position of the spine with artificial bones to support the
lumbar area.Conventional lumbar support garments on the market,
such as corsets, are generally thick, heavy and hard and
therefore, are not suitable for athletic applications.For example, those using rubber sheets such as
neoprene for substrates, with the surface covered by cloth
can not provide enough ventilation, and thus are not suited
for athletic applications which enhance perspiration.
Because most of such corsets are too bulky to be securely
fitted to a human body by themselves, they are usually
applied with a thick auxiliary belt to the outside to be
bound firmly.Besides, their support bones are made of metal or
comparatively hard resin such as crystalline polypropylene.
Because such bones are too hard to be stitched directly to
the main fabric, generally they are inserted into a French
seam space to be covered. Due to the covering cloth of the
French seam, the support bone portions become bulkier.The thick garments or those using rubber sheets as
substrates, described as the conventional examples, do not
provide good ventilation for sweat evaporation. Besides
their thickness prevent themselves from drying in case they 
get wet during marine sports such as boating or yachting.
And such garments including those with separate auxiliary
belts are on the whole big and bulky and are too heavy for
the wearer to do sports. Lumbar support garments using
bones made of metal or comparatively hard resin including
crystalline polypropylene are not suitable for sports
applic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lumbar support garment for surrounding at least
the lumbar region of a wearer of the garment, comprising:


(a) a main cloth, comprising a single-sheet of cloth made
of stretchable fabric, or comprising a face cloth (1) and

lining cloth (2) made of stretchable knit fabric,
said main cloth extending in use from the lumbar

region of the wearer's back, around the wearer's
sides, to at least the sides of the wearer's abdomen;

said main cloth further comprising seam parts (4, 4') which in
use extend vertically in the vicinity of the area of

the wearer's sides or seam parts (5, 5') which extend in use
at least from the area of the wearer's waist sides and

slant downwards toward the front of the garment (30);
(b) a stretchable auxiliary belt (3),

made of a stretchable knit fabric narrower than the
main cloth, extending in use from the lumbar region of

the wearer's back at least to the wearer's side
regions, the auxiliary belt having right and left hand

ends secured to the main cloth; and 
(c) longitudinal sheet-form support bones (8, 8'), located
in the vicinity of the portions of the main cloth

which in use are in contact with right and left M.
latissimus dorsi (32, 32') and M. gluteous maximus (33, 33'),

characterized in that the bones, made of an elastomer resin or amorphous resin
are secured on the outermost surface of the main

cloth or to the face and/or lining cloth in the space
between the face cloth and the lining cloth and are 

curved to follow the
shape of the right and left M. latissimus dorsi (32, 32') and M.

gluteus maximus (33, 33'). 
and said main cloth further comprises darts formed at the

seam parts to provide a vertical cross-sectional form
of convex shape with respect to the skin side of the

garment;
The lumbar support garment of claim 1, wherein the
garment is a front-opening, belt-type garment.
The lumbar support garment of claim 2, further
comprising a hook-and-loop type fastener (13) which enables the

ends of the garment to be superimposed in the vicinity of
the center of the wearer's abdomen and to allow opening and

closing of the garment.
The lumbar support garment of claim 1, wherein the
garment has a cylindrically shaped lumbar surrounding

portion and a crotch portion (81, 91) to form at least a short pant
portion.
The lumber support garment of claim 4, further
comprising a belt-type opening and closing portion (40, 40') at one

of the seam parts in the wearer's side areas of the main
cloth or the portions in the vicinity of the sides of the

wearer's abdomen. 
The lumbar support garment of claim 4, wherein the
main cloth has seam parts (90) which in use extend from the

wearer's waist sides in the direction of the wearer's groin
area via the area of the crista iliaca, with darts being

formed at the seam parts to provide a vertical cross-sectional
form of convex shape with respect to the skin

side of the garment, the auxiliary belt (94) extending from the
vicinity of the wearer's lumbosacral region to the vicinity

of the side areas of the wearer's lower abdomen via the
spina iliaca.
The lumbar support garment of any one of claims 1
to 6, further comprising longitudinal auxiliary bones (9, 9', 10, 10') which

are narrower than said support bones, made of an elastomer
resin or an amorphous resin, stitched in the garment at

locations which in use are in the vicinity of the wearer's
side portions and/or in the vicinity of the sides of the

wearer's abdomen.
The lumbar support garment of any one of claims 1
to 6, wherein the elastomer resin or the amorphous resin

has a JIS A hardness of 70-90.
The lumbar support garment of claim 7, wherein the
elastomer resin or the amorphous resin of the auxiliary

bones has a JIS A hardness of 70-90. 
The lumbar support garment of any one of claims 1
to 9, wherein the support bones are provided with grooves

extending in the direction of the width of the support
bones.
The lumbar support garment of any one of claims 1
to 10, wherein the stretchable bit fabric is at least one

selected from the group consisting of spandex power net and
all ways stretch tricot.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
