<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610624</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A preamplifier circuit for a magneto-resistive head
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B539	G11B502	G11B539	G11B540	G11B502	G11B500	G11B1920	G11B500	G11B540	G11B1920	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B19	G11B5	G11B5	G11B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A preamplifier circuit (30, 31) amplifies signals from a magneto-resistive element 
(18). 

The preamplifier circuit utilises a voltage regulator (52) to regulate one terminal of 
a magneto-resistive element at a predetermined voltage. A first feedback loop (36, 38) is 

used to minimise a differential DC component and a differential low frequency 
component of the differential output signal. A second feedback loop (46, 40, 45) is 

utilised to cause a common mode component of the differential output signal to track an 
externally supplied reference voltage (V
REF
). The preamplifier of the present invention 
protects the magneto-resistive elements from short circuits of the disc medium, is 

powered by a single-ended power supply, and is capable of being coupled with other 
circuitry without physical coupling capacitors. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH ROBERT F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, ROBERT F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is a unipolar magneto-resistive preamplifier for use in a disc
drive having a magneto-resistive element. Specifically, the preamplifier of the present
invention utilises a voltage regulator to maintain a voltage at one terminal of a magneto-resistive
element, a first feedback loop to minimise a differential DC component and a
differential low frequency component of the preamplifier output signal, and a second
feedback loop to maintain a common mode component of the preamplifier output signals.Magneto-resistive (MR) elements can read data from magnetic surfaces having data
stored at high densities. In the disc drive art, MR elements are also referred to as MR
heads or MR sensors. In addition, the term "magneto-restrictive" is sometimes used in
place of the term "magneto-resistive."The resistance of an MR element is, in part, a function of the strength of the
magnetic field to which it is exposed. A read signal is generated by positioning the MR
element proximate magnetic media, moving the magnetic media with respect to the
element, and measuring the change in resistance of the element.Typically, an MR element is biased by either a constant current or a constant
voltage. As the magnetic flux passing through the element varies, a preamplifier detects
the resistance changes of the MR element. In the constant current configuration, the
change in voltage over the MR element is detected. In the constant voltage
configuration, the change in current passing through the element is detected. The output
of the preamplifier is then provided to other amplification and decoding circuitry for
further processing.Since the resistance of an MR element varies with magnetic field strength, the
signal provided by the MR element is based not only on the data written on the magnetic
media, but also on the distance between the element and the media. In addition,
temperature and process variations also affect the steady-state resistance of an MR
element. Accordingly, it is desirable to produce a preamplifier output signal that varies 
with changes in magnetic field strength, without varying significantly due to changes in
steady-state resistance.A preamplifier for producing such a signal was disclosed by Jove et al. in U.S.
Patent No. 4,706,138. Jove et al. disclosed a circuit wherein the amplified output signal
represented the transient change in element resistance divided by the steady state
resistance of the magnetic element, or alternatively, ΔR/R. The circuit disclosed by Jove
et al. provided an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A preamplifier circuit for producing at first and second output terminals (D
X
, D
Y
)
a differential output signal derived from a magneto-resistive element (18) that is coupled

to the preamplifier at first and second element terminals (A, B), the circuit comprising

means for protecting the magneto-resistive element from voltage discharge between
the magneto-resistive element and magnetic media, means for powering the preamplifier

circuit by a single ended power supply (Vcc),
means (42) for producing a first read current signal (I
READ1
)that is applied to the
magneto-resistive element;
means (44) for producing a second read current signal (I
READ2
);
means (32) for deriving a first voltage output signal from the first read current
signal;
means (34) for deriving a second voltage output signal from the second read
current signal, wherein the first and second output signals together form the differential

voltage output signal;
a first feedback loop (36, 38) that adjusts a magnitude of the first read current
signal to cause differential DC and low frequency components of the first voltage output

signal to equal differential DC and low frequency components of the second voltage
output signal; and characterised by
a second feedback loop (46, 40, 45, 44) that adjusts a magnitude of a sum of the
first and second read current signals to cause common mode DC and low frequency

components of the differential output voltage signal to equal a reference voltage (V
REF
)
and
means for coupling the first and second output terminals to other circuitry without
physical coupling capacitors.
A preamplifier circuit as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising:

   means (52) for maintaining the second element terminal at a predetermined voltage
with respect to a voltage of the magnetic media.
A preamplifier (30; 31) as claimed in claim 1, the
preamplifier comprising:


a first MR terminal (A) for coupling the preamplifier to a first terminal of the
magneto-resistive element (18);
a second MR terminal (B) for coupling the preamplifier to a second terminal of the
magneto-resistive element (18);
a controlled current source (42; 43) having a current output (I
READ
) coupled to
one of the first or second MR terminals and a first control input which controls a

magnitude of current provided at the current output;
said first voltage output means (32; 35) producing a first output signal that provides an
indication of the magnitude of current provided at the current output, the first output

signal coupled to the first preamplifier output terminal;
a controlled current sink (44; 47) having a current input coupled to the second MR
terminal, and a second control input which controls the magnitude of current consumed

at the current input;
said second voltage output means (34; 33) providing a conduction path from a voltage
supply to the other of the first or second MR terminals and for producing a second voltage

output signal that is coupled to the second preamplifier output terminal, the second
output signal providing an indication of a magnitude of current flowing though the

conduction path; 
the ouput of said
means (38; 39) for producing a first error control signal based on differential DC

and low frequency components of the differential output signal being
coupled to the first control input of the controlled current source; and
the output of said means (40; 41) for producing a second error control signal based on common mode
DC and low frequency components of the differential output signal and a reference

voltage signal (V
REF
) being coupled to the
controlled current sink.
A preamplifier as claimed in claim 3, wherein the controlled current source (42) is
coupled to the first MR terminal and the second output means (34) is connected to the

second MR terminal (Fig. 2A).
A preamplifier as claimed in claim 4 and further comprising:

   a voltage regulator (52) coupled to the second MR terminal (Fig 2A).
A preamplifier as claimed in claim 3, wherein the controlled current source (43) is
coupled to the second MR terminal and the second output means (33) is connected to the

first MR terminal (Fig 2B).
A preamplifier as claimed in claim 6 and further comprising:

   a voltage regulator (57) coupled to the first MR terminal (Fig 2B).
A preamplifier as claimed in any of claims 3 to 7 and further comprising:

   an externally controllable
reference current source having an independently controllable reference current

output (I
REF
) coupled to the first MR terminal. 
A preamplifier as claimed in any of claims 3 to 8 and further comprising:

first clamping means (48) coupled to the first MR terminal, for preventing the first
MR terminal from exceeding a predetermined voltage; and
second clamping means (50) coupled to the second MR terminal, for preventing the
second MR terminal from exceeding a predetermined voltage.
A disc drive having at least one disc (14) mounted on a spindle (12), the disc
having a magnetic media surface that is maintained at a media voltage;


at least one actuator arm (16) movably coupled with respect to the disc, said arm
having a respective magneto-resistive element (18) mounted thereon and proximate the

magnetic media surface of the disc; and
a preamplifier (30, 31) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
