<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626254</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and apparatus for forming an outwardly curled lip on cylindrical container body
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D5126	B21D1900	B29C5334	B31F100	B29C5300	B29C5700	B31F100	B29C5712	B21D1912	B21D5126	B29L2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B29C	B31F	B29C	B29C	B31F	B29C	B21D	B21D	B29L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D51	B21D19	B29C53	B31F1	B29C53	B29C57	B31F1	B29C57	B21D19	B21D51	B29L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a process and apparatus for 
forming an outwardly rolled lip on a cylindrical 

container body. The apparatus of the invention includes 
a mandrel (30) having a cylindrical shaped portion (60) 

and a lip forming annular cavity (50) positioned 
coaxially with, and axially spaced from the cylindrical 

portion (60) of the mandrel (30). The annular cavity 
(50) has a generally semi-circular cross-section 

including an open mouth and a closed bottom extending 
outwardly of the mandrel (30). The mandrel (30) 

additionally includes a radially tapered portion (64) 
between the cylindrical portion (60) and the lip forming 

die (50). The radially tapered portion (64) tapers 
radially outwardly in the direction towards the lip 

forming die (50). An axial forcing means (52) forces a 
cylindrical container body (10) axially along the mandrel 

(30) towards the lip forming die (50) to thereby stretch 
the open end before the end is forced into the cavity 

(50) and rolled outwardly. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONOCO PRODUCTS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONOCO PRODUCTS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACON JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSKI WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BACON, JOHN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSKI, WILLIAM C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is directed to a process and 
apparatus for forming an outwardly curled lip, i.e., 
rim, on a cylindrical container body. More 
specifically, the invention is directed to a process 
and apparatus for forming an outwardly curled or rolled 
lip on a cylindrical container body formed of a 
deformable material such as single or multiple layers 
of paperboard material. Non-metallic containers have achieved 
widespread commercial acceptance. These containers 
include a body made from plastic, paperboard, or a 
layered structure, such as one or more layers of 
paperboard having interior and/or exterior polymeric 
film or foil layers. Typically these container bodies 
are easier to manufacture, are less expensive, and/or 
are more environmentally acceptable than prior metal 
containers. In cylindrical form, non-metallic containers 
include a separate closure member at one or both ends 
of the cylinder. In some instances, the closure member 
may be a metallic closure member which is joined to the 
container body by outwardly rolling a portion of the 
lip of the container into a metallic flange of the 
metal closure, which is then crimped into the container 
body structure. Alternatively a peelable lidding 
member can be attached directly to a container body by  
 
means of a thermal seal formed between an integral lip 
on the container body and the lidding member. For plastic container bodies an integral top 
flange or lip can readily be formed during the molding 
process. However, for paperboard container bodies the 
lip-forming procedure is typically accomplished in a 
step separate from formation of the body, per se. For relatively thin walled container bodies, 
such as convolutely wound, frustoconically shaped cup 
bodies or cup bodies formed of thin walled 
thermoplastic materials, it has been proposed to form a 
lip on the upper end employing an apparatus including a 
splined surface support member as disclosed in U.S. 
Patent 4,680,016 to Lynch. The frustoconical container 
body is forced onto the frustoconical splined support 
and the open end is then forced axially into a semi-circular 
annular groove which initially forms an 
outwardly folded rim. Thereafter, a tucking finger, 
mounted at a rimming station, rolls the outward fold 
into a rolled lip as the mandrel supporting the 
container body is rotated. For relatively thick walled paperboard 
container bodies, for example, having a wall thickness 
greater than about 
0.381 mm 
(0.015 in.), e.g. from 0.508 mm (0.020 in.) to 1.397 mm
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for forming an outwardly 
rolled lip on a deformable cylindrical container body 

having an open end and a second end, comprising: 

a mandrel having a 
smooth and continuous exterior surface and including a 

cylindrical 
shaped portion for supporting at least a portion of the 

interior of the deformable cylindrical container body; 
a lip-forming die having an annular 
cavity positioned coaxially with and axially spaced 

from the cylindrical portion of the mandrel, the 
annular cavity having a generally semi-circular cross 

section and including an open mouth and a closed 
bottom and extending radially outwardly of the mandrel and 

being oriented with the open mouth 
directed towards 

the cylindrical shaped portion of the mandrel; 
said mandrel having a radially 
tapered portion positioned between said cylindrical 

portion and said lip forming die, the radially tapered 
portion tapering radially outwardly in the direction 

from the cylindrical portion of the mandrel toward the 
lip forming die. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said 
radially tapered portion of said mandrel is tapered in 

an amount of up to 20 degrees. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said 
radially tapered portion of said mandrel is tapered in 

an amount of between 1 and 5 degrees. 
The apparatus of any preceding claim 
additionally comprising an axial forcing means for 

forcing the cylindrical container body in the direction 
from said cylindrical portion of the mandrel 

towards said radially tapered portion of said 
mandrel.  

 
The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein said 
axial forcing means comprises a means for engaging the 

second end of said container body at its end face and 
about a portion of its exterior and interior peripheral 

surfaces adjacent to said end face. 
The apparatus of any preceding claim 
wherein said mandrel comprises a mandrel body support and 

at least one peripheral exterior sleeve mounted on said 
mandrel body support and defining said cylindrical and radially tapered 

portions of said mandrel and said lip forming die. 
The apparatus of Claim 6 comprising a 
plurality of sleeves mounted on said mandrel body 

support and defining said cylindrical and radially tapered 
portions of said mandrel and said lip forming die. 
The apparatus of any preceding claim 
wherein said radially tapered portion of said mandrel 

has a length and a taper sufficient to stretch the 
diameter of the open end of said cylindrical container body 

in an amount of between 0.254 mm (0.010 in) and 0.762 mm (0.030 in). 
The apparatus of any preceding claim 
wherein said mandrel is mounted on a rotatable turret. 
An apparatus for forming containers from 
a plurality of container bodies, each having an open 

end and a second end, comprising a plurality of radially 
oriented forming mandrels mounted on a rotatable 

turret, each of said mandrels 
having a smooth and continuous exterior surface and 

comprising: 

a cylindrical shaped portion for 
supporting the interior of one of the cylindrical 

container bodies; and 
a lip forming die having an annular cavity 
positioned coaxially with and axially spaced from the 

cylindrical portion of the mandrel, the annular cavity  
 

having a generally semi-circular cross-section and 
including an open mouth and a closed bottom and extending 

radially outwardly of the mandrel and being oriented 
with the open mouth directed towards 

the cylindrical 
shaped portion of the mandrel; and 
a radially tapered portion positioned between 
said cylindrical portion and said lip forming die, the 

radially tapered portion tapering radially outwardly in 
the direction from the cylindrical portion of the 

mandrel towards the lip forming die. 
The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said 
turret is indexed for rotation of said mandrels to a 

plurality of stations for performing a plurality of 
predetermined operations on said container body. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein a 
predetermined one of said stations comprises an axial 

forcing means for forcing the cylindrical container 
body axially along a mandrel positioned at said 

predetermined station. 
The apparatus of Claim 12 wherein said 
axial forcing means comprises a means for engaging the 

second end of said container body about the end face, 
and a portion of the both the exterior and interior 

peripheral surfaces adjacent said end face of said 
container body. 
The apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said 
radially tapered portion of said mandrel tapers 

in an amount of up to 20°. 
The apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said 
radially tapered portion of said mandrel tapers 

in an amount of between 1 and 5 degrees.  
 
A process for forming an outwardly 
rolled lip on a cylindrical container body having at 

least one open end and a second end, the process 
comprising: 


placing said open end of said cylindrical 
container body coaxially on a cylindrical portion 

of a mandrel 
having a smooth and continuous exterior surface and 

having substantially the same outside 
diameter as the inside diameter of the cylindrical 

container body; 
forcing said open end of said container body 
axially along said cylindrical portion of said 

mandrel and axially along a radially outwardly 
tapering portion of said mandrel to thereby outwardly 

stretch the open end of said container body; and 
forcing said stretched open end of said 
container body into an annular cavity of generally 

semi-circular cross-section having an open mouth and 
closed bottom and extending radially outwardly 
of the 
mandrel and being oriented with the open mouth directed towards 

the cylindrical shaped portion of 
the mandrel, to thereby cause said stretched open end 

of said container body to roll outwardly to form said 
outwardly rolled lip on said container body. 
The process of Claim 16 wherein said 
cylindrical container body comprises at least one 

paperboard layer and has a wall thickness greater than 
0.381 mm (0.015 inch). 
The process of Claim 17 wherein said 
cylindrical container body additionally comprises an 

interior film or film/foil layer. 
The process of Claim 17 or Claim 18 
wherein said cylindrical container body is a spirally 

wound container body.  
 
The process of Claim 19 wherein said 
container body has a wall thickness greater than 0.508 mm 

(0.02 inch). 
The process of any one of Claims 17 to 20 
additionally including the step of supporting the second 

end of said container body about at least a portion of its 
end face and its exterior and interior peripheral surfaces 

adjacent said end face during said step of forcing the 
container body along said mandrel. 
The process of any one of Claims 17 to 21 
wherein said axially tapering portion of said 

mandrel is tapered in an amount sufficient to stretch the 
diameter of said open mouth of said container body in 

an amount of between 0.254 mm (0.010 in) and 0.762 mm (0.030 in). 
The process of any one of Claims 17 to 22 
wherein said container body comprises a cylindrical burr 

on the inside periphery of said open end. 
The process of Claim 17 wherein said 
container body is a convolute wound container body. 
The process of Claim 16 wherein said 
container body is formed of a plastic material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
