<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629874</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gradient coils
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3320	G01R33385	A61B5055	G01R3320	G01R3338	A61B5055	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	A61B	G01R	G01R	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	G01R33	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnetic resonance imaging machine includes a toroidal vacuum dewer (24) which 
contains a superconducting magnet (10). A radio frequency coil (32) is mounted within a 

cylindrical bore (26) of the vacuum dewer. A cylindrical, dielectric former (46) supports an 
RF shield (34), a z-gradient coil (50), an x-gradient coil (52), and a y-gradient coil (54). The 

x and y-gradient coils are each composed of four like spiral coil constructions. A metallic 
layer is cut with cut lines (64) to define a generally spiral coil winding pattern. In a high 

current density region (68) in which the coil windings are narrower than a preselected width, 
the cut lines (76) are thinner. In lower current density regions (70), the cut lines (78) are 

thicker. In lower current density regions, two cut lines are defined between adjacent coil 
windings such that the coil windings are limited to a maximum width. Conductive islands 

(80) defined in the lower current density areas which are large enough to support detrimental 
eddy currents are preferably removed or at least modified such that their ability to support 

detrimental eddy currents is curtailed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARCONI MEDICAL SYS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARCONI MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEMEESTER GORDON D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORICH MICHAEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATRICK JOHN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEMEESTER, GORDON D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORICH, MICHAEL A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATRICK, JOHN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to gradient coils. It finds particular application in conjunction
with sheet or "fingerprint" type gradient coil designs for magnetic resonance imaging
apparatus and will be described with particular reference thereto. However, it will be
appreciated that the present invention will also find application in conjunction with the
generation of magnetic fields and gradients for other applications.Heretofore, magnetic resonance imagers have included a superconducting magnet
which generated a temporally constant primary magnetic field through a 
central bore. A series of annular gradient magnetic field
coils for generating x, y, and z-gradient magnetic field
gradients were mounted to an interior of the bore. An
annular radio frequency coil was commonly positioned in the
interior of the gradient coils for transmitting radio
frequency signals into and receiving radio frequency
magnetic resonance signals from a subject in the bore.
Current pulses were applied to the gradient and radio
frequency coils to generate a series of RF and gradient
field pulses of conventional magnetic resonance imaging
sequences.Various coil constructions have been used for
generating the x, y, and z magnetic field gradients. One
type of gradient coil includes a flexible, dielectric
backing layer to which a sheet of copper or other
conductive foil material has been laminated. A coil
pattern was defined by cutting, milling, or etching the
conductive sheet in a generally spiral-like pattern. The
conductive sheet remaining between the spiral cut provided
a generally spiral or fingerprint-like current path. See,
for example, U.S. Patent No. 5,177,442 to Roemer or U.S.
Patent No. 4,840,700 to Edelstein (which discloses the features defined in the preambles of present claims 1 and 10). The conductive pattern
represents an approximation of a continuous current density
vector J. Mathematically, the current density J=curl S,
where S is a stream function representing contours of
constant integrated current density. A number of turns N
is selected and the coil is patterned into N+1 contours,
each of constant S, which differ in magnitude by an amount
ΔS=Smax/N. Hypothetical contours offset from these by ΔS/2
represent a desired pattern for placing filamentary wires
to approximate J.The contour lines generated by this method
determine the machining pattern or cut lines. The cut
lines were formed by removing a constant width of the
conductor material producing an electrical discontinuity or
gap which defines the turn pattern.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus comprising: a generally toroidal magnet
assembly (10, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26) for generating a temporally constant magnetic field

through an examination region (12) along the z-axis of an xyz coordinate system of the imaging
apparatus, the magnet assembly (10, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26) including a generally cylindrical

member (26) which defines a bore which extends along the z-axis around the examination region
(12); a gradient coil assembly (40) for causing magnetic field gradients within the bore along

the x, y and z axes
a radio frequency coil assembly (30) disposed within the bore for transmitting radio frequency

pulses into the examination region (12) for inducing and manipulating magnetic resonance of
selected dipoles within the examination region (12); a sequence control means (100) for

controlling the gradient coil assembly (40) and the radio frequency coil assembly (30) for
generating magnetic resonance imaging gradient and RF pulse sequences; an image

reconstruction means (110) for reconstructing image representations from the magnetic resonance
signals emanating from the examination region (12), the gradient coil assembly (40) including: a first gradient coil (52) including

four electrically interconnected first coil constructions, two on each side of a central xy
plane (58) through the examination region (12), each first coil construction being

disposed adjacent said central plane (58) and extending circumferentially about half way around
a cylinder (46), a second gradient coil (54) including four second coil constructions, two

on each side of said central plane (58), each second coil construction being disposed
adjacent the central plane (58) and extending circumferentially about half way around the

cylinder (46), the second gradient coil (54) being rotated 90° around the cylinder (46) from the
first gradient coil (52), each of the first and second coil constructions including an

electrically conductive sheet which is divided by cut lines (64) into a generally spiral electrically
conductive winding pattern, each winding pattern having at least one high current density region

(68) in which windings reach a preselected minimum width, 
characterized by
 lower current density regions (70)
of the winding pattern in which, the windings are narrower than a preselected maximum width such that

in the lower current density regions (70), the windings are spaced by more than one cut line (64). 
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein in the lower
current density regions, islands of conductive sheet material which are electrically isolated from

the rest of the coil are defined between adjacent foil windings.
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the cut lines are
narrower in the high current density region than in the lower current density regions.
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the conductive
sheet has a constant thickness, the cut line width in the high current density region being less than

the conductive sheet thickness and the cut line width in the lower current density regions being
at least the conducting sheet thickness.
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the conductive

sheet thickness is at least 2 mm.
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the first winding
pattern is defined in foil laminated to one face of a dielectric sheet and further including a second

winding pattern defined on an opposite face of the dielectric sheet.
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the second
winding pattern extends in a generally spiral pattern.
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the second
winding pattern extends adjacent the region of high current density, the second winding pattern

being electrically connected with the first winding pattern at the high current density region. 
A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the windings are
thicker in the region of higher current density and thinner in the lower current density regions.
A gradient coil assembly for causing magnetic field gradients within an examination
region, the gradient coil assembly comprising: a plurality of electrically interconnected coil

constructions, each of the coil constructions including: an electrically conductive layer which is
divided by cut lines into a generally spiral electrically conductive winding pattern, 
characterized in that
 the winding
pattern has at least one low current density region in which windings of the winding pattern are

narrower than a preselected maximum width such that adjacent windings are
spaced by more than one cut line.
A gradient coil assembly according to claim 10 wherein electrically isolated foil islands
are defined between the adjacent windings which are spaced by more than

one cut line.
A gradient coil assembly according to claim 10 wherein the winding has at least one high
current density region in which windings of the winding pattern are narrower than a preselected

minimum width.
A gradient coil assembly according to claim 10 wherein the windings have a fixed
common width in the lower current density regions.
A method of forming a gradient coil construction from a conductive layer laminated to
a dielectric substrate, the method comprising: selecting a generally spiral current winding pattern

centroid; comparing a dimension between adjacent centroids with a preselected width, in regions
in which the dimension is wider than the preselected width, defining two cut lines between

adjacent centroids, each cut line being displaced from a corresponding adjacent centroid by
substantially one half the preselected width, whereby isolated islands of conductive material are

defined between adjacent windings.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
