<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620534</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for automatic trap selection for correcting for plate misregistration in  colour printing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N162	H04N158	G03F308	H04N162	H04N152	G06K1502	G06K1502	H04N156	G03F300	H04N152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	G03F	H04N	H04N	G06K	G06K	H04N	G03F	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	H04N1	G03F3	H04N1	H04N1	G06K15	G06K15	H04N1	G03F3	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for automatic compensation for misregistration of printing plates in printing of 
polychromatic document pages or images, in which a trapping map image is superimposed 

upon the structured graphic image representing the layout of the document page or image 
from which it is derived, so as to prevent light leaks and other errors at the boundaries between 

color regions within the image. Traps are selected automatically and applied to a 
boundary map comprising the set of boundaries between regions of different color of the 

original image. The selection process uses the results of a plurality of separate methods for 
ranking possible traps each of which is assigned an overall score by means of a weighted sum 

of the ranks obtained by each of the separate methods, with the resulting score used as the 
basis for automatic trap selection among the set of possible traps. The weights applicable to 

the score are previously determined according to several methods, such as a least squares fit 
procedure in which traps are judged subjectively by "experts" and correlated with the ranks 

obtained by each of the separate methods. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAYER AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAYER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DERMER RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DERMER, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present application is related to the US patent applications US-A-5 613 046 of Richard A. Dermer for "Method
for Automatic Trap Selection for Correcting for Plate Misregistration in Color Printing" and
US-A-5 313 570 of Richard A. Dermer and Edward C. Reifenstein, III for "Method for Determining color
Boundaries for Correcting for Plate Misregistration in color Printing" filed simultaneously
herewith and assigned to the same assignee. The corresponding European patent publications are EP-A-0 620 534 and EP-A-0 618 546, respectively.The field to which the invention applies is the electronic processing of graphic images to
produce multi-color output using offset or other printing methods. Images are obtained electronically
by digital scanning of photographic material and combined with "structured graphics"
to provide composed images or pages which are then separated into monochromatic images
each corresponding to an ink to be used in the printing process. Typically, four process
color inks, cyan, magenta, yellow and black are used, although special "spot" colors can be
used instead of or in addition to the process color inks. The separated images can then be
output to photographic films from which printing plates are made. Alternatively, the separated
images can be used to produce engraved cylinders from which gravure prints can be
made.The layout of a page or graphic image to be printed as described above depends upon
combination of "structured graphics" according to a pre-established graphic design. The
structured graphics are contiguous regions of color which represent a succession of graphic
objects imaged on the printing medium (e.g. the "paper"). The objects so imaged are polygon
shapes which can be isolated from each other, can abut one another at one or more points,
can partially overlap one another, or can completely overlap one another. The resulting
printed page or graphic image is therefore made up of a patchwork of polygon shapes representing
the graphic objects, some of which are "clipped" by objects imaged later in the succession. The result of abutting or overlapping polygon shapes is a boundary between adjacent regions
of color which under ideal printing conditions should have zero width. The "colors"
which fill the polygon shapes can be solid colors, tints, degrades, contone images, or "no fill"
(i.e., the paper with no ink applied). In general, the "colors "represented in these adjacent
regions are printed using more than one ink. In practice therefore, the realization of a zero
widt
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for automatic trap selection, applicable to electronic processing of graphic images to produce multi-color ouput wherein boundaries between regions of different color are determined for correction of printing plate misregistration by trap spreading, the method comprising the steps of:

(I) ranking CANDIDATE TRAPS by a plurality of methods with each candidate trap being assigned an overall score which
represents the sum of weighted ranks obtained by said plurality of methods with

the weights applicable to said overall score being previously determined; and,
(II) using said overall score as the basis for automatic selection among said CANDIDATE
TRAPS.
The method of claim 1 wherein the minimum value of said overall score is the basis for
automatic selection among said CANDIDATE TRAPS.
The method of claim 1 wherein the maximum value of said overall score is the basis for
automatic selection among said CANDIDATE TRAPS.
The method of claim 1 wherein the weights can be displayed to and modified by an operator;
The method of claim 1 comprising the steps of saving the weights in a data store for later use, and
later recalling them from said data store. 
The method of claim 1 comprising the step of enabling an operator to display the ranks obtained for any
trapping operation applied to selected elements of an image, and to assign weights to a

combination of said ranks so as to obtain results of the scoring system which meet particular
criteria.
The method of claim 1 wherein the weights assigned to each ranking method are determined
by a least squares fit procedure based on a database of acceptable and unacceptable

CANDIDATE TRAPS.
The method of claim 2 wherein one of said plurality of methods for ranking CANDIDATE
TRAPS comprises the following steps:


(A) determining for each CANDIDATE TRAP the minimum distance in the CIE LUV
color space of each possible misregistration color from each boundary color; and,
(B) using the maximum of the set of distances so determined as the rank associated
with said one of said plurality of methods for said CANDIDATE TRAP.
The method of claim 2 wherein one of said plurality of methods for ranking CANDIDATE
TRAPS comprises the following steps:


(A) determining for each CANDIDATE TRAP the distance in the CIE LUV color
space of the color of the CANDIDATE TRAP from the color into which it is spread

as the rank associated with said one of said plurality of methods for said CANDIDATE

TRAP.
The method of claim 2 wherein one of said plurality of methods for ranking CANDIDATE
TRAPS comprises the following steps:


(A) determining for each CANDIDATE TRAP and for each misregistration color the algebraic
difference in luminescence from each of the bounding colors; and 
(B) using the maximum, positive or negative, value of the above set for the rank
associated with said one of said plurality of methods for said CANDIDATE TRAP.
The method of claim 2 wherein one of said plurality of methods for ranking CANDIDATE
TRAPS comprises the following steps:


(A) determining for each CANDIDATE TRAP for each misregistration color the absolute
value of the difference in luminescence from each of the bounding colors; and,
(B) using the maximum, absolute, value of the above set for the rank associated with
said one of said plurality of methods for said CANDIDATE TRAP.
The method of claim 2 wherein one of said plurality of methods for ranking CANDIDATE
TRAPS comprises the following steps:


(A) determining for each CANDIDATE TRAP the luminescence of each misregistration
color for a CANDIDATE TRAP; and,
(B) using the maximum value of the above set for the rank associated with said one of
said plurality of methods for said CANDIDATE TRAP.
The method of claim 2 wherein one of said plurality of methods for ranking CANDIDATE
TRAPS comprises the following steps:


(A) determining for each CANDIDATE TRAP the luminescence of the two bounding
colors;
(B) using for each CANDIDATE TRAP in which a dark color is spread into a light color,
the abolute difference in luminescence between them for the rank associated with said one of said plurality of methods for said CANDIDATE TRAP; and 
(C) using for each CANDIDATE TRAP in which a light color is spread into a dark color,
zero as the rank associated with said one of said plurality of methods for said

CANDIDATE TRAP.
The method of claim 2 wherein one of said plurality of methods for ranking CANDIDATE
TRAPS comprises the following steps:


(A) determining for each CANDIDATE TRAP for each misregistration color resulting
from a CANDIDATE TRAP the percentage of yellow; and,
(B) using the maximum value of this set as the rank associated with said one of said
plurality of methods for said CANDIDATE TRAP.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
