<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625875</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMBINED VISORED CAP TYPE PROTECTIVE HELMET AND POUCH FOR BICYCLISTS OR THE LIKE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A42B100	A42B104	A42B108	A42B120	A42B300	A42B300	A42B304	A42B308	A42B332	A42B332	A42B700	A42B700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	A42B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A42B1	A42B1	A42B1	A42B1	A42B3	A42B3	A42B3	A42B3	A42B3	A42B3	A42B7	A42B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIFRIN ROY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIFRIN, ROY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIFRIN ROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIFRIN, ROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMBINED VISORED CAP TYPE PROTECTIVE HELMET AND POUCH FOR BICYCLISTS OR THE LIKEFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a helmet made of foam plastic material, and more particularly to a comfortable, attractive cap type protective helmet particularly useful for bicyclists, which functions as a pouch for holding small objects, and which may be attached about the waist, or slung over the shoulder when not worn on the head of the bicyclist.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The protective helmets and other head gear have evolved over the years. U.S. Patent 2,333,987 to . E. Dandy issued on November 9, 1943 is directed to a protective baseball cap formed by a fabric body and a lining with the body and lining forming pockets to opposite sides of the cap with the pockets each carrying a relatively rigid, curved shield member insertable into and removable from the pocket. The protective shield members overlie the sides of the head of the wearer just above the ear.U.S. Patent 4,827,537 issued May 9, 1989 to Paolo Villa, teaches a protective helmet formed by movable segments of molded plastic, of arcuate form which swings between an expanded operating position and a collapsed non-operating position where the segments nests within themselves. The segments may carry a protective soft foam, plastic foam lining on the inner surface to protect the head of the wearer. U.S. Patent 4,843,642 issued July 4, 1989 toRichard A. Brower describes a flexible helmet for a tank crewman which includes a unitary impact absorbing pad forming a virtually continuous layer of protection while conforming to the head of the wearer. A 

 yieldable fabric shell carries a one-piece lobster pad formed of a single piece of energy absorbing material cut with lateral indentations to permit it to assume the shape of the wearer's head. The structure includes a chin strap, a nape strap, a crown strap and a brow strap, linked to right and left sound attenuating ear shells and the energy absorbing pad.U.S. Patent 5,012,533 is directed to a single shell helmet made of foam plastic with the helmet subdivided into shell parts integrated by hinged areas for adopting the helmet to different head sizes through the use of an adjustable strap linking the segments peripherally about the side of the head. A chin strap system maintains the helmet on the head of the wearer.While such helmets protect the wearer, most protective helmets for bicycling, skating, etc. are all rigid structures. These rigid helmets are uncomfortable to wear, result in excessive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 IN THE CLAIMS :
1. A combined visored cap type protective helmet and pouch for bicyclist or the like comprising: a hollow, spherical fabric head shell including an outer fabric body integrated to an inner lining, said head shell having a circular bottom edge, and circumferentially spaced, generally radial fold lines joining said outer fabric body to said inner lining and forming a plurality of circumferentially adjacent separate pockets of sector shape, soft protective pads of shock absorbing material sized and shaped to said pockets and fitted therein, a visor integrated to said head shell at said circular bottom edge and at a front of the helmet and projecting outwardly thereof and extending rearwardly along opposite sides thereof, said pockets defining laterally aligned transverse fold lines forming foldable front to rear helmet halves and defining an article carrying pouch cavity therebetween, and latching means for latching the front and rear halves together to capture said visor when folded inwardly about said bottom edge and positioned within said cavity along with any separate article inserted therein.
2. The combined visored cap-type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 1, wherein said latching means comprises a flexible material strip having one end fixed to the helmet front head shell half, and being of a length sufficient to overlap the rear, head shell half when the front and rear helmet half are folded together and wherein, the overlapping end of the flexible material strip comprises one type of releasable interengaging fastener means and wherein 


 another second type of releasible interengageable fastener means is mounted on a pocket of said rear half of said head shell for coupling to said one type interengaging fastener means.
3. The combined visored cap-type protective pouch as claimed in claim 2, wherein, said interengaging fastener means comprises a first, hook- type interengageable fastener strip affixed to one surface of the free end of said flexible material strip and a second, loop type interengeable fastener strip affixed to the outer fabric body adjacent said circular bottom edge of said head shell.
4. A combined visored cap-type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 3, f rther comprising a second, loop type interengageable fastener strip on a top of said visor radially outwardly of said circular bottom edge of said head shell and engageable with the interengaging fastener strip of opposite hook type on the free end of the latching strip to maintain the visor in position extending generally perpendicular to the axis of the spherical head shell and in the plane of the circular bottom edge of said head shell.
5. A combined visored cap type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a releasibly securable adjustable chin strap carried by said head shell, for positioning beneath the chin of the wearer.
6. A combined visored cap type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 4, further comprising a releasibly securable adjustable chin 


 strap carried by said head shell, for positioning beneath the chin of the wearer.
7. The combined visored cap type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an adjustable length shoulder/belt strap coupled to said head shell of a length, sμch that when the front and rear head shell halves are folded together, the unit may be strapped to the waist of the wearer, or suspended over a shoulder of the wearer by said shoulder/belt strap.
8. The combined visor cap type protective helmet and pouch, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fold lines between the sector shaped pockets include aligned fold lines extending over the top of the outer fabric body and forming aligned grooves between adjacent sector type pads to opposite sides of the head shell, wherein said adjustable length shoulder/belt strap is sized to, and insertably carried within said grooves on the exterior surface of said outer surface body and in a position so as not to interfere with normal wear of the protective helmet and pouch on the head of the bicyclist.
9. The combined visored cap-type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 8, further including a pair of cloth flaps having one edge fixed to one of said sector shaped pockets on the exterior surface of the outer fabric body adjacent said grooves, with the flaps extending across respective grooves and having adjacent the opposite edge thereof snap fastening means for fastening said cloth flaps to said laterally adjacent pockets so as to close off said grooves carrying said adjustable length 


shoulder/belt strap, and preventing the shoulder or belt strap from falling out of said transversely aligned grooves on opposite sides of said head shell during wearing of the combined helmet and pouch.
10. The combined visor cap-type protective helmet and pouch, as claimed in claim 9, wherein said snap fastening means comprise interengageable male, and female grommets carried respectively by said flaps and said laterally adjacent pockets.
11. The combined visor cap-type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 1, wherein said soft protective shock absorbing material pads comprise foam plastic pads.
12. The combined visor cap-type protective helmet and pouch as claimed in claim 11, wherein said foam plastic pads each comprise a soft foam radially inner pad layer and an integral hard radially outer cover, said cover being in contact with the outer fabric body partially forming the pockets receiving said pads. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
