<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636475</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automatic inspection of printing plates or cylinders
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41F3300	B41F3300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41F	B41F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41F33	B41F33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for inspecting a surface of a printing medium, the 
method comprising the steps of acquiring an image of the surface or a 

portion thereof, digitizing the acquired image whereby a digitized real 
representation of the surface or portion is obtained. The method also include 

the step of for each of said digitized real representation performing either or 
both of the steps of comparing said digitized real representation with a 

digital reference representation, said reference representation being a virtual 
digital fault-free representation of said surface or portion thereof and 

determining whether said real digitized representation is in compliance with 
stipulations of a set of rules which define the characteristics of a fault-free 

digital representation of said surface or portion, and providing either a 
correct indication output signal where there is a match between said real 

digitized representation with said reference digital representation in the case 
of the step of comparing or compliance with said rules in the case of said 

step of determining, or fault indication output signal where there is a 
mismatch in the case of the step of comparing or incompliance in the case 

of the case of determining. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED VISION TECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED VISION TECHNOLOGY LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORPORATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRONSTEIN RAFAIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARP OMER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRONSTEIN, RAFAIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSTEIN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KARP, OMER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and system for the 
inspection of a printing plate or cylinder, in order to automatically detect 
errors and defects which may influence the quality of the print. Books, magazines and other publications are typically produced 
by offset or gravure printing. In offset printing, a plate is imaged in a 
contact frame or by direct exposure to a laser beam. The plate is later 
mounted on a press and then impressed on the printed substrate. In gravure 
printing, a cylinder is engraved by laser exposure and subsequent chemical 
etching or by the use of a penetrating pyramid shaped diamond stylus in an 
apparatus known as a "helioklischograph". The formation of the printing plate for offset printing or the 
cylinder for gravure printing, is error prone and very often defects occur. 
Such errors may arise from a number of sources. In offset printing the 
plates are routinely imaged in vacuum contact frames or Step and Repeat 
machines such as Impomaster™ (manufactured by Misomex AG, 
Hagerstrom, Sweden). In both cases the plate is placed on a surface in 
contact with a color separation film. A vacuum is applied to ensure uniform 
attachment and the absence of a gap between the film and the plate. If air 
pockets (or dust particles) remain between the film and the plate, the 
exposed image will have non-uniform areas. In addition, errors in plate  
 
exposure may be caused by scratches, dust and paper/cloth lint that remain 
on the film after cleaning. After inspection of the plates, which was hitherto mainly 
visually performed, or performed with the aid of an inspection station such 
as that available from Just Normalicht, Newton, PA, USA, scratches and 
pinholes on non-imaged areas may be deleted by a correcting pencil. 
However, errors in imaged areas and errors related to separation or 
imposition order cannot be corrected at all. Gravure cylinders are typically engraved by the use of a 
pyramid shaped diamond stylus which is forced into the copper cylinder 
forming gravure cells. One source of defects in the manufacturing process 
of gravure cylinders is faults which occasionally occur in the stylus, e.g. a 
chopped tip, stylus rib defects and others which may be caused, for example, 
by stylus material fatigue, rib wearing, etc. In addition, abnormal gravure 
cells are formed at times by inaccuracies in the current which drives the 
stylus. An additional source of engraving errors is regional copper re-crystallization 
on bare cylinders, particularly where the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for pre-printing inspection of a surface of 
a printing medium, the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) acquiring an image of the surface or a portion 
thereof, digitizing the acquired image whereby a 

digitized real representation of the surface or portion 
thereof is obtained; 
(b) for each of said digitized real representation 
performing either or both of the following steps (b)(i) 

and (b)(ii): 

(i) comparing said digitized real representation with a 
digital reference representation, said reference 

representation being a virtual digital fault-free 
representation of said surface or portion thereof, 
(ii) determining whether said digitized real 
representation is in compliance with stipulations of a 

set of rules which define the characteristics of said 
virtual digital fault-free representation of said surface 

or portion thereof; and 
(c) providing either 

a correct indication output signal where there is a 
match between said real digitized representation with 

said reference digital representation in the case of 
(b)(i) or compliance with said rules in the case of 

(b)(ii), or 
fault indication output signal where there is a 
mismatch in the case of (b)(i) or incompliance in the 

case of (b)(ii) with said rules. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein the printing 
medium is a gravure cylinder or an offset plate. 
A method according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein step 
(b)(i) includes a preliminary sub-step by which said 

reference and real representations are brought into a 
comparable representation. 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims comprising determining whether the discrepancy 

between the real and the reference presentation in the 
case of (b)(i) or deviation from said rules in the case 

of (b)(ii) exceeds a given threshold, deviation or 
discrepancy above the threshold giving rise to a fault 

indication. 
A method according to Claim 4, wherein the fault 
indication is used to feed instruction to a printing 

machine to feed instructions to an ink key zone 
control unit of a printing machine to feed more or less 

ink, as required in a defective zone of the medium. 
A method according to Claim 4, wherein the printing 
medium is a gravure cylinder, the cells of the gravure 

cylinder being prepared by an engraver head (54), said 
fault indication being used to feed compensating 

instructions into the engraver head (54) to compensate 
for said deviation or discrepancy.  

 
A method according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the digital reference representation is 

constructed from data used to construct the surface of the 
printing medium in its manufacturing process. 
A method according to Claim 7, wherein the printing 
medium is an offset plate and said data are data used for 

either the preparation of the separation film which is 
used later for the preparation of the offset plate, or 

for direct offset plate exposure. 
A method according to Claim 7, wherein the printing 
medium is a gravure cylinder and said data is data which 

provides a set of instructions used to drive the engraver 
head (54) in the helioklischograph (11). 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-4, wherein 
the reference representation is constructed from data which 

was generated by scanning a film or picture which served 
as a basis for the manufacture of the plate or cylinder. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-4, wherein 
the printing medium is a gravure cylinder and wherein the 

image is optically acquired by a scanner (53).  
 
A method according to any one of Claims 1-4, wherein 
the method is carried out through step (b)(ii), and 

wherein said set of rules comprising context independent 
rules which apply to said image irrespective of its 

context. 
A method according to Claim 12, wherein said 
printing medium is a gravure cylinder comprising a 

plurality of cells and wherein said context independent 
rules are selected from the group consisting of rules 

which relate to the boundary between two adjacent cells; 
rules which relate to the internal structure of each said 

plurality of cells; and rules which define the surface 
structure between two adjacent cells. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said 
digitized real representation comprises a two-dimensional 

grey level pixel array and step (a) of claim 1 comprises; 

(A) subjecting the grey level pixel array to an image 
binarization in which the grey level representation is 

transformed to a one-bit black- white representation; 
(B) subjecting the binarized image to an edge/line 

segment extraction in which "0" to "1" and "1" to "0" 
transitions are detected forming a skeleton map in 

accordance with said segment extraction said skeleton map 
comprising edge line clusters;  

 
(C) sorting said edge/line clusters obtained in step (B) 
into three categories; (i) segments forming part of said 

cell contour or boundary; (ii) segments forming part of 
intra-cell surface; and (iii) segments forming part of 

inter-cell surface; 
(D) from the results obtained in (C), extracting the 
geometrical properties of the cell contours; 
 
   and wherein step (b) of claim 1 comprises: 


(E) in the case of (b)(i) in Claim 1, comparing the real 
representation in its parametric form obtained in step 
(D), to a reference presentation in the same parametric 
representation; 
(F) in the case of (b)(ii) in Claim 1, determining 
whether the real representation in its parametric form is 

in compliance with a set of rules defining a fault-free 
representation. 
A system for pre-printing inspection of a surface of 
a printing medium comprising: 


(a) means (53) for acquiring an image of the surface of 
said printing medium or a portion thereof and converting 

it into a digital representation, said digital 
representation being a digital real representation of 

said surface or portion thereof; 
(b) means (60) for acquiring a reference representation, 
which is a virtual digital fault-free representation of 

said surface or portion; and  
 
(c) means (50) for comparing between said real 
representation and said reference representation and for 

providing an output signal in the case of either a 
mismatch or a match. 
A system for preprinting inspection of a surface of 
a printing medium comprising: 


(a) means (53) for acquiring an image of the surface or 
a portion thereof and converting it into a digital 

representation, said digital representation being a 
digital real representation of said surface or portion 

thereof; 
(b) means (50) for determining whether said digital real 
representation is in compliance with stipulations of a 

set of rules defining the characteristics of fault-free 
digital representation of said surface or portion; and 
(c) providing an output signal either where said digital 
real representation is in compliance with said rules or 

in the case where said digital representation is 
incompliance with said rules. 
A system according to claim 15 or 16, wherein said 
image acquisition means (53) is selected from a CCD, a 

laser scanner, or other one or two dimensional scanners. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
