<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617395</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Animated advertising display.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09F937	G09F937	G09F1300	G09F1324	G09F1900	G09F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09F9	G09F9	G09F13	G09F13	G09F19	G09F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An advertising apparatus (10) comprising a casing 
(12) defining a chamber (18) for a fluid (24) and 

having a wall (50) through which at least a portion of 
the chamber (18) is visible. The chamber (18) contains 

one or more discrete particles and a structure for 
repeatedly elevating the particle(s) (5) and releasing 

the particle(s) (5) to allow it (them) to fall under 
gravity through the chamber (18). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMAS A SCHUTZ COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMAS A. SCHUTZ COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADENAU MARVIN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADENAU, MARVIN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to advertising displays and, more particularly, to a 
display in which discrete particles are continuously elevated and released, as to 
simulate snowfall, to enhance the appearance of the static portion of the display. In the highly competitive advertising industry, designers are constantly 
striving to develop advertising displays that are both eye-catching and economically 
feasible. One way to stimulate consumer interest is to animate the advertising 
displays. It is known to move different parts relative to each other on a display so 
that different messages are displayed depending upon the relative positions of those 
moving parts. This same concept is also used in lighted displays. Light from a source 
within the display projects towards the relatively moving parts and, depending 
upon the relative positions of the parts and the registration of cutouts therein, 
different amounts and patterns of light are allowed to pass therethrough to produce 
different messages. While the industry has for decades used the above devices successfully to 
produce very visually appealing displays, there is one primary drawback with the 
above displays. No matter how appealing the displays, the change therein is 
repetitive.  Another interesting visual effect is realized with known devices which 
simulate falling snow. Typically these items have a sealed, partially clear case 
which contains a finite amount of liquid. A small scene and/or figure is mounted 
within the liquid. Discrete white particles are suspended in the liquid and have 
sufficient weight to fall under the force of gravity through the liquid. The user 
manually picks the case up and turns it upside down long enough to allow the 
"snow" particles to accumulate at the top of the case. By then righting the case, 
the particles float gently downwardly to simulate a shower of snow over the 
figure/scene. To the knowledge of the applicant, the simulated snow concept has not been 
employed in the advertising industry. It is believed that this is due in large part 
to the impracticality of having to repeatedly reorient the case. Since the particles 
will normally fall through the liquid in a short time period, it is impractical to 
repeatedly keep the device "animated". In its normal state, absent the "falling 
snow", the display normally lacks the desired visual appeal. The present invention is specifically directed to an advertising apparatus 
employing one or more discrete particles that move continuously through a fluid 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An advertising apparatus comprising: 
   a case; 

   first means on the case defining a chamber for a liquid; 
   said first means having a wall through which at least a portion of the 

chamber is visible; 
   a discrete particle; and 

   second means on at least one of the case and first means for continuously 
a) elevating the particle in the chamber from a first position to a second position 

and b) releasing the particle in the second position to allow it to fall by gravity 
through said chamber back towards the first position. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the second 
means includes at least one finger and means for mounting the finger to at least 

one of the first means and case for rotation about an axis to thereby elevate the 
particle from the first position to the second position. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 1 in combination with 
a liquid in said case chamber. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the second 
means comprises a ring and means mounting the ring to the case for rotation about 

an axis, said ring having a plurality of circumferentially spaced fingers each 
defining a shoulder to engage and advance the particle from its first position into 

its second position. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 1 wherein there are a 
plurality of discrete particles within the chamber that are continuously elevated and 

released by the second means. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the discrete 
particles are vinyl chips that simulate falling snow. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 1 including a source 
of light and means for mounting the light source to at least one of the case and 

first means so that light projects a) through the chamber and past the discrete 
particle as it falls through the chamber and b) through the wall on the first means. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the ring has 
circumferentially spaced teeth and the second means comprises a motor with a 

geared shaft and means for mounting the motor to the case so that the geared shaft 
is in mesh with the teeth on the ring and rotates the ring as the motor is operated. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the case 
includes a reflector to cause light directed towards the reflector to be redirected 

towards the wall on the first means. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said plurality 
of fingers includes first and second fingers having different configurations so that 

the particle advanced by the first finger is released at a different location than the 
location that the particle is released by the second finger. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 1 including an 
arcuately-shaped light source and means for mounting the light source to the case. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the case 
defines a cavity, the first means resides with the cavity and including an 

advertising object mounted within the cavity so that as viewed through the wall on 
the first means the discrete particles appear to be showering the object to enhance 

the appearance of the object. 
An advertising apparatus comprising: 
   a case; 

   first means on the case defining a substantially closed chamber, 
   said first means having a wall through which at least a portion of the 

chamber is visible; 
   a plurality of discrete particles in the chamber; 

   second means on at least one of the case and first means for continuously 
a) elevating the particles from a first position to a second position and b) releasing 

the particles in the second position to allow them to fall back through the chamber 
towards the first position; and 

   means for projecting light from within the chamber through the wall to 
enhance the appearance of the discrete particles falling through the chamber. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the second 

means comprises a plurality of fingers and means for mounting the fingers to at 
least one of the case and first means for movement in a predetermined path, said 

fingers each defining a shoulder to engage and advance the discrete particles as the 
fingers move in the predetermined path. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the means 
for mounting the fingers includes a ring that is rotatable about an axis and the 

shoulders are defined at least in part by a flat surface the plane of which does not 
intersect the rotary axis of the ring. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said 
plurality of fingers include first and second fingers and the first finger is 

configured differently than the second finger so that the first finger releases the 
discrete particles at a different location than the second finger. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the means 
for mounting the fingers includes a ring that is rotatable about an axis, said fingers 

being spaced circumferentially around the ring, there being at least first and second 
different finger configurations with the first finger configuration releasing the 

discrete particles at a different location than the second finger configuration, said 
first and second finger configurations alternating around the circumference of the 

ring to distribute the discrete particles evenly over a substantially region of the 
chamber that is visible through the wall. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the 
chamber is substantially leakproof and including a liquid in the chamber through 

which the particles pass. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the discrete 
particles comprise chips of vinyl that are one of a) a white color, a silver color, 

and c) a light reflective material to simulate snow. 
The advertising apparatus according to claim 19 wherein the means 
for projecting light comprises a source of light and means for mounting the light 

source to one of the case and first means so that light from the source passes 
through the liquid and the wall on the first means. 
A subassembly on an advertising apparatus for continuously 
distributing discrete particles in a liquid, said subassembly comprising: 

   first means defining a chamber for a liquid and having a rotational axis; 
   a quantity of liquid within said chamber; 

   at least one discrete particle within the liquid in said chamber; and 
   means on the first means for continuously a) elevating the particle in the 

chamber from a first position to a second position and b) releasing the particle in 
the second position to allow it to fall by gravity through said chamber back 

towards the first position as an incident of rotation of the first means about the 
rotational axis. 
An advertising apparatus comprising: 
   a casing defining a chamber for a liquid; 

   the casing having a wall through which at least a 
portion of the chamber is visible; 

   a discrete particle; and 
   means for repeatedly elevating the particle in the 

chamber and releasing the particle to allow it to fall 
under gravity through the chamber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
