<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619175</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sterile containment welding device for plastic tubes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C5700	B29C5710	B29C6518	B29C6520	B29C6578	B29C6578	B29L2300	B65B700	B65B714	B65B3104	B65B3104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29L	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C57	B29C57	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29L23	B65B7	B65B7	B65B31	B65B31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sterile containment welding device for plastic tubes (1) 
comprises a pair of side by side spaced tube holders (12). Each of the 

tube holders includes a clamp base and a clamp lid (16). A pocket is 

provided in each clamp base extending completely across the clamp 
base so that a plastic tube could be inserted into the pocket and 

clamped in the holder when its clamp lid is moved to a closed 
position. Pockets of the side by side tube holders are alignable 

with each other to permit a plastic tube in one of the holders to 
be welded to the plastic tube in the other of the holders. A tube 

locating member (20) is movably mounted at the end of each pocket in the 
space between the holders. The tube locating member has a wall 

disposed in the space beyond the pocket for positioning its plastic 
tube in the proper position for the later welding step when its 

tube is moved into contact with the walls. An inactivating member 
is mounted to each clamp lid to contact the tube locating member 

and move it out of contact with its plastic tube upon the closing 
of the lid so that the tubes are exposed to be heated and welded 

together. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DENCO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPENCER DUDLEY W C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPENCER, DUDLEY W.C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation in part of application 
Serial No. 965,875 filed October 23, 1992. Various types of devices exist for the welding of plastic 
tubes. Generally, these devices take the form of side by side 
spaced tube holders having pockets or grooves into which a pair of 
tubes would be mounted. The ends of the tubes are heated to create 
a molten condition of the plastic material and then the heated ends 
are pressed together to weld the tubes into a unitary structure. In order to insure that a proper welding results it is 
necessary that the tubes be precisely located for the heating and 
welding operations. U.S. Patent 4,753,697 discloses an arrangement 
in Figure 3 wherein an aligning bar 24 is suspended from a rail 26 
so that the aligning bar could be located in the space between the 
tube holders and so that the tubes could be moved forward into 
contact with the aligning bar. Thus, the aligning bar would form 
a means of locating the tubes with respect to each other. After 
this locating step is performed, the aligning bar is moved out of 
its position of contact with the tubes. Parent application Serial No. 965,875 discloses a total 
containment device for the connect/disconnect of plastic tubes. 
That device includes movable wall mounted to each clamp base. The 
wall serves as a locator for properly positioning a tube in its 
associated clamp base. Each base includes a clamp lid which has an 
inactivating member so that upon movement of the lid to its closing  
 
position the wall is automatically moved out of contact with its 
tube to expose the tubes for the later heating and welding steps. 
This arrangement has the advantage of automatically removing the 
movable wall away from the tubes upon the closing of the lid and 
does not rely upon other operations, such as would be required to 
move the aligning bar out of contact with the tubes as in U.S. 
Patent 4,753,697. The present invention is directed to these 
aspects of parent application Serial No. 965,875. An object of this invention is to provide a sterile 
containment welding device which includes some means for properly 
positioning the plastic tubes for the later heating and welding 
steps. A further object of this invention is to provide such a 
device which utilizes features disclosed in parent application 
Serial No. 965,875 for automatically removing the locating member 
after the tubes have been properly positioned. A still further object of this invention is to provide 
such a device which can be used for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sterile containment welding device for plastic 
tubes comprising a pair of side by side spaced tube holders, each 

of said tube holders including a clamp base and a clamp lid for 
selective clamping engagement with said clamp base, a pocket in 

said clamp base extending completely across clamp base for having 
a plastic tube inserted in said pocket and being clamped in said 

holder when said clamp led is in a closed position, said pockets of 
said side by side tube holders being alignable with each other to 

permit a plastic tube in one of said holders to be welded to a 
plastic tube in the other of said holders, a tube locating member 

movably mounted at the end of each of said pockets in the space 
between said holders, said tube locating member having a wall 

disposed in said space beyond and across said pocket for positioning 
its plastic tube in the proper position for the later welding 

step when its tube is moved into contact with said wall, and an 
inactivating member mounted to a respective lid and movable into 

contact with each of said tube locating members for moving its said 
tube locating member out of contact with its plastic tube upon the 

closing of its lid to permit the tubes to be heated and welded 
together. 
The device of claim 1 including biasing means for 
biasing each of said tube locating members to a tube contacting 

position. 
The device of Claim 2, wherein said tube locating 
member is U-shaped having a pair of legs joined by a bight, 

and said bight comprising said wall, 
   wherein preferably said pivot means includes a pivot 

pin in each of said holes, and said biasing means comprising 
a spring mounted to said tube locating member, 

   wherein preferably said U-shaped member has an inner 
surface an in inwardly directed shoulder at the junction of 

each of said legs with said bight to create a recess at said 
inner surface of said bight, 

   wherein preferably said inacitvating member is an 
abutment on the inner surface of said lid, 

   including preferably a heated wafer for melting the 
ends of the tubes when said tube locating members are in 

their inactive position, 
   wherein preferably said heated wafer includes a pair of 

wings, 
   preferably in combination with a fluid filled tube in 

each of said pockets, and 
   wherein preferably each of said tubes is bent upon 

itself. 
The device of Claim 1 wherein said heated wafer 
includes a pair of wings. 
The device of Claim 1 wherein said tube holders are 
pivotally mounted for movement along an arc toward and away 

from each other. 
The device Claim 1 wherein said tube holders are 
mounted parallel to each other for linear movement toward 

and away from each other. 
A method for the sterile containment welding of two 
plastic tubes comrising the steps of mounting each tube in 

 
the clamp base of a pair of side by side spaced tube holders 

wherein the tube is mounted in a pocket extending completely 
across the clamp base, pushing each tube in its pocket until 

the tube contacts the wall of the tube locating member 
disposed in the space between the side by side tube holders 

and with the wall being beyond and across its respective 
pocket, pushing the tube until the tube contacts the wall, 

closing a clamp lid of the tube holder against the clamp 
base,
 and moving the tube locating member out of contact 
with its tube upon the closing of the lid by means of an 

inactivating member on the lid pressing against the tube 
locating member. 
The method of Claim 7 including heating the ends of the 
tubes with a heated wafer after the tube locating members 

have been moved to their inactive position to melt the ends 
of the tubes, and pressing the melted ends of the tubes into 

contact with each other to weld the ends of the tubes 
together. 
The method of Claim 8 wherein the tubes are fluid 
filled and are inserted into the pockets by being bent upon 

themselves. 
A sterile containment welding device for plastic tubes 
comprising an inactivating member mounted to a respective 

lid and movable into contact with each of said tube locating 
members for moving its said tube locating member out of 

contact with its plastic tube upon the closing of its lid to 
permit the tubes to be heated and welded together. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
