<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615375</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Subscriber line interface circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04Q342	H04Q342	H04M1900	H04M1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04Q	H04Q	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04Q3	H04Q3	H04M19	H04M19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A subscriber line interface circuit is provided
that includes an output stage having a pair of

differential transconductance amplifiers to drive the
tip and ring lines of a telephone exchange. The output

stage includes circuitry that advantageously reduces the
power dissipated within the integrated circuit when the

subscriber loop impedance is relatively low. As a
result, heat generation within the integrated circuit is

reduced. Circuit reliability may therefore be enhanced
and fabrication and packaging costs may be reduced. In

one embodiment, an off-chip resistor is coupled from an
output line of the ring line amplifier to the negative

voltage rail. When the loop impedance is low, a
relatively large voltage drop is established across the

resistor which therefore absorbs a greater percentage of
the loop current. Since the resistor is provided off-chip

and diverts current that would otherwise flow
through the ring-line amplifier, the overall heat

dissipated within the integrated circuit is reduced.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APFEL RUSSELL JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APFEL, RUSSELL JAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to telephone subscriber line
interface circuits (SLIC's) for telecommunication
transmission, data communication and telephone switching
system applications. This invention also relates to the
management of power within subscriber line interface
circuits.In earlier years of telephony, transformer based
circuits were used to interface the telephone subscriber
line to a telephone exchange. With the advent of
improved cost and performance parameters of integrated
circuit technology, solid state subscriber line
interface circuits (SLIC's) were developed and are
currently in wide use in the telecommunications
industry. These SLIC circuits allow for reduced
equipment cost, reduced power dissipation, and reduced
space consumption in comparison to their hybrid
transformer predecessors.Subscriber line interface circuits, which serve to
connect the subscriber to digital switching equipment
within the telephone exchange, are designed to perform a
variety of functions. These functions include sourcing
DC power to the subscriber loop while terminating the 
loop with the proper AC impedance, interfacing the two-wire
loop with four-wire transmission equipment,
rejecting longitudinal signals on the subscriber loop,
and detecting the off-hook condition of subscriber
equipment. A subscriber line interface circuit
typically includes a current detector which detects the
subscriber going off-hook during ringing (ring-trip).
In particular, when the subscriber is being called, AC
ringing signals are applied to the subscriber loop to
operate the telephone ringer. When the subscriber goes
off-hook, the resulting loop current is detected to
interrupt the ringing signals on the loop. The
transmission of alternating current voice signals is
thereafter accommodated between the subscriber and
telephone exchange through the SLIC circuitry.Figure 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating basic
components within the receive output stage 10 of a
typical subscriber line interface circuit 11 that is
fabricated on an integrated circuit. The receive output
stage 10 comprises a pair of operational amplifiers 12
and 14 configured as differential transconductance
amplifiers. Such transconductance amplifiers generate
an output current which is linearly dependent. upon the
differential input voltages applied thereto. The
transconductance amplifiers typically provide a current
gain of approximately 500. This current gain can be
attained, for example, by selecting the resistance of a
resistor 16 at 20 ohms and the resistance of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A subscriber line interface circuit (100) comprising:

an input circuit (25) for receiving voice signals from a telephone exchange;
a first output driver circuit (12) coupled to said input circuit (25) and including
an output line for driving a tip line (15) of a telephone subscriber loop;
a second output driver circuit (14) coupled to said input circuit (25) and
including an output line for driving a ring line (17) of said telephone subscriber loop,

wherein said first and second output driver circuits (12, 14) receive power from a
power supply having a first reference voltage terminal (GROUND) and a second

reference voltage terminal (-50V), and wherein said first and second output driver
circuits (12, 14) are configured to provide a regulated DC current through said ring

(17) and tip (15) lines when a telephone subscriber is off-hook;
first resistor (16) coupled in series between the output line of said first output
driver circuit (12) and said tip line (15); and a second resistor (32) coupled in series

between the output line of said second output driver circuit (14) and said ring (17)
line;
said input circuit (25), said first and second output driver circuits (12,14) and

said first and second resistors (16, 32) being fabricated on an integrated circuit;

   
characterised in that
 a third resistor (106, 102) is provided off the integrated
circuit coupled between the output line of said first output driver circuit (12) and said

first reference voltage terminal (GROUND) or coupled between the output line of said
second output driver circuit (14) and said second reference voltage terminal (-50V).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first
output driver circuit (12) is a first operational amplifier and wherein said second

output driver circuit (14) is a second operational amplifier.
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 2 wherein said first and
second operational amplifiers (12, 14) are configured as differential transconductance

amplifiers. 
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein said third resistor (106) is coupled between the output line of said first output

driver circuit (12) and said first reference voltage terminal (GROUND).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 4 further comprising a
switch (110) coupled in series between said third resistor (106) and said output line of

said first output driver circuit (12).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 5 further comprising a
switch (118) coupled in series between said third resistor (106) and said output line of

said second output driver circuit (14).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein
said switch (110) or each said switch (110, 118) is a transistor switch.
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein said third resistor (102) is coupled between the output line of said second

output driver circuit (14) and said second reference voltage terminal (-50V).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 8 further comprising a
switch (104) coupled in series between said third resistor (102) and said output line of

said second output driver circuit (14).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 9 further comprising a
switch (112) coupled in series between said third resistor (102) and said output line of

said first output driver circuit (12).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10 wherein
said switch (104) or each said switch (104, 112) is a transistor switch. 
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 7,
wherein a further said third resistor (102) is coupled between the output line of said

second output driver circuit (14) and said second reference voltage terminal (-50V).
A subscriber line interface circuit as claimed in claim 12 and as claimed in any
one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the third resistor (102) of claims 9 to 11 is said further

third resistor (102).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
