<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614254</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser and method of producing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S500	H01S530	H01S534	H01S500	H01S512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is a phenomenon that, when an epitaxial 
growth is performed on an uneven surface, such 

as a periodical surface or grating surface, having 
surfaces with different surface indices, p- and 

n-type layer portions can be simultaneously formed 
depending on growth surface orientations if an impurity 

such as Si or group IV elements is used. In a 
gain-coupling distributed feedback laser of the 

present invention, that phenomenon is utilized, and 
a current restraint layer, which includes 

alternately-arranged p- and n-type layer 
portions, is formed in the vicinity of an active 

layer. Thus, current is unevenly injected into the 
active layer, and a periodical gain structure can 

be established. As a result, a distributed feedback 
structure is achieved, which performs a gain-coupling 

operation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUTANI NATSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIZUTANI, NATSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a single-mode
oscillation distributed feedback semiconductor laser, and
in particular, to a gain-coupling distributed feedback
semiconductor laser, which operates in a single mode
due toa gain coupling, and a method of producing the
gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser.A distributed feedback laser is conventionally
known as a single-mode oscillation laser. In a Bragg
waveguide whose equivalent refractive index is modulated
at a periodicity or pitch A, advancing and retreating
waves of light having a wavelength in the vicinity of
a Bragg wavelength are coupled to each other and reflected.
When a gain exists in the waveguide, a laser oscillation
occurs in the laser. However, its oscillation wavelength
is not the Bragg wavelength, and the single-mode
oscillation is effected at an outside end of a stop band
in a longitudinal mode.In order to achieve a stabler single-mode operation,
a method is known, according to which a structure for
shifting a phase of a grating is formed at a central portion 
of the laser to oscillate a mode of the Bragg condition
wavelength. The amount of the phase shift is in most
cases set at a quarter of the Bragg wavelength, but a
complicated step is needed to fabricate the phase-shift
diffraction grating.Further, the above-discussed refractive index-coupling
distributed feedback laser has an inherent
problem: The single-mode operation of the
distributed feedback laser is likely to be affected by
a spatial hole burning and an end-surface reflection
as well as returning light. Moreover, such a laser is
subject to a chirping at a high-speed modulation time,
and thus its line-width increases.A gain-coupling distributed feedback laser is
proposed to solve those problems. Features of the
gain-coupling distributed feedback laser are as follows:
A single-mode operation under a Bragg condition is possible
without using a phase-shift structure. Adverse influence
of returning light is small in the gain-coupling type,
as compared to the index-coupling type. The amount of
chirping is small in the gain-coupling type. Decrease in
yield due to a phase position of its facet plane does not
exist in the gain-coupling type.For example, a structure, in which an absorptive
body is periodically formed on an active layer to impart
a periodical absorption loss and thus achieving a
gain-coupling operation, is disclosed in "Applied Physics 
Letters", vol.55, No.16, pp.1606-1608.The above-mentioned gain-coupling distributed
feedback laser, however, has the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
comprising:


a waveguide including an active layer (405); and
a current restraint layer (414) formed along said
waveguide, said current restraint layer (414) including p- and

n-type semiconductor portions (415, 416) which are periodically
and alternately arranged along a light propagation direction,

wherein
said current restraint layer (414) is grown on an uneven
surface comprising a periodical uneven surface by applying

amphoteric doping to appropriately oriented portions of the
uneven surface whereby a pitch of modulation of carrier density

of current injected into said current restraint layer (414) is
equal to a half of the pitch of the periodical uneven surface.
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to claim 1, wherein said p- and n-type semiconductor

portions (415, 416) are alternately arranged at a pitch which
is equal to 1/2 x (natural number) x (a wavelength of light

propagating along said waveguide).
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to any of claims 1 and 2, wherein said p- and n-type

semiconductor portions (415, 416) are respectively Si-doped
semiconductor layers grown on layer portions having different

surface orientations. 
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said active

layer (405) comprises a multi-quantum well structure.
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to any of the preceding claims, wherein light

confinement layers (404, 406) are respectively formed under and
above said active layer (405).
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to claim 5, wherein a carrier block layer (407) is

formed on said upper light confinement layer (406).
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to claim 6, wherein a light guide layer (408) is

formed on said carrier block layer (407).
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to claim 6, wherein said current restraint layer

(414) is formed on said carrier block layer (407).
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to claim 7, wherein said current restraint layer

(414) is formed on said light guide layer (408).
A gain-coupling distributed feedback semiconductor laser
according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 9, wherein said

uneven surface has a trapezoidal sectional shape.
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed
feedback semiconductor laser as defined in any of claims 1 to

10, said method comprising the steps of:

forming an uneven surface having a plurality of kinds of
surfaces with different surface indices; and
forming a current restraint layer (414) on the uneven
surface by applying amphoteric doping to appropriately oriented 

portions of the uneven surfaces so as to simultaneously form p-
and n-type semiconductor portions (415, 416) on the uneven

surface using a vapor-phase crystal growth method, the uneven
surface comprising a periodical uneven surface wherein a pitch

of modulation of carrier density of current injected into said
current restraint layer (414) is equal to a half of the pitch

of the periodical uneven surface.
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed

feedback semiconductor laser according to claim 11, wherein
said vapor-phase crystal growth method is one of molecular beam

epitaxy, chemical beam epitaxy, metal organic molecular beam
epitaxy, and gas source molecular beam epitaxy methods, and an

amphi-conductivity impurity of group IV is used as an impurity.
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed
feedback semiconductor laser according to claim 12, wherein

said vapor-phase crystal growth method is the metal organic
vapor phase epitaxy method, and an amphi-conductivity impurity

of group IV is used as an impurity.
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed
feedback semiconductor laser according to any of claims 11 to

13, wherein said p- and n-type semiconductor portions (415,
416) are alternately arranged at a pitch which is equal to 1/2

x (natural number) x (a wavelength of light propagating along
said waveguide).
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed
feedback semiconductor laser according to claim 11 to 14,

wherein the p- and n-type semiconductor portions (415, 416) are
respectively Si-doped semiconductor layers grown on the uneven

surface.
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed
feedback semiconductor laser according to any of claims 11 to 

15, wherein the uneven surface has a trapezoidal sectional
shape.
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed
feedback semiconductor laser according to any of claims 11 to

16, wherein the uneven surface is formed using wet etching with
sulphuric acid series etchant.
A method of fabricating a gain-coupling distributed
feedback semiconductor laser according to any of claims 11 to

17, wherein the uneven surface is formed using light wet
etching with sulphuric acid series etchant that is performed

after dry etching.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
