<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653924</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PROSTHETIC DEVICE FOR SUSTAINING A BLOOD-VESSEL OR HOLLOW ORGAN LUMEN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F204	A61F200	A61F204	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F290	A61F284	A61F282	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A prosthetic device for sustaining a vessel or hollow organ lumen (a stent) has a tubular wire frame (1) with rows of elongate cells (2) having a larger axis and a smaller axis. The cells are arranged with the larger axis in the circumferential direction of the frame (2) and the smaller axis parallel to the axial direction thereof. Each cell is formed by two U-shaped wire sections, and in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis one of the branches of the U-shaped wire sections in one row form together a closed ring-shape (4) which provides the frame (1) with large radial stiffness. In the axial direction the frame (1) has only low stiffness so that it easily conforms to the vascular wall even if this deforms due to external loads. The interconnection between the cells (2) may be flexible.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to the field of medical 
equipment, and to be more exact to a prosthetic device 
for sustaining a vessel or hollow organ lumen, having 
reduced diameter during introduction through a tube or 
a delivery catheter, which device includes a wire frame 
in form of a flexible tubular shaped body which in 
development is formed by many rows of interconnected 
cells of an elongated approximately oval shape with a 
larger axis directed in the circumferential direction 
of the tubular body and a smaller axis parallel to the 
axial direction thereof, wherein adjacent cells in 
neighbouring rows are shifted by the smaller axis of the 
oval with respect to each other in the direction of the 
smaller axis. Such a device is known from EP-A-0 481 365 where 
the wires are bent to meanders and the shape they form 
in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the 
body is an open one, viz. not a closed ringshape. As a 
consequence of this the tubular body is soft against 
radial compression. Another self-expanding stent is 
known from US-A-5 135 536. The cells in this stent are 
open and only interconnected at points positioned along 
a straight line called the backbone. This stent is also 
rather soft to radial compression. A further stent with 
a different shape and orientation pattern of the wire 
cells is known from DE-A-3 918 736. Various diseases of blood-vessels or hollow organs 
cause a stenosis or complete obturation (occlusion) of 
their lumen, which results in a decrease or complete 
loss of their functional attributes. The wide spread of diseases of this kind demands 
an elaboration of quite new methods of medical treatment.  
 The device for sustaining of the blood-vessel or 
hollow organ lumen has a tubular shaped frame body, 
which is introduced in the vessel or hollow organ, fixed 
in the necessary place and sustains its lumen. The problem of designing such devices has already 
a twenty year history. Nevertheless, a universal reliable device satisfying 
all necessary requirements has as yet not been 
created. The device for sustaining of the vessel or hollow 
organ lumen should satisfy the following requirements:  
 
effectively fulfil the function of recovery and 
sustaining of the vessel or hollow organ lumen; have a reliable and simple in control delivery 
system; possibility of use within a wide range of sizes 
from 3 to 50 mm and more; have biological compatibility with the organism 
tissues; posibility of use in different anatomical areas 
of vessels and hollow organs;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A prosthetic device for sustaining a vessel or 
hollow organ lumen, having reduced diameter during 

introduction through a tube or a delivery catheter, 
which device includes a wire frame (1) in form of a 

flexible tubular shaped body which in development is 
formed by many rows of interconnected cells (2) of an 

elongated approximately oval shape with a larger axis 
directed in the circumferential direction of the tubular 

body and a smaller axis parallel to the axial direction 
thereof, wherein adjacent cells (2) in neighbouring rows 

are shifted by the smaller axis of the oval with respect 
to each other in the direction of the smaller axis, 


characterized in
 that adjacent cells in neighbouring 
rows are shifted by half of the larger axis of the oval 

with respect to each other in the direction of the 
larger axis, and that each cell is formed by juxtaposition 

of two U-shaped wire sections (3) so that in a 
plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the body 

the row of closed cells comprises a closed ringshape 
formed of the branches of the U-shaped wire sections (3) 

in said row, and in that adjacent cells (2) in one row 
are interconnected in a flexible manner at the axially 

extending portion of the U-shaped wire sections. 
A prosthetic device according to claim 1, 

characterized in
 that the flexible interconnections are 
accomplished by winding the axially extending portions 

around each other, preferably so that the one wire 
portion is wound only one turn around the associated 

wire portion. 
A prosthetic device according to claim 2, 

characterized in
 that each U-shaped wire section (3) is 
composed of two separate wires each of which runs in 

substantially helical shape through the rows of cells  
 

(2) and that the two wires are wound, preferably one 
turn, around each other at the axially extending portion 

where they meet to form the bottom leg of the U-shape. 
A prosthetic device according to any one of the 
preceeding claims, 
characterized in
 that the wires are 
of a shape memory alloy exhibiting thermally activated 

shape memory properties, preferably a Ni-Ti-alloy. 
A prosthetic device according to any one of the 
claims 1 to 4, 
characterized in
 that the wires are of 
a shape memory alloy exhibiting superelastic properties, 

preferably a Ni-Ti-alloy. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
