<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613435</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A SECURITY AND STORAGE DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62H500	B62H500	B62H514	E05B6700	E05B6706	E05B7100	E05B7100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62H	B62H	B62H	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62H5	B62H5	B62H5	E05B67	E05B67	E05B71	E05B71	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROADRIBB LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROADRIBB LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLINGTON IAN NIGEL HAROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLINGTON, IAN NIGEL HAROLD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A SECURITY AND STC-.AGE DEVICEThis invention relates to a security device for two or three wheeled vehicles and more particularly to an assembly for use in combination with a shackle or similar type of lock to lock and secure both wheels of a two wheeled vehicle or two wheels of a three wheeled vehicle and mount said shackle lock on the vehicle frame when not in use.The following discussion of the invention will be in relation to two wheeled bicycles for ease of description but it is to be understood that the scope of protection afforded by this patent application is also intended to cover three wheeled bicycles and motorcycles.It is becoming increasingly important to secure bicycles these days due to the high number of thefts. It is common practice to achieve this by using a shackle lock to secure the bicycle fi.ame and rear wheel 

 to an immovable object such as a lamp-post or railing. One of the draw backs with the use of shackle locks is that they leave the front wheel unlocked and it is therefore easy for a thief to remove it, particularly as many front wheels are secured to the bicycle frame using quick-release nuts.Another problem with using shackle locks is that, when they are not in use, they are conventionally mounted on the rear upright of the cycle frame to extend forwardly thereof in the plane of the cycle frame. Whilst this provides a convenient stowage location for the shackle lock, it is nevertheless inconvenient since it means that the space within the frame defined by the front forks, the crossbar and the rear upright cannot be used for the storage of other accessories such as pumps, water bottles etc. which have traditionally been stored there.It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a security assembly which can be used in conjunction with a lock device to secure both the front 

wheel or one rear wheel and the vehicle frame to a fixed immovable object. It is a further object of the invention to provide an assembly which facilitates storage of the wheel securing member and the lock device on the vehicle frame in a convenient manner.According to the invention there is provided a security and storage assembly for use with a lock of the type in which a rigid securing member is shaped to pass through a wheel and the fr me of the vehicle, its free end or ends being received in and secured by a lockable member, said assembly being constructed and arranged to secure one of the wheels of a two or three wheeled vehicle and mount said lock on the vehicle frame when not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A security and storage assembly for use with a lock of the type in which a rigid securing member is shaped to pass through a wheel and the frame of the vehicle, its free end or ends being received in and secured by a lockable member, said assembly being constructed and arranged to secure one of the wheels of a two or three wheeled vehicle and mount said lock on the vehicle frame when not in use, the assembly comprising: a) a U-shaped wheel securing member with apertures therein adapted to receive the rigid securing member of said lock, and b) mounting means for storing said lock on the vehicle frame, when not in use, comprising: i) first mounting means for releasably mounting one end of said lock on the frame so that it extends from said frame over and above the vehicle wheel, and ii) second mounting means for releasably mounting the U-shaped wheel securing 


 member on the frame to support the lock in a generally horizontal position.
2. An assembly as claimed in claim 1 w =?in the lock is a shackle lock comprising a generally -shaped locking member which is received in and secured by a lockable cross-piece, the apertures in the U-shaped wheel securing member being adapted to receive one arm of the U-shaped locking member of said shackle lock.
3. An assembly as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein an aperture is provided adjacent each free end of the U-shaped wheel locking member.
4. An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the first mounting means comprises a support attachable to the vehicle frame and constructed to receive and hold the cross-piece of the shackle lock substantially normal to the plane of the vehicle frame,
5. An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said first mounting means comprises a tube 


 split along its length, clamping means being associated with said split tube to draw the sides thereof together to grip the part of the lock received therein when said clamping means are tightened.
6. An assembly as claimed in any of claims 1-4 wherein the first mounting means is an open topped cradle member.
7. An assembly as claimed in claim 6 wherein the cradle member is V-shaped in cross section.
8. An assembly as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 further including holding means which, in use, retain the shackle lock in the cradle member.
9. An assembly as claimed in claim 8 wherein the holding means is a length of webbing with means thereon for securing one end of said webbing to the remainder thereof and thereby, in use, tightly grip and retain the shackle lock in the cradle member. 


10. An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the U-shaped wheel securing member is provided with attachment means for connecting said member to the lock when the lock is mounted on the vehicle frame when not in use.
11. An assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein the attachment means is an eye located midway between the free ends of the U-shaped wheel securing member.
12. An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the second mounting means comprises a pair of clamps mountable on the vehicle frame on either side of the vehicle wheel, each clamp being constructed to locate and hold one free end of the U-shaped wheel securing member on the frame to retain said member thereon.
13. An assembly as claimed in claim 12 wherein each clamp comprises a pair of gripping members which can be tightened to clamp the free end of the U-shaped wheel securing member therebetween. 


 14. An assembly as claimed in claim 12 wherein each clamp has a threaded shaft extending therefrom which is received, in use, in the hole at
'
 the end of the U-shaped securing member, a nut being screwed on said shaft to clamp the free end thereof in position.
15. An assembly as claimed in claim 12 wherein each clamp has a threaded shaft extending therefrom which, in use, is received in the hole at the end of the U-shaped securing member, said threaded shaft being received in a threaded hole provided on the vehicle frame.
16. An assembly as claimed in claim 12 wherein each clamp has a threaded shaft extending therefrom which, in use, is received and secured to a link member pivotally attached at one end to the vehicle frame.
17. An assembly as claimed in claim 16 wherein the threaded shaft is screwed directly into a threaded hole in the link member. 


18. A security and storage assembly substantially as herein described with reference to any one of Figures 2-8 of the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
