<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644645</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Slotless electric motor or transducer and method for making same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K1504	H02K1512	H02K4102	H02K2114	H02K1502	H02K1512	H02K347	H02K1502	H02K1504	H02K2114	H02K346	H02K4102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K15	H02K15	H02K41	H02K21	H02K15	H02K15	H02K3	H02K15	H02K15	H02K21	H02K3	H02K41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A slotless stator for an electromechanical transducer, said stator 
including a stator shell (30) and a pre-formed, at least partially 

rigid, self-supporting winding structure having active segments and end-turns 
(40), is produced by a method that comprises depositing insulated 

wire on a support, adhesively affixing at least active wire segments 
portions to the support surface or previously deposited wires, with the 

active wire segments arranged in predetermined, substantially fixed positions 
with respect to each other, encapsulating and securely attaching 

the winding structure to the stator shell, and combining the completed 
stator with a structure including at least one permanent magnet mounted 

for movement relative to the stator. In a preferred embodiment, the 
self-supporting winding structure is removed from the support surface 

prior to insertion in the stator shell. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED INTERCONNECTION TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOLLMORGEN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED INTERCONNECTION TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOLLMORGEN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOUGERE RICHARD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEOGH RAYMOND S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHANDAN-BARANI MOHAMMAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOUGERE,RICHARD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KEOGH,RAYMOND S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHANDAN-BARANI,MOHAMMAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to slotless electric transducers, such as
electric motors, and methods of making the same so that the conductors
in the air gap are substantially parallel.In the past, most electric motors were constructed according to slotted
designs in which the copper conductors of the motor winding were
placed between teeth in slots of the laminated iron rotor or stator
structure. The slotted designs provide a motor with a relatively small
air gap to achieve a desired high permeance. The recent advent of high
energy permanent NdFeB (neodymium, iron, boron) magnets has made slotless
designs feasible in all motors, particularly in high performance servo
motors. See, for example, US-A-4,954,739. In the slotless designs the
copper windings are located in the air gap rather than in the slots.Slotless motor designs have great potential advantages over conventional
slotted designs. The slotless designs have a higher potential
level of efficiency due to extremely low eddy current losses, extremely
low hysteresis losses, the absence of cogging losses and the lack of appreciable
iron losses. High speeds in the range of 40k to 120k rpm are
readily attainable. The operation can be perfectly smooth over a wide
speed range since there is no cogging due to the absence of teeth in the
slotless design. Furthermore, the lack of magneto-strictive noise from
the teeth of a normal design allows for very quiet operation. The slotless
design is also capable of a faster motor response (acceleration/
deceleration) due to a low inductance.Various methods have been proposed for making the slotless motors.
For example, in the aforementioned US-A-4,954,739 the winding is formed
using a cylindrical support with a reduced diameter portion at one end.
A fiberglass sleeve is placed around the uniform diameter portion and
thereafter preformed coils are placed in position. When the coils are in
place, the thicker end turn portions at one end of the winding are
flared inwardly at the reduced diameter portion of the support and the
other end of the winding is flared outwardly. The winding can then be
inserted into the cylindrical back iron shell starting with the inwardly
flared end of the winding. The support can thereafter be withdrawn from 
the outwardly flared end leaving the fiberglass sleeve as part of the
motor structure. The winding is encapsulated using a suitable resin
after the winding is inserted into the stator shell.US-A-4,130,769 describes a layered preformed winding technique for
making slotless, brushless DC
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the manufacture of a rotating electromechanical

transducer including a slotless stator with a pre-formed at least partially
rigid winding structure (40) inside a stator shell (30) and a

rotor provided with one or more permanent magnets (14-19), said method
comprising the steps of :


(1) placing insulated wire (110) on a cylindrical support
surface (52), either said wire or said surface, or both being coated

or provided with an adhesive layer that can be activated by application
of energy;


(a) part (111) of said insulated wire (110) being
dispensed parallel to the axis of said cylindrical support surface

(52) while travelling towards one end of said support surface to form
an active conductor segment of said winding structure (40);
(b) part of said insulated wire (110) being dispensed
to form a wire loop constituting an end turn;
(c) part of said insulated wire (110) being
thereafter dispensed while travelling in the reverse direction parallel

to said axis to form another active conductor segment of said
winding structure (40);
(d) part of said insulated wire (110) being next
dispensed to form another wire loop constituting an end-turn;
(e) repeating steps (a) to (d) until all winding
coils of said winding structure (40) are completed;
(2) adhesively attaching at least portions of each active
conductor segment, a section at a time, before forming the next segment

constituting an active part of a winding structure, thereby forming
a cylindrical winding structure (40) with at least the active conductor

portions being adhered;
(3) encapsulating said winding structure (40) and simultaneously
adhesively bonding it to the stator shell (30), using as the

encapsulant a resinous composition;
(4) completing the assembly of the electromechanical transducer
to include at least one rotating permanent magnet rotor structure.
A method for the manufacture of a rotating electromechanical
transducer including a slotless stator having a metal structure with a

pre-formed at least partially rigid winding structure (40) inside a
stator shell (30) and a rotor provided with one or more permanent magnets

(14-19), said method comprising the steps of :

(1) dispensing and depositing insulated wire (110) with
wire scribing means on a cylindrical support surface (52), either said

insulated wire or said cylindrical support surface, or both being provided
with an adhesive layer that can be activated by application of

energy;

(a) part of said insulated wire (110) being dispensed
parallel to the axis of said cylindrical support surface (52)

while traveling towards one end of said cylindrical support surface to
form an active conductor segment of said winding structure (40);
(b) part of said insulated wire (110) being dispensed
to form a wire loop constituting an end-turn;
(c) part of said insulated wire (110) being
thereafter dispensed while traveling in the reverse direction parallel

to said axis to form another active conductor segment of said winding
structure (40);
(d) part of said insulated wire (110) being next
dispensed to form another wire loop constituting an end-turn;
(e) repeating steps (a) to (d) until all winding
coils of said winding structure (40) are completed;
(2) substantially simultaneously with dispensing at least
part of said insulated wire (110), adhesively attaching at least portions

of each active conductor segment on a continuous basis to form a
cylindrical winding structure (40) having at least the active conductor

portions adhered;
(3) encapsulating said winding structure (40) with a
resinous encapsulant composition while simultaneously adhesively bonding

said winding structure (40) to the stator shell (30); and
(4) disposing a rotor with at least one permanent magnet
(14-19) within said winding structure and completing the assembly of

the electromechanical transducer.
The method of claim 1 or 2, further including the step of
compressing said winding structure (40) by exerting pressure, or pressure

and heat, sufficient to temporarily convert the adhesive to a
plastic state.
The method of claim 3, wherein said winding structure (40)
is compressed before encapsulating and securely attaching it to the

metal structure (30) of the slotless stator.
The method of claim 3, wherein said step of compressing is
carried out with the step of encapsulating.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said end turns, at least
at one end of said winding structure (40), are displaced in a direction

perpendicular to the axis of the cylindrical support (52).
The method of claim 6, wherein said winding structure (40)
is inserted in a slotless stator shell (30) with the inwardly displaced

end turns first.
The method of claim 1 or 2, further outwardly compressing
the winding structure (40) by inserting an expandable means therein

and exerting outwardly directed pressure, or pressure and heat, for
temporarily converting the adhesive to its activated, plastic state.
The method of claims 1, wherein the insulated wire (110) is
adhesive coated and located between guides (107, 108, Fig. 9) relative

to said cylindrical support surface (52) to form active conductor segments
extending substantially parallel to the axis of said cylindrical

support further comprising: applying tension to the insulated wire between
said guides; and affixing at least a portion of the active segment

to the said support surface, or the surface of a previously
formed conductor layer after tension has been applied.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the winding structure
(40) is arranged in a plurality of conductor layers. 
The method of claim 1 or 10, wherein adhesive is applied to
a deposited wire layer prior to depositing the next winding layer.
The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the adhesive is activated
by the application of ultrasonic, infrared, heat or laser energy.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the adhesive, in its
non-activated state, is solid and non-tacky, can be activated to its

active, tacky and plastic state by application of energy of a certain
level; and reverts to its solid, non-tacky state when energy is no

longer applied.
The method of claim 13, wherein the adhesive may be activated
to its tacky state by application of energy at one level, and in

a later step may be fully cured to its thermoset state by application
of energy at a higher level.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the encapsulant for encapsulating
the winding structure, and the adhesive, are substantially

completely cured simultaneously.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the end-turns are pre-formed
by application of pressure or heat, or both, to bring said end-turn

closer to, or in mechanical contact with, the stator shell surface.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the encapsulant comprises
a filler with high thermal conductivity.
The method of claim 17, wherein part or all of the filler
consists of finely divided particles of m
agnetically soft material.
The method of claim 18, wherein the magnetically soft material
is Met-glass. 
The method of claim 18, wherein the particles are pre-coated
with an electrically insulating layer.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein part or all of the magnetic
stator structure is formed and attached to the outer surface of

said winding structure (40) by injection molding using a resin composition
filled with finely divided particles of magnetically soft material.
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein soft magnetic material
wire is applied to the outer surface of the formed winding structure

(40) to form the magnetic stator structure surrounding the winding,
comprising the steps of:


(a) arranging adhesive coated wire of soft magnetic material
in a plurality of layers surrounding said winding structure;
(b) adhesively bonding said magnetic material wires to said
outer surface of said winding structure and each other;
(c) consolidating the resulting structure by applying energy
and pressure.
Apparatus for manufacturing self-supporting winding structures
for slotless stators including a magnetic stator shell comprising:


a cylindrical carrier mandrel providing a cylindrical support
surface (52);
a drive (58) for controlling the rotary position of said
mandrel;
means (50) for dispensing insulated wire (110) with an adhesive
coating that can be activated to a plastic adhesive state by the

application of energy;
a drive (56) for moving said dispensing means to arrange insulated
wire parallel to the axis of said cylindrical mandrel to form

active conductor segments of the winding structure and to dispense
wire to form end-turns between said active conductor segments;
means for activating said adhesive coating to said plastic
adhesive state to adhere at least part of said active conductor segments,

a section at a time, to form a self-supporting winding structure;
and 
means for inserting said self-supporting winding structure
into said stator shell and securing said winding structure therein.
Apparatus according to claim 23 further comprising guide
pins (107, 109, Fig. 9) in the area of said mandrel to define the end

points for active conductor segments.
Apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said guide pins
(107, 108) are retractable.
Apparatus for manufacturing self-supporting winding structures
for slotless stators including a magnetic stator shell comprising:


a cylindrical carrier mandrel providing a cylindrical surface
(52);
a drive (58) for controlling the rotary position of said
mandrel;
means for dispensing insulated wire with an adhesive coating
that can be activated to a plastic adhesive state by the application

of energy;
a drive (56) for moving said dispensing means to deposit insulated
wire (110) parallel to the axis of said cylindrical mandrel to

form active conductor segments of the winding structure (40) and to
dispense wire to form end-turns between said active conductor segments;
means for activating said adhesive coating to said plastic
adhesive state on a continuous basis as wire is dispensed to adhere at

least part of said active conductor segments to form a self-supporting
winding structure.
Apparatus according to claim 24 or 26, wherein said mandrel
(100, Fig. 9) has reduced diameter areas (102, 103) corresponding to

the end-turn portions of the winding structure (40) formed on said
support surface.
Apparatus according to claim 24 or 26 including means for
dispensing insulated wire capable of dispensing a plurality of wires

at the same time. 
Apparatus according to claim 24 or 26 including a plurality
of means (90, 91, 92, Fig. 6) for simultaneously dispensing insulated

wire at different radial positions on said cylindrical support.
The method of claim 1 or 2, where the encapsulating step (3)
is performed for encapsulating and securely attaching a stator winding

structure in a stator shell by means of an encapsulant comprising a
resin composition wherein at least part of the filler present in said

composition consists of powdered particles of magnetically soft material.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
