<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654104</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Machine and method for soil compaction
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01C1926	E01C1923	E02D300	E01C1922	E02D3026	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01C	E01C	E02D	E01C	E02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01C19	E01C19	E02D3	E01C19	E02D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Compaction of a soil surface is achieved by means of a machine (10) which has a movable, wheeled carriage (20) and an impact roller coupled resiliently to the carriage so as to move together with the carriage. The impact roller has one or more out-of-round compactor masses (12) designed to apply periodic impact blows to the soil surface (36). A soil working implement, in the form of an upright scraper blade (44) is carried by the carriage in a position trailing the impact roller. The function of the blade is to scrape soil into the localised indentations (40) that are formed in the soil surface by the periodic impact blows applied by the compactor mass or masses. This smoothes out the soil surface for subsequent passes and reduces the shock loading on the tractive vehicle which pulls the carriage.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERRANGE AUBREY R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERRANGE, AUBREY RALPH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERRANGE AUBREY RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERRANGE, AUBREY, RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the compaction of soil
using an impact roller.The term "impact roller", as used initially in US-A-2,909,106, refers
to a compactor mass of non-round shape which, when towed over a soil
surface, produces a series of periodic impact blows on the soil surface.
The compactor mass of an impact roller has a series of spaced apart,
salient points on its periphery. Each such salient point is followed by a
re-entrant portion of the periphery and each re-entrant portion is
followed in turn by a compacting face. As the impact roller is towed over
the soil surface, for instance by means of a tractor, it rises up on each
salient point and then falls forwardly and downwardly as it passes over
that point, with the result that the following compacting face applies an
impact blow to the soil surface.The coupling between the tractor and the compactor mass is resilient in
nature to allow for the necessary forward and downward falling motion
undergone by the mass as it passes over each salient point.In practice, as the compactor mass is towed over the soil surface, it
produces a series of indentations in the soil surface, spaced apart in the
direction of movement of the mass. The longitudinal spacing of the indentations is the same as the
peripheral spacing of the compacting faces of the compactor mass. For
example a mass having three salient points and compacting faces and a
total peripheral dimension of 6m, which would be typical in current soil
compaction practice, will produce a soil indentation approximately every
2m. At a typical operating speed of 10km/h impact blows are applied to
the soil surface at a frequency of about 1,4Hz.The resulting cyclical shock reaction forces on the tractor can cause
severe vertical bounce, pitching and rolling of the tractor and compactor
mass and consequent damage to mechanical components and discomfort
for the tractor operator. The depth of the soil indentations and hence
the severity of the tractor bounce phenomenon is dependent upon
factors such as soil density and moisture content, and energy per impact
blow delivered by the compactor mass.With a view to countering the bounce phenomenon, common practice is
to make a first pass over the soil at an efficient operating speed of, say
10km/h, and then reduce speed during subsequent passes as the
indentations in the soil surface become more severe. A reduction in
speed results however in a reduction in productivity and efficiency.It is also common practice to use a motor grader to smooth the surface
of the soil
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A soil compaction machine (10) which comprises a movable, wheeled
carriage (20) and an impact roller which is coupled resiliently to the carriage

(20) for movement with the carriage (20) and which comprises an out-of-round
compactor mass (12) adapted to apply periodic impact blows to a soil

surface over which it is moved by the carriage (20), characterised by a soil
working implement (42) which is carried by the carriage (20) in a position

trailing the impact roller so as to direct soil from the soil surface into
localised indentations (40) that are formed in the soil surface by the periodic

impact blows applied by the compactor mass (12).
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 1 
characterised in that

the soil working implement (42) is an operatively upright soil working blade
(44) arranged to scrape soil into the indentations (40) formed in the soil

surface by the blows applied thereto.
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 2 comprising two side-by
side impact rollers and a common shaft (17) on which the impact rollers 

are mounted for rotation substantially in unison, characterised by separate
soil working blades (44) carried by the carriage (20) in positions trailing the

respective compactor masses (12).
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 3 characterised by lifting and
lowering means (46, 48, 50) for lifting and lowering the blades (44) with

respect to the soil surface.
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 4 
characterised in that

the lifting and lowering means comprises links (46) to which the blades (44)
are pivotally connected, a shaft (48) to which the links (46) are solidly

connected and one or more hydraulic cylinders (50) acting between the
carriage (20) and the shaft (48), extension or retraction of the cylinder or

cylinders (50) causing the shaft (48) and links (46) to rotate and the blades
(44) to move up or down. 
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 5 
characterised in that

each link (46) has a plurality of connection points (47) at which the
respective blades (44) are pivotally connected to the links (46).
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 4 
characterised in that
 the
lifting and lowering means includes means for lifting and lowering the

blades independently of one another.
A soil compaction machine (10) according to any one of claims 3 to 7,
characterised by blade orientation adjustment means (56) operable to adjust

the orientation of the blades (44) with respect to the vertical.
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 8 
characterised in that

the blade orientation and adjustment means comprises hydraulic cylinders
(56) acting between the carriage (20) and the blades (44). 
A soil compaction machine (10) according to any one of claims 3 to 9,
characterised by one or more further, operatively upright soil working blades

(70) arranged to perform a scraping action on the soil surface in advance of
the impact roller.
A soil compaction machine (10) according to any one of claims 3 to 10
characterised by water spray means (60) arranged to spray water onto the

soil surface in positions trailing the compactor masses (12) and in advance
of the soil working blades (44).
A soil compaction machine (10) according to claim 11 
characterised in that

the water spray means (60) is arranged to spray water substantially only in
the paths traversed by the compactor masses (12). 
A method of compacting soil, the method comprising the steps of causing
an impact roller to move operatively in a forward direction over the surface

of soil which is to be compacted such that an out-of-round compactor mass
(12) of the impact roller periodically applies an impact blow to the soil

surface, 
characterised in that
, during such movement, soil is scraped from
the soil surface behind the compactor mass (12) and is directed forwardly into

indentations (40) formed in the soil surface by the periodic impact blows
applied thereto by the compactor mass (12).
A method according to claim 13 characterised by the step of moistening the
soil surface prior to scraping it.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
