<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646464</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ink ejecting device having a multi-layer protection film for electrodes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J216	B41J2175	B41J2175	B41J216	B41J2045	B41J2055	B41J2045	B41J2055	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To provide an ink ejecting device with high quality 
and excellent stability, three-layered laminated protective 

film (20) is formed to cover an electrode (13) which is formed on a 
ceramic element (11). The protective film (20) is composed of an 

organic continuous film formed on the electrode (13) as a first 
layer for covering surface unevenness. On the resultant 

smooth surface, a continuous inorganic film is formed as a 
second layer. Further, an organic layer is formed as a final 

layer. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHASHI YUMIKO C O BROTHER KOGY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OHASHI, YUMIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ink ejecting 
device having a multi-layer protective film for electrodes. 
The present invention further relates to a method of producing 
such an ink ejecting device. A drop-on-demand type ink ejecting device using a 
piezoelectric ceramic element has been proposed in the art. 
With this ink ejecting device, a groove is formed on the 
piezoelectric ceramic element. The volume of the groove 
changes when the piezoelectric ceramic material deforms. A 
droplet of ink is ejected from a nozzle when the volume of 
the groove decreases and ink is introduced from an ink 
introduction path when the volume of the groove increases. 
A plurality of nozzles are aligned adjacent to one another, 
and ink droplets are selectively ejected from nozzles 
according to print data. Desired characters and images can 
therefore be formed on the surface of a sheet confronting the 
nozzles. Examples of this type of ink ejecting device are 
described in Japanese Patent Application Kokai Nos. SHO-63-247051, 
SHO-63-252750, and HEI-2-150355. Figs. 1 through 4 
are schematic diagrams of examples. Detailed description of the structure of an 
ink ejecting device will be provided while referring 
to Fig. 1. Fig. 1 is a cross-sectional diagram showing an 
ink ejecting device. A plurality of grooves 12 are formed on 
a piezoelectric ceramic element 1 in parallel to one another. 
The piezoelectric ceramic element 1 is polarized in the 
direction indicated by arrow 4. A cover plate 2, which is  
 
made of a ceramic material or a resin material, is bonded to 
the open surface of the piezoelectric ceramic element 1 with, 
for example, an epoxy adhesive 3. A plurality of ink 
channels are thus defined by the cover plate 2 and the 
grooves 12. The grooves 12 are in turn defined by side walls 
and a bottom wall of the piezoelectric ceramic element 1. 
The ink channels have a rectangular cross-section and are 
elongated structure. Side walls 11 extend along the complete 
length of the ink channels. Metal electrodes 13 for applying 
a drive voltage to each ink channel are attached to the upper 
portion of each of the two side walls. A protective layer 20 
is formed over the electrode 13. Ink fills the interior of 
all the ink channels. Next, operation of the conventional ink ejecting 
device will be described while referring to Fig. 2. Fig. 2 
is a cross-sectional diagram of the conventional ink ejecting 
device. In the illustrated ink ejecting device, when groove 
12b, for example, is identified by the print
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink ejecting device comprising: 

at least one ink chamber defined by a pair of side 
walls (11), a bottom wall, a cover plate (2) and a nozzle plate having 

a nozzle therein, at least a counterpart of said pair of side 
walls being made from a piezoelectric ceramic element; 
a pair of electrodes (13) separately provided for each of 
the pair of side walls, said side walls made from the 

piezoelectric ceramic element being deformed in response to 
a voltage applied between said pair of electrodes, causing to 

eject an ink droplet from said nozzle; and 
a multi-layer protective film (20) formed on each of said 
pair of electrodes to entirely cover said electrodes, wherein 

said multi-layer is composed of at least three layers including 
an innermost layer formed directly on said electrode, an 

outermost layer formed at an outermost from said electrode, 
and at least one interposing layer between said innermost 

layer and said outermost layer, said innermost layer and said 
outermost layer being made from an organic material, and said 

interposing layer being made from an inorganic material. 
An ink ejecting device according to claim 1, 
wherein said outermost layer is formed on a portion of each 

of said pair of side walls, said portion being secured to 

said cover plate. 
An ink ejecting device according to claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said innermost layer is made from a material selected 

from the group consisting of an epoxy resin, a silicon resin, 
a fluoride resin, an aromatic polyamide, a polymer-type 

polymide, a phthalic acid resin and a polykishiriren resin.  
 
An ink ejecting device according to claim 1, 2 or 
3, wherein said interposing layer is made from a material 

selected from the group consisting of oxidized silicon, 
oxidized vanadium, oxidized niobium, compounds of nitride and 

oxides and compounds of silicon and nitrogen. 
An ink ejecting device according to any one of 
the preceding claims, wherein said outermost layer is made 

from a material selected from the group consisting of an 
epoxy resin, a silicon resin, a fluoride resin, an aromatic 

polyamide, a polymer-type polymide, a phthalic acid resin and 
a polykishiriren resin. 
A method of producing an ink ejecting device 
comprising the steps of: 


forming at least one ink chamber by machining a 
piezoelectric ceramic plate, said ink chamber being defined 

by a pair of side walls (11) and a bottom wall of the piezoelectric 
ceramic plate, said ink chamber being further defined by 

a cover plate (2) and a nozzle plate having a nozzle therein; 
attaching a pair of electrodes (13) separately to each of 
said pair of side walls, each of said pair of side walls 

being deformed in response to a voltage applied between said 
pair of electrodes, causing to eject an ink droplet from said 

nozzle; and 
forming a multi-layer protective film (20) on each of said 
pair of electrodes to entirely cover said electrodes, wherein 

said multi-layer is composed of at least three layers including 
an innermost layer formed directly on said electrode, an 

outermost layer formed at an outermost from said electrode, 
and at least one interposing layer between said innermost  

 
layer and said outermost layer, said innermost layer and said 

outermost layer being made from an organic material, and said 
interposing layer being made from an inorganic material. 
A method according to claim 6, wherein the step 
of forming the multi-layer protective film includes spin 

coating the organic material on said electrodes to form the 
innermost layer and baking the coated organic material. 
A method according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the 
step of forming the multi-layer protective film further 

includes forming the interposing layer by way of chemical 
vapor deposition. 
A method according to any one of claims 6, 7 or 
8, wherein the step of forming the multi-layer protective 

film further includes spin coating the organic material on 
said interposing layer to form the outermost layer and baking 

the coated organic material. 
A method of producing an ink ejecting device 
comprising the steps of: 


forming at least one ink chamber by machining a 
piezoelectric ceramic plate, said ink chamber being defined 

by a pair of side walls (11) and a bottom wall of the piezoelectric 
ceramic plate, said ink chamber being further defined by 

a cover plate (2) and a nozzle plate having a nozzle therein; 
attaching a pair of electrodes (13) separately to each of 
said pair of side walls, each of said pair of side walls 

being deformed in response to a voltage applied between said 
pair of electrodes, causing to eject an ink droplet from said 

nozzle; 
spin coating an organic material on said electrodes 
to form an innermost layer and baking the coated organic  

 
material; 
forming an interposing layer made of an inorganic 
material by way of chemical vapor deposition; and 
spin coating the organic material on said interposing 
layer to form an outermost layer and baking the coated 

organic material, wherein said innermost layer, said interposing 
layer and said outermost layer serving as a multilayer 

protective film (20) for each of said pair of electrodes. 
A method according to claim 10, further comprising 
the step of forming said outermost layer on a portion of 

each of said pair of side walls. 
A method according to claim 10 or 11 further 
comprising the step of adhering said cover plate to said pair 

of side walls with said outermost layer formed on the portion 
of each of said pair of side walls. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
