<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658834</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Low noise apparatus for receiving an input current and producing an output current which mirrors the input current.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05F308	G05F326	H03F3343	H03F3343	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05F	G05F	H03F	H03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05F3	G05F3	H03F3	H03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low noise apparatus for receiving an input current and producing an output current 
which mirrors the input current significantly 

increases accuracy and signal-to-noise ratio by greatly 
reducing effects resulting from threshold voltage mismatches and i/f noise. The apparatus comprises four 

transistors, each having a control terminal and a first and second terminal. Further, the 
apparatus comprises a switching network which, in turn, comprises a plurality of switches 

formed within either a first or second electrical path. A first clock controls the switches formed 
within the first electrical path, while a second clock controls the switches formed within the 

second electrical path. When the first clock is in its first state and the second clock is in its 
second state, the switches formed within the first electrical path close to connect the first and 

second transistors to the third and fourth transistors, respectively, and the second terminal of the 
third transistor to the control terminal of the third transistor. However, the switches formed 

within the second electrical path remain open. Conversely, when the first clock is in its second 
state and the second clock is in its first state, the switches formed within the second electrical 

path close to connect the first and second transistors to the fourth and third transistors, 
respectively, and the second terminal of the fourth transistor to the control terminal of the fourth 

transistor. However, the switches formed within the first electrical path remain open. 
Consequently, the apparatus modulates a significant percentage of the threshold voltage mismatch 

up to the operating frequency of the two clocks. As a result, the first order error term resulting 
from the threshold voltage mismatch is eliminated and i/f noise is reduced. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CABLER CARLIN DRU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CABLER, CARLIN DRU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to current mirrors and, preferably but not by way 
of limitation, to a low noise apparatus for producing an output current which mirrors the input 
current. Audio chips presently enable personal computers, compact disk players, and other 
portable audio devices to execute high quality, low power audio applications. Audio chips 
usually comprise digital circuitry which occupies approximately 75-80% of the audio chip's 
silicon space and analog circuitry which occupies the remaining 20-25%. Typically, the analog 
circuitry comprises an analog-to-digital converter, a digital-to-analog converter, and some output 
amplifiers. The analog circuitry converts an analog audio input signal into a digital format 
suitable for processing by the digital circuitry. Also, the analog circuitry converts the digital 
signals back into an analog format suitable to drive a load, such as a speaker. The digital 
circuitry occupies the majority of the silicon area and typically performs digital signal 
processing, such as filtering, noise shaping, and synthesizing on the converted analog signals. 
The primary function of these audio chips is to implement an entire audio system on one piece 
of silicon. The above-described analog circuitry typically comprises current mirrors. These current 
mirrors serve several important functions, such as providing reference currents and reference 
voltages to other components in the analog circuitry. Therefore, these current mirrors must have 
very good matching characteristics and low noise (i.e. must have a large signal to noise ratio) to improve,  
 
illustratively, the output swing of the output amplifiers and the overall 
reliability and accuracy of the analog circuitry. Fig. 1 illustrates current mirror 100, which is a conventional cascode 
current mirror comprising N-channel transistors 110, 120, 130 and 140. 
Transistors 110, 120, 130, and 140 are enhancement-type, metal-oxide silicon 
field effect transistors (i.e. MOSFETs). For the output current (i.e. IOUT) of 
current mirror 100 to exactly match (i.e. mirror) the input current (i.e. 
IIN), transistors 110 and 130 must have identical voltage drops (i.e. VT) and 
gate-to-source voltage drops (i.e. VGS). Similarly, transistors 120 and 140 
must have identical threshold voltage drops (i.e. VT) and gate-to-source 
voltage drops (i.e. VGS). These requirements for current mirror 100 will 
become evident from the equations defining IOUT and IIN (described herein). Transistors 120 and 140 have identical VGS
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for receiving an input current and producing an output current which 
mirrors the input cu
rrent, comprising: 
   a first current mirror having an input for receiving the input current and having an 

output; 
   a second current mirror having an input for receiving the input current and having an 

output, said output connected to said output of said first current mirror; and 
   means for alternately activating said first and second current mirrors to produce a current 

on their common output which mirrors the input current. 
The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said alternately activating means comprises: 
means for generating a signal having a first state and a second state; and 

a switching network for activating said first current mirror during the first state of said 
signal and for activating said second current mirror during the second state of 

said signal. 
The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said generating means comprises a clock. 
The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said alternately activating means further 
comprises: 

   a second clock having a first and second state; and 
said switching network for deactivating said first current mirror during the first state of 

   said second clock and for deactivating said second current mirror during the 
second state of said second clock. 
The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said switching network comprises: 
   a first plurality of transistors, each having a control terminal for activating or 

deactivating said transistor when said signal is in the first or second state, 
respectively, thereby activating or deactivating said first current mirror when said 

signal is in the first or second state, respectively; and 
   a second plurality of transistors, each having a control terminal for activating or 

deactivating said transistor when said signal is in the second or first state, 
respectively, thereby activating or deactivating said second current mirror when 

said signal is in the second or first state, respectively. 
The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said first and second current mirrors each 
comprise: 

   a first and second transistor, each having a first terminal connected to a first reference 
voltage, a control terminal connected to each other, and a second terminal; and 

   a third and fourth transistor, each having a first terminal connected to a second reference 
voltage, a control terminal connected to each other, and a second terminal. 
The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said alternately activating means further 
comprises: 

   said switching network for connecting said second terminal of said first and second 
transistors to said second terminal of said third and fourth transistors, 

respectively, when said signal is in the first state; 
   said switching network for connecting said second terminal of said first and second 

transistors to said second terminal of said fourth and third transistors, 
respectively, when said signal is in the second state; and 

   said switching network for connecting said second terminal of said third transistor to said 
control terminal of said third transistor when said signal is in the first state, and 

for connecting said second terminal of said fourth transistor to said control 
terminal of said fourth transistor when said signal is in the second state. 
An apparatus for receiving an input current and producing an output current which 
mirrors the input current, comprising: 

   a clock having a first and second state; 
   a first and second transistor, each having a first terminal connected to a first reference 

voltage, a control terminal connected to each other, and a second terminal; 
   a third and fourth transistor, each having a first terminal connected to a second reference 

voltage, a control terminal connected to each other, and a second terminal; 
   a switching network for connecting said second terminal of said first and second 

transistors to said second terminal of said fourth and third transistors, 
respectively, when said clock is in the second state; 

   said switching network for connecting said second terminal of said first and second 
transistors to said second terminal of said third and fourth transistors, 

respectively, when said clock is in the first state; and 
   said switching network for connecting said second terminal of said third transistor to said 

control terminal of said third transistor when said first clock is in the first state 
and said second clock is in the second state, and for connecting said second 

terminal of said fourth transistor to said control terminal of said fourth transistor 
when said first clock is in the second state. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
