<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632775</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR FILLING CONTAINERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B300	B65B330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B3	B65B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an apparatus and a method for filling containers with a liquid product. According to the invention, the product is fed from a storage container (8) to a manifold (1) to which volume containers (3) of given volumetric capacity are connected, and from which the product is fed to the containers. The outlets of the volume containers (3) are fitted with point valves and the containers (3) and the valves are blown clean by means of a stream of inert gas, so as to eliminate subsequent dripping of product therefrom. Remaining product which is not introduced into the volume containers is displaced by means of a gas stream to a collecting container (9) and from there back to the storage container (8). The filled containers are advanced in a conveyor in a manner in which the containers are gently accelerated in their movement to a container sealing apparatus.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMIA DEV AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AB IMIA DEVELOPMENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKANSSON IVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETHOE LAJOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAKANSSON, IVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETHOE, LAJOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus for filling containers with liquid 
product. More specifically, the invention relates to apparatus for filling 
bottles with pharmaceutical preparation, such as a solution for intravenous 
administration. The invention also relates to a method of filling containers 
with a liquid product with the aid of inventive apparatus, and more specifically 
to a method of filling bottles with a pharmaceutical preparation and then 
particularly with a solution for intravenous administration. When filling bottles and other types of container with pharmaceutical products, 
a complete filling process will include the following process stages: 
1. A container washing stage. 2. A container sterilizing stage. 3. A bottle filling stage. 4. A container sealing stage. 5. A filled container sterilizing stage. During these various process stages, the containers are exposed to the risk of 
contamination by bacteria and other microorganisms, the greatest risk in this 
regard being in stage 3, in which the bottle are filled with liquid product. The 
risks are greater in this particular process stage, because product tends to 
splash as it is poured into the bottles and also during the subsequent transportation 
of the bottles to the stopper fitting section of the apparatus, i.e. the 
bottle stoppering unit, and also because of subsequent dripping of product 
from the filling nozzles used. This splashing and subsequent dripping of the 
liquid product generates the risk of a thin liquid film forming between the 
stopper and the glass surface at the bottle neck, and therewith form a culture 
substrate for bacterial growth, which can spread to the product in the bottle 
concerned. Such bacteria growth can also occur when a layer of liquid is 
formed between the stopper and the capsule placed around the stopper. The 
actual container-filling stage is therefore a highly critical stage of the  
 
complete process. The development of machines for filling containers with solutions for parenteral 
administration, and then particularly for intravenous administration, began 
in the 1950s, although the use of low capacity apparatus began somewhat 
earlier. At the present time, apparatus capable of filling containers with 
intravenous solutions at a rate of 4,000-5,000 x 100 ml/h are commercially 
available. In the majority of cases, these known machines are based on the use of 
electronic control and operating units and are complicated and less reliable in 
use than is desired. Because of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for filling containers with a liquid product, comprising a 
generally horizontal manifold or branched pipe (1) which is connected to a 

storage container (8) for for the delivery of the product to be filled into said 
containers, which manifold (1) is provided with at least one outlet (2) which 

leads to a volume container (3) having an outlet valve (6) for introducing the 
product into the product containers, and 
characterized
 in that it 
further includes 


a) a collecting container (9) being connected to the manifold (1) for 
collecting residual product which is not introduced into the containers, the 

volume containers (3) being designed with a determined, adjustable volume 
which corresponds to the volume of the product to be introduced into each 

product container, wherein the outlet ends of said volume containers (3) are 
provided with point valves (6) which adjust the outflow of the product to the 

product containers, and wherein the outlet opening (5) of the manifold (1) 
leading to a volume container (3) discharges at a level which lies above the 

bottom level of the manifold (1); 
b) a product return line (10) for returning product from the collecting 
container (9) to the storage container (8); 
c) sensor means (12,13) which monitor the highest and the lowest permitted 
liquid levels in the manifold (1); 
d) connections (14,15,16) to a source of gas under overpressure, said gas 
functioning to expel liquid product from the volume containers (3) to the 

product containers and to blow residues of the product out from the point 
valves (6), to transport remaining liquid product from the manifold (1) to the 

collecting container (9), and to transport liquid product from the collecting 
container (9) to the storage container (8);  

 
e) a conveyor for advancing product containers to be filled along a linear 
conveyor path (60,61) and for delivering the filled product containers (64) to 

a container sealing apparatus (53), said conveyor being constructed such that 
the filled containers (64) will be gently accelerate
d from the container filling 
section to the container infeed of the container sealing apparatus (53); and 
f) a program mechanism which receives impulses from the sensor means 
(12,13) which detect the liquid level in the manifold (1), and also from sensor 

means which detect the positions of the product containers on the conveyor, 
and on the basis of these impulses functions to control the setting of valves 

(7,11,17,19,22) in product and gas conduits and also to control the movement 
of the conveyor. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 in that the 
product storage container (8) is placed at a higher level than the manifold (1), 

so that product will flow gravitationally from the storage container (8)to the 
manifold (1) and the volume containers (3). 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized
 in that the 
point valves (6) at the volume container (3) outlets are shaped as a tube (30) 

which is fitted with a sleeve (36,42) which in one position functions to seal 
off one or more product utflow openings (34,35,38) and which when moved 

along or rotated around said tube (30) to another position exposes said 
openings (34,35,38) to permit product to exit therethrough. 
Apparatus according to claim 3, 
characterized
 in that the 
point valves (6) are made of ceramic material. 
Apparatus according to Claim 1, 
characterized
 in that the 
conveyor has a curved conveyor section located downstream of the linear 

container filling section (60) and upstream of the point at which the containers 
are fed into the sealing apparatus, so as to impart gentle acceleration to 

the filled containers.  
 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 1-5, 
characterized
 
in that the apparatus is duplicated such that containers are filled in one apparatus 

while the conveyor (52) is stationary at the same time as empty containers 
are fed by the conveyor (51) of the second apparatus to the filling 

section (60) and filled containers (64) are fed to the container sealing apparatus 
(53). 
Apparatus according to any one of Claims 1-6, 
characterized
 
in that the product containers are bottles. 
A method of filling product containers with a liquid product, comprising 
the steps of: 


a) leading the product containers into a conveyor (51) and advancing the 
containers along a linear path (60), wherein movement of the containers is 

interrupted when the containers are located in a predetermined filling position; 
b) feeding the liquid product from a storage container (8) to a generally horizontal 
manifold (1) to which there is connected at least one outlet (2) of a 

volume container (3) from which the product is passed to the product containers, 
said volume containers (3) being constructed with a determined, 

adjustable volume which corresponds to the product volume to be introduced 
into each product container, and wherein the opening (5) of the manifold 

outlet leading to the volume containers discharges at a level which lies above 
the bottom level of the manifold (1), and wherein the outlets of respective 

volume containers (3) are closed by means of openable needle valves (6); 
c) subsequent to having filled the volume containers (6) and the manifold (1) 
to a level which lies above the level of the manifold outlet (5) to the volume 

containers (3), interrupting the delivery of product from the storage container 
(8) and leading away that part of the liquid which does not enter the volume 

containers but remains in the manifold (1) to a product collecting container 
(9) and then passing this remaining liquid product back to the storage container 

(8) through a return line (10; 
d) opening the needle valves (6) at the outflow ends of the volume containers  
 

(3) so that liquid product will flow out into the product containers, whereafter 
a stream of gas is passed through the volume containers (3) and the point 

valves (6) to purge said containers (3) and said valves (6) from product 
residues; 
e) restarting the conveyor (51, 52) and conveying the filled product containers 
along a path (60, 61) which is connected to a product container 

sealing apparatus (53) , such that the filled product containers (64) will be 
accelerated smoothly to a speed which is adapted to the container advancing 

speed of the container sealing apparatus (53), and feeding said containers (64) 
into and sealing said containers in said apparatus; and 
f) repeating steps a) to e) in sequence a desired number of times. 
A method according to Claim 8, 
characterized
 by duplicating 
the container filling and container conveying apparatus (51, 52) so that the 

containers in one conveyor are filled at the same time as empty containers are 
fed into the second conveyor (51) and filled containers (64) are fed out from 

said second conveyor. 
A method according to Claim 9 or 10, 
characterized
 by 
feeding the product from the storage container (8) to the manifold (1) 

gravitationally or by means of gas under pressure. 
A method according to any one of Claims 8-10, 
characterized
 
by feeding the product through the volume containers (3) to the product 

containers, from the manifold (1) to the collecting container (9) and from the 
collecting container (9) to the storage container (8) by means of gas under 

pressure. 
A method according to any one of Claims 8-11, 
characterized
 
in that the containers are bottles and in that the liquid product is a pharmaceutical 

preparation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
