<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633484</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fiber optic coupling assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65C300	B65C306	B65C900	B65C940	G02B626	G02B626	G02B636	G02B636	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65C3	B65C3	B65C9	B65C9	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical transmission device for use on an apparatus 
for disposing a sleeve in encircling relation on an article 

unit is disclosed. Signals are sent and received between 
two data handling devices (12,14) monitoring the machine. The first 

data handling (14) device is positioned on a rotating portion of 
the apparatus and the second data handling device (12) is 

positioned on another portion of the apparatus independent 
of the rotating portion. The optical transmission device 

comprises a first optical fiber element (18) attached at a first 
end to the first rotating data handling device (14). The first 

element has an inner (40) and an outer portion (42) wherein the inner 
and outer portions are concentric. A second optical fiber 

element (16) is also included and is attached at a first end to 
the second data handling device. The second element has an 

inner (40) and an outer portion (42) wherein the inner and outer 
portions are concentric and correspond to the inner and 

outer portions of the first element. The first and second 
elements each have second ends with the second ends facing 

each other with inner and outer end portions in 
correspondence with one another and positioned co-axial with 

the rotation axis of the rotating portion of the apparatus 
so that there is a gap (30) between the second ends. A first 

support device (22) is also included wherein the second end of 
the first element is rotatably secured in its position and 

supported thereon. A second support device (24) secures the 
second end of the second element in its position and 

supports it thereon. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STYROTECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STYROTECH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIERYNG JAN ZBIGNIEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIERYNG, JAN ZBIGNIEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for 
simultaneously disposing tubular labels on a plurality of 
bottles, or containers, and, more particularly, to fiber 
optic cables for use in transferring control signals between 
two data handling devices thereon. Sleeves or tubular labels having an endless shape have 
shown themselves to be particularly attractive for use as 
labels for bottle or containers. Such sleeves or tubular 
labels are most typically pre-printed plastic labels formed 
from thin flexible plastic film and these printed labels, 
commonly referred to as sleeve labels or tubular labels, 
have found wide use as labels for blow-molded plastic 
containers such as, for example, multi-liter soft drink 
bottles, other beverage bottles, and detergent chemical 
containers. A number of apparatus are available to place 
such labels on containers. One example of such an apparatus 
is disclosed in U.S. patent application Serial No. 
07/918,211 filed on July 21, 1992 which is expressly 
incorporated herein by reference. These machines are typically controlled via two data 
handling devices which are typically computers, such as 
programmable logic controllers (PLC). One PLC is usually 
situated on the rotating carousel portion of the machine and 
the other PLC is usually positioned off the rotating portion 
of the machine. Information preferably is transferred 
between the data handling devices via signals through fiber 
optic cable. In transferring these signals between the 
first PLC positioned on the carousel and the second PLC,  
 
difficulties arise with the tangling of the fiber optic 
cables due to the rotating arrangement. One suggestion to eliminate a similar problem occurring 
on knitting machines is seen in U.S. Patent No. 4,587,812 to 
Brega. Brega employs a gap between a first fiber optic 
cable and a second fiber optic cable to avoid tangling of 
the cables due to the relative rotation of the cables. 
However, the Brega system can transmit information in only 
one direction at any one time. This limitation makes Brega 
unsuitable for many applications requiring simultaneous dual 
transmission. It is therefore an object of the present invention to 
provide a fiber optic communication system for use between 
data handling devices moving rotationally relative to one 
another. It is another object of the present invention to 
provide a fiber optic communication system suitable for 
applications requiring simultaneous transmission of 
information between two data handling devices. These
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical signal transmission device for use on 
an apparatus having a rotating portion and being controlled 

by signals sent and received from two data handling devices, 
the first data handling device positioned on a rotating 

portion of the apparatus and the second data handling device 
positioned on another portion of the apparatus independent 

of the rotating portion, said optical signal transmission 
device comprising: 


(a) a first optical fiber element having first 
end attached to the first rotating data handling 

device, said first element having an extending length 
and having concentric inner and outer portions; 
(b) a second optical fiber element having a first 
end attached at to the second data handling device, 

said second element having an extending length and 
having concentric inner and outer portions that 

correspond to said inner and outer portions of said 
first element, said first and second fiber optic 

elements each having second ends, said second ends 
facing each other with said inner and outer portions 

thereof disposed opposite to one another and positioned 
co-axial with the rotation axis of the rotating portion 

of the apparatus so that there is a gap between said 
second ends; 
(c) a first support device in which said second 
end of said first element is rotatably secured in its 

position and supported thereon; and 
(d) a second support device in which said second 
 

end of said second element is secured in its position 
and supported thereon, whereby signals can be 

transferred between said first and said second data 
handling devices via said inner portion of said 

elements and whereby different signals can be 
transferred between said first and said second data 

handling device via the outer portion of said elements. 
An optical signal transmission device according to 
claim 1 wherein said inner portion transmits data from the 

first data handling device to the second data handling 
device and wherein said outer portion transmits data from 

the second data handling device to the first data handling 
device. 
An optical signal transmission device according to 
claim 1 wherein said outer portion transmits data from the 

first data handling device to the second data handling 
device and wherein said inner portion transmits data from 

the second data handling device to the first data handling 
device. 
An optical signal transmission device according to 
claim 1 and further comprising a shield surrounding said gap 

and attached to each of said second ends and enclosing said 
gap to protect said second ends from contaminants. 
An optical signal transmission device according to 
claim 1 wherein said first support device comprises a pole 

element rotatably secured in its position at a first end and 
a table element secured to said pole element at a second 

end, said table element having an aperture through which 
said second end of said first element travels for rotational 

 
movement at a top side plane of said table element. 
An optical signal transmission device according to 
claim 1 wherein said second support device comprises a 

surface means having spacing means positioned on said first 
support device, said surface means supported and spaced 

apart from said first support device by said spacing means 
and said surface means having an aperture through which said 

second end of said second element travels for positioning on 
an underside plane of said surface means. 
An optical signal transmission device for use on 
an apparatus for disposing a sleeve in encircling relation 

on an article unit, the apparatus being controlled by 
signals sent and received from two data handling devices, 

the first data handling device positioned on a rotating 
portion of the apparatus and the second data handling device 

positioned on another portion of the apparatus independent 
of the rotating portion, said optical signal transmission 

device comprising: 

(a) a first optical fiber element attached at a 
first end to the first rotating data handling device, 

said first element having concentric inner and an outer 
portions; 
(b) a second optical fiber element attached at a 
first end to the second data handling device, said 

second element having concentric inner and an outer 
portions wherein said inner and outer portions are 

concentric and correspond to said inner and outer 
portions of said first element, said first and second 

elements each having second ends, said second ends 
 

facing each other with inner and outer portions in 
correspondence with one another and positioned co-axial 

with the rotation axis of the rotating portion of the 
apparatus so that there is a gap between said second 

ends; 
(c) a first support device in which said second 
end of said first element is rotatably secured in its 

position and supported thereon; and 
(d) a second support device in which said second 
end of said second element is secured in its position 

and supported thereon, whereby signals can be 
transferred between said first and said second data 

handling devices via said inner portion of said 
elements and whereby signals can be transferred between 

said first and said second data handling device via the 
outer portion of said elements. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
