<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618615</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of defect determination and defect engineering on product wafers of advanced submicron technologies.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2166	H01L2166	H01L23544	H01L23544	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method of determining the possible formation of 
crystalline defects in a body of a semiconductor material during 

the process of fabricating integrated circuits in the body, at 
least one body is subjected to a full fabrication process to form 

completed integrated circuits in the body which can be electrically 
tested to determine whether the operation of the integrated circuit 

is adversely affected by the formation of crystalline defects. 
Test structures, each of which is only a portion of the complete 

integrated circuit, are formed during the formation of the complete 
circuit but are fabricated using only a group of a limited number 

of the steps of the fabrication process used to fabricate the 
complete integrated circuit with various ones of the test 

structures being subjected to different ones of the steps of the 
group of steps. The test structures may be formed on the same body 

as the complete circuit or on additional bodies. The test 
structures are then analyzed to determine which of the steps may 

have formed crystalline defects in the body. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLINGENSTEIN WERNER DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZEININGER HEINZ DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLINGENSTEIN, WERNER, DR,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZEININGER, HEINZ, DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a faster and less 
expensive method of determining when crystalline defects are 
created in a semiconductor body, and, more particularly, to a 
method which can be exploited to determine which steps of a process 
of fabricating an integrated circuit, e.g, the formation of deep 
and shallow trenches, create a formation of undesirable crystalline 
defects. Integrated circuits comprise a body of a semiconductor 
material having formed therein various electrical components, such 
as transistors, diodes, capacitors, resistors, etc., which are 
connected together to form a desired circuit. Fabrication of an 
integrated circuit requires the use of many process techniques, 
such as depositions of various types, oxide growth, etching, ion-implantation, 
diffusion, heat treatment, etc. Each of these 
process techniques has its specific potential to cause crystalline 
defects in the semiconductor body. Specifically, for example, one 
of the process steps, formation of deep trenches, may generate 
dislocations. The contamination with metals during etching and 
cleaning has been correlated with stacking faults. Once the 
crystalline defects are formed, other processing techniques can 
increase the density of the crystalline defects to a level which 
adversely affects the operation of the integrated circuit. Whether 
a particular process of making an integrated circuit contains steps 
which create undesirable crystalline defects which adversely affect  
 
the electrical characteristics of the integrated circuit can only 
be determined after the integrated circuit is completely formed and 
can be electrically tested. For a complex fabrication process, 
this may take up to several weeks to several months. The 
interpretation of the results may be complicated because much of 
the data is not obviously evident to be directly related to 
crystalline defects, or directly correlated to any of the process 
steps. Spacial variations, like the temperature distribution 
across a wafer's surface, or wafer arrangement during processing, 
may come into play and hide why defects are formed. In a 
sequential type of development, after changes are made to the 
process, it takes a long time to fabricate another integrated 
circuit so as to determine whether the changes actually reduced or 
eliminated the undesirable crystalline defects. Various attempts have been made during the development of a 
process for fabricating a particular integrated circuit to try to 
determine which steps of a long
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of reducing the density of crystalline defects 
formed in a semiconductor body during the process of making an 

integrated circuit comprising the steps of: 
   subjecting at least one body of a semiconductor material 

to a given number of fabrication steps to make an integrated 
circuit which can be electrically tested; 

   forming in at least one body of a semiconductor material 
test structures using a limited number of the steps used for making 

the integrated circuit, where said limited number is less than said 
given number, with each of the test structures being subjected to 

a different group of the limited number of steps; and 
   testing the complete integrated circuit and the test 

structures to determine which of the steps results in the formation 
of crystalline defects. 
The method of claim 1 in which the limited number of 
steps are a group of sequential steps used for making the complete 

integrated circuit, and each of the test structures is subjected to 
a different selection of the group of steps. 
The method of claim 2 in which the test structures are 
subjected to the limited number of steps at the same time that the 

one body is subjected to the same steps during the carrying out of 
the given number steps to make the integrated circuit. 
The method of claim 3 in which the test structures are 
all formed on a single body of a semiconductor material. 
The method of claim 4 in which the test structures are 
formed adjacent each other on the body. 
The method of claim 4 in which the test structures are 
formed on the same body as the integrated circuit. 
The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of 
modifying a step determined to have caused crystalline defects so 

as to reduce the formation of crystalline defects. 
The method of claim 7 in which prior to modifying the 
step determined to have caused crystalline defects, the step of 

electrically testing the integrated circuit to determine whether 
the operation of the integrated circuit is adversely affected by 

crystalline defects formed in the body. 
The method of claim 8 in which the test structures are 
tested physically to analyze same for formation of crystalline 

defects. 
The method of claim 9, in which each of the bodies is a 
wafer having a relatively large area and a plurality of complete 

integrated circuits and test structures are formed in each of the 
bodies, further comprising the steps of testing integrated circuits 

in various portions of the wafers. 
A method of reducing the density of crystalline defects 
formed in a wafer body of a semiconductor material during the 

process of making integrated circuits in the wafer body comprising 
the steps of: 

   subjecting at least one wafer body to all of the steps of 
a process necessary to form a plurality of complete integrated 

circuits in the one wafer body; 
   forming in at least one wafer body test structures by 

using a limited number of the steps of the process of making the 
 

complete integrated circuit with each of the additional test 
structures being subjected to different groups of the limited 

number of steps so as to form portions of the integrated circuit in 
the test structures; 

   testing the complete integrated circuits and the test 
structures to determine which of the steps results in crystalline 

defects; and 
   modifying a step(s) which results in the formation of 

crystalline defects so as to reduce the formation of crystalline 
defects resulting from that step. 
The method of claim 11 in which the limited steps are a 
group of consecutive steps, and each of the test structures is 

subjected to a different selection of the group of steps. 
The method of claim 12 in which the test structures are 
subjected to the limited number of steps at the same time that the 

one body is subjected to all of the steps of making the complete 
integrated circuit. 
The method of claim 13 in which the test structures are 
all formed on a single body of a semiconductor material. 
The method of claim 14 in which the test structures are 
formed adjacent each other on the body. 
The method of claim 14 in which the test structures are 
formed on the same body as the complete integrated circuit. 
The method of claim 13, in which prior to modifying the 
step(s) which results in the formation of crystalline defects, 

performing the step of electrically testing the complete integrated 
 

circuits to determine whether the operation of the integrated 
circuits is adversely affected by the formation of crystalline 

defects in the wafer body. 
The method of claim 17 in which the test structures are 
tested by physically analyzing them for crystalline defects. 
The method of claim 18 in which complete integrated 
circuits 
at various areas of the wafer bodies are tested. 
A method for reducing the density of crystalline defects 
formed in a semiconductor body during the process of fabricating an 

integrated circuit, comprising the steps of: 
   performing a given number of sequential processing steps 

on at least one body of a semiconductor material for fabricating an 
integrated circuit; 

   performing a smaller number of said sequential processing 
steps than said given number on at least one body of a 

semiconductor material for fabricating test structures, such that 
each of said test structures is fabricated by using a different 

sequence of processing steps of said smaller number of sequential 
processing steps; and 

   testing said integrated circuit and said test structures 
to determine which of said processing steps is associated with 

crystalline defects. 
The method of claim 20, wherein said smaller number of 
said sequential processing steps are performed on said test 

structures at the same time as they are performed in the course of 
performing said given number of sequential processing steps for 

fabricating said integrated circuit. 
The method of claim 21, wherein said test structures are 
formed on a single body of semiconductor material. 
The method of claim 22, wherein said integrated circuit 
and said test structures are formed on the same body of 

semiconductor material. 
The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of 
modifying a processing step determined to be associated with 

crystalline defects. 
The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of 
testing the integrated circuit to determine the effect of 

crystalline defects. 
The method of claim 25, further comprising the step of 
modifying a processing step determined to be associated with 

crystalline defects. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
