<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628755</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Transmission control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H6102	F16H6106	F16H6106	F16H6102	F16H6112	F16H6112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	F16H61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transmission control has a redundancy 
control for upshift and downshift control of friction 

torque transmitting devices (C1-5) in a power 
transmission. The control solenoid valves (27,28) 

providing for continued governor and accumulator trim 
boost in the event of a malfunction, in either the 

electrical system or the hydraulic system, which 
affects the governor pressure schedule. A reverse 

control signal, from a manual selector valve (24), is 
effective to remove the malfunctioning solenoid valve 

from effective operation in the control. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to
transmission controls. More particularly, the present
invention relates to transmission controls having
electrical and hydraulic controls.Power-shifting automatic transmissions of
both the planetary type and countershaft type use
hydraulically actuated, friction torque devices to
effect the selection of sequential drive ranges.
Planetary type transmissions use friction torque
transfer devices of both the clutch and brake variety.
Countershaft type transmissions use friction torque
transfer devices of only the clutch variety. The
control mechanism which determines the shift sequence
and timing for these transmissions can be either
hydraulic control valving or the more recently
introduced electro-hydraulic control valving. With
electro-hydraulic controls, a pre-programmed digital
computer is generally provided to determine both the
shift schedules and pressure levels of the hydraulic
actuating fluid within the transmission. The computer
employs a look-up table which has the necessary data
to determine the shift points in response to input
signals from vehicle parameter detectors such as the
vehicle and engine speed sensors, engine torque level
sensors, throttle position sensors, and the like.The computer analyses the input signals and
refers to the look-up table to determine the
appropriate ratio interchange. The computer can also
provide the necessary control signals to establish the
output pressure of the solenoid valve. Generally the
solenoid valves are either of the off-on type or the
pulse width modulated (PWM) type. With either type,
the output signal is delivered to either a valve, 
which will control the ratio interchange, or to the
friction devices directly.The control devices currently known have a
governor and throttle signal to control the ratio
interchange. In some instances this signal is
combined by the electronics to provide a single
electrical output signal which will determine the
output pressure of the solenoid control valving.
Should the solenoid have a malfunction, the
transmission control includes a limp-home feature
which causes the transmission to select a fixed gear
ratio until proper repairs are undertaken. This
feature prevents the driver from being stranded due to
an electric or mechanical malfunction of the
solenoids. EP-A-0 525 725 discloses the nearest prior art for independent claim 1 or 3. Therein it is proposed to regulate the accumulation trim pressure by means of two solenoid
controlled valves. The failsafe function is carried
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transmission control comprising
regulator valve means (157) for providing a trim

pressure fluid for a plurality of accumulators (50A-50E)
including a boost plug (151); a governor shuttle valve (115) for

selectively directing pressurised fluid to first and
second ends of the boost plug and for directing

pressurised fluid to a governor passage (67); a first
interlock valve (94) for selectively directing

pressurised fluid from a first solenoid valve (27)
through the governor shuttle valve to the first end (154) of the

boost plug and the governor passage; and a second
interlock valve (95) for selectively directing

pressurised fluid from a second solenoid valve (28)
through the governor shuttle valve to the second end (155) of the

boost plug when the pressurised fluid from the first
solenoid valve is at a level greater than the

pressurised fluid from the second solenoid valve, the
boost plug being responsive to the fluid from the

first and second interlock valves to switch the fluid
from the second interlock valve to the first end (154) of

the boost plug when the pressure level of the fluid
directed from the second interlock valve is greater

than the fluid directed from the first interlock
valve.
A transmission control as claimed in
Claim 1 further comprising manual valve means (24) for

directing fluid to establish forward and reverse drive
ratios; and wherein the first interlock valve (94)

includes a first interlock chamber (107) and the
second interlock valve (95) includes a second

interlock chamber (126), both the first and second
interlock chambers being connected with the fluid from

the first and second solenoid valves (27,28) 
respectively when the reverse drive ratio is selected

by the manual valve means.
A transmission control comprising a
source of fluid pressure including a pump (14) and a

system regulator valve (20); a plurality of fluid
operated selectively engageable torque transmitting

means (C1-C5) for establishing a plurality of speed
ratios in a transmission, respective ones of the

torque transmitting means being interchanged during a
change of ratios; a plurality of shift valves (47) for

controlling the interchange of ratios each including
an accumulator (50) for assisting in controlling

interchange time, each accumulator having a trim
chamber (74) for providing a reaction pressure during

the interchanges; trim boost supply means (30) for
supplying and controlling a trim boost pressure

delivered to the trim chambers including a pressure
regulator (157) for supplying pressurised fluid and a

boost plug (151) having a first chamber (154) for
increasing the fluid pressure at the pressure

regulator and a second chamber (155) for counteracting
the first chamber for counteracting the first chamber;

and solenoid valve means (27,28) for selectively
supplying pressure to the first chamber when each

ratio interchange is initiated and to the second
chamber prior to the occurrence of a subsequent ratio

interchange.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
