<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617685</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE FOR THE IDENTIFICATION AND LOCKING OF A BOTTLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D5502	B65D5006	B65D5502	B65D5000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D55	B65D50	B65D55	B65D50	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Device for the identification of a bottle and locking of its closure element, the neck (12) of the bottle being sealed by a closure element and including a cap (50) arranged to be adapted thereon (12) above said closure element. The cap comprises at least one identification code and movable locking means including at least two grips (56) for engaging under a projection (17) on the neck (12) or under the closure element, and an activating sleeve (55) movable between two positions and arranged to release or lock said grips according to whether it is in one or other of the positions. The device also includes a sensor for detecting and reading the identification code and for releasing the bottle's closure element. The device is for use in individual, controlled and automatic management and monitoring of bottles in restaurants, bars or other public places.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARTEK SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARTEK S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOURON JACQUES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOURON, JACQUES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Device (10) for the identification and locking of a 
bottle comprising a bottle neck (12) closed by a closure 

element (13, 43), which device comprises on the one hand a 
cap (11) so arranged as to be adapted to the bottle neck 

above said closure element, which cap is equipped with 
locking means (18, 30, 44, 55; 16, 31, 42, 56) so arranged, 

in a first position, as to prevent access to the closure 
element of the bottle and, in a second position, as to 

permit such access with a view to withdrawing it from the 
bottle, and, on the other hand, a detector device (5) so 

arranged as to read an indicator code carried by the cap, 
which detector device (5) in addition comprises actuating 

means (8) so arranged as to bring said locking means into 
sa
id second position permitting access to the closure 
element (13, 43) after detection, reading and 

identification of said indicator code. 
Device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 
the locking means comprises a mobile activation core (18, 

30, 44, 55) and at least two claws (16, 31, 42, 56) for 
blocking said closure element, which activation core is so 

arranged as to maintain said blocking claws in a blocked 
position when said locking means is in its first position, 

and as to release said claws when said locking means is in 
its second position. 
Device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that 
said mobile activation core (18, 30, 44) is a magnetic core 

having a low position corresponding to said first position 
of said locking means and a high position corresponding to 

said second position of said locking means. 
Device as claimed in Claim 3, characterized in that 
said activation core is a cylindrical ferromagnetic sleeve 

(55), and in that said claws (56) are mounted at least 
partially inside this sleeve.  

 
Device as claimed in Claim 4, characterized in that 
said claws (16, 31, 41) are arranged with equal spacing one 

from the other and extend essentially parallel with the 
axis of the bottle, which claws are so arranged as to 

engage beneath a protuberance (17) from the bottle neck or 
beneath said closure element (13). 
Device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that 
said claws (31, 56) are flexible for at least part of their 

length. 
Device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that 
said claws (31, 56) are rigid and articulated about a 

swivel-joint (32) or a pivot (62). 
Device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that 
said claws (42, 56) are equipped with blocking shoes (41, 

58) arranged at their free extremity. 
Device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that 
the cap comprises a hollow body (15) carrying said claws 

(16), in which is arranged said activation core (18), which 
core incorporates a clearance arranged between this hollow 

body and a zone (18c) of reduced section, which clearance 
is so arranged as to accommodate blocking balls (20) 

arranged to block said claws when the locking means is in 
its first position. 
Device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that 
the activating core (30) comprises a conical lower part 

(30b) so arranged as to interact with the claws (31) and to 
block them when said locking means is in its first 

position. 
Device as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that 
it comprises a spring (23, 47) causing the claws (16, 42) 

to be retained in the blocked position when said locking  
 

means is in its first position, which spring presses 
against said activation core (18, 44). 
Device as claimed in Claim 4, characterized in that 
the cap (50) comprises a cylindrical body (51) in a non-ferromagnetic 

material, in which said cylindrical 
ferromagnetic sleeve (55) is mounted coaxially and in the 

absence of free play, in that said cylindrical body 
comprises an annular seating (52) situated at its upper 

extremity, in that said cylindrical ferromagnetic sleeve is 
retained in its low position by an annular spring (54) 

pressing against the base of said annular seating and 
against the cylindrical ferromagnetic sleeve in such a way 

that, when this sleeve (55) is in its low position, said 
claws (56) are held against the neck of the bottle, and in 

that, when this sleeve (55) is in its high position, it is 
retained by said open jaws in a position corresponding to 

said second position of the locking means. 
Device as claimed in Claim 12, characterized in that 
upper extensions (59) of each of the claws (56) are joined 

together by an elastic element (64) and each comprise an 
inclined ramp (60) arranged in such a way that, when the 

bottle is introduced into the cap (50), the closure element 
(13) presses against said inclined ramps of the claws so as 

to bring the latter into a blocked position permitting the 
cylindrical ferromagnetic sleeve (55) to adopt its low 

position under the pressure exerted by said annular spring 
(54). 
Device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 
said detector device (5) comprises an actuating element (8) 

so arranged as to actuate said activation core and to cause 
its displacement from its low position towards its high 

position. 
Device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 
said detector device (5) comprises a detection device (7)  

 
so arranged as to read said indicator code and means for 

transmitting an identification signal permitting the 
excitation of the magnetic coil for the purpose of 

displacing said magnetic core. 
Device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 
the indicator code (70) carried on the cap (11, 50) is 

formed from metallized segments (72) and non-metallized 
segments (73) arranged in such a way as to define it. 
Device as claimed in Claim 11, characterized in that 
the indicator code (70) comprises a first series of 

segments (R9-R13) common to all types of products fitted 
with identical caps and serving the purpose of recognizing 

a zero point of the code, and a second series of different 
segments (D1-D8) for each type of product fitted with the 

same cap and permitting identification of the type of 
product. 
Device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 
the detection device (7) arranged to read the code 

comprises a proximity detector (80) of the inductive 
detector type. 
Device as claimed in Claim 18, characterized in that 
the detection device (7) arranged to read the code 

comprises a rotating transformer (81) linking said 
proximity detector to a data processing device. 
Device as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that 
the identification and detection device is triggered by 

means of a personalized identification key such as a 
microprocessor card or a magnetic strip card. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
