<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610174</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED FLOW METER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F120	G01F122	G01F124	G01F700	G01F700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F7	G01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAKE MONITORS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAKE MONITORS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAKE JACK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAKE, JACK, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Title: IMPROVED FLOW METERField of the InventionThis invention is related generally to fluid flow meters and, more particularly, to a fluid flow meter which by interchange of parts may be easily adapted for differing flow ranges and which may be used with clear or opaque fluids.Background of the Invention Fluid flow meters are widely used for indicating the rate at which a fluid, a liquid or a gas, is flowing through a conductor. Such flow meters are typically installed in series with the conductor and flow rates indicated in volumetric units per unit of time, e.g., gallons per minute.Various structures are used to indicate rate of flow and one such structure includes a hollow, spring biased, elongated piston which includes an opening of reduced diameter at one end. This- piston coacts with a concentric tapered rod in a manner such that the area of the annular space defined between the opening and the rod varies with the relative position of the piston with respect to the rod. As the rate of fluid flowing through 

the meter increases, the piston will be urged in a direction to cause an increase in this annular area, such movement being against the urging of the spring. The piston continues movement and the area of the annular space continues to increase until the differential pressure across the piston is balanced against the opposing spring force. In other words, this position of force balance determines piston position with respect to the rod. An indication of flow is obtained by visually comparing the position of the piston (or a follower which moves coincident with the piston) relative to a flow rate scale mounted on the exterior of the meter. Similar flow meters use the same fundamental structure of a tapered rod and piston and further incorporate switches and the like for providing electrical signals at particular flow rates. Examples of flow meters of these general types are shown in United States Patent Nos. 3,805,611; 4,349,711; 4,389,901 and 4,487,077.One of the disadvantages of such flow meters is that they are constructed to provide an indication of flow rate over only a single range of flows. For liquids, a meter of a particular configuration is usable only for fluids within a relatively narrow range of viscosities. If a user of such a flow meter encounters a need to measure a flow rate which is outside the range for which the meter is constructed, a separate, correctly calibrated flow meter must be purchased and installed for that purpose. In a processing plant where a large number of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An improved flow meter for indicating the rate of flow of a fluid flowing therethrough including: -a generally cylindrical first tube having a longitudinal axis and first and second ends; -a rod assembly including a plurality of aperture plates and a rod having first and second ends, such rod being supported at each of its ends by an aperture plate and in a position generally concentric with such tube, each aperture plate being attached to an end of the rod; -such rod further having a metering section tapered at a generally uniform rate over at least a portion of its length;
-a generally planar, sharp-edged first orifice disk having a circular metering aperture positioned generally concentric with the metering section and coacting therewith for providing an indication of a rate of fluid flow;
-a spring confined within the tube for urging the disk toward the first end of the tube; -a porting assembly received within each end of the tube and arranged to provide fluid-tight sealing engagement between the porting assembly and the tube;
-each porting assembly being removably received within each end of the tube and each aperture plate being attached to an end of the rod by a removable fastener; the flow meter thereby being adapted for easy disassembly and substitutive replacement of the orifice disk. 


 2. The flow meter of claim 1 further including a generally planar, sharp edged second orifice disk which may be easily substituted for the first orifice disk by disassembly of the flow meter, the second orifice disk having a metering aperture of a diameter different from that of the first orifice disk, the flow meter thereby being adapted to provide an indication of the rate of flow within either of two ranges of flow.
3. The flow meter of claim 2 wherein the minimum diameter of each orifice disk, as measured normal to the longitudinal axis of the tube when the disk is installed in the flow meter, is at least five times the thickness of the disk as measured parallel to the longitudinal axis of the tube.
4. The flow meter of claim 3 wherein each porting assembly is threadably coupled to the first tube. 

5. The flow meter of claim 1 further including: -an annular, generally cylindrically shaped magnetized sleeve interposed between the spring and the disk and confined within the first tube for movement coincident with movement of the orifice disk;
-a follower formed at least in part of a magnetic material and mounted adjacent the exterior of the first tube and in a magnetically coupled relationship to the sleeve, the follower thereby exhibiting movement which is substantially coincident with movement of the sleeve; -a generally cylindrical second tube having first and second ends and supported exterior the first tube in a concentric, spaced relationship thereto for permitting free movement of the follower; -a plurality of resilient glands for supporting the second tube, each end of the second tube being supported by a gland in fluid-sealing engagement therewith, each gland being retained in such sealing engagement with the second tube by a porting assembly; -the second tube being sufficiently transparent so that the position of the follower can be observed; the flow meter thereby being adapted for use with opaque fluids.
6. The flow meter of claim 5 further including a generally planar, sharp edged second orifice disk which may be easily substituted for the first orifice disk by disassembly of the flow meter, the second orifice disk having a metering aperture of a diameter which differs from that of the first orifice disk, the flow meter thereby being adapted to provide an indication of the rate of flow within either of two ranges of flow. 


 7. The flow meter of claim 6 wherein the second tube includes an exterior surface and wherein each gland has a shoulder which protrudes radially beyond such exterior surface to support such exterior surface in a slightly spaced relationship from a generally planar surface upon which the flow meter may be placed, the glands thereby aiding in prevention of scratching of such exterior surface.
8. The flow meter of claim 7 wherein the minimum dimension of each orifice disk, as measured normal to the longitudinal axis of the tube when the disk is installed in the flow meter, is at least five times the thickness of the disk as measured parallel to the longitudinal axis of the tube.
9. The flow meter of claim 2 wherein such flow meter and second orifice disk are supplied as a kit.
10. The flow meter of claim 6 wherein such flow meter and second orifice disk are supplied as a kit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
