<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653145</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-REGULATING HEATER WITH INTEGRAL INDUCTION COIL AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE THEREOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B610	H05B610	H05B602	H05B602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-regulating heater including a body (2) of electrically non-conductive material, an induction coil (3) embedded within the body, lossy heating particles (4) dispersed within the body and connection terminals (5) for supplying power to the induction coil. The lossy heating particles produce heat when subjected to an alternating magnetic field produced by the induction coil and have a Curie temperature which provides a substantially constant auto-regulation temperature at which the body is heated. The connection terminals enable the supply power to the induction coil so that the induction coil can produce an alternating magnetic field of sufficient intensity to cause the lossy heating particles to heat the body to the auto-regulation temperature.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METCAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHITAKER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METCAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE WHITAKER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGAFFIGAN THOMAS H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGAFFIGAN, THOMAS, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an auto-regulating
heater as well as to a method of manufacturing such a
heater.In general, heaters including electric
resistance heating elements are well known in the art.
Such heaters rely upon external electrical control
mechanisms to adjust the temperature of such resistance
heating elements. To attain a desired temperature,
such heating elements are cycled on and off to maintain
the heating elements within a prescribed range of
temperatures. Such heating elements fail to provide
uniform heating throughout the resistance elements.
That is, such heating elements generally exhibit hot
spots and thus do not provide uniform heating at a
desired temperature throughout the entire volume of the
heating element.In the metallurgical field, induction heaters
are commonly used to melt metal. In particular, a
crucible containing a metal charge to be melted is
placed within an induction coil, and an alternating
current is passed through the induction coil to cause
the metal charge to be melted. The use of ferrite particles to produce
heating in alternating magnetic fields is known in the
art. As disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,391,845 to
White and U.S. Patent No. 3,902,940 to Heller et al.,
ferrite particles and other particles have been used to
produce heat where it is desired to cause chemical
reactions, melt materials or evaporate solvents.U.S. Patent No. 4,914,267 to Derbyshire
(hereinafter "Derbyshire") relates to connectors
containing fusible materials to assist in forming a
connection, the connectors forming part of a circuit
during the heating of the fusible material. In
particular, the temperature of the connectors is auto-regulated
at about the Curie temperature of the
magnetic material included in the circuit during the
heating operations. The connector may be a
ferromagnetic member or may be a part of a circuit
including a separate ferromagnetic member.Derbyshire explains that auto-regulation
occurs as a result of the change in value of mµ (a
measure of the ferromagnetic properties of the
ferromagnetic member) to approximately 1 when the Curie
temperature is approached. In particular, the current
spreads into the body of the connector thus lowering
the concentration of current in a thin layer of
magnetic material, and the skin depth changes by at
least the change in the square root of mµ. Resistance
to current flow reduces, and if the current is held at
a constant value, the heating effect is reduced below
the Curie temperature, and the cycle repeats. Thus,
the system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A self-regulating heater, comprising:

a body (2) comprising electrically non-conductive material;
an induction coil (3, 6) embedded within the body (2);
connection means (5) for supplying power to the induction
coil (3, 6);
lossy heating particles (4)
dispersed within the body, the lossy heating particles (4)

producing heat when subjected to an alternating magnetic
field produced by the induction coil (3, 6), the lossy

heating particles (4) having a Curie transition temperature
approximately equal to an auto-regulation temperature at

which the body (2) is heated; said connection means (5)
being provided for supplying power to the induction coil

(3) so that the induction coil (3, 6) can produce an
alternating magnetic field of sufficient intensity to cause

the lossy heating particles (4) to heat the body (2) to the
auto-regulation temperature.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the lossy heating particles
(4) comprise ferrites.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the electrically non-conductive
material comprises an elastomer, rubber or gel-type

material.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the lossy heating particles
(4) comprise ferrimagnetic particles. 
The heater of claim 1, wherein the lossy heating particles
(4) comprise ferromagnetic particles.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the lossy heating particles
(4) are dispersed throughout at least a portion of the body

(2).
The heater of claim 1, wherein the lossy heating particles
(4) are evenly distributed throughout all of the body (2).
The heater of claim 1, wherein the induction coil (3, 6)
comprises an elongated member having a cylindrical cross-section

and a plurality of loops.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the induction coil (3)
comprises an elongated member having a flat cross-section

and a plurality of loops.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the particles are
distributed in the body (2) such that all parts of the body

are heated to a substantially uniform temperature equal to
the Curie temperature by supplying power to the induction

coil (3, 6).
The heater of claim 1, wherein the body (2) of electrically
non-conductive material is conformable to an uneven

surface.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the electrically non-conductive
material comprises silicone rubber.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the electrically non-conductive
material comprises plastic, the lossy heating

particles (4) comprise ferrite particles dispersed in the
plastic, and the plastic with the lossy heating particles

dispersed comprises a molded shape around the induction
coil (3, 6). 
The heater of claim 1, further comprising power means for
supplying a constant current to the connection means

(5), the power supply providing high frequency alternating
current to the induction coil at a preselected frequency

effective for heating the lossy heating particles (4).
The heater of claim 1, wherein the induction coil (3, 6) is
located in the middle of the body and the body is slightly

larger than the induction coil.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the induction coil (3, 6) is
located in only one half of the body (2) at one end of the

body (2).
The heater of claim 1, wherein a magnetic field generated
by the induction coil (3, 6) initially causes lossy heating

particles (4) located closest to the induction coil to
reach their Curie point after which lossy heating particles

(4) located further from the induction coil (3, 6) are
heated by the magnetic field, whereby magnetic flux is

concentrated close to the induction coil (3, 6) when the
body (2) is cold and as portions of the body closest to the

induction coil reach the Curie temperature, permeability
drops and the magnetic flux expands outward so as to

prevent overheating of a central core part of the body (2).
The heater of claim 1, wherein the body (2) includes two
opposed surfaces, the induction coil (3) being a co-planar

coil formed of flat ribbon conductor located between the
opposed surfaces.
The heater of claim 1, wherein the body (2) includes two
opposed surfaces, the induction coil (3) including a

plurality of loops extending in a helical pattern about a
central axis, the loops (3) being located inwardly of the

opposed surfaces. 
The heater of claim 1 wherein the lossy heating particles
(4) are present in higher concentration in an area within

the body for increased heating in said area.
The heater of claim 1 further comprising power means for
supplying current to the connection means (5), the power

supply providing high frequency alternating current to the
induction coil (3, 6) at a preselected frequency effective

for heating the lossy heating particles (4)
A method of manufacturing a self-regulating heater,
comprising:


providing a body (2) comprising electrically non-conductive
material;
embedding an induction coil (3,6) within the body (2);
dispersing lossy heating particles (4) within the body, the
lossy heating particles producing heat when subjected to an

alternating magnetic field produced by the induction coil (3,6),
the lossy heating particles (4) having a Curie transition

temperature approximately equal to an auto-regulation
temperature at which the body (2) is heated; and
providing connection means (5) for supplying power to the
induction coil (3,6) so that the induction coil can produce an

alternating magnetic field of sufficient intensity to cause
the lossy heating particles (4) to heat the body (2) to the auto-regulated

temperature.
The method of claim 22, wherein the lossy heating particles (4)
comprise ferrites.
The method of claim 22, wherein the induction coil is
embedded within the body (2) by molding the electrically non-conductive

material around the induction coil (3,6). 
The method of claim 22, wherein the lossy heating particles (4)
comprise ferromagnetic particles or ferrimagnetic

particles.
The method of claim 22, wherein the body (2) includes a cavity
and the induction coil (3,6) is inserted in the cavity.
The method of claim 22, wherein the lossy heating particles (4)
are evenly distributed throughout all of the body (2).
The method of claim 22, wherein the induction coil (3,3b) is
formed of a flat elongated member to provide a co-planar

coil.
The method of claim 22, wherein the electrically non-conductive
material comprises silicone rubber.
The method of claim 22, wherein the electrically non-conductive
material comprises plastic, the lossy heating

particles (4) comprise ferrite particles dispersed in the
plastic, and the plastic with the lossy heating particles (4)

dispersed therein is molded around the induction coil (3,6).
The method of claim 22, wherein the induction coil (3,6) is

provided in the middle of the body (2) and the body is slightly
larger than the induction coil.
The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of
providing power means for supplying a constant current to

the connection means (5), the power supply providing high
frequency alternating current to the induction coil (3,6) at a

preselected frequency effective for heating the lossy
heating particles (4). 
The method of claim 22 comprising the step of providing
lossy heating particles (4) in higher concentration in an area

within the body (2) for increased heating in said area.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
