<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653084</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CURRENCY HANDLING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07F524	G07D500	G07D500	G07F500	G07D100	G07D100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07F	G07D	G07D	G07F	G07D	G07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07F5	G07D5	G07D5	G07F5	G07D1	G07D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A coin handling apparatus can operate in either one of two modes. In a first mode, coins are delivered to containers unless a predetermined maximum level T has been reached. When a serviceman services the machine, each container is automatically emptied to a predetermined, alterable float level FD. The emptied coins and the coins in the cashbox are then removed by the serviceman. In a second mode, coins are delivered to containers until the numbers stored in the containers correspond to predetermined, alterable upper levels FU. The containers are replenished to these levels when a serviceman services the machine. Each of the levels FU and FD can be periodically altered on the basis of a calculated likelihood that coins will be required for change.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAILEY JOHN WILLIAMS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTON JOHN ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAILEY, JOHN WILLIAMS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTON, JOHN ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus for handling 
units of currency. The invention will be described 
mainly in the context of coin handling, but is also 
applicable to apparatus which also or alternatively 
handles other units of currency, such as banknotes. It is known to provide a coin handling apparatus 
which receives and validates coins of different 
denominations, and directs valid coins to respective 
containers each containing coins of a single 
denomination. It is also known to dispense coins from 
these containers as change in an amount corresponding 
to the difference between the value of inserted coins 
and the price of a product or service obtained from a 
machine associated with the coin handling apparatus. It is also known to arrange for the level of 
coins in each container not to exceed a predetermined 
upper level. The apparatus would thus tend to direct 
coins of a particular denomination to an associated 
container until the upper level is reached, and then 
any further coins of the same denomination would be 
sent to a cashbox, which would normally be of a type 
which does not permit the dispensing of coins 
therefrom. Periodically, an operator will empty the cashbox.  
 
At this time, it is common for operators to adjust the 
levels of coins in the coin containers so that each 
one will contain a number of coins corresponding to a 
so called "float" level for the respective container. 
Adjustable markers may be provided to indicate these 
float levels. An apparatus of this type substantially 
continuously stores large amounts of currency in the 
containers. This ensures that there is usually an 
adequate supply of coins in the container to be used 
as change if this is necessary. The float levels may 
be decreased to release cash to the machine owner, but 
then less cash is available for giving change to a 
user of the machine, and therefore there is a greater 
risk that insufficient change will be available. In other situations, servicemen do not adjust the 
levels in the containers when emptying the cashbox. 
It is then possible for large amounts of money to be 
continuously stored in the containers, particularly 
those containers which contain high-denomination coins 
which are not often dispensed as change. In some arrangements (see EP-0 076 640-B) it is 
possible to adjust the predetermined upper level of a 
container, so as to reduce the maximum number of 
stored coins. The apparatus will store less currency, 
which is beneficial to the owner of the machine.  
 In another
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Currency handling apparatus comprising at 
least one store (22,24,26) for storing units of 

currency (6), means for selectively directing currency 
units to the store, means (28) for selectively 

dispensing units from the store, and control means 
which can be enabled by an operator automatically to 

empty the store to a predetermined float level (FD), 
characterised in that said apparatus further comprises 

means (50) for automatically altering said 
predetermined float level in dependence on one or more 

parameters indicative of the likelihood of the 
currency units being required for dispensing. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, including 
a cashbox (21), the means for selectively directing 

currency units being operable to direct the units 
selectively either to the store or to the cashbox. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, including 
means for directing the currency units emptied from 

the store by the control means to the cashbox. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, 
wherein the altering means is responsive to any one or 

more of the following parameters: 

(a) data indicative of the relative population  
 

levels of respective currency denominations in the 
area in which the apparatus is to be used; 
(b) the number of currency units of a particular 
denomination which have been received by the 

apparatus; 
(c) the number of currency units of a particular 
denomination which have been dispensed by the 

apparatus; 
(d) the way in which currency units of a 
particular denomination have b
een routed by the 
apparatus; 
(e) the or each denomination which can be 
dispensed by the apparatus; and 
(f) price data representative of the price of 
products or services obtained by supplying currency 

units to said apparatus. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein the 
means for adjusting the predetermined float level is 

operable to adjust the level in dependence on a 
relationship between the number of received coins 

which have been directed to the store, and the number 
of received coins of the same denomination which have 

not been directed to the store. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim,  
 

the apparatus comprising a plurality of stores each 
for storing currency units of a respective 

denomination, the control means being operable 
automatically to empty each store to a respective 

predetermined float level. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
altering means is operable to alter at least a 

plurality of said float levels. 
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, 
the apparatus being operable in a first mode, in which 

the control means can be enabled by an operator 
automatically to empty the store to said predetermined 

float level, and in a second mode, in which said 
directing means is operable to direct currency units 

to the store on condition that a detected level of 
currency units in the store does not exceed a 

predetermined, adjustable upper level. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, including 
means for storing a value which in the first mode of 

the apparatus represents the predetermined float 
level, and in the second mode represents the 

predetermined upper level.  
 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 or 9, 
including means for automatically altering said 

predetermined upper level in dependence on one or more 
parameters indicative of the likelihood of the 

currency units being required for dispensing. 
Currency handling apparatus comprising a 
store (22,24,26) for storing units of currency (6), means for 

dispensing currency units from the store, and means (28) 
for selectively directing currency units to the store 

in dependence on whether or not a value indicative of 
the number of units in the store exceeds a 

predetermined upper level (FU) characterised by means (50) for 
automatically adjusting the upper level in dependence on 

one or more parameters indicative of the likelihood of 
the currency units being required for dispensing. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein 
the altering means is responsive to any one of the 

following parameters: 

(a) data indicative of the relative population 
levels of respective currency denominations in the 

area in which the apparatus is to be used; 
(b) the number of currency units of a particular 
denomination which have been received by the 

apparatus;  
 
(c) the number of currency units of a particular 
denomination which have been dispensed by the 

apparatus; 
(d) the way in which currency units of a 
particular denomination have been routed by the 

apparatus; 
(e) the or each denomination which can be 
dispensed by the apparatus; and 
(f) price data representative of the price of 
products or services obtained by supplying currency 

units to said apparatus. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 or 12, 
wherein the means for adjusting the predetermined 

upper level is operable to adjust the level in 
dependence on a relationship between the number of 

received coins which have been directed to the store, 
and the number of received coins of the same 

denomination which have not been directed to the 
store. 
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 11 
to 13, the apparatus comprising a plurality of stores 

each for storing currency units of a respective 
denomination, said directing means being operable to 

selectively direct currency units of different  
 

denominations to the respective stores in dependence 
on whether the number of currency units in each store 

exceeds a respective predetermined upper level, and 
wherein said adjusting means is operable to adjust at 

least a plurality of said upper levels. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
