<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644865</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUPERCRITICAL SEPARATION OF ISOMERS OF FUNCTIONAL ORGANIC COMPOUNDS AT MODERATE CONDITIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07B6300	C07B6300	C07C5142	C07C51487	C07C6500	C07C6511	G01N3000	G01N3002	G01N3006	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07B	C07B	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07B63	C07B63	C07C51	C07C51	C07C65	C07C65	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOECHST CELANESE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOECHST CELANESE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEBASTIAN MARK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEBASTIAN, MARK, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SUPERCRITICAL SEPARATION OF ISOMERS OF FUNCTIONAL ORGANIC COMPOUNDS AT MODERATE CONDITIONSTechnical FieldThe present invention relates generally to supercritical separation of organic compounds utilizing solubility differences, and more particularly-, to supercritical separation using solvent-modified carbon dioxide as a processing medium to purify isomers of functional aromatic organic molecules for use as monomers for polymer synthesis.Background of InventionThe applications of supercritical fluids as solvents for extracting or separating chemicals, foods and beverage products is increasing as seen in both the technical and patent literature. See, e.g. , Pat Tap-10 Patent Technology Review: Supercritical Fluids - Applications and Materials Business Communications Co. Inc. 25 VanZant St. Norwalk, Ct. 06855. Applications such as the decaffeination of coffee, extraction of herbs, spices, and separating alcohol and water have been described. Among the many advantages of supercritical separation are that the extract is essentially solvent-free when the solution is de-pressurized and the fluid can be re-cycled. Thus, supercritical systems may be operated without substantial waste streams of contaminated solvent.Despite interest in generally applying supercritical technology within the chemical industry, such processes have usually been applied to extracting non-polar 

components from naturally occurring substances such as petroleum, seed oils, or the like. It has been found useful to use a co-solvent such as methanol or water to increase the solubility of compounds in supercritical carbon dioxide. See R. T. Marentis, "Steps to Developing a Commercial Supercritical Carbon Dioxide Processing Plant" ACS Symposium Series, #366 127-143, (1988).In practical terms, a major obstacle to the commercialization of carbon dioxide-based supercritical processes for selected systems, especially functional aromatic systems which contain compounds suitable for use as monomer reactants, is that functional aromatic compounds of interest tend to have relatively low solubility at moderate pressures.Although extractions may occur at higher pressures, the increased cost of capital for high pressure hardware and higher energy costs incurred in achieving the high pressures and recycling the gas to these pressures, has made high pressure extraction prohibitively expensive.Krukonis et al. J. Chem.. Eng» Data, 1985, 30, 247- 249, report a difference of roughly two orders of magnitude in the solubility of isomers of hydroxybenzoic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method of separating isomers of functionalized aromatic compounds using a supercritical gas mixture consisting essentially of:
(a) preparing a supercritical fluid, the major component of which is carbon dioxide and a minor proportion of which is a polar solvent to form solvent-modified carbon dioxide and imparting flow to said solvent-modified 
^
supercritical carbon dioxide;
(b) contacting a mixture containing at least first and second isomers of a functionalized aromatic organic compound with said flowing solvent- modified supercritical carbon dioxide in a suitable apparatus, said mixture being substantially inert with respect to said solvent- modified supercritical carbon dioxide, at a temperature of at least about 30"Celsius and a pressure of at least about 70 atmospheres to selectively extract said first isomer from said mixture essentially by way of interaction with said solvent-modified supercritical carbon dioxide such that the mixture residue becomes enriched with said second, isomer; and 


 (c) precipitating said first isomer from said flowing solvent-modified carbon dioxide by expanding the gas stream to a pressure substantially below 70 atmospheres.
2. The method according to .Claim 1, wherein the mixture is in a solid state.
3. The method according to Claim 1, wherein the polar solvent is selected from the group consisting of water, organic alcohols, methanol, isopropanol, tetrahydrofuran, dimethylacetamide, acetone, an organic acid or mixtures thereof.
4. The method according to Claim 3, wherein said supercritical fluid consists essentially of carbon dioxide and methanol.
5. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said polar solvent is present in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 15 weight per cent of the solvent-modified carbon dioxide.
6. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said step of contacting said mixture with said solvent-modified supercritical carbon dioxide is carried out at a pressure between about 80 and 150 atmospheres, being abot the pseudo-critical pressure of the mixture.
7. The method according to Claim 6, wherein said pressure is between about 95 and 125 atmospheres. 


 8. The method according to Claim 7, wherein said pressure is from about 100 to about 115 atmospheres.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein said step of contacting said mixture with said solvent-modified supercritical carbon dioxide is carried out at a temperature of from about 30 to about 200 degrees Celsius.
10. The method according to Claim 9, wherein said temperature is from about 30 to about 100 degrees Celsius.
11. The method according to Claim 1, wherein said mixture contains at least a pair of geometric isomers of functional aromatic compounds selected from the group consisting of aromatic hydroxy-acids, aromatic diamines, aromatic diesters, mixed aromatic acid esters, aromatic diacids and halogenated aromatic compounds.
12. The method according to claim 11 wherein said pair of geometric isomers are of a compound with a diaryl nucleus of the naphthalene or biphenyl type.
13. The method according to Claim 12, wherein said pair of isomers are isomers of hydroxy-naphthoic acid.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein at least one of said isomers is 6-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid. 


 15. A method of separating a mixture including at least 2-hydroxynaphthalene, 6-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid and 3-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid comprising:
(a) preparing a supercritical fluid, the major component of which is carbon dioxide and a minor proportion of which is a polar solvent to form solvent-modified carbon dioxide and imparting flow to said solvent-modified supercritical carbon dioxide; and
(b) preparing a mixture containing 2- hydroxynaphthalene, 6-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid and 3-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid; and
(c) contacting said mixture with said flowing solvent modified supercritical carbon dioxide in a suitable apparatus at a temperature of at least about 30"Celsius and a pressure of at least about 70 atmospheres to selectively extract 2- hydroxynaphthaleneand 3-hydroxy-2-naphthoicacid from said mixture whereby the residue becomes enriched with 6-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid.
16. The method according to Claim 15, wherein the residue consists essentially of 6-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
