<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633944</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF MULTIPLEX LIGASE CHAIN REACTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12Q168	G01N33558	C12N1510	G01N33558	C12N1509	C12M100	C07K14435	C12N1510	C07K1447	C12M100	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12Q	G01N	C12N	G01N	C12N	C12M	C07K	C12N	C07K	C12M	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12Q1	G01N33	C12N15	G01N33	C12N15	C12M1	C07K14	C12N15	C07K14	C12M1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to multiplex ligase chain reaction (LCR). Two or more putative target sequences are selected. For each one, a set of four probes is used simultaneously to amplify the putative sequence if it is present in the sample. Preferably, all the amplicons are labeled with a common label/hapten and, for each different target, with a unique label/hapten. The invention also relates to an immunochromatographic strip device and method employing a diagonal array of capture spots.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOUMA STANLEY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOIJER JOANNEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOU CYNTHIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHOADS JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOUMA, STANLEY, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, JULIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOIJER, JOANNEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOU, CYNTHIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHOADS, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates to amplification of DNA and, in particular, to the
simultaneous amplification of multiple target sequences using the Ligase Chain Reaction
(hereinafter "LCR").This application is related to several other applications relating to LCR, including
EP 320 308 and EP 439 182.LCR is a method for amplifying exponentially the number of detectable target
molecules. It involves the use of two pairs of probes. A first or primary pair hybridizes
with one strand of a target sequence at near-adjacent positions so that they can be ligated
together in template-dependent fashion to form a reorganized primary molecule. The
secondary pair is capable of hybridizing to the reorganized primary molecule. LCR was
first described by Backman, et al. in EP-A-320 308. Much has been written about it since
then. For example, see Wallace, EP-A-336 731; Orgel, WO 89/09835; Richards, WO
89/12696; Segev, WO 90/01069; and Barany, Proc. Natl Acad Sci USA88:189-193
(1991). A variation of LCR known as "Gap" LCR is described in EP-A-439 182 and in
Segev, WO 90/01069.Instead of using two pairs of probes capable of forming blunt-ended duplexes, at
least one probe of one of the probe pairs initially includes a "modified" end which renders
the resultant duplex "nonblunt" and/or not a suitable substrate for the ligase catalyzed
fusion of the two probe duplexes. A "modified end" has either (1) a blocking moiety (or
additional base residues) on a group (e.g. the 5' phosphate or the 3' hydroxyl) which,
under ordinary LCR conditions, obligatorily participates in the ligase catalyzed fusion or
(2) omitted bases to create a "gap" between one probe terminus and the next probe terminusIn the "gap" embodiment, modified ends are created by eliminating from one or
more of the probes a short sequence of bases, thereby leaving a recess or gap between the 
5' end of one probe and the 3' end of the other probe when they are both hybridized to the
target (or target complement, or polynucleotide generated therefrom). In order for LCR to
amplify the target, the gaps between the probes must be filled in (i.e., the modification
must be "corrected"). In a first version, this can be done using a polymerase or a reverse
transcriptase and an excess of deoxynucleotide triphosphates which are complementary to
the target strand opposite the gap. Alternatively, this can be done by supplying a fifth
probe complementary to the target and a sixth probe complementary to the fifth probe.PCR or polymerase chain reaction is a different method for amplifying
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of performing multiplex ligase chain reaction comprising the steps
of:


a. providing a reaction solution containing nucleic add of a sample as single-stranded
nucleic acid, said sample putatively having one or more of a plurality of target

nucleic acid sequences;
b. for each putative target sequence, providing in the reaction solution at least
four nucleic acid probes (a probe set), wherein: i) the first and second of said probes are

primary probes, and the third and fourth of said probes are secondary nucleic add probes;
ii) the first probe is a single strand that hybridizes to a first segment of a primary

strand of the target nucleic acid iii) the second probe is a single strand that hybridizes
to a second segment of said primary strand of the target nucleic acid; iv) the 5'

end of the first segment of said primary strand of the target is positioned relative to the 3'
end of the second segment of said primary strand of the target to enable joining of the first

probe to the second probe when said probes are hybridized to said primary strand of said
target nucleic acid, thus forming a reorganized primary molecule having a first portion and

a second portion; v) the third probe hybridizes to a first portion of the
reorganized primary molecule; and vi) the fourth probe hybridizes to a

second portion of the reorganized primary molecule, the first portion of the reorganized
primary molecule being positioned relative to the second portion of the reorganized primary

molecule to enable joining of the third probe to the fourth probe when said third and fourth
probes are hybridized to said reorganized primary molecule, thus forming a reorganized

secondary molecule; and

wherein for each putative target sequence said probe set is balanced such that
each probe set is provided at a

concentration that enables said joining in the presence of each of the other probe sets; and

wherein each probe set produces a detectable product after the same number of
amplification cycles; and
c. repeating the following cycle:

i) hybridizing said probes with nucleic acid in said sample;
ii) performing said joining to form said reorganized molecules; and
iii) denaturing nucleic acid in said sample;

whereby with successive cycles the quantity of reorganized primary and secondary
molecules is increased for each putative target sequence present in the reaction solution.
The method according to claim 1, wherein said joining is performed by a
ligase enzyme, or a ligase enzyme and a polymerase enzyme.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the cycle of step c is repeated
from 20 to about 60 times.
The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one probe from each
probe set carries a detectable label, each of said detectable labels being differentiable from

the others.
The method according to claim 4, wherein said detectable labels comprise
haptens which are differentiable based on the specificity of different specific binding

members.
The method according to claim 1,wherein each of the probe sets are labeled
with two distinct labels such that the reorganized molecules, when hybridized together, are

labeled with two labels, at least one of which is a unique label that is different for each of
the probe sets.
The method according to claim 6, wherein the other label is a common label,
the same for each probe set.
The method according to claim 7, wherein the common label is used for
detection and is selected from the group consisting of radioisotopes, fluorophores,

chemilumiphores and haptens.
The method according to claim 6, wherein the unique labels comprise
unique specific binding members such that each unique specific binding member is

differentiable from every other specific binding member.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the unique labels comprise
specific haptens.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the unique labels comprise
specific hybridization probes.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the unique specific binding
member is used to separate the reorganized molecules of one probe set from the reorganized

molecules of at least one other probe set. 
The method according to claim 12, wherein the separation is achieved by
immobilizing a specific binding partner for each specific binding member at a different

location on a solid phase.
The method according to claim 12, wherein the separation is achieved by
immobilizing a specific binding partner for each specific binding member on a solid phase,

said solid phase being characterized by a property which permits differentiation of one from
another.
A method of detecting the presence, absence or quantity of each of a
plurality of target nucleic acid sequences by a multiplex ligase chain reaction comprising the

steps of:

a. providing a reaction solution containing nucleic acid of a sample as single-stranded
nucleic acid, said sample putatively having one or more of a plurality of target

nucleic acid sequences;
b. for each putative target sequence, providing in the reaction solution a set of
at least two and optionally four nucleic acid probes (a probe set), wherein: i) the first and

second of said probes are primary probes, and the optional third and forth of said probes
are secondary nucleic acid probes; ii) the first probe is a single strand that hybridizes

to a first segment of a primary strand of the target nucleic acid, iii) the second
probe is a single strand that hybridizes to a second segment of said primary strand

of the target nucleic acid; iv) the 5' end of the first segment of said primary strand of the
target is positioned relative to the 3' end of the second segment of said primary strand of

the target to enable joining of the first probe to the second probe when said probes are
hybridized to said primary strand of said target nucleic acid, thus forming a reorganized

primary molecule having a first portion and a second portion; v) the third probe
hybridizes to a first portion of the reorganized primary molecule; and vi) the forth

probe hybridizes to a second portion of the reorganized primary molecule,
the first portion of the reorganized primary molecule being positioned relative to the second

portion of the reorganized primary molecule to enable joining the third probe to the fourth
probe when said third and fourth probes are hybridized to said reorganized primary

molecule, thus forming a reorganized secondary molecule;

wherein at least one probe of each probe set contains a detectable label, the
detectable label associated with each probe set being differentiable from the detectable labels

associated with the other probe sets, whereby the presence, absence or quantity of each
putative target sequence can be determined: and
 
wherein for each putative target sequence said probe set is balanced such

that each probe set is provided at a
concentration that enables said joining in the presence of each of the other probe sets; and

wherein each probe set produces a detectable product after the same number of
amplification cycles; and
c. performing the following cycle:

i) hybridizing said probes with nucleic acid in said sample;
ii) performing said joining to form said reorganized molecules; and
iii) denaturing nucleic acid in said sample;

whereby with each cycle the quantity of reorganized primary and, optionally,
secondary molecules is increased for each putative target sequence present in the reaction

solution; and
d. measuring the detectable label associated with each of said probe sets as a
measure of the presence or quantity of target nucleic acid in the reaction solution.
The method according to claim 15, wherein said joining is performed by a
ligase enzyme, or a ligase enzyme and a polymerase enzyme.
The method according to claim 15, wherein said third and fourth probes are
provided and the cycle of step c is repeated from 10 to about 100 times.
The method according to claim 15, wherein the cycle of step c is repeated
from 20 to about 60 times.
The method according to claim 15,wherein the probes are labeled with two
labels such that the reorganized molecules are labeled with two labels, at least one of which

is a unique label that is different for each of the probe sets.
The method according to claim 17, wherein the probes are labeled with two
labels such that the reorganized molecules are labeled with two labels, at least one of which

is a unique label that is different for each of the probe sets and the other of which is a
common label.
The method according to claim 20, wherein the common label is used for
detection and is
 selected from the group consisting of radioisotopes, fluorophores.
chemilumiphores and haptens.
The method according to claim 20, wherein the unique labels comprise
haptens and wherein each unique hapten differs from every other unique hapten. 
The method according to claim 20, wherein the unique labels comprise
specific hybridization probes.
The method according to claim 22, wherein the unique hapten is used to
separate the different reorganized molecules.
The method according to claim 24, wherein the separation is achieved by
immobilizing a specific binding partner for each unique hapten at a different location on a

solid phase.
The method according to claim 24, wherein the separation is achieved by
immobilizing a specific binding partner for each unique hapten on a solid phase, said solid

phase being characterized by a property which permits differentiation of one from another
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
