<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648964</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Manifold valve assembly with removable valve seat.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1511	C12N1511	F15B1300	F15B1300	F15B1308	F16K1102	F16K1104	F16K11044	F16K1110	F16K1120	F16K2700	F16K2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	F15B	F15B	F15B	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	F15B13	F15B13	F15B13	F16K11	F16K11	F16K11	F16K11	F16K11	F16K27	F16K27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flow control manifold assembly, constructed of a number of manifold valve 
assemblies (12). Each manifold valve assembly is formed of first and second 

valve bodies (22,24), each body having at least one inlet port (36) and a 
plurality of outlet ports (38,46). The two valve bodies are connected 

together in fluid communication with each other. Associated with each valve 
body is an actuator assembly (26,28), which includes a valve actuator and 

an actuator rod (32) attached to and projecting outward from the actuator, 
and actuatable by the actuator. In at least one of the valve bodies, a bonnet 

(70) is affixed to the actuator, and projects into the respective one of the 
valve bodies. A valve stem (33), carrying at least one valve plug (40,42), 

is attached to the projecting end of the actuator rod (32), positioning the 
valve plug on the opposite side of the bonnet from the actuator. The bonnet 

includes a valve seat (94) for engagement with the valve plug when the valve 

plug is actuated to a predetermined position by the actuator. One embodiment 
provides a third valve body (322), also in fluid communication with the first 

valve body, so that flow from one source to two destinations can be 
controlled by a single valve assembly. Thus the invention replaces a single, 

expensive, multiple-actuator valve with a pair of inexpensive 
single-actuator valves which together are less expensive than the single 

valve they replace, while still preventing the mixing of different types of 
fluids. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRI CLOVER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRI-CLOVER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIMMERLY ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZIMMERLY, ROBERT D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to valves for controlling 
the flow of fluids, and particularly to 
block-and-bleed valves assembled together to form manifolds 
for controlling the flow of fluids from multiple 
sources to multiple delivery destinations. Certain 
concerns unique to the sanitary industry are discussed. It is common in the food packaging industry 
to have a need to connect a number of sources of a 
fluid, such as different types of milk, to a number of 
different filler machines to fill containers, such as 
gallons, half-gallons, quarts and so on. To date 
these connections have been accomplished in the form 
of a manifold, including a number of lines from the 
source tanks crossing a number of lines leading to the 
filler machines, with the valves being provided to 
permit or prevent flow of fluid from any selected one 
or more of the source tanks to any chosen one or more 
of the filler machines. This arrangement creates a 
need for an extremely large number of valves, however. 
For instance, a single manifold connecting ten source 
tanks to ten filler machines, would use over a hundred 
valves to accomplish the control which is necessary  
 
and desired. In the past, it has been conventional to use 
specially designed valves to control these manifolds, 
called block-and-bleed valves, sometimes called leak 
detector valves, with one such valve installed at each 
manifold intersection. Block-and-bleed valves are 
particularly applicable to the sanitary industry, because 
they permit control of flow of different types 
of fluids through the same valve with double protection 
against intermixing of those fluids. That is, it 
may be desirable to have chocolate milk flowing 
through one part of the valve and white milk through 
another part, or pasteurized milk through one part and 
raw milk through another part, or clean-in-place solution 
through one part and milk or another food fluid 
through another part. Clearly it is critical that 
these fluids not be permitted to mix, and regulations 
require that even failure of a single seat or valve 
plug not permit that mixing. The type of valve used in the past functioned 
generally satisfactorily in most instances. 
Being a single valve, however, it was required to be 
extremely complex and expensive, including multiple, 
coaxial, independently operable actuators and valve 
plugs. Under certain circumstances these valves were 
subject to substantial leakage and product waste, and 
when they did fail in this manner, while preventing 
mix of different
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A manifold valve assembly, comprising: 
   a first valve body, ha
ving at least one inlet 
port and a plurality of outlet ports; 

   a second valve body, also having at least one 
inlet port and a plurality of outlet ports; 

   said first and second valve bodies being connected 
in fluid communication with each other; 

   an actuator assembly including: 
   a valve actuator, 

   an actuator rod attached to and actuatable 
by said actuator, one end of said rod 

projecting outward from said actuator, 
   a bonnet affixed to said actuator, and 

insertable into said first valve body, 
and 

   a valve atom attached to the projecting end 
of said actuator rod, having at least 

one valve plug positioned on the side 
of said bonnet opposite said actuator 

after assembly of said valve stem to 
said actuator rod, 

   said bonnet including a valve seat for engagement 
with said valve plug when said 

valve plug is actuated to a predetermined 
position by said actuator. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
1 wherein said valve bodies each include a valve cavity, 

and wherein said valve bodies are connected in 
fluid communication by means of a crossover tube connected 

between said valve cavity of said first valve 
body and said valve cavity of said second valve body. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
1 wherein each of said valve bodies includes a pass-through 

area not controlled by said valve plug. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
3 wherein said bonnet includes a cage portion positioned 

in said pass-through area, so as to continuously 
permit flow through the bonnet. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
1 further comprising sealing means positioned between 

said bonnet and said valve body. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
5 wherein said sealing means comprises a gasket having 

enlarged side edges. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
5 wherein said sealing means comprises a pair of O-rings 

integrally connected by a web. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
1 further comprising a second actuator assembly including: 

   a second valve actuator, 
   a second actuator rod attached to and actuatable 

by said second actuator, one end of said 
second rod projecting outward from said second 

actuator, 
   a second bonnet affixed to said actuator, and 

insertable into the other of said valve bodies, 
and 

   a second valve stem attached to the projecting 
end of said second actuator rod, having at 

least one valve plug positioned on the side 
of said second bonnet opposite said second 

actuator after assembly of said second valve 
stem to said second actuator rod, 

   said second bonnet including a valve seat for engagement 
with said valve plug when said 

valve plug is actuated to a predetermined 
position by said second actuator. 
A manifold valve assembly as recited in claim 
 

1 further comprising a third valve body also in fluid 
communication with said first valve body, and having 

its own actuator. 
A manifold assembly, comprising: 
   a plurality of manifold valve assemblies; 

   means for connecting at least two of said manifold 
valve assemblies to respective ones of 

at least two supply sources; 
   means for connecting at least two of said manifold 

valve assemblies to respective ones of 
at least two delivery outlets; 

   each of said manifold valve assemblies including: 
   a first valve body, having at least one inlet 

port and a plurality of outlet 
ports; 

   a second valve body, also having at least 
one inlet port and a plurality of outlet 

ports; 
   said first and second valve bodies being 

connected in fluid communication with 
each other; 

   an actuator assembly including: 
   a valve actuator, 

   an actuator rod attached to and 
actuatable by said actuator, one 

end of said rod projecting outward 
from said actuator, 

   a bonnet affixed to said actuator, and 
insertable into one of said valve 

bodies, and 
   at least one valve plug attached to 

the projecting end of said actuator 
rod on the opposite side of 

said bonnet from said actuator, 
   said bonnet including a valve seat for 

 
engagement with said valve plug, 

when said valve plug is actuated 
to a predetermined position by 

said actuator. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 10 
wherein each of said valve bodies includes a pass-through 

area not controlled by said valve plug, and 
wherein said first valve body includes a pass-through 

area for one of said supply sources. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 10 
wherein each of said valve bodies includes a pass-through 

area not controlled by said valve plug, and 
wherein said second valve body includes a pass-through 

area for one of said delivery outlets. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 11 
or claim 12 wherein said bonnet includes a cage portion 

positioned in said pass-through area, so as to 
continuously permit flow through the bonnet. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 10 
further comprising sealing means positioned between 

said bonnet and said valve body. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 14 
wherein said sealing means comprises a gasket having 

enlarged side edges. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 14 
wherein said sealing means comprises a pair of O-rings 

integrally connected by a web. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 10 
wherein said valve bodies each include a valve cavity, 

and wherein said valve bodies are connected in fluid 
communication by means of a crossover tube connected 

between said valve cavity of said first valve body and 
said valve cavity of said second valve body. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 10 
further comprising a third valve body also in fluid 

 
communication with said first valve body, and having 

its own actuator. 
A manifold assembly as recited in claim 18 
wherein each of said three valve bodies includes a 

pass-through area not controlled by said valve plug, 
and wherein said first valve body includes a pass-through 

area for one of said supply sources, and second 
and third valve bodies each includes a pass-through 

area for a different one of said delivery outlets. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
