<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654385</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Landing legs for trailers.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60S900	B60S906	B60S910	B62D5300	B62D5308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60S	B60S	B60S	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60S9	B60S9	B60S9	B62D53	B62D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A landing leg operating system for a trailer landing leg (10) 
having an upper part (12) fixed to the trailer and a lower part (14) 

which is displaced vertically to increase or decrease the 
length of the leg (10) includes a reversible air motor (62). Air is 

caused to flow through the motor (62) one way to raise the leg (10) and 
the other way to lower the leg (10). Quick release valves (68,70) are 

connected to the motor (62) on opposite sides thereof. Air can 
flow through either valve (68,70) to the motor (62) but air reaching 

either valve (68,70) from the motor (62) is dumped to atmosphere. Air for 
raising the leg (10) is taken from the trailer's emergency brake 

line (120) as the trailer is coupled to a tractor. Air for 
lowering the leg (10) is taken either manually or automatically 

from the emergency air brake reservoir (124) to which said 
emergency brake line (120) is connected as the trailer is uncoupled 

from the tractor. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSNET LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRANSNET LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THERON JACOBUS WYNAND C O PORT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THERON JACOBUS WYNAND C O PORT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to landing legs for 
trailers. Tractor-trailer combination are extensively used, 
the connection between the tractor and the trailer being a 
so-called fifth wheel and king pin. When a tractor is to be 
uncoupled from a trailer, telescopic landing legs on the 
trailer are extended to within a short distance of the 
surface on which the tractor-trailer combination is standing. 
The electrical coupling, the main brake line and the 
emergency brake line of the trailer are then disconnected 
from the corresponding lines of the tractor. As the fifth 
wheel moves out from under the king pin, the trailer drops 
onto its landing legs. To reconnect the trailer and the 
tractor, the tractor is backed up so that the fifth wheel and 
the king pin engage lifting the trailer off its landing legs 
which can then be raised. The electrical and brake 
connections are then made. All the commercially available landing legs of 
which Applicants are aware are manually operated. The driver 
uses a crank handle to turn the input gear of a gear box 
which drives the movable elements of the landing legs up or 
down depending on the direction in which the handle is  
 
turned. Many proposals for driven landing legs have been 
made and reference can be had, by way of example, to United 
States Specification 4,097,840 which discloses a system 
including an electric drive motor, to US 5,299,829 which 
discloses a pneumatic system and to US 3,341,179 which 
discloses a hydraulically powered system. All these systems 
include operating means such as a valve or push button which 
must be activated by the driver to raise and lower the legs. Applicant is not aware of any commercially 
available system which does not utilise telescopic landing 
legs. However, in US 3,874,696 there is disclosed a system 
in which each landing leg is pivotally mounted at its upper 
end onto the truck body. An inclined air cylinder mounted 
between the leg and the truck body swings the leg between a 
vertical position of use and a retracted position in which it 
is at about 45 degrees to the horizontal. The trailer 
includes a storage tank for compressed air and a valve which 
connects the tank to the lower end of the cylinder to 
displace the leg to its retracted position and to the upper 
end of the cylinder to displace the leg to its vertical 
position. The valve is itself displaced between its two 
positions by air pressure in, or lack of air pressure in, the 
emergency brake line. When the trailer is uncoupled, the 
pressure in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A landing leg for a trailer, the leg including an 
upper part having means for mounting it on a trailer, a lower 

part which can move with respect to the upper part thereby to 
increase or decrease the length of the leg, an air motor, the 

air motor having first and second ports for connecting the 
air motor into an air line so that air flowing through said 

airline in either direction flows through said motor, air 
quick-release valves connected into said airline one on each 

side of the air motor, each of said valves having first and 
second inlet/outlet ports and a dump port through which air 

flows to atmosphere, and the valves each being connected to 
permit flow therethrough to the air motor whilst dumping to 

atmosphere air which flows thereto from the motor, and drive 
transmission means for transmitting drive from said motor to 

said lower part thereby to displace said lower part up or 
down with respect to said upper part and decrease or increase 

the length of the leg. 
A landing leg according to claim 1, and including 
a valve having an operating element positioned to be engaged 

by said lower part as it lifts, said valve, when operated by 
the raised lower part, diverting air away from said air motor 

so that lifting of said lower part is terminated. 
A landing leg according to claim 1, in which said 
transmission means is a step down transmission whereby 

 
rotation of an output shaft of the air motor results in 

slower rotation of an output shaft of said means. 
A landing leg according to claim 3, wherein said 
transmission means includes a smaller chain wheel driven by 

said output shaft of the air motor and a larger chain wheel 
driven by a chain entrained around said wheels, and further 

includes a gear train driven by said larger chain wheel. 
A trailer including an emergency brake line 
connect to an emergency brake operating air reservoir which 

fills when the trailer is coupled to a tractor and empties 
when the trailer is uncoupled from the tractor, a hose 

coupling for connecting said emergency brake line to the air 
system of a tractor, and an air leg as defined in claim 1 

having said upper part thereof mounted on said trailer, said 
air line being connected at one end thereof to said emergency 

brake line and at the other end thereof to said reservoir to 
receive air therefrom. 
A trailer which has a landing leg, the leg having 
an upper part mounted on the trailer, a lower part which can 

move with respect to the upper part thereby to increase or 
decrease the length of the leg, an air motor, the air motor 

having first and second ports for connecting the air motor 
into an air line so that air flowing through said airline in 

either direction flows through said motor, air quick-release 
valves connected into said airline one on each side of the 

 
air motor, each of said valves having first and second 

inlet/outlet ports and a dump port through which air flows to 
atmosphere, the valves each being connected to permit flow 

therethrough to the air motor whilst dumping to atmosphere 
air which flows thereto from the motor, drive transmission 

means for transmitting drive from said motor to said lower 
part thereby to displace said lower part up or down with 

respect to said upper part and decrease or increase the 
length of the leg, an emergency brake line leading to an 

emergency brake operating air reservoir, a hose coupling for 
connecting the emergency brake line to the air system of a 

tractor, a relay valve in said brake line which relay valve 
has a air inlet port, an air outlet port and a control port, 

said relay valve being between said coupling and said 
reservoir, a control valve operated by said lower part as the 

lower part lifts, said control valve being between said 
emergency brake line and a first of said quick release valves 

and serving to divert air from said motor to said control 
port of said relay valve when operated by the lifting lower 

part whereby said relay valve is opened so that air can flow 
to said reservoir, a further relay valve having an air inlet 

port, an air outlet port and a control port, said control 
port being connected to said emergency brake line so that 

pressure in the brake line closes said further relay valve, 
said outlet port of the further relay valve being connected 

to the second of said dump valves and its inlet port to said 
reservoir whereby, upon pressure in said brake line dropping 

when said brake line is disconnected from the tractor, air in 
 

the reservoir flows to said air motor. 
A trailer as claimed in claim 6, with the 
modification that said further relay valve is replaced by a 

manually operable valve connected between said reservoir and 
the second of said quick release valves whereby, upon 

operation of said manually operable valve, air from said 
reservoir is fed to said air motor to lower said leg. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
