<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616894</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Printing head device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2275	B41J227	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A printing head device according to the present 
invention includes a plurality of printing pins 

corresponding to respective dots, a plurality of first 
pin drive plates (20) having the printing pins fixed thereon 

and having surfaces on which first electrodes are formed, 
a plurality of second pin drive plates (30) having second 

electrodes opposing to the first electrodes with 
predetermined gaps therebetween, a first drive plate 

support member (11) for supporting the first pin drive plates (20) 
through elastic members (13), respectively, and a second drive 

plate support member (12) for supporting the second pin drive 
plates (30). Further, the second drive plate support member 

is vibrated repeatedly in a direction toward a top end 
of the printing pin by a drive unit. A drive circuit 

applies a voltage based on a printing signal between the 
first and second electrodes of the first and second pin 

drive plates with the vibration timing of the drive unit 
to generate Coulomb force between the first and second 

electrodes. With this construction, it is possible to 
enable the printing pins to perform a print by a single 

drive unit and to miniaturize the printing head. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKAMOTO MASAYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKAMOTO, MASAYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a printing head
device of a dot-impact type printer and, particularly,
to a printing head capable of being miniaturized.In a conventional dot-impact type printer, a
printing head having a plurality of printing wires and
a drive mechanism for driving the printing wires is
put in a facing relation to a recording sheet through,
for example, an ink ribbon and prints a dot pattern of
such as characters on the recording sheet by selectively
driving the printing wires while the head is running.
Fig. 12 is a cross section of a typical conventional
printing head and Fig. 13 is a plan view thereof showing
an arrangement of printing elements fixed in the printing
head. The printing head shown in Fig. 12 includes the
printing elements 80 shown in Fig. 14 in a printing head
housing 81 and arranged in an annular region as shown in
Fig. 13. Each printing element 80 includes a printing
wire 82, a leaf spring 83 for driving the printing wire,
an armature 84, a drive coil 85, a core 86 and a yoke 87.
The printing wire 82 is fixedly secured to a top end of 
the leaf spring 83 and has a top end which can protrude
through a guide 88 provided in a top end of the printing
head. The armature 84 is fixedly secured to the leaf
spring 83 which, in turn, is fixedly secured in between
the printing head housing 81 and the core 86. The drive
coil 85 is wound on the core 86 and can be selectively
driven according to a dot print signal.When magnetic flux generated by a current flowing
through the coil 85 passes through a magnetic circuit
constituted with the armature 84, the core 86 and the
yoke 87, the armature 84 is attracted to the core 86.
Therefore, the top end of the printing wire 82 collides
with the ink ribbon and the recording sheet (which are
not shown) to print the latter.In such conventional printing head, however, the
magnetic circuit must be provided every printing wire,
causing a miniaturization of the printing head to be
very difficult. JP-A-63 51 149 relates to a printing head of a wire-dot
printer. In this device an electrode plate is fixed to the
rear end part of a printing pin and another electrode plate
is arranged in a fixed state. The printing pin is held by
two actuator wires which are deformable. Adjacent to the
wires a magnet is provided. When a pulse current flows
through the actuator wires, the wires approach to each other
and the printing pin moves outwardly to record an ink dot.
At the same time, voltages of the same polarity are applied
to the electrode plates. When
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A printing head device of a dot-impact type printer
for printing a dot pattern on a recording sheet (41) according

to a printing signal, and said dot pattern is formed
by a plurality of printing pins (10) corresponding to dots; comprising:


a plurality of first pin drive plates (20) having said
printing pins fixed thereon and having surfaces on which

first electrodes (21) are formed;
a plurality of second pin drive plates (30) having second
electrodes (31) opposing to said first electrodes respectively,

which selectively attract corresponding ones of said first pin
drive plates by Coulomb force;
a first drive plate support member (11) movably
supporting said first pin drive plates respectively;
a second drive plate support member (12) for supporting
said second pin drive plates;
a drive unit (100) for vibrating said second drive place
support member in a direction towards a top end of said

printing pins at a timing of printing the dot pattern; and
a drive circuit (50,51,52) for applying a voltage selectively based on said
printing signal between said first and second electrodes respectively

with a vibration timing of said drive unit simultaneously to produce the
Coulomb force between said first and second electrodes,

said voltage being applied to said drive circuit during
vibration of said second drive plate support member.
The printing head device claimed in claim 1, wherein
said first drive plate support member (11) is provided with an

elastic member (13) for movably supporting each of said first
pin drive plates (20). 
The printing head device claimed in claim 2, wherein
said elastic member (13) is of electrically conductive material.
The printing head device claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein
said first electrode (21) is electrically connected to said

drive circuit through said elastic member (13).
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 2 to 4, wherein
said first drive plate support member (11) has a connector (14)

connected to said drive circuit, and said elastic member (13)
is connected to said connector.
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, wherein
said second electrode (31) is electrically connected to said

drive circuit through said second drive plate support
member (12).
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, wherein
said second electrodes (31) are connected to said drive circuit

individually.
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 1 to 7, wherein
at least one of said first and second electrodes (21,31) has an

insulating layer (21C, 31C) on its surface.
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 1 to 8,
wherein
 
said drive unit (100) includes a core (5), a drive coil (8) wound on

said core, an armature (6) arranged with a predetermined gap
with respect to said core, an elastic member (7) fixing said

armature and a member (9) for coupling said elastic member (7) and
said second drive plate support member (12).
The printing head device claimed in claim 9, wherein
said drive unit includes a coil drive circuit (50) for

repeatedly supplying current to said drive coil (8) with the
same period as that of said printing signal and a pin

drive circuit (51) for applying voltage based on said printing
signal between said first and second electrodes (21,31) with the

timing of the current supply to produce Coulomb force
between said first and second electrodes.
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 1 to 8, wherein
said drive unit includes a core (61), a permanent magnet (62)

connected in series with said core, a drive coil (65) wound
on said core for generating magnetic flux enough to

cancel magnetic flux of said permanent magnet, an armature (64)
arranged with a predetermined gap with respect to said

core, an elastic member (63) fixing said armature and a member
for coupling said elastic member (63) and said second drive

plate support member (12).
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 1 to 8,
wherein
 
said drive unit includes a piezoelectric element (71) and

a member (73) fixed to the other end of said piezoelectric
elemen
t and fixing said second drive plate support member (12)
at a point of action to which expansion and contraction

of said piezoelectric element is provided.
The printing head device claimed in any of claims 1 to 12, further
comprising a printing head housing (1,68,74) for housing the

components thereof other than said drive circuit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
