<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620294</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Random macrodomain multiconstituent fibers.  Their preparation and nonwoven structures from such fibers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D01F806	D01F646	D01F806	D04H154	D04H154	D01F646	D04H142	D04H142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D01F	D01F	D01F	D04H	D04H	D01F	D04H	D04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D01F8	D01F6	D01F8	D04H1	D04H1	D01F6	D04H1	D04H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Multiconstituent fibers prepared from two or more 
polymers, with at least one of these polymers being randomly 

dispersed through the fiber, in the form of domains. At least 
about 40 percent by weight of these domains have one length of 

at least 20 microns, measured in the direction along the fiber 
axis, and have another length, measured along the longest line 

dissecting the domain cross-section in a plane perpendicular 
to the fiber axis, of at least about 5 percent of the fiber 

equivalent diameter. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERCULES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERCULES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUPTA RAKESH KUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS JON RANDALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUPTA, RAKESH KUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLIAMS, JON RANDALL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to multiconstituent
fibers and their preparation, and to nonwoven structures
prepared from such fibers.Multiconstituent fibers, and means for their
preparation, are known in the art. References in this area
include U.S. Patent No. 3,616,149 (WINCKLHOFER), U.S. Patent
No. 4,634,739 (VASSILATOS '739,) U.S. Patent No. 4,632,861
(VASSILATOS '861, a division of VASSILATOS '739), U.S. Patent
No. 4,839,228 (JEZIC et al. '228), U.S. Patent No. 5,133,917
(JEZIC et al. '917, a continuation of JEZIC et al. '228), and
U.S. Patent No. 5,108,827 (GESSNER).Various known methods, of preparing multiconstituent
fibers, include procedures which involve dry blending, then
extruding the polymers, or subjecting the dry blended polymers
to melting, and possibly additional blending, before
extrusion. In these methods, the polymers are invariably
blended before melting is effected; accordingly, separate
melting of the individual polymers does not occur.Because the above processes do not employ separate
melting of the polymers, prior to their blending, intimate
mixing of the polymers is invariably effected, before the
extrusion step which provides the fibers. Consequently, the
domain size of the dispersed polymers is limited in one or
more dimensions; for instance, the domains are narrow or fine,
relative to the width of the fiber - e.g., they do not,
individually, occupy much of the fiber cross-sectional area,
or they have a small equivalent diameter, in comparison with 
that of the fiber - and/or they are short - i.e., they do not
extend for a long distance, along the axis of the fiber.For instance, among the results obtained, in the
above processes, are continuous/discontinuous phase
dispersions with the discontinuous phase provided in domains
which typically have a width of less than one micron, at their
widest point in cross-section, along the diameter of the
fiber, or which have a cross-section no larger than 0.1
percent of the fiber's cross-sectional area. Further, where
the miscibility or melt viscosity of the discontinuous phase
component is widely different than that of the continuous
phase component, the former can end up present in the form of
discrete short fibrils, typically of less than 10 microns in
length.The fibers obtained from these processes lack
availability of the lower melting point polymer, on the fiber
surface. In consequence, they fail to provide good thermal
bondability between fibers.As indicated, the aforementioned documents do not
disclose or suggest, in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multiconstituent fiber, comprising at least two
polymers, at least one of the polymers being randomly

dispersed through the fiber in the form of domains, wherein
for each polymer randomly dispersed in the form of domains,

at least about 40 percent by weight of the domains have a
first dimension of at least about 5 percent of the

equivalent diameter of the fiber, and have a second
dimension of at least about 20 microns, the equivalent

diameter of the fiber being defined as the diameter of a
circle having the same area as a cross-section of the fiber.
The multiconstituent fiber of claim 1, wherein at
least about 40 percent by weight of the domains have a first

dimension of at least about 10 percent of the equivalent
diameter of the fiber, and have a second dimension of at

least about 100 microns.
The multiconstituent fiber of claim 2, wherein at
least about 50 percent by weight of the domains have a first

dimension of from about 10 percent to about 80 percent of
the equivalent diameter of the fiber, and have a second

dimension of at least about 100 microns.
The multiconstituent fiber of claim 1, wherein the at
least two polymers comprise polypropylene and polyethylene,

the polypropylene comprising from about 10 to about 90
percent, and the polyethylene comprising from about 90 to

about 10 percent, by weight of the total weight of the
polypropylene and the polyethylene.
The multiconstituent fiber of claim 1, wherein the at
least two polymers comprise polypropylene and an ethylene-propylene

copolymer, the polypropylene comprising from about
10 to about 90 percent, and the ethylene-propylene copolymer

comprising from about 90 to about 10 percent, by weight of
the total weight of the polypropylene and the ethylene-propylene

copolymer. 
The multiconstituent fiber of any of the preceding
claims, wherein the at least two polymers comprise:


(a) a first polymer, as a continuous phase; and
(b) at least one second polymer, as at least one
discontinuous phase, randomly dispersed through the

continuous phase, in the form of the domains.
The multiconstituent fiber of any of claims 1-5,
comprising the at least two polymers, randomly dispersed in

the form of the domains.
The multiconstituent fiber of any of the preceding
claims which is a biconstituent fiber.
The multiconstituent fiber of any of the preceding
claims, wherein there is a difference of at least about 10°C

between the melting points of the at least two polymers.
The multiconstituent fiber of claim 9, wherein the at
least two polymers comprise polypropylene and polyethylene.
The multiconstituent fiber of claim 9, wherein the at
least two polymers comprise polypropylene and an ethylene-propylene

copolymer.
A nonwoven structure comprising multiconstituent
fibers as claimed in any of the preceding claims.
A method of preparing a multiconstituent fiber
comprising at least two polymers, at least one of the

polymers being randomly dispersed through the fiber in the
form of domains,

the method comprising:

(a) separately melting each of the at least two
polymers;
(b) mixing the separately melted polymers to obtain
a blend; and 
(c) extruding the blend, to obtain the
multiconstituent fiber, wherein step (b) comprises the

amount of mixing which provides that, for each polymer
randomly dispersed in the form of domains, in the

multiconstituent fiber obtained in step (c), at least about
40 percent by weight of the domains have a first dimension

of at least about 5 percent of the equivalent diameter of
the fiber, and have a second dimension of at least about 20

microns, the equivalent diameter of the fiber being defined
as the diameter of a circle having the same area as a cross-section

of the fiber.
The method of claim 13, wherein step (b) comprises the
amount of mixing which provides that, for each polymer

randomly dispersed in the form of domains, in the
multiconstituent fiber obtained in step (c), at least about

50 percent by weight of the domains have a first dimension
of from about 10 percent to about 80 percent of the

equivalent diameter of the fiber, and have a second
dimension of at least about 100 microns.
The method of claim 13, wherein step (b) comprises the
amount of mixing which provides that, for each polymer

randomly dispersed in the form of domains, in the
multiconstituent fiber obtained in step (c), at least about

40 percent by weight of the domains have a first dimension
of at least about 10 percent of the equivalent diameter of

the fiber, at their widest point in the fiber cross
direction, and have a second dimension of at least about 100

microns.
The method of any of claims 13-15, wherein step (a)
further comprises separately extruding the separately melted

polymers, and wherein step (b) comprises mixing the
separately melted and separately extruded melted polymers,

to obtain the blend.
The method of any of claims 13-16, wherein there is 
a difference of at least about 10°C between the melting

points of the at least two polymers.
The method of any of claims 13-17, wherein the at
least two polymers comprise:


(a) a first polymer, provided in an amount which
forms a continuous phase, in the multiconstituent fiber

obtained in step (c) ; and
(b) at least one second polymer, provided in an
amount which forms at least one discontinuous phase,

randomly dispersed through the continuous phase, in the form
of the domains.
The method of any of claims 13-17, wherein the at
least two polymers are provided in amounts so that the

multiconstituent fiber, obtained in step (c), comprises the
at least two polymers, randomly dispersed in the form of the

domains.
A laminate comprising at least one nonwoven structure
as claimed in claim 12 and at least one other layer of a

different fabric or film.
A process of forming a nonwoven fabric as claimed in
claim 12 comprising thermally bonding the fibers.
The process of claim 21 wherein the fibers are staple
fibers and are thermally bonded using through-air bonding.
The multiconstituent fiber of claim 6 wherein the
first polymer is polyester and the second polymer is

selected from the group consisting of polypropylene,
polyethylene, propylene-ethylene copolymer and co-polyester.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
