<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652734</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PERCUTANEOUS GASTROSTOMY FEEDING TUBE APPLICATOR AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61D700	A61D700	A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2502	A61M2502	A61M2506	A61M2506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61D	A61D	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61D7	A61D7	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Various embodiments of a gastrostomy method and gastrostomy device (10) are shown and described. The gastrostomy device (10) has an elongated body for insertion into the patient's stomach (16), a needle (50) for piercing a channel through the stomach (58) and abdomen walls (60), a shield means (38) for removably covering the needle as it is inserted into stomach (16), and an actuating means (30) for moving the needle forward to pierce the channel. The gastrostomy method includes piercing the channel from the inside of stomach (16) to the outside of the patient's body. The method includes insertion of the invented device (10) into stomach (16), placement of needle (50), unshielding the needle, and actuating the needle to pierce the channel. Optionally, the method may include steps of drawing strand (70) through the channel and out mouth (20), attachment to a feeding tube (68), and drawing the feeding tube into stomach (16) and into the channel.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELD LARRY A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELD, LARRY, A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELD LARRY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELD, LARRY, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TITLE OF INVENTION;PERCUTANEOUS GASTROSTOMY FEEDING TUBE APPLICATOR AND METHODCLAIM OF PRIORITY:This Application claims the priority of United States Patent Application Serial No. 08/068,905 originally filed 28 May, 1993.D E S C R I P T I O NBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONTechnical Field. This invention relates generally to medical methods and apparatus and more specifically to procedures for forming a channel through a stomach wall in percutaneous gastrostomy.Background Art. In recent years, the field of per- cutaneous gastrostomy has emerged in veterinary medicine as an effective technique for providing nutritional sup¬ port for critically ill small animals. Animals that are malnourished or unwilling or unable to eat may benefit from this treatment, especially if nutritional support is needed for longer than about one week.Percutaneous gastrostomy is a procedure involving the placement of a feeding tube through the skin, abdomen wall, and stomach wall of a patient as a means of sup¬ plying nutrients to the stomach without involving the head or esophagus. Percutaneous placement of the gastrostomy tube can be faster and involve less tissue trauma than the alternative of surgical placement, which involves making a 

grid incision through the skin and abdominal wall to locate and reach the stomach wall.Percutaneous gastrostomy has been done in the past with the aid of an endoscope, which is a fiber-optic instrument that can be directed through the esophagus and into the stomach for viewing the inside of the stomach. The endoscope typically has a forceps extending through it and reaching to the distal end and a channel for delivery of gas or liquid to the vicinity of the distal end. Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy (PEG) for veteri¬ nary patients is discussed in the article "Enteral Feeding of Critically 111 Pets: The Choices and Techniques," by P. Jane Armstrong, Veterinary Medicine, September 1992. Typically, the endoscope is introduced into the stomach and air is pumped through the endoscope to insufflate and distend the stomach. As the endoscopist views the inside of the stomach wall, an assistant chooses a point on the abdominal wall where the endoscope light can be clearly seen through the abdominal wall. The location of that point is confirmed by the assistant applying pressure to the abdominal wall and the endoscopist observing the resulting depression in the stomach wall. After good visualization of this point is confirmed, the assistant inserts a needle holding a suture strand through the skin,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. A gastrostomy method for making a channel through a patient' s stomach wall and abdomen wall for receiving a suture strand with first and second ends and for receiving a feeding tube, the gastrostomy method characterized by the steps of: directing an elongated gastrostomy device through the patient' s esophagus and into the stomach, the device having a distal region for placement in the stomach, an opposing proximal region for placement outside the esophagus for access by the surgeon, a needle neer the distal region for piercing the channel, and a shield means for covering the needle when it is being directed through the esophagus, - placing the needle in a desired location near the stomach wall by manipulating the proximal region of the device, remotely actuating the shield means to unshield the needle, - remotely actuating the needle to move forward to make the channel by piercing through the stomach wall and abdomen wall to extend outside the patient' s body. 

2. A gastrostomy device for making a channel through a patient' s stomach wall and abdomen wall for receiving a suture strand and a feeding tube, the gastros¬ tomy device comprising: - an elongated body having a distal region and an opposing proximal region, the distal region for placement through the patient' s esophagus into the stomach and the proximal region for exten¬ ding out of the esophagus for access by the surgeon, a needle attached to the elongated body distal region for making the channel by piercing through the stomach wall and abdomen wall to extend outside the patient' s body, - a retractable shield means for covering the needle when the distal region is moved through the esophagus and for being remotely retracted to uncover the needle, an actuating means accessible from outside the esophagus for remotely moving the needle forward to pierce the channel. 

3. A gastrostomy device as set forth in Claim 2 wherein the elongated body comprises: an elongated probe having a proximal region and an opposing distal region having a blunt end for tapping against the stomach wall, and an elongated rod extending generally parallel to and slidably connected to the probe and having a proximal region and an opposing distal region attached to the needle.
4. A gastrostomy device as set forth in Claim 3, further comprising a biasing means for biasing the rod backwards relative to the probe to pull the needle end behind the blunt end of the probe. 

5. A gastrostomy device as set forth in Claims 2 or 3, wherein the probe comprises a tube having a hollow interior and an opening near the blunt end and an aperture near the back region.
6. A gastrostomy device as set forth in Claim 5, wherein the rod is slidably received in the tube hollow interior so that the needle may slide forward and backward through the opening and the rod handle may be accessed through the aperture. 

7. A gastrostomy device for making a channel through a patient' s stomach wall and abdomen wall for receiving a suture strand and a feeding tube, the gastros¬ tomy device consisting of: - an elongated probe having a proximal region and an opposing distal region having a blunt end for tapping against the stomach wall, an elongated rod extending generally parallel to and slidably connected to the probe and having a proximal region and an opposing distal region, a needle attached to the distal region of the rod for making the channel by piercing through the stomach wall and abdomen wall to extend outside the patient' s body, - a retractable shield means for covering the needle when the distal region is moved through the esophagus and for being remotely retracted to uncover the needle, and an actuating means accessible from outside the esophagus for remotely moving the needle forward to pierce the channel. 

8. A gastrostomy device as set forth in Claims 3 or 7, wherein the probe is obtusely curved and the rod is flexible for slidably following the curve of the probe.
9. A gastrostomy device as set forth in Claim 7, wherein the probe comprises a tube having a hollow inter¬ ior and an opening near the blunt end and an aperture near the back region.
10. A gastrostomy device as set forth in Claim 9, wherein the rod is slidably received in the tube hollow interior so that the needle may slide forward and backward through the opening and the rod handle may be accessed through the aperture. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
