<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651715</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED BEVERAGE DISPENSING APPARATUS AND PROCESS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67C302	B67C306	B67C326	B67C700	B67C700	B67D100	B67D100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67C	B67C	B67C	B67C	B67C	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67C3	B67C3	B67C3	B67C7	B67C7	B67D1	B67D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A novel beverage dispensing apparatus (10) and process to fill recyclable containers with beverages. The apparatus includes a retraction assembly comprising a yoke (112) engaging a bottle for retracting the neck of the bottle into a dispensing chamber, thus sealing the bottle opening with a beverage dispensing nozzle (148). The beverage dispensing nozzle is configured with a syrup port (166), a carbonated water port (168), and a relief port (170). Through the syrup port, a syrup may be introduced into the center of the bottle. The carbonated water port is configured so carbonated water may be directed onto a side wall of the bottle. The relief port is positioned concentrically about the syrup port and between the syrup port and the carbonated water port and provides a port through which the fluid being displaced by the beverage entering the container may exit the container. A liquid detector (184) in fluid communication with the relief port, monitors the flow of fluid displaced by beverage entering the bottle to determine when the bottle is full.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOUNTAIN FRESH INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FOUNTAIN FRESH INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAGUN E BRENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRAGUN, E., BRENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED BEVERAGE DISPENSING APPARATUS AND PROCESSBACKGROUND1. The Field of the InventionThe present invention is related to an improved beverage dispensing apparatus and process. More particularly, the pres¬ ent invention is related to an improved soft drink mixing and dispensing apparatus which can be employed in a conventional grocery store for use by a consumer to fill recyclable bottles.2. Technical Background Soft drinks and related products have recently achieved a high degree of popularity. Indeed, the sale of soft drinks and related products has resulted in a multi-billion dollar a year market in the United States. Some soft-drink products have achieved popularity virtually throughout the entire world. How- ever, one of the problems with the sales and marketing of soft drinks is that they continue to be relatively expensive. Consu¬ mer demand would likely expand if the cost of soft drinks and their related products could be kept lower.Some of the reasons for the high cost of soft drinks are unrelated to the actual cost of the ingredients to make the drink. For example, soft drink containers are relatively expen¬ sive when compared with the cost of the finished product. Expensive metal cans or plastic containers are presently widely used to dispense soft drinks. At the same time, the price of metal, such as aluminum, is high. Plastic soft drink containers are also expensive when compared to the cost of the actual soft drink contained within the container. While some soft drink containers are recyclable, notably aluminum cans, most soft drink containers are not recycled in practice. For example, it is unusual to recycle plastic bottles.A further factor resulting in increased cost of soft drinks is expensive bottling techniques. While soft drink bottling is highly automated, the cost of the automated equipment is high. At the same time, significant labor is involved in both soft drink bottling and the distribution of the filled bottles.Thus, labor and equipment costs add significantly to the cost of the soft drink. 

 As a result of the factors discussed above, the actual soft drink purchased in a grocery store or other retail outlet may represent a relatively minor portion of the cost of the finished product. A significant portion of the cost is represented by the cost of the soft drink container and the labor and equipment costs in manufacturing the drink, filling the containers and distributing the filled containers.Thus, it would be an economic advantage to the consumer, the manufacturer and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. An apparatus for use by a consumer in dispensing a beverage into a container, comprising: bottle support means for permitting the consumer to place the bottle in engagement with the apparatus and for supporting the bottle upon placement of the bottle by the consumer in engagement with the apparatus; a dispensing line for introducing the beverage into the container, the dispensing line including a shutoff mechanism for discontinuing flow of the beverage through the dispensing line and a beverage dispensing nozzle through which beverage may be introduced into the contain¬ er; means for sealingly engaging the bottle and the dis¬ pensing line; a liquid detector in communication with the container, the liquid detector configured to monitor the flow of fluid which is displaced from the container as the beverage is introduced into the container through the dispensing line; and a shutoff actuator in communication with the liquid detector, the shutoff actuator configured to actuate the shutoff mechanism upon the detection of liquid by the liq¬ uid detector thereby discontinuing flow of the beverage through the dispensing line. 2. An apparatus for dispensing a beverage into a contain¬ er as defined in claim 1, wherein the liquid detector comprises a pressure sensor.
3. An apparatus for dispensing a beverage into a contain¬ er as defined in claim 1, wherein the bottle support means comprises an infrared light emitter and an infrared light detec¬ tor for detecting whether an object placed in engagement with the apparatus by a consumer is a beverage container.
4. An apparatus for dispensing a beverage into a contain¬ er as defined in claim 1, wherein the means for sealingly engag- ing the bottle and the dispensing line comprises a rubber gasket extending radially about the beverage dispensing nozzle.
5. An apparatus for dispensing a beverage into a contain¬ er as defined in claim 1, further comprising an ultraviolet light positioned to expose the beverage dispensing nozzle at 


predetermined times to destroy bacteria which may be on the beverage dispensing nozzle.
6. An apparatus for dispensing a beverage into a contain¬ er as defined in claim 5, further comprising an ultraviolet light detector positioned to detect when the ultraviolet light is emitting light.
7. A beverage dispensing nozzle for filling a container with a foamable beverage, the beverage comprising a non-foamable component which includes a carbonated liquid and a foamable component, comprising: a body configured to fit within the opening of the container, the body comprising: a first port configured for directing a flow of the non-foamable component of the beverage onto a side wall of the container; and a second port through which a flow of the foam¬ able component of the beverage may be directed into the container and away from any interior sidewall of the container. 8. A beverage dispensing nozzle for filling a container with a foamable beverage as defined in claim 7, wherein the first port comprises a cylindrically shaped channel extending concentrically about the second port.
9. A beverage dispensing nozzle for filling a container with a foamable beverage as defined in claim 8, wherein the first port further comprises an outlet orifice for directing the flow of the non-foamable beverage onto the side wall of the container.
10. A beverage dispensing nozzle for filling a container with a foamable beverage as defined in claim 7, further compris¬ ing a relief port through which the fluid being displaced by the beverage entering the container may exit the container, the relief port comprising a cylindrically shaped channel extending concentrically about the first port. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
