<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653995</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENCAPSULATION PRODUCT, EQUIPMENT AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B300	B65B102	B65B302	A61J307	B65B4300	B67C300	B65B100	B65B4300	A61J307	B67C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	A61J	B65B	B67C	B65B	B65B	A61J	B67C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B3	B65B1	B65B3	A61J3	B65B43	B67C3	B65B1	B65B43	A61J3	B67C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and apparatus for encapsulating small articles such as medicines in caplet or cylindrical form are disclosed. Gelatin half capsules are formed on the pins (11) of pin blocks (10) and are delivered to a station at which they are trimmed and fitted over the opposite ends of the product to be encapsulated. The capsule halves are first dried to a condition in which they have about 20 wt. % moisture and are thereafter press fitted over the ends of the caplets and allowed to dry to shrink fit tightly onto the caplets making it virtually impossible to remove them from their gelatin coverings without leaving visible evidence of tampering. The finished product has a smoother outer surface which lends itself to overprinting.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER LAMBERT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER-LAMBERT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUTER ERICH W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAUTER, ERICH, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the encapsulation of
small articles, particularly of medicines in
cylindrical form, such as lozenges or caplets within a
coating or covering of a gelatin or a gelatin-like
substance.The dispensing of medicines and the like within
readily digestible gelatin capsules is a technique
which has been in use since the middle of the last
century. Typically, empty gel capsules have been
manufactured in two piece cylindrical form, one piece
being called the body and the other the top. The
capsule bodies are filled with medicine and the tops,
which have a slightly larger internal diameter than the
outer diameter of the body, are placed over the filled
bodies for supply to the ultimate consumer.Over the years, a strong consumer preference has
developed for taking many kinds of medicine in capsule
form. The encapsulated products are generally
considered to be easier to swallow, since they are
tasteless and the gelatin coating does not dissolve
until the capsule is within the stomach. so that bitter 
and otherwise unpleasant tastes associated with many
medicines are avoided.Presently utilized forms of capsule-making
equipment are essentially the same in operating
principles and basic construction as the equipment
described in Colton U.S. Patent No. 1,787,777, issued
January 6, 1931, the disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference. According to Colton,
capsule-forming pins are mounted in series on elongated
bars called pin bars. Pairs of pin bars, one having
pins dimensioned to form capsule tops or caps and the
other having pins of slightly smaller diameter and
forming capsule bodies, are moved along parallel paths
to a dipping bath where the pins are immersed in a
liquid gelatin of conventional composition under
temperature conditions which allow for the formation of
a coating of gelatin on each pin. When the desired
amount of coating has accumulated, the bars with the
coated pins are then removed from the gelatin bath,
passed through a drier and then stripped from the pins
by a stripper mechanism into openings in collets or
holders associated with each pin. The ends of the
capsule parts are then trimmed to length after which
the capsule top or cap is fitted onto the capsule body.
In the form Colton machines have been used for many
years, the completed empty capsules are then deposited
on a conveyer belt and, after inspection, are shipped
to a pharmaceutical company or pharmacy where they are
taken apart, filled with medicament and, thereafter,
bottled in predetermined quantities
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An encapsulated product comprising:

a solid caplet; and
first and second generally cylindrical gelatin
capsule parts each having an open end and a hollow

interior of cross-section substantially equal to the
cross-section of the caplet and each other;

   characterised in that said capsule parts are fitted
over said caplet with said open ends abutting each other.
An encapsulated product according to claim 1
wherein said hollow interiors each have a length

substantially equal to half the length of the caplet.
An encapsulated product according to claim 1 or
claim 2 wherein said capsule parts are differently

coloured.
An encapsulated product according to any preceding
claim wherein said product is a medicinal product.
An encapsulated product according to any preceding
claim wherein said capsule parts have a moisture content

of 10% or more.
An encapsulated product according to any preceding
claim wherein said capsule parts are shrink fitted onto

said caplet. 
An encapsulated product according to claim 5 wherein
said capsule parts have a moisture content of more than

18%.
A method of making an encapsulated product according
to any one of claims 1 to 6 comprising effecting relative

movement between said first and second capsule parts and

said caplet until said open ends abut with the caplet
within said parts, said caplet parts when fitted over

said caplet having a moisture content greater than 10%,
and thereafter causing the moisture content of said

capsule parts to decrease.
Equipment for the encapsulation of an elongated
object within a gelatin cover comprised of a pair of

open-ended capsule portions of substantially identical
cross-sectional dimension, said equipment comprising:


an open-ended object support (29, 32) adapted to
receive a said object;
a pair of collets (20, 38) for holding a pair of
said capsule portions;
means for positioning said collets on opposite sides
of said open-ended object support with the open ends of

the capsule portions in spaced apart facing relationship
in axial alignment with a said object received in the

support; and
ejecting means (40) coaxially disposed within each
of the collets for advancing said capsule portions from

said collets into positions over the object received in
said support member until the open ends of said capsule

portions abut.
Equipment according to claim 9 wherein said ejecting
means are adapted to operate simultaneously.
Equipment according to claim 9 or claim 10 including
dryer means (18) upstream of said collets.
Equipment according to any one of claims 9 to 11
wherein said object support includes a receptacle member

(29) comprising a throughbore, and further comprising a
feed means comprising a tubular guide chute (30a)

disposed adjacent said throughbore.
Equipment according to claim 12 wherein the
receptacle member is movable between a first position in

which said throughbore is aligned with said chute, and a
second position in which said throughbore is aligned with

the capsule portions in said collets.
Equipment according to claim 13 wherein said second
position is substantially horizontal.
Equipment according to claim 13 or claim 14 wherein
said first position is substantially vertical.
Equipment according to any one of claims 13 to 15
wherein a plurality of said throughbores are provided in

said receptacle member in axially spaced side-by-side
relation, each said throughbore being associated with a

respective one of a like plurality of chutes, and a
respective one of a like plurality of pairs of collets. 
Equipment according to claim 16 wherein said
receptacle member is substantially cylindrical, and said

object support further comprises an elongated support
member (32) for said receptacle member, said support

member closing the lowermost end of each said throughbore
in the first position.
Equipment according to claim 17 wherein said
receptacle member is fitted within a cylindrical bore of

the elongated support member, the upper surface of the
support member having object admitting openings (34) each

in register with the uppermost end of a respective
throughbore in the first position, for passage of objects

from the chutes to the throughbores.
Equipment according to claim 18 wherein said
elongated support member has pairs of lateral openings

(36) each pair of which is in register with opposed ends
of a respective throughbore in the second position, to

allow passage of capsule portions over the ends of
objects within the throughbores.
A method of encapsulating elongated generally
cylindrical objects within a gelatin cover comprised of a

pair of capsule portions of substantially identical
cross-section and length, each capsule portion having a

closed end and an open end, said method comprising the
steps of: 


feeding individual said objects in end-to-end
relation through a plurality of parallel paths to an

object holding station;
depositing said objects at said holding station in
side-by-side relation;
rotating objects deposited at said holding station
from a first position to a second position transverse to

the first position; and
moving paired collets containing capsule portions to
positions of alignment with each object with the open

ends facing the object, and moving the capsule portions
from the collets and onto the object until the open

capsule ends abut.
The method according to claim 20 wherein the
moisture content of the capsule portions in said collets

lies between 10 and 25%.
The method according to claim 20 or claim 21 wherein
the moisture content of the capsule portions is reduced

after they have been moved onto the object.
The method according to any one of claims 20 to 22
wherein the hollow interiors of the capsule portions each

have a length substantially equal to half the length of
the object.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
