<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615035</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Composite modular building panel.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04C238	E04C238	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04C2	E04C2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular construction panel (70) comprising parallel, flanged 
support studs (10) between which are disposed foamed insulation 

panels (50), forming one side of the building panel. The side 
opposite the foamed insulation panels is a layer of a foamed 

concrete cast (60) such that part of each support stud, including the 
flanges (20) and part of the web (24), is embedded within the 

concrete layer (60) along the entire length of the stud (10). The 
invention also relates to a process for making such building panels. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
P 
&
 M MFG CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
P 
&
 M MANUFACTURING CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANCINI PHILIP S JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANCINI PHILIP S JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a modular building panel for constructing 
buildings and enclosures, and a method for making such a modular 
building panel. More particularly, the invention relates to a 
composite modular panel employing adjacent cellular concrete and 
insulation panels positioned between parallel support studs. Prior concrete wall structures suffer from numerous defects 
including poor strength characteristics, higher construction costs 
longer construction time, poor durability, and poor thermal and 
fire-resistant characteristics. Additionally, most current construction 
techniques are not resistant to extreme natural conditions such as 
hurricane winds or earthquakes. For example, U.S. Patent No. 5,055,252, to Zimmerman discloses a 
method of constructing a wall by casting concrete within a horizontal 
frame surrounding U-shaped stud forms to define the vertical studs 
and support members which define the top and bottom horizontal 
members. Prior to filling the frame with concrete, 1) the spaces 
between the stud forms and the support members Are filled with 
insulating panels supported on the edges of the stud molds, and 2) 
reinforcing rods are placed in the stud molds and support members,  
 
and the reinforcing rods are connected together to form an 
integrated reinforcing structure. Although this process provides a 
satisfactory wall, the resulting wall is neither prefabricated nor 
modular, in the sense that it must be erected in situ, and cannot 
be manufactured off-site and transported to the site where it is 
assembled with like modules to construct a building. Further, the 
studs and beams of the panel are steel-reinforced concrete. 
Consequently, the panel lacks the strength of panels with steel 
studs and beams. U.S. Patent No. 4,856,244, to Clapp discloses a tilt-wall concrete 
panel with a peripheral frame of wood or woods-like members atop a 
barrier film of plastic, and an insulating foamed plastic cover poured 
as a liquid into the frame. Because Clapp does not use steel 
reinforcing, load-bearing members to support the concrete layer, the 
strength of his panel is reduced. Additionally, the structural integrity 
of the panel is reduced due to the absence of any means of bonding 
the concrete layer to either the foam layer or the "wood like" studs. 
Finally, because the concrete must be poured on-site, the panel 
cannot be prefabricated. U.S. Patent No. 4,554,124, to Sudrabin discloses a construction 
panel comprising an outer molded panel contoured to provide 
openings
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of constructing a building panel (70) comprising: 

(a) providing an insulation panel (50) having a width and 
length; 
(b) providing a pair of linear members (10) having ends, a 
length equal to that insulation panel (50), and first and opposed 

edges; 
(c) locating the linear members (10) parallel to each other a 
distance apart equal to the width of the insulation panel (50) with 

their first edges (22) on a horizontal support surface (S,) each linear 
member (10) having a flange (20) at its second edge; 
(d) placing the insulation panel (50) between the linear 
members (10) in a plane parallel to the support surface (S) between 

the opposed edges (20) of the linear members (10); and 
(e) forming a layer (60) of filler material over the insulation 
panel (50), and extending above the second edges of the linear 

members to envelop the flange (20), to form a building panel (70). 
The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: 

(f) providing a framework (40) around the insulation panel 
(50) and the linear members (10) prior to said step (e), the 

framework (40) defining a mold for the formation of the layer of filler 
material (60). 
The method of claim 2, wherein in said step (e), the layer of filler 
material (60) is formed to have a length and a width substantially 

equal to those of the insulation panel. (50) 
The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: 

(g) connecting the linear members (10) by at least one 
fastener (30) prior to said step (e). 
The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: 

(f) providing a framework (40) around the insulation panel, the 
linear members (10), and the fasteners (30) after said step (g) and 

prior to said step (e) the framework (40) defining a mold for the 
formation of the layer (60) of filler material . 
The method of claim 4, wherein in said step (g), the fastener (30) 
is a linear channel member having first and second opposed edges, 

a flange (32) at the second edge thereof fitting enclosingly around 
the flanges (20) of the linear members (10), and a length 

substantially equal to the width of the insulation panel (50), 
disposed perpendicularly to and at one end of the linear members 

(10) provided in step (b), and secured thereto. 
The method of claim 1, wherein in said step (e), the filler material 
is concrete. 
The method of claim 5, wherein in said step (e), the concrete is 
foamed concrete. 
A method of constructing a building panel comprising: 

a) providing a plurality of insulation panels (50) having a 
width, length and thickness; 
b) providing a plurality of linear members comprising two 
outermost linear members (10) and at least one inner linear member 

(12) each said member having a length equal to that of the 
insulation panels (50), and having opposed first and second edges 

connected by a web (24) of a specified span greater than the 
thickness of the insulation panels; 
c) locating the linear members (10) parallel to each other at 
distances apart equal to the width of the insulation panels (50), with 

their first edges on a horizontal support surface (S), each linear 
member having a flange (22) at its second edge, the inner linear 

members (12) being disposed between the two outermost linear 
members (10); 
d) placing the insulation panels (50) between the webs (24) of 
adjacent linear members (10,12) in a plane parallel to the support 

surface (S) and between the opposed edges of the linear members; 
and 
e) forming a panel of filler material (60) over the insulation 
panels, (50) and extending above the second edges of the linear 

members to envelop the flanges (20), to form a building panel (70). 
The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of: 

(f) providing a framework (40) around the insulation panels 
(50) and the linear members (10) prior to said step (e), the 

framework (40) defining a mold for the formation of the layer (60) of 
filler material. 
The method of claim 10, wherein in said step (e), the layer of 
filler material (60) is formed to have a length substantially equal to 

that of the insulation panels (50). 
The methods of claim 9, further comprising the step of: (g) 
connecting the linear members (10) by at least one fastener (30) 

prior to said step(e). 
The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of: 

(f) providing a framework (40) around the insulation panels 
(50), the linear members (10), and the fasteners (30) after said step 

(g) and prior to said step (e), the framework (40) defining a mold for 
the formation of the layer (60) of filler material. 
The method of claim 12, wherein in said step (f) the fastener (30) 
is a linear channel member having first and second opposed edges, 

a flange (32) at the second edge thereof fitting enclosingly around 
the flanges (20) of the linear members (10,12), and a length 

 
substantially equal to the combined widths of the insulation panels 

(50), disposed perpendicularly to and at one end of the linear 
members (10) provided in step
 (b), and secured thereto. 
The method of claim 9, wherein in said step (e) the filler material 
is concrete. 
The method of claim 9, wherein in said step (e) the concrete is a 
foamed concrete. 
A building panel comprising: 

a) a planar slab (60) having a thickness and parallel upper 
and lower surfaces 
b) a plurality of parallel linear members (10) each having a 
length "x", first and second opposed edges connected by a web (24) 

of a specified span "s", and a flange (20) at said second edge at 
least partially embedded within said slab (60) along its length, 

adjacent linear members being separated from each other by a 
distance "d"; and 
c) a plurality of insulation panels (60) each said panel having 
opposed first and second edges, upper and lower opposing 

surfaces, a thickness less than said span "s", a length "x" equal to 
said length "x" of said parallel linear members (10) and a width "d" 

equal to said distance "d" between adjacent linear members, each 
said panel being located between a pair of adjacent linear members 

 
(10), (12) with the said first and second edges of said panel being 

adjacent to said webs of said linear members. 
The building panel of claim 17, wherein said upper surface of 
each said insulation panel (50) is adjacent to said lower surface of 

said slab (60). 
The building panel of claim 17, wherein said slab (60) is formed 
of a foamed concrete. 
A building panel (70) comprising: 

a) a planar concrete slab (60) having a thickness and parallel 
upper and lower surfaces, 
b) a pair of parallel linear members (10) each having a length 
"x", first and second opposed edges connected by a web (24) of a 

specified span "s" , and a flange (20) at their second edges, located 
a distance "d" apart and partially embedded within said slab (60) 

along their length such that the flanges are embedded within said 
slab, and 
c) an insulation panel (50) having opposed first and second 
edges, upper and lower opposing surfaces, a thickness less than the 

span "s" of the linear members (10), a length "x" equal to that of the 
linear members (10) and a width "w" equal to the distance "d" 

between said linear members, located between said linear members 
 

such that their first and second edges are each adjacent to a web 
(24) of a linear member (10). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
