<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644025</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for mixing components and device for executing the method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F1504	G05D1100	B29B776	B29B700	G05D1113	B01F1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	G05D	B29B	B29B	G05D	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F15	G05D11	B29B7	B29B7	G05D11	B01F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Instead of a discontinuous mixing method when mixing material components, for instance for a paint spraying device, of two or more such material components, in the case of the invention it is intended to use a constantly mixing and feeding method, including the associated device. For this purpose, use is made of individually driven metering pumps, in particular driven by piston motors, the delivery flows of which pumps are measured; the through-flow measured values determine the fluid pressure by which the piston motors are driven. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAGNER WILHELM WIWA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIWA WILHELM WAGNER GMBH 
&
 CO. KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEINWEBER GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEINWEBER, GUENTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the continuous mixing of material 
components, more particularly for a paint spraying 

device, by means of at least two metering pumps each 
conveying a material component, which pumps can each be 

actuated by a drive member drawing its drive energy from 
a fluid acting upon the drive member and which convey the 

material components into a preferably static mixer, from 
which the finished mixture can be continuously supplied 

to a consumer, for example a paint spray gun, a non-return 
valve being connected in each component line or 

metering pump so that there can be no return flow of the 
components, and furthermore the flows of each material 

component are measured and the associated flow 
measurement values are fed into a control device, 

characterised in that 


a) the fluid (6) continuously acts upon the drive member 
of a first metering pump (3) with an adjustable, 

preferably constant flow pressure and 
b) the flow pressure of the fluid (6) continuously 
acting upon the second and each further drive member 

is adjusted by adjustment commands of the control 
device (5) so that the flow measurement values (30, 

30') of the flows continuously controlled by the 
metering pumps (3, 3') lie in a predeterminable ratio 

to one another, which ratio can be supplied to the 
control device (5) as a nominal value. 
A method according to claim 1, characterised in that 
the parameters of the adjustment commands required for 

controlling the flow pressures which may vary during the  
 

mixing are calculated by a computer connected to the 
control device (5). 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that compressed air is used for the fluids (6). 
A method according to one of claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that the flows (30, 30') of the 

individual components are determined from the 
reciprocating movement of the metering pumps. 
A method according to claim 4, characterised in that 
the reciprocating movements are determined via 

incremental transmitters (41, 33). 
A device for carrying out the method according to 
one of claims 1 to 5, comprises at least two metering 

pumps (3, 3') continuously drivable by drive members, a 
mixer with a mixing head (1), which is hydraulically 

connected by component lines (21) to the delivery side of 
the respective metering pump (3, 3'), a control device 

(5) controlling the drive of the metering pumps and the 
required fixtures, measuring and adjusting devices. 
A device according to claim 6, characterised in that 
piston motors (4, 4') are used as drive members for the 

metering pumps (3, 3') and the metering pumps (3, 3') are 
constructed as piston pumps. 
A device according to claim 6, characterised in that 
the piston motors (4, 4') are operated by means of 

compressed air or hydraulics. 
A device according to one of claims 6 to 8, 
characterised in that a pressure control (61, 61') is 

provided on each drive member for the flow pressure of  
 

the fluid (6) which is used and which acts upon the 
respective drive member. 
A device according to claim 8, characterised in that 
the pressure control (61, 61') is provided with a nominal 

value adjusting device (62, 62') for the flow pressure of 
the fluid (6). 
A device according to claim 10, characterised in 
that the nominal value adjusting device (62) of a first 

drive member is adjustable manually and/or by the control 
device (5) to a disturbance value-independent, 

substantially fixed nominal value, more particularly a 
nominal value independent of a flow measurement value 

(30) for the flow of the associated material component 
(W1). 
A device according to claim 10, characterised in 
that an adjusting motor (63) is provided in each case on 

the nominal value adjusting device (62') of a second and 
further drive member, the adjusting motor (63) being 

connected to the control device (5) in such a manner that 
the nominal value of the flow pressure can be 

automatically adjusted as a function of the flow 
measurement value (30') of the respective material 

component (W2) determined in the associated component 
line (21). 
A device according to one of claims 6 to 8, 
characterised in that the control device (5) is provided 

with an adjusting member for adjusting the ratio of the 
flows in the individual component lines (21) relative to 

one another. 
A device according to claim 13, characterised in 
that a nominal value adjusting device is provided on the  

 
control device (5), by means of which nominal value 

adjusting device the ratio of the flows can be preset. 
A device according to one of claims 6 to 14, 
characterised in that a machine part of the drive member 

or the associated metering pump (3, 3') which is moved by 
the drive member during the operation of the metering 

pump (3, 3'), together with a sensor (41) responsive to 
the movement of the machine part, forms a measurement 

value transmitter (33, 41) for the flow measurement value 
(30, 30') of the associated flow in the component line 

(21). 
A device according to claim 15, characterised in 
that the moved machine part is visible during operation. 
A device according to one of claims 7 to 11 and 
claim 15 or 16, characterised in that the metering pump 

(3, 3') is flanged onto the piston motor (4, 4') by means 
of a plurality of spacing bolts (31) in such a manner 

that an axial connecting rod system (32) between the 
pistons of the piston motor (4, 4') and the metering pump 

(3, 3') is visible as the moved machine part. 
A device according to claim 17, characterised in 
that the connecting rod system (32) or a piston rod (43) 

facing away from the metering pump (3, 3') is provided 
with a transmitter (33) fixed to said connecting rod 

system (32) or piston rod (43), which transmitter (33) 
triggers measurement signals in the sensor (41) fixed to 

the piston motor (4, 4') and/or metering pump (3, 3'). 
A device according to claim 17, characterised in 
that an incrementally operating length measuring rod is 

used as the sensor (41).  
 
A device according to one of claims 7 to 19, 
characterised in that a non-return value is arranged 

within each metering pump (3, 3') for the flow driven by 
said pump. 
A device according to one of claims 6 to 20, 
characterised in that the control device (5) is coupled 

to a computer, which is at least suitable for calculating 
the nominal value for the flow pressure of the fluid (6) 

at the second and each further drive member from the flow 
measurement values (30. 30') of the flows. 
A device according to claim 6, characterised in that 
it can be automatically switched off by the control 

device (5) if a predetermined interval for the mixing 
ratio of the material components (W1, W2) is exceeded or 

not attained. 
A device according to claim 22, characterised in 
that a circuit is provided in the control device (5) by 

means of which a switching off is at least periodically 
prevented, even though a predetermined interval for the 

mixing ratio of the material components (W1, W2) is 
exceeded or not attained, if 


a) the process is in the start-up phase and a change of 
at least one material component (W1, W2) has been 

changed or 
b) the nominal value has been readjusted for the 
stationary flow pressure of the fluid (6) acting 

upon the first drive member. 
A device according to one of claims 7 to 11 or 20 to 
23, characterised in that a magnet transmitter 

cooperating with a magnet sensor detecting the movement  
 

of the piston is arranged on the piston of the drive (4) 
and/or of the metering pump (3, 3'). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
