<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624855</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cord label producing device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J336	B41J336	B41J3407	B41J3407	B41J2100	B41J2100	B65C300	B65C302	B65C946	B65C946	B65C1100	B65C1102	G06K1500	G06K1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J3	B41J3	B41J3	B41J3	B41J21	B41J21	B65C3	B65C3	B65C9	B65C9	B65C11	B65C11	G06K15	G06K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device is provided that produces a label used 
for a cord. The device is capable of forming winding 

margins coincident with the particular size of various 
power cords by a simple operation and is capable of 

creating cord labels easily affixed to the respective 
power cords. When cord labels are wound on the periphery 

of a cord, a required winding margin is set corresponding 
to the size of the cord, and text is printed on at least 

one side of the winding margin. Further, preferably when 
the texts are printed on both sides, a straight line is 

printed at the intermediate position of the margin to 
extend in the transverse direction of the label to aid in 

positioning. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER IND LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BROTHER KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRONO KAZUHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIRONO, KAZUHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a device for 
producing a label used for a power cord or the like. The 
label is wound around and affixed to the power cord or the 
like and is used to identify the power cord or the like. 
This invention particularly relates to a cord label 
producing device capable of creating a cord label that is 
easily affixed to a power cord or the like by a simple 
operation. When a number of power cords are normally 
connected to outlets, OA taps or the like, convenience can 
be offered to users if the power cords can be distinguished 
in kind from each other so that they are easily 
seen. To easily distinguish between different power 
cords, cord labels have been affixed to the power cords. Various labels have previously been proposed which 
are usable as such cord labels. A known tape printing 
device that is capable of creating such labels is 
disclosed in U.S. Patents 5,009,530 and 5,193,926 and 
Japanese Patent Publication No. Hei 4-43788, for example. 
This type of tape printing device is constructed so that 
characters such as cord names are printed on the reverse 
side of a transparent film tape and then a pressure 
sensitive adhesive double coated tape with a releasable 
paper is stuck on the printed surface of the film tape, 
thereby creating a tape with characters printed thereon. This tape is used by winding an adhesive surface 
of the pressure sensitive adhesive double coated tape on a 
power cord or the like after the releasable paper has been 
separated from the film tape. Since each of the cord labels is wound on the 
power cord in use, it is necessary to form a suitable 
winding margin in view of the size or diameter of the 
cord. Also, characters indicative of the name of the cord  
 
must be printed on both sides of the margin at two positions 
to enable easy confirmation of the kind of cord. In the conventional tape printing device, however, 
there is no special function for creating the cord label. 
In particular, a means for setting winding margins corresponding 
to sizes or diameters of various cords is not 
provided. Thus, when the cord label is produced by such a 
tape printing device, two texts such as characters indicative 
of the designations or names of cords were created 
via a keyboard, and a plurality of spaces were inserted 
between the texts as necessary to form a winding margin 
for the cords. The so-formed winding margin is made in advance in 
view of the size or diameter of each cord by an operator. 
It is however very hard to actually bring
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A label producing device for printing labels to be 
wound around a support, comprising: 

   an input for inputting print data; 
   a memory for storing data, including input print data; 

   a winding margin determiner for determining a winding 
margin for the label based on a size of the support to which 

the label is to be wound around; and 
   a printing mechanism for printing an image on a label 

medium corresponding to the input print data and the winding 
margin. 
The label producing device of claim 1 further 
comprising a mode selector for selecting one of a normal print 

mode and a label print mode. 
The label producing device of claim 1 or 2, wherein 
the memory is adapted to store a winding margin table of values 

and the winding margin determiner is adapted to select one of 
the values from the memory. 
The label producing device of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein 
the memory is adapted to store a support size table of values 

and the winding margin determiner is adapted to determine the 
winding margin based on an input support size and a 

corresponding value from the support size table in the memory. 
The label producing device of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, 
wherein the winding margin determiner is adapted to determine 

the winding margin based on a winding margin entered by the 
input. 
The label producing device of any one of the preceding 
claims, further comprising a detachable label medium cassette, 

wherein the label medium has an adhesive surface and a 
releasable backing removably affixed thereto. 
The label producing device of any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the winding margin determiner is adapted to 

determine one half of a winding margin and instructs the 
printing mechanism to print a central indicator on the label 

medium at the half winding margin. 
The label producing device of claim 7, wherein the 
central indicator is a line extending transverse to a 

longitudinal direction of the label medium. 
The label producing device of any one of the preceding 
claims, further comprising a feeder for feeding the label 

medium through the printing mechanism for printing and 
advancing the label medium based on the determined winding 

margin. 
The label producing device of claim 9, wherein the 
feeder is adapted to advance the label medium by one half of 

the winding margin for the printing mechanism to print a 
midpoint indicator. 
The label producing device of any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the printing mechanism is adapted to 

print a double image spaced by the winding margin. 
A label producing device for producing a cord label 
to be wound around a cord comprising: 

   text producing means for creating texts to be printed on 
the label based on text data; 

   a memory means for storing text data; 
   printing means for printing an image on the label based 

on the stored text data; 
   cord winding margin setting means for setting a margin 

that allows the label to be wound around the cord without 
disrupting the printed image; and 

   print controlling means for controlling the printing 
means to print the image on at least one side of the margin set 

by the cord winding margin setting means based on the texts 
created by the text producing means. 
The label producing device of claim 12, wherein the 
print controlling means is adapted to control the printing 

means to print a line at an intermediate position of the 
winding margin set by the cord winding margin setting means, 

wherein the printed line extends in a transverse direction of 
the label and indicates where to position the cord during 

assembly of the label onto the cord. 
The label producing device of claim 12 or 13, further 
comprising a mode selecting means for selecting one of a normal 

print mode and a label print mode. 
The label producing device of claim 12, 13 or 14, 
wherein the memory means also stores a winding margin table of 

values and the cord winding margin setting means selects one of 
 

the values from the memory means. 
The label producing device of claim 12, 13, 14 or 15, 
wherein the memory means also stores a cord size table of 

values and the cord winding margin setting means determines the 
winding margin based on an input cord size and a corresponding 

value from the support size table in the memory means. 
The label producing device of any one of claims 12 to 
16, wherein the cord winding margin setting means is adapted to 

determine the winding margin based on an input winding margin. 
The label producing device of any one of claims 12 to 
17, wherein the cord winding margin setting means is adapted to 

determine one half of a winding margin and to instruct the 
print controlling means to control the print means to print a 

central indicator on the label at a central position in the 
winding margin. 
The label producing device of any one of claims 12 to 
18, further comprising a feeding means for feeding the label 

through the printing means for printing and for advancing the 
label based on the winding margin. 
The label producing device of claim 19, wherein the 
feeding means is adapted to advance the label by one half of 

the winding margin for the printing means to print a midpoint 
indicator. 
The label producing device of claim 19, wherein the 
feeding means advances the label by the winding margin and by a 

length corresponding to the printed image. 
The label producing device of any one of claims 12 to 
21, wherein the print controlling means is adapted to control 

the printing means to print the image on both sides of the set 
margin on the label. 
A method of producing a label for winding around a 
support with a winding margin that corresponds to the size of 

the support, the method comprising the steps of: 
   storing print data; 

   determining a winding margin that corresponds to the size 
of a support on which the label is to be wound; 

   printing an image on the label based on the input print 
data; and 

   feeding the label a length corresponding to the winding 
 

margin. 
The method of claim 23 comprising the further step of 
printing another image on the label based on the input print 

data after feeding the label a length corresponding to the 
winding margin. 
The method of claim 23 or 24, comprising the further 
step of selecting a label print mode prior to determining the 

winding margin. 
The method of claim 23, 24 or 25, wherein the step of 
feeding the label includes feeding the label a distance of one 

half of the winding margin, printing a central indicator mark 
and feeding the label a distance of the remaining half of the 

winding margin. 
The method of claims 23 to 26, further comprising the 

step of storing a table of winding margin values and wherein 
the step of determining the winding margin includes selecting a 

winding margin from the stored table. 
The method of any one of claims 23 to 27, further 
comprising the step of inputting a size of the support to which 

the label is to be wound and wherein the step of determining 
the winding margin includes determining the winding margin 

based on an input support size. 
The method of any one of claims 23 to 28, wherein the 
step of determining the winding margin includes inputting the 

winding margin. 
The method of any one of claims 23 to 29, wherein the 
step of feeding the label includes feeding the label an 

additional length equivalent to the printed image after feeding 
the label the length corresponding to the winding margin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
