<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613094</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Signal processing system having a DSP-based CPU.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F9445	G06F9445	G06F1576	G06F1578	G06F1710	G06F1710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F15	G06F15	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A signal processing instrument has a DSP-based 
CPU coupled to memory means the contents of which 

define system control instructions, signal processing 
instructions and data. An input means converts an 

input signal to digital information, and the CPU is 
coupled to the input means and to at least one 

peripheral input or output device, the CPU being 
arranged to control the instrument in response to the 

system control instructions, to perform signal 
processing operations on the digital information in 

response to the signal processing instructions and the 
data, and to produce an output as a result of the 

signal processing operations. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLUKE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLUKE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKERT RICHARD D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKERT, RICHARD D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to signal processors, and more 
particularly, to signal processing systems utilizing digital signal processors (DSPs). Signal processors are used in various applications involving the manipulation or 
analysis of electrical signals. Typical uses include filtering signals, mixing two or more 
signals (convolution), comparing different signals (correlation), and analyzing signals in 
both the time and frequency domains (transformation). For years, signal processing was performed by signal processors consisting of 
analog circuits. The analog components made these analog signal processors 
relatively large and difficult to maintain and operate. The trend in modern signal 
processing applications has been to switch from analog signal processors to digital 
signal processors, or DSPs. DSPs use digital components and software to perform 
the various signal processing functions once performed by their analog counterparts. 
DSPs are more efficient and cost effective than the analog signal processors they 
replaced, in part, due to the high degree of integration available with digital circuits 
and because functional changes in DSPs are made in software rather than in analog 
hardware. Many modern instruments used in signal processing applications utilize a signal 
processing system that incorporates a general purpose microprocessor in addition to a  
 
DSP. The general purpose microprocessor includes a central processing unit, or 
CPU, that performs a variety of system control functions including storing and 
retrieving data and communicating with peripheral devices, in addition to controlling 
the DSP. The use of a general purpose microprocessor and a DSP can be an 
effective and powerful system for many signal processing applications, especially 
when incorporated into benchtop instruments where power and space are readily 
available. Some signal processing instruments forego the use of a general purpose 
microprocessor and utilize a dedicated DSP chip to perform specific signal processing 
functions. These instruments make use of the limited memory of the DSP chip and, 
as such, have limited ability to perform any system control functions. In a portable electronic test tool, it is desirable to have a versatile signal 
processing capability so that the tool can be used in many different applications. 
Unfortunately, the dedicated DSP chip approach used in some prior art instruments 
tends to limit the tools usefulness. On the other hand, the versatility offered by 
combi
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A signal processing system comprising: 

(a) input means for receiving an input signal and converting said input 
signal to digital information; 
(b) first memory means for storing a program that includes system 
control instructions, signal processing instructions and data; and, 
(c) a DSP-based CPU coupled to said input means for receiving said 
digital information and to said first memory means for receiving said system control 

instructions, signal processing instructions and data, wherein said DSP-based CPU 
controls said signal processing system in response to said system control instructions, 

performs signal processing operations on said digital information in response to said 
signal processing instructions and said data, and produces an output as a result of 

said signal processing operations. 
A signal processing system according to claim 1, wherein said first memory 
means includes read only memory external to said DSP-based CPU. 
A signal processing system according to claim 1, wherein said DSP-based 
CPU includes second memory means, said second memory means comprising: 


(a) a program memory for storing said system control instructions and 
said signal processing instructions; and, 
(b) a data memory for storing said data. 
A signal processing system according to claim 3, wherein said signal 
processing system further includes third memory means for storing portions of said 

system control instructions and said signal processing instructions that are not copied 
to said second memory means. 
A signal processing system according to claim 4, wherein said third memory 
means is a memory external to said DSP-based CPU. 
A signal processing system according to claim 4, wherein said third memory 
means includes: 


(a) a plurality of memories external to said DSP-based CPU; and, 
(b) a memory control circuit coupled between said DSP-based CPU and 
said plurality of memories for controlling access to said plurality of memories, said 

memory control circuit being responsive to instructions from said DSP-based CPU. 
A signal processing system according to claim 3, wherein said signal 
processing system further includes third memory means for storing a portion of said 

data that is not copied to said second memory means. 
A signal processing system according to claim 7, wherein said third memory 
means is a memory external to said DSP-based CPU. 
A signal processing system according to claim 7, wherein said third memory 
means includes: 


(a) a plurality of memories external to said DSP-based CPU; and, 
(b) a memory control circuit coupled between said DSP-based CPU and 
said plurality of memories for controlling access to said plurality of memories, said 

memory control circuit being responsive to instructions from said DSP-based CPU. 
A signal processing system according to claim 1, further comprising a 
plurality of peripheral devices cou
pled to said DSP-based CPU and controlled by said 
DSP-based CPU in response to said system control instructions. 
A signal processing system according to claim 10, wherein said plurality of 
peripheral devices includes: 


(a) a user interface coupled to supply input data to said DSP-based 
CPU; and, 
(b) a display coupled to receive said output from said DSP-based CPU. 
A signal processing system according to claim 11, wherein said user 
interface is a keyboard. 
A signal processing system according to claim 11, wherein said display is a 
liquid crystal display. 
In a signal processing system, a method for using a DSP-based CPU to 
perform system control and to perform signal processing operations on an analog 

signal, said method comprising the steps of: 

(a) converting said analog signal to digital information; 
(b) reading system control instructions in a first memory and copying 
said system control instructions into a second memory in said DSP-based CPU; 
(c) reading signal processing instructions in said first memory and 
copying said signal processing instructions into said second memory in said DSP-based 

CPU; 
(d) performing system control functions with said DSP-based CPU in 
response to said system control instructions stored in said second memory; 
(e) performing signal processing operations on said digital information in 
response to said signal processing instructions stored in said second memory; and, 
(f) producing an output resulting from said signal processing operations. 
A method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of visually 
displaying said output. 
A method according to claim 14, further comprising the steps of: 

(a) reading initial values of data in said first memory and copying said 
initial values of data into said second memory in said DSP-based CPU for use in said 

step of performing signal processing operations on said digital information. 
A method according to claim 14, further comprising the steps of: 

(a) reading portions of said system control instructions and said signal 
processing instructions that area not copied into said second memory; and, 
(b) storing said portions into a third memory that is external to said 
DSP-based CPU. 
A method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of controlling 
access to said third memory with said DSP-based CPU in response to said system 

control instructions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
