<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654684</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Nuclear camera systems
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01T700	A61B610	G01T700	G01T1164	G01T100	A61B610	G21K102	G21K102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01T	A61B	G01T	G01T	G01T	A61B	G21K	G21K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01T7	A61B6	G01T7	G01T1	G01T1	A61B6	G21K1	G21K1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A nuclear camera system, e.g. for medical diagnostic 
imaging, comprises a plurality of radiation detector 

heads (10a, 10b, 10c) mounted on a rotatable portion (16) 
of a gantry (18). A transmission radiation source and 

collimator assembly (40, 42) is mounted on the rotatable 
gantry portion opposite one of the detector heads. The 

radiation source (60) of the assembly is mounted in a 
lead shield (62) with an opening (64) pointing toward an 

examination region (12). A shutter (66) is rotatable 
between a closed position in which a lead arc segment 

(70) blocks the opening (64), a calibration orientation 
in which tin (72) covers opening (64), and an open 

position in which an opening (74) is aligned with the 
opening (64). A safety interlock means (80) locks the 

shutter in the closed position and against rotation when 
the radiation source and collimator assembly is removed 

from the rotatable gantry portion. The collimator (42) 
has lead side walls (200) and tin or tin alloy septa 

(202). When the radiation from the radiation source 
strikes the lead side walls, they emit characteristic 

lead x-rays of about 88 keV whereas the tin radiates x-rays 
of only about 30 keV. A filter (210) includes an 

inner layer (212) of tin for attenuating any remaining 88 
keV lead x-rays coming from the transmission line source 

assembly and converting them to about 30 keV radiation. 
The filter has an outer layer (214) for attenuating the 

radiation around 30 keV. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PICKER INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PICKER INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN HUGH T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORNTON BRYCE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN, HUGH T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORNTON, BRYCE G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to nuclear camera
systems, such as are used for medical diagnostic imaging.
It finds especial application in conjunction with single-photon
emission computed tomography (SPECT) camera
systems that include one or more transmission radiation
line sources and will be described with particular
reference thereto. It is to be appreciated, however,
that the invention will also find application in
conjunction with other types of nuclear camera system.Heretofore, single photon emission computed
tomography has been used to study the radionuclei
distribution in subjects. Typically, one or more
radiopharmaceuticals were injected into a patient's blood
stream for imaging the circulatory system or specific
organs which absorb the injected radiopharmaceuticals.
One or more gamma or scintillation camera heads were
placed closely adjacent to a surface of the patient to
monitor and record radiation emitted by the
radiopharmaceuticals. In single photon emission
computed tomography, the heads were rotated or indexed
around the subject to monitor the emitted radiation from
a multiplicity of directions. The 
data monitored from the multiplicity of directions was
reconstructed into a three-dimensional image
representation of the radiopharmaceutical distribution
within the patient.One of the problems with the SPECT imaging technique
is that the patient is not completely homogeneous in
terms of radiation attenuation or scatter. Rather, the
human patient includes many different tissue and bone
types which absorb or scatter radiation from the
radiopharmaceuticals to different degrees. The SPECT
images can be made more accurate if they are corrected
for the radiation lost to scattering or attenuation along
each path through the human torso.As described in our U.S. Patent No. 5,210,421, a
radiation line source can be positioned opposite one or
more of the gamma or scintillation camera heads.
Transmission radiation from the line source received by
the opposite detector head can be reconstructed into a
three-dimensional image representation of the radiation
absorptive properties of each incremental volume element
of the patient, analogous to a CT scan. This radiation
attenuation information is utilized to correct the SPECT
data. When the radiation line source and the
radiopharmaceuticals have distinctly different energy
peaks, the transmission radiation and photon emission
radiation image data can be collected concurrently and
separated based on energy.In the prior art, collimators were typically
construc
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A nuclear camera system for imaging a subject
utilising radiation emitted by a radiopharmaceutical,

which includes a transmission radiation source (60) which
allows primary radiation of a characteristic energy to be

transmitted through the subject to provide data for
correction of an image produced from the detection of the

radiation emitted by the radiopharmaceutical, and a collimator (42) for collimating
the primary radiation emerging from the radiation source

(60), at least one of the transmission radiation source (60) and
collimator (42) tending to emit secondary radiation in

response to incident primary radiation from the transmission radiation
source (60), characterised in that the system includes

means for substantially absorbing the secondary radiation
emitted in response to the incident primary radiation

from the transmission radiation source (60).
A camera system as set forth in Claim 1 wherein the
secondary radiation absorbing means comprises material on

surfaces (200) of the collimator (42), which material
emits secondary radiation of an energy level that is

significantly lower than that of the emitted radiation
utilised for imaging by the camera system.
A camera system as set forth in Claim 2 wherein the
collimator (42) includes a plurality of thin septa (202)

of said material.
A camera system as set forth in any preceding claim
wherein the secondary radiation absorbing means comprises

a filter (210) disposed between the collimator (42) and
the subject incorporating a material (212) for

preferentially absorbing the secondary radiation.
A camera system as set forth in Claim 4 wherein the
filter (210) includes a material (212) that absorbs the

secondary radiation and reduces the intensity of the 
transmitted primary radiation and further including a

plurality of such filters (210) of different thickness
such that as the transmission radiation source (60) diminishes in

strength, progressively thinner filters (210) may be
substituted to maintain the radiation strength in the

subject more nearly constant.
A camera system as set forth in any one of Claims
2 to 5 wherein said material is selected from the group

consisting of: tin, antimony, zirconium, niobium,
molybdenum, germanium, yttrium, cerium, gadolinium,

terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, ruthenium, rhodium,
palladium, silver, cadmium, indium, tellurium, cesium,

barium, and alloys thereof.
A camera system as set forth in any one of Claims 2
to Claim 5 wherein said material comprises tin, antimony,

or an alloy thereof.
A camera system as set forth in any preceding claim
further including a shutter (66) for selectively allowing

and preventing primary radiation from said transmission radiation source (60) to
be transmitted towards the subject.
A camera system as set forth in Claim 8 further

including a connecting means (84, 86) for selectively
connecting the transmission radiation source (60), shutter (66), and

collimator (42) to the rest of the camera system and a
safety interlock (80) which locks the shutter (66) in a

closed position when the transmission radiation source (60), shutter
(66) and collimator (42) assembly is removed from the

rest of the camera system.
A camera system as set forth in Claim 9 wherein the
safety interlock (80) locks the transmission radiation source (60),

shutter (66), and collimator (42) assembly against
removal from the rest of the camera system when the 

shutter (66) is not closed.
A camera system as set forth in any preceding claim
wherein the camera system produces an image from

radiation emitted by a radiopharmaceutical material
injected into the subject and the transmission radiation

source (60) radiation is used to provide data for
correction for radiation lost to scattering or

attenuation in the subject.
A method of diagnostic imaging in which a subject is
injected with a radiopharmaceutical having a first

characteristic energy and in which primary radiation from
a transmission radiation source (60) having a second

characteristic energy is transmitted from the
transmission radiation source (60) through a collimator

(42), through the subject, and to a detector head (10),
part of the primary radiation from the transmission radiation source

(60) striking internal surfaces of the transmission
radiation source (60) and/or collimator (42) causing the

emission of secondary radiation, characterized by:
substantially absorbing the secondary radiation emitted

in response to the incident primary radiation from the
transmission radiation source (60).
A method as set forth in Claim 12 comprising
attenuating the transmitted radiation with a filter (210)

that also preferentially absorbs the secondary radiation,
and, as the transmission radiation source (60) ages, replacing the

filter (210) with a filter (210) giving reduced
attenuation of the transmitted radiation such that the

radiation strength in the subject is more nearly constant
over time.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
