<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620764</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONTINUOUS DISCHARGE CENTRIFUGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B04B100	B04B100	B04B102	B04B110	B04B114	B04B1100	B04B1102	B04B1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B04B	B04B	B04B	B04B	B04B	B04B	B04B	B04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B04B1	B04B1	B04B1	B04B1	B04B1	B04B11	B04B11	B04B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Prior centrifugal concentrators for separating higher density particles from a slurry have not combined effective separation of concentrate with continuous discharge of the concentrate. The present invention provides a continuous discharge centrifugal concentrator having a retention zone (B) for accumulating the concentrate in which a plurality of mass-flow hoppers (35) are provided at the retention zone, with flow control devices (37) to control the discharge of concentrate from the hoppers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCALISTER STEVEN A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MCALISTER, STEVEN, A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCALISTER STEVEN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCALISTER, STEVEN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CONTINUOUS DISCHARGE CENTRIFUGEThe present invention relates to centrifugal con¬ centrators of the rotating bowl type for the separation of solids of higher density such as gold, iron or tin from a slurry containing solids of a lower density and liquid and more particularly to centrifugal concentrators in which the target concentrate is continuously discharged.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe problem of separating particles of high density such as gold, iron or tin from tailings and other slurry streams has attracted a great many attempted solutions. The problem is that of separating small particles of higher density from a slurry containing water and particles of lower density. One approach has been to use the centrifugal force created in a rotating bowl to separate the high density particles from the lower density slurry. In the past this had been generally done by placing obstructions such as ribs in the path of the rotating slurry to trap the heavier particles. This method had two problems. Where the slurry contained fine, dense particles such as magnetite, the grooves or depressions designed to retain the concentrate would rapidly pack with the unwanted fine particles. Secondly, this was a batch process in that it was necessary to periodically stop the centrifuge to empty it of the concentrate which had been collected. The problem of packing has been largely solved by the 

 present inventor•s batch centrifugal concentrator which is the subject of U.S. Patent no. 4,824,431. In that centrifugal concentrator, there are no obstacles to the flow of the slurry in the rotating drum. The slurry is delivered to the vicinity of the bottom of the rotating drum and travels up the smooth interior surface of the drum. The interior surface has three continuous zones: an outwardly inclined migration zone, a generally vertical retention zone above the migration zone, and an inwardly-inclined lip zone above the retention zone. The respective lengths and inclinations of the zones are selected to produce flow conditions in which less dense particles are expelled from the drum while denser particles migrate to and are retained in the retention zone. The result is that an enriched layer of concentrate accumulates in the retention zone without the use of ridges or grooves which may become packed.It remains that this inventor*s above-described cent¬ rifugal concentrator is a batch device and it is necessary to periodically stop the machine to empty it. In some situations, this periodic stoppage can add to the cost of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. A centrifugal concentrator comprising: a) a hollow drum having an inner surface, said inner surface comprising a zone adapted to retain material of higher density; b) means for rotatably supporting said drum on an axis; c) drive means for rotating said drum about said axis; d) material supply means for delivering a slurry into said drum; e) a plurality of cavities extending outwardly with respect to the axis of rotation of said hollow drum in said retention zone, located outwardly of said retention zone and with the inlets of said cavities communicating with said retention zone and the outlets of said cavities located outwardly from said inlets; and f) flow controlling means for controlling the flow of material from said outlets of said cavities.
2. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 1 wherein said inner surface of said hollow drum further comprises, below said retention zone, a migration zone inclined outwardly from said axis of rotation.
3. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 2 wherein said inner surface of said hollow drum further comprises, above said 


 retention zone, a lip zone inclined inwardly from said axis of rotation.
4. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 1 wherein said flow controlling means is adapted for alternately retaining or releasing said material.
5. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 4 further comprising: g) control means for controlling the timing of said alternate retaining and releasing.
6. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 1 wherein said flow controlling means comprises in series valve means and nozzle means.
7. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 6 wherein said valve means is inboard of said nozzle means.
8. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 1, wherein the walls of said cavities are configured to provide for mass flow.
9. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 1 wherein said flow controlling means comprises valve means.
10. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 9 wherein said valve means each comprises two valves in series.
11. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 9 wherein said valve 


means operate periodically.
12. The centrifugal concentrator of claims 6, 9, 10 or 11 wherein said valve means are pneumatically operated.
13. The centrifugal concentrator of claim 1 wherein said flow controlling means comprise pneumatically operated pinch valves.
14. The concentrator of claims 12 or 13 further comprising a source of compressed air connected to said valve via a rotating union.
15. The concentrator of claim 14 wherein said source of com¬ pressed air is connected to said valve via a manifold formed in said drum.
16. The concentrator of claim 15 wherein said source of com¬ pressed air is connected to said valves via two independent manifolds formed in said drum.
17. The concentrator of claim 1 wherein said cavities are formed between separate annular rings secured to said drum.
18. The concentrator of claim 1 wherein said drum has an open upper end for expelling lighter materials, and further com¬ prising: h) first launder means for directing said lighter materials from the open end of said drum. 


 19. The concentrator of claim 18 further comprising: i) second launder means for directing materials from the output of said flow controlling means.
20. A method of operating a centrifugal concentrator having a) a hollow drum having an interior surface, said inner surface comprising a zone adapted to retain material of higher density; b) means for rotatably supporting said drum on an axis; c) drive means for rotating said drum about said axis; d) material supply means for delivering a slurry into said drum; e) a plurality of cavities extending outwardly with respect to the axis of rotation of said hollow drum in said retention zone, located outwardly of said retention zone and with the inlets of said cavities communicating with said retention zone and the outlets of said cavities located outwardly from said inlets; and f) flow controlling means for controlling the flow of material from said outlets of said cavities; comprising the steps of i) rotating said hollow drum; ii) introducing said material to the interior of said drum; iii) monitoring the flow of material from said cavities; and iv) adjusting the speed of rotation of said drum or 


the rate of supply of said slurry or both to obtain the desired flow of material from said cavities.
21. A method of operating a centrifugal concentrator having a) a hollow drum having an interior surface, said inner surface comprising a zone adapted to retain material of higher density; b) means for rotatably supporting said drum on an axis; c) drive means for rotating said drum about said axis; d) material supply means for delivering a slurry into said drum; e) a plurality of cavities extending outwardly with respect to the axis of rotation of said hollow drum in said retention zone, located outwardly of said retention zone and with the inlets of said cavities communicating with said retention zone and the outlets of said cavities located outwardly from said inlets; and f) flow controlling comprising means for alternately retaining or releasing material from said outlets of said cavities; comprising the steps of i) rotating said hollow drum, with said flow control¬ ling means closed to retain material in said hopper; ii) introducing said material to the interior of said drum; and iii) releasing said material from said drum when said material in said cavities has the characteristics required to permit the desired flow of material from said cavities. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
