<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626854</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTI-THROMBOGENIC AND/OR ANTI-MICROBIAL COMPOSITION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61L2916	A61L3300	A61L2700	A61L2900	A61L3300	A61L2754	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61L29	A61L33	A61L27	A61L29	A61L33	A61L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Anti-thrombogenic, and/or anti-microbial and/or pharmaceutical compositions containing heparin and/or antibiotics and/or other pharmaceutical agents which may be reacted with quaternary ammonium components or other ionic surfactants and bound with water-insoluble polymers are disclosed. Such compositions may also contain additional quaternary ammonium compounds or other ionic surfactants not reacted with heparin and may also contain quaternary ammonium compound(s) or other ionic surfactants reacted with antibiotics or other ionic or nonionic pharmaceutical agents.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STS BIOPOLYMERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STS BIOPOLYMERS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGAN MARGARET ANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITBOURNE RICHARD JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGAN, MARGARET, ANNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITBOURNE, RICHARD, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to pharmaceutical coating compositions,
coated medical devices and methods of coating medical devices.Many kinds of polymer compositions have been used in the
field of medical supplies. These compositions have not always
exhibited anti-thrombogenic, anti-microbial, or other
biocompatible characteristics when used in prosthetic and
therapeutic apparatuses for handling or being in contact with
blood or blood components or other bioresponse under conditions
where clotting would tend to occur, such as artificial blood
vessels, catheters, artificial hearts, fluid drainage,
suction/aspiration and artificial kidneys.When blood is brought in contact with metal, glass, plastic
or other similar surfaces, it tends to clot in a short time
unless certain precautions are taken. One common precaution
currently in widespread use is the treatment of the surface with
heparin or with heparin reacted with quaternary ammonium
compounds. Such heparin compounds are known to have
anti-coagulant effects when in contact with blood. The presence
of the aforementioned heparin compounds on the surface imparts
anti-thrombogenic characteristics. However, previously known
heparinization or compositions have not been adequate because of
the short time of anti-thrombogenic activity, at most a few days
in vivo (I. S. Hersch, et al, J. Biomed., Mater. Res. Symposium
I, 99-104 (1971); K. Amplatz, "A Simple Non-Thrombogenic
Coating", Invest. Radiology, July, August, 1971, Vol. 6) or
because the anti-thrombogenic characteristic was reduced to a
very low level in order to make it resistant to removal by 
reacting it with quaternary ammonium polymers (U.S. Patent
3,844,989).An object of the present invention is to provide novel
pharmaceutically-coated surfaces which contain pharmaceutical agents which
are entrained in the surface in such a way as to be gradually
released in vivo to provide effective action over
a longer time than was previously possible when using these
agents. Typical agents useful in this embodiment of the
invention include penicillins, cephalosporins, aminoglycosides,
quinolones, sulfonoamides, tetracyclines, etc. While effective
anti-microbial agent concentrations are achieved near the coated
device surface, low systemic levels result, unlike where systemic
antibiotic administration is required to combat infections caused
by an implanted device. The compositions of the invention
provide excellent properties for use as medical materials for
coatings on artificial blood vessels, catheters, artificial
he
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pharmaceutical composition comprising a
pharmaceutical agent which has not been reacted with any ionic

surfactant and a water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer which
is miscible with the pharmaceutical agent and is at least one

selected from non-ether cellulose esters, cellulose nitrate,
cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate and cellulose

acetate propionate, the polymer and the pharmaceutical agent
having been co-dissolved in a mutual solvent or solvent

mixture, whereby the composition maintains efficacious
activity levels of the pharmaceutical agent for an extended

period of time.
A composition according to claim 1, further
comprising a hydrophilic polymer.
A composition according to claim 2, in which the
hydrophilic polymer is polyvinylpyrrolidone.
A composition according to any preceding claim, in
which the pharmaceutical agent is at least one selected from

antithrombogenic agents, antibiotic agents and anti-cancer
agents.
A composition according to claim 4, in which the
pharmaceutical agent is an antibiotic agent selected from

quinolones, aminoglycosides, cephalosporins, sulfonoamides and
tetracyclines and/or an anti-cancer agent selected from

methotrexate and merbarone.
A composition according to any preceding claim, in
which the water-insoluble polymer further comprises at least

one selected from polyurethane resins including polyester and
polyether types, acrylic polymers, condensation polymers,

isocyanates and polyacetals.
A composition according to any preceding claim, the 
concentrations of the pharmaceutical agent and the water-insoluble

cellulose ester polymer in the solvent or solvent
mixture being from 0.1 to 20% by weight and from 0.
01 to 20%
by weight, respectively.
A medical device having at least a portion of its
surface coated by a coating composition comprising a

pharmaceutical agent which has not been reacted with any ionic
surfactant and a water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer which

is miscible with the pharmaceutical agent, whereby the coating
composition maintains efficacious activity levels of the

pharmaceutical agent for an extended period of time.
A device according to claim 8, in which the coating
composition further comprises a hydrophilic polymer.
A device according to claim 9, in which the
hydrophilic polymer is polyvinylpyrrolidone.
A device according to any of claims 8 to 10, in
which the pharmaceutical agent is at least one selected from

antithrombogenic agents, antibiotic agents and anti-cancer
agents.
A device according to claim 11, in which the
pharmaceutical agent is an antibiotic agent selected from

guinolones, aminoglycosides, cephalosporins, sulfonoamides and
tetracyclines and/or an anti-cancer agent selected from

methotrexate and merbarone.
A device according to any of claims 8 to 12, in
which the waer-insoluble polymer further comprises at least

one selected from polyurethane resins including polyester and
polyether types, acrylic polymers, condensation polymers

isocyanates and polyacetals.
A device according to any of claims 8 to 13, in
which the water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer is at least 

one selected from cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate,
cellulose acetate butyrate and cellulose acetate propionate.
A device according to any of claims 8 to 14, in
which the pharmaceutical agent is present in a concentration

of about 0.5% to 99.5% by weight with the balance comprising
the water-insoluble polymer.
A device according to any of claims 8 to 15, in
which the water-insoluble polymer and the pharmaceutical agent

are present in separate layers in which inter-layer molecular
mingling exists at least across the interface, if not deeper.
A method of forming a coating on the surface of a
medical device to be brought into contact with human or animal

body fluids, the method comprising

(a) providing a coating solution which comprises a
pharmaceutical agent which has not been reacted with any

ionic surfactant and a water-insoluble cellulose ester
polymer which is miscible with the pharmaceutical agent,

the polymer and the pharmaceutical agent having been co-dissolved
in a mutual solvent or solvent mixture,
(b) applying the coating solution to the surface of the
device, and
(c) allowing the solution to dry.
A method of forming a coating on the surface of a
medical device to be brought into contact with human or animal

body fluids, the method comprising

(a) providing

(i) a first coating solution comprising a
pharmaceutical agent which has not been reacted with any

ionic surfactant and a solvent or solvent mixture
therefor and
(ii) a second coating solution comprising a 
water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer which is miscible

with the pharmaceutical agent and a solvent or solvent
mixture therefor
(b) applying the first and second coating solutions
separately to the surface of the device, and
(c) allowing the solutions to dry.
A method of forming a coating on the surface of a
water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer, the method comprising


(a) providing a coating solution which comprises a
pharmaceutical agent which has not been reacted with any

ionic surfactant and a solvent or solvent mixture
therefor
(b) applying the coating solution to a surface of the
water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer, and
(c) allowing the solution to dry.
A method according to claim 17 or 18, in which the
concentration of the water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer

in its respective coating solution is 0.01% to 20% by weight
of the solution.
A method according to claim 17, 18 or 20, in which
the coating solution containing the water-insoluble polymer

further comprises at least one selected from polyurethane
resins including polyester and polyether types, acrylic

polymers, condensation polymers, isocyanates and polyacetals.
A method according to claim 17, 18, 20 or 21, in
which the pharmaceutical agent is present in the final coating

in a concentration of about 0.5% to 99.5% by weight with the
balance comprising the water-insoluble polymer.
A method according to claim 17, 18, 20, 21 or 22,
in which the water-insoluble polymer and the pharmaceutical

agent are present in the final coating in separate layers in 
which inter-layer molecular mingling exists at least across

the interface, if not deeper.
A method according to any of claims 17 to 23, in
which the concentration of the pharmaceutical agent in its

respective coating solution is 0.1% to 20% by weight of the
solution.
A method according to any of claims 17 to 24, in
which the pharmaceutical agent is at least one selected from

antithrombogenic agents, antibiotic agents and anti-cancer
agents.
A method according to claim 25, in which the
pharmaceutical agent is an antibiotic agent selected from

quinolones, aminoglycosides, cephalosporins, sulphonoamides
and tetracyclines and/or an anti-cancer agent selected from

methotrexate and merbarone.
A method according to any of claims 17 to 26, in
which the water-insoluble cellulose ester polymer is at least

one selected from cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate,
cellulose acetate butyrate and cellulose acetate propionate.
A method according to any of claims 17 to 27, in
which the or at least one coating solution further comprises

a hydrophilic polymer.
A method according to claim 28, in which the
hydrophilic polymer is polyvinylpyrrolidone.
A medical device having at least a portion of its
surface coated by a method according to any of claims 17 to

29.
A medical device according to any of claims 8 to 15
and claim 30 when dependent on any of claims 17, 18, 20, 21,

22 and 23, in which the coated portion is at least one of
glass, metal and plastic. 
A medical device according to any of claims 8 to 16,
30 and 31, the device being a catheter, a fluid drainage

device, a suction or aspiration device or an artificial blood
vessel, heart or kidney.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
