<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649345</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TEMPERATURE GRADIENT CALORIMETER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L700	B01L700	G01N2520	G01N2548	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L7	B01L7	G01N25	G01N25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A temperature gradient calorimeter and method of calculating heats of reactions is disclosed. The calorimeter has a two dimensional array of reaction chambers located in a thermally conductive substrate. A first heat transfer medium is in thermal contact with the thermal conductive substrate and is located at one region of the array of reaction chambers. A second heat transfer medium is in thermal contact with the thermal conductive substrate and is located on the opposite side of the array from the first heat transfer medium. The first and second heat transfer mediums are at two different temperatures. That temperature difference produces a temperature gradient across the array of reaction chambers. The fluorescence intensities are measured for reactant samples located in the array of reaction chambers. By inserting the fluorescence intensity data into thermodynamic equations expressing the degree of advancement and the heat of reaction, the heat of reaction for the reaction process of the sample can be determined.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERTEX PHARMA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VERTEX PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNELLY PATRICK R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNELLY, PATRICK, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TEMPERATURE GRADIENT CALORIMETERBackground of the InventionBiological calorimetry is a field primarily concerned with the measurement of the heat effects produced in biochemical processes. There are two categories of reaction processes of interest which produce heat while reacting.The first category of reactions are those between two chemical entities (reactants M and X) to produce a third species (product MX) , such as the binding of a drug to a protein molecule to produce a drug/protein complex. This binding (intermolecular) reaction is depicted by the chemical reaction equation, M + X —> MX. The second category of reactions are those that result in a transformation of the molecular state of a substance (from the reactant state M to the product state M') due to an increase in temperature, such as the unfolding of proteins and various nucleic acid structures or the melting of a lipid suspension. This unfolding (intramolecular) reaction is depicted by the chemical reaction equation, M —> M' .Typically, one measures the heat effects for binding (intermolecular) reactions (i.e. the first category) using a conventional calorimeter by mixing the reactants in a "reaction chamber" while monitoring 

the temperature change in the reaction chamber with a thermometer or a thermoelectric sensor. The temperature or voltage change is converted into a unit of heat by calibrating the calorimeter against a standard heat effect generated by the passage of electric current through a resistor placed in the reaction chamber.Similarly, one typically measures the heat effect due to unfolding (intramolecular) reactions (i.e. the second category) using a scanning calorimeter, which measures the heat effect produced upon increasing the temperature of the contents of a reaction chamber.Conventional methods of thermodynamic data collection for chemical reactions tends to be very repetitive and time consuming. Using conventional methods, the time required to determine the equilibrium constant and enthalpy of the unfolding of a protein at eight different values of pH can take between 3 to 8 days. Another limitation of conventional methods is that two different devices are needed to measure both binding (intermolecular) and unfolding (intramolecular) reactions. In addition, the accuracy of a conventional reaction calorimeter is limited by heat effects caused by stirring the reactants in the reaction chamber. The use of conventional scanning calorimeters can be very time consuming because scanning calorimeters tend to require
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for monitoring reactions comprising:
(a) a two dimensional array of reaction chambers formed in a heat conductive substrate;
(b) a first thermal contact region for establishing thermal contact between a first heat transfer medium at a temperature T
1
 and said substrate;
(c) a second thermal contact region for establishing thermal contact between a second heat transfer medium at a constant temperature T
2
 and said substrate; whereby a thermal gradient is established across said array and between said first and second thermal contact regions which is proportional to the difference in temperature, T
1
 - T
2
, between the two mediums.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 including' a sensor for sensing radiation intensity emitted from each chamber as a reaction occurs.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein the intensity of radiation emitted from each chamber is measured with a sensor selected from the group consisting of a sensor for measuring the intensity of fluorescence, a sensor for measuring radioactive labelled materials, a sensor for measuring luminescence, a sensor for measuring the absorption of ultraviolet radiation and a sensor for measuring the absorption of visible radiation.
4. The apparatus of Claim l further comprising a dialysate chamber which is separated from the reaction chambers by a semi-permeable membrane. 


 5. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising a transparent window covering the array of reaction chambers.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the heat conductive substrate is substantially enclosed within an insulating material.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1 including a filling system for filling the array of reaction chambers comprising a series of canals connecting a plurality of reaction chambers.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the reaction chambers are coated.
9. The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein the reaction chambers are coated with a chemically inert and optically reflective material having good thermal conductive properties.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the heat conductive substrate comprises a material from the group consisting of sapphire, silicon, copper, aluminum and stainless steel.
11. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the heat conductive substrate comprises a material from the group consisting of brass, bronze, cast iron, steel and titanium.
12. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the heat conductive substrate has a thermal conductivity in 



excess of about 0.3 watt/centimeter °C at about 25°C and atmospheric pressure.
13. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the reactions involve temperature changes.
14. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the reactions are chemical reactions.
15. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the thermal gradient is a fixed temperature gradient.
16. A temperature gradient calorimeter comprising:
(a) a two-dimensional array of reaction chambers arranged in a substrate and wherein a constant thermal gradient is established across the array;
(b) a sensor for measuring the intensity of radiation emitted by reactions occurring in the reaction chambers in which intensity varies in proportion to the thermal gradient.
17. The temperature gradient calorimeter of Claim 16 wherein the sensor measures fluorescence intensity emitted by reactions occurring in the reaction chambers.
18. A temperature gradient calorimeter comprising:
(a) a two dimensional array of reaction chambers formed in a heat conductive substrate, said reaction chambers in the two dimensional array being arranged in horizontal rows on the x-axis and vertical columns on the y-axis; 


 (b) a first thermal contact region for establishing thermal contact between a first heat transfer medium at a temperature T
1
 and said substrate;
(c) a second thermal contact region for establishing thermal contact between a second heat transfer medium at a constant temperature 
2
 and said substrate; whereby a thermal gradient is established between said first and second regions which is proportional to the difference in temperature, T
1
 - T , between the two mediums;
(d) a sensor for measuring the fluorescence intensity emitted by reactions occurring in the reaction chambers in which intensity varies in proportion to the thermal gradient.
19. A method of monitoring reactions comprising the steps of:
(a) creating a constant temperature gradient across a two dimensional array of reaction chambers disposed in a heat conductive substrate;
(b) measuring the intensity of radiation emitted from the reactant solution in each reaction chamber across the array of reaction chambers; and
(c) determining the heat of reaction for each reaction from the measured intensities of the reaction in each chamber.
20. The method of monitoring reactions of Claim 19 including the step of connecting the reaction chambers in each row with a canal and filling each canal with reactant solution, each canal carrying reactant solution to a row of reaction chambers, thereby filling each reaction chamber. 


 21. The method of monitoring reactions of Claim 19 wherein the step of creating a temperature gradient across the array of reaction chambers comprises placing a first heat transfer medium at a temperature T
1
 in thermal contact with a first region of the heat conductive substrate; and placing a second heat transfer medium at a temperature T
2
 in thermal contact with a second region of the heat conductive substrate.
22. The method of Claim 21 wherein the first and second heat transfer mediums comprise temperature controlled water baths.
23. The method of monitoring reactions of Claim 19 wherein the measured intensity of radiation emitted from the reactant solution in each reaction chamber is fluorescence intensity.
24. The method of monitoring reactions of Claim 19 wherein the step of determining the heat of reaction for the reactant solution includes correlating fluorescence intensity data with thermodynamic expressions of heat of reaction and degree of advancement of reaction.
25. The method of monitoring reactions of Claim 24 wherein the step of determining the heat of reaction for the reactant solution further includes using a computer for computing the heat of reaction and the degree of advancement of reaction.
26. The method of monitoring reactions of Claim 19 wherein the reactions involve temperature changes. 


 27. The method of monitoring reactions of Claim 19 wherein the reactions are chemical reactions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
