<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634055</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REVERSIBLE THERMOELECTRIC CONVERTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L3700	H01L3532	H01L3532	H01L3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L37	H01L35	H01L35	H01L37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reversible thermoelectric converter includes first and second quantum well diodes (10, 20) and an electrical connection between the diodes without a thermal barrier between them. Each diode includes first and second electrodes (40, 42) wherein electrons are quantized in discrete energy levels and a dielectric layer (44) providing a potential barrier between the first and second electrode (40, 42). When electrons in the first diode (10) have a higher temperature than the electrons in the second diode (20), electric voltage fluctuations resulting from transitions of the electrons between the energy levels in the first diode (10) are coupled from the first diode (10) to the second diode (20). The reversible thermoelectric converter can be operated for converting thermal energy to electric energy, as a heat pump or a refrigerator or as an amplifier. A planar array of reversible thermoelectric converter elements provides a desired output voltage and current.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YATER JANE A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YATER JOAN E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YATER JOSEPH C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YATER, JANE A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YATER, JOAN E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YATER, JOSEPH C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YATER JANE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YATER JOAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YATER JOSEPH C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YATER, JANE A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YATER, JOAN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YATER, JOSEPH C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to reversible
thermoelectric power conversion devices, and more
particularly, to reversible thermoelectric
converters which utilize quantum well diodes. More
specifically, the invention relates to devices for
converting the thermal energy of hot electrons to
electric energy and for pumping heat from low
temperature regions to high temperature regions, and
to applications of such devices.Devices for converting thermal
energy
directly to
electric energy have been extensively investigated.
The most commonly utilized devices have been
thermionic converters working from high temperature
sources and silicon cells utilizing the input
thermal energy of solar radiation. Such devices
have limited operating temperature ranges. In
addition, the efficiencies for the direct conversion
of solar energy to electricity that are required to 
be competitive with conventionally generated
electricity in many U.S. markets over the next few
decades have not yet been achieved. These required
efficiencies range from the lowest efficiency
requirement of 10% module efficiency for flat plate
modules to the highest efficiency requirement of 25%
module efficiency for concentrated solar energy.
These required efficiencies are reported by E. A.
DeMeo et al in Proceedings of the 21st Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers Photovoltaic
Specialists Conference - 1990, Kissimmee, May 21-25,
1990 (Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, New York, 1990), pp. 16-23.A reversible thermoelectric converter having a
high operating efficiency is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,004,210 issued January 18, 1977 to
Yater. The disclosed device comprises a first layer
of microcircuit modules for converting thermal
energy into electric voltage fluctuations, a second
layer of microcircuit modules for receiving the
electric voltage fluctuations and a third layer
between the first and second layers. The third
layer is a thermal barrier, such as a vacuum.
Electric voltage fluctuations are capacitively
coupled from the first layer across the thermal
barrier to the second layers. The first and second
layers operate at different temperatures. The
microcircuit modules can be Schottky barrier diodes
or quantum or tunnel diodes. The reversible
thermoelectric converter disclosed in Patent No. 
4,004,210 has the potential to achieve efficiencies
as high as 90%. The thermal barrier transmits
electric voltage fluctuations and prevents cooling,
radiation losses and lead conduction losses.The theoretical basis for the operation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reversible thermoelectric converter comprising first and second
devices (10, 20) and means for electrically connecting (30) the first device (10)

to the second device (20), wherein each of the first and second devices
comprise first and second regions (42, 40), each region having a thickness

selected to ensure that electric carriers are quantised in discrete energy levels,
and a third region (44) providing a potential barrier between the first and

second regions, the first and second devices having a first and second voltage
respectively between the first and second regions, 
characterised in that
 said
connecting means (30) connect the first device (10) to the second device (20)

without a thermal barrier between them, such that said first voltage and said
second voltage have opposite polarities.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 1, wherein
the first device (10) receives thermal energy from an external source and

converts the thermal energy to electric voltage fluctuations which are coupled
to the second device (20), and the second device converts the electric voltage

fluctuations to electric energy, the electric carriers in said first device (10)
having a higher temperature than the electric carriers in said second device

(20) when said first device is receiving thermal energy, whereby thermal
energy is converted into electric energy.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 1 further
including means for supplying to the first device (10) a DC voltage (52, 56)

sufficient to reverse the first voltage, the first device (10) receiving thermal
energy from an external source (54) and converting the thermal energy into

electric voltage fluctuations which are coupled to the second device (20), and
the second device (20) converting the electric voltage fluctuations to thermal

energy at a higher temperature than the temperature of the external source
(54), whereby thermal energy from an external source is converted to thermal

energy at a higher temperature than the temperature of the external source. 
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 1, wherein the
first device (10) receives cyclically varying energy having a predetermined

waveform from an external source and converts the cyclically varying energy
into electric voltage fluctuations, the electric carriers in the first device (10)

having a relatively low temperature, and the second device (20) receives
thermal energy and converts the thermal energy to electric voltage

fluctuations, the electric carriers in the second device having a relatively high
temperature, the electric voltage fluctuations being coupled between said first

and second devices, said converter having output terminals (14, 24) for
providing cyclically varying electric energy having the same waveform and a

higher energy level than the cyclically varying energy received by the first
device (10), whereby the cyclically varying energy from an external source is

amplified.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 4 wherein the
cyclically varying energy applied to said first device (10) comprises an AC

electric voltage.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 4 wherein the
cyclically varying energy applied to said first device (10) comprises thermal

energy.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 4 wherein the
cyclically varying energy applied to said first device (10) comprises optical

energy.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims 4
to 7 further including heat pump means (20, 160) for reducing the temperature

of the electric carriers in said second device (20).
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 2 further
including heat pump means (20, 160) for reducing the temperature of the 

electric carriers in said second device (20).
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 8 or 9
wherein the heat pump means comprise a reversible thermoelectric converter

as defined in claim 3.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 2 wherein
thermal energy is applied to the first device (10) in the form of radiation

energy from the source.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 11 wherein
said radiation energy comprises solar energy.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the first and second regions (40, 42) of said first and

second devices (10, 20) comprise electrode pairs (E1, E2, E3, E4) and wherein
either one or both

of the first device (10) and the second device (20) comprise two or more
electrode pairs connected in series.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 13 including
means for applying successively larger voltage increments to the said electrode

pairs.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 14, wherein
said means for applying voltage increments includes using materials with

successively larger work functions for each successive pair of electrodes.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 14 or 15,
wherein said means for applying voltage increments includes auxiliary

electrodes (270, 271, 272) and means for applying voltages (276, 278) to said
auxiliary electrodes. 
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
13 to 16 wherein the contact potential of said electrode pairs (E1, E2, E3, E4)

is selected such that a conversion time t
c
 for converting thermal energy to
electric energy is less than a thermalisation time t
ep
 for converting thermal
energy 
to heat.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
13 to 17, wherein the number of electrode pairs connected in series is selected

such that the voltage to current ratio is sufficient to allow transmission of the
power output of the first device (10) to the second device (20) such that said

first and second devices can be spaced apart during operation.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 18, wherein
the first and second devices are spaced apart, including means for supporting

the first device (10,334) within a hot environment and means for supporting the
second device (20,336) outside a hot environment, said means for supporting the

first device comprising an enclosure for the first device that is maintained
within the hot environment at a lower temperature than the hot environment

during the conversion of the highest temperature of thermal energy of the hot
environment to electric energy, said electric energy being transported by

electrical carriers to the second device (20) outside the hot environment, said
means for supporting said second device including a cold reservoir for the

conversion of said electric energy to output power with an efficiency
approaching the Carnot limit established by the ratio of the highest

temperature of the hot environment to the temperature of the cold reservoir.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 19, wherein
said electric energy is transported by electrical carriers to the second device

(20) outside the hot environment by AC power transmission.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of the
preceding claims wherein said connecting means (30) comprises a conducting lead. 
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of the
preceding claims wherein said connecting means (30) comprises a capacitor.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 21 or 22
wherein said connecting means (30) includes reversible auxiliary components

that are reactances and that are connected by connecting leads to said first
device (10) and said second device (20) so as to transform a voltage to current

ratio of said electric energy from said first device in order to transport the
electric energy between the spaced apart first and second devices with

minimum power loss.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 23, wherein
the electric energy generated by each first device (10) and each second device

(20) is transported by conducting leads over the physical separation distance
between first and second devices, wherein the voltage to current ratio is

increased by a step up voltage transformer between the terminals of the first
device (10) and said conducting leads and by a step up voltage transformer

between the terminals of the second device (20) and said conducting leads,
wherein the voltage to current ratio for the electrical energy transported by

said conducting leads is increased to allow transmission over said physical
separation distance.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 23 or 24,
wherein the loss of thermal energy by thermal conduction through said

conducting leads is decreased by using coupling capacitors in series with said
conducting leads in regions of high thermal gradient wherein the loss of said

thermal energy is reduced.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of the
preceding claims wherein the first and second regions of said first and second

devices comprise first and second thin metal films (42, 40) respectively, and
the third region of said first and second devices comprises a thin dielectric 

film (44).
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 26 including
means for applying the first and second voltages between the metal films of

the first and second regions.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 27 wherein
said means comprise auxiliary electrodes.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
26 to 28 wherein the thin dielectric film (44) comprises aluminium oxide.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 29, wherein
at least one of the first or second thin metal films (42, 40) comprises

aluminium.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 29, wherein at
least one of the first or second thin metal films (40, 42) comprises copper.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
26 to 29 wherein the first and second thin metal films are fabricated of metals

with different work functions.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
26 to 29 wherein the first and second thin metal films are fabricated of metals

with the same work function.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of the
preceding claims wherein said first and second devices each comprise diodes

(10, 20).
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 34 wherein 
the diodes are quantum well diodes.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 35 wherein
the diodes are tunnel diodes.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
claim 1 to 25 wherein said first and second regions comprise semiconductor

material.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 37 wherein
said semiconductor material is gallium arsenide.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of the
preceding claims wherein said first and second devices and said connecting

means comprise an array element (113, 115) of a reversible thermoelectric
converter array, said array comprising one or more array elements.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 39 wherein
said array elements are formed on a substrate (46, 108).
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 39, including
a plurality of reversible thermoelectric converter array elements (113, 115)

formed on said substrate (108) and connected in series.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 39, wherein
said one or more reversible thermoelectric converter array elements (113, 115)

include spaced apart first electrodes (102, 104, 106) formed on said substrate
(108), a dielectric film (110) formed on said first electrodes and spaced-apart 

second electrodes (112, 114) formed on said dielectric film and overlying at
least parts of each pair of said first electrodes.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 40, wherein
said first and second devices are formed on separate portions of substrate, so

that they may be physically separated during operation.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
39 to 43 including means for supporting the array in space environment.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims

39 to 44 including means for reflecting energy (120, 122) from the second
device of each array element.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in any one of claims
39 to 45 including a thermal reservoir (202, 203, 204, 205) associated with each

of said array elements.
A reversible thermoelectric converter as defined in claim 46 wherein
the thermal reservoir comprises spaced apart metal layers (202, 203, 204, 205)

disposed in close proximity to each of said first electrodes (102, 104, 106) and
electrically isolated therefrom.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
