<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636244</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ANALYZING AGENT GAS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2131	G01N2135	A61M1610	A61B508	A61M1610	G01N2131	A61B5083	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	A61M	A61B	A61M	G01N	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	A61M16	A61B5	A61M16	G01N21	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NELLCOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NELLCOR INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRETON KEITH H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CULVER JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERUS LUCILLE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLEWELLING ROSS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHANSSON ERIC T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRETON, KEITH, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CULVER, JOHN, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERUS, LUCILLE, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLEWELLING, ROSS, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHANSSON, ERIC, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a class of 
instruments referred to as gas analyzers which are used 
for measuring the concentration or partial pressure of 
a gas in a gas stream. More specifically, the present 
invention relates to an infrared gas analyzer that 
simultaneously measures the concentrations of a 
plurality of anesthetic agent gases in the respiratory 
gas stream of an anesthetized patient. Patients that are anesthetized during surgery 
are usually intubated. It has been desirable to 
measure the respiratory gases of such patients to 
determine the constituents of the respiratory gas. 
Specifically, analysis of the inspired and expired 
respiratory gas provides information regarding the 
amount of carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), and 
anesthetic agents the respiratory gas contains. Anesthetic agents are present as a single 
agent gas or as a mixture of a number of agent gases 
during transition from one type of agent gas to 
another. Three of the most common anesthetic agent 
gases, other than nitrous oxide, are halothane, 
enflurane, and isoflurane. The agent gas that is 
administered to a patient must be carefully controlled  
 
by an anesthesiologist because of the great risk of 
supplying too much or too little. If too much is 
supplied the patient may die and if too little is 
supplied the patient may be subjected to needless 
pain. In the past, the gas analyzers that were 
used to measure agent gases were the same devices 
that were used to measure end-tidal CO2 and N2O. 
These devices include mass spectrometers and non-dispersive 
infrared gas analyzers ("infrared gas 
analyzer"). United States Patent No. 4692621 
relates to such an infrared gas analyzer. US-A-4692621 
discloses an anaesthetic agent analyzer 
which directs infrared energy through a sample cell 
containing a gas mixture and then through a rotary 
filter wheel with a plurality of filter windows each 
of which transmits a portion of the infrared energy 
at a particular wavelength band which is within the 
characteristic absorption band of a particular gas. 
The wheel interposes the windows between the source 
and a detector such that the electrical signal 
produced may be processed to determine the 
concentration of the constituent gases of the 
anaesthetic. Mass spectrometers that are used for such 
gas measurements are usually part of operating room 
suites in which one spectrometer is shared among 
many rooms. Though a mass spectrometer measures a  
 
multiplicity of gases, it has the disadvantages of 
cos
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for simultaneously determining 
concentrations of N gases in a respiratory gas 

stream comprising the steps of: 

measuring the absorption of infrared light 
by the respiratory gas stream at N discrete 

wavelengths; 
generating electrical signals 
representative of the N measured absorption levels; 
 
characterised by the further step of
 
   computing simultaneously the concentrations 

of N gases in the respiratory gas stream with at 
least second order matrix analysis where N
>
1. 
The method of claim 1 further 
comprising the steps of 


determining for a breath cycle portions 
during which the rate of change of partial pressure 

of a reference constituent gas in the respiratory 
gas stream is within a predetermined range: 
measuring the absorption of infrared light 
by the respiratory gas stream at as many discrete 

wavelengths from 1 to N as may be accomplished when 
the rate of change of partial pressur
e of the 
reference constituent gas is within the 

predetermined range; 
computing simultaneously the concentrations 
of N gases in the respiratory gas stream with at  

 
least second order matrix analysis if N measurements 

were made during the time the rate of change of 
partial pressure of the reference constituent gas 

was within the predetermined range; and 
computing simultaneously the concentrations 
of N gases in the respiratory gas stream with at 

least second order matrix analysis if less than N 
measurements were made during the time that the rate 

of change of partial pressure of the reference 
constituent gas was within the predetermined range 

by including in a set of N measurements for 
computing the gas concentrations, the less than N 

measurements that were made during the current 
event, and interpolating values for the number of N 

measurements not made during such event based on a 
time-weighted average for each of the N measurements 

that are missing using measurements for each of the 
missing N measurements made before the current event 

and after the current event. 
The method of claim 1 further 
comprising the steps of 


determining an inspired event and expired 
event of a breath cycle; 
determining for each the inspired and 
expired event the time when the rate of change of 

partial pressure of a reference constituent gas has  
 

a slope within a predetermined range; 
measuring the absorption of infrared light 
by the respiratory gas stream at N discrete 

wavelengths separately for the inspired and expired 
events during the time when the rate of change of 

partial pressure the reference gas has a slope 
within the predetermined range for each event; and 
computing simultaneously the concentrations 
for N gases in the respiratory gas stream separately 

for the inspired and expired events with at least 
second order matrix analysis. 
The method of claim 1 or 3, wherein the 
computing step further comprises computing the 

concentrations of N gases according to third order 
matrix analysis. 
An agent gas analyzer (100) for 
simultaneously determining concentrations of N gases 

in a respiratory gas stream, where N
>
1, said agent 
gas analyzer comprising: 


an optical bench (152) including 
a light source (216) mounted to irradiate 
a portion of said respiratory gas stream with 

radiation. 
means (206) for separating said radiation 
into N different bands of wavelengths of said  

 
radiation, and 
means (234, 250) for detecting the amount 
of radiation received, after passing through said 

portion of said respiratory gas stream, in each of 
said N different bands of wavelengths of said 

radiation: 
means (106), coupled to said optical bench, 
for generating N electrical absorption signals 

representative of said amount of received radiation 
in said N bands; characterised in that there is 

provided 
means (115,150) coupled to said means (106) for 
generating, for computing simultaneously the 

concentrations of each of said N gases in the 
respiratory gas stream using matrix equations with 

a dimension of the matrix equal to N, and including 
said N electrical absorption signals as variables 

which are at least second order variables in said 
matrix equations. 
The apparatus of claim 5 further 
comprising: 


a memory (806) storing coefficients for 
said matrix equation, said coefficients varying 

according to the values of said electrical 
absorption signals; and 
means for applying said electrical  
 

absorption signals to said memory to select a set of 
coefficients for use in said matrix equation. 
The apparatus of claim 5 or 6 wherein 
said means (206) for separating includes:
 
   N filters (310, 312, 314, 316) having N 

discrete passbands of radiation wavelengths for 
selectively filtering radiation produced by said 

light source. 
The apparatus of any of claims 5 to 7 
further comprising: 


means (250) for detecting the absorption of 
radiation in a reference band corresponding to 

absorption by a reference gas indicative of inspired 
and expired events in a breath cycle of said 

respiratory gas stream; 
wherein said means (115, 150) for computing is arranged to 
determine the occurrence of an inspired or expired 

event from the amount of radiation detected in said 
reference band and compute and display said 

concentrations for a period of time corresponding to 
one of said inspired and expired events. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said 
reference gas is carbon dioxide.  

 
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9 wherein 
said means (115, 150) for computing is arranged to determine a 

sample period within one of said inspired and 
expired periods wherein the rate of change of 

absorption by said reference gas is within a 
predetermined range and compute the concentrations 

of each of said N gases from said amount of 
radiation detected during said sample period of 

time. 
The apparatus of any of claims 8 to 10 
wherein said means (115, 150) for determining the 

occurrence of an inspired or expired event includes 
means for determining whether the absorption in said 

reference band for said inspired and expired events 
crossed inspired and expired threshold levels, 

respectively. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said 
means for determining whether the absorption in said 

reference band for said inspired and expired events 
crossed inspired and expired threshold levels, is 

arranged to continually adjust the threshold levels based upon 
both previous inspired and expired events. 
The apparatus of any of claims 5 to 12 
wherein said means (115, 150) for computing 

is arranged to  
 

determine said amount of radiation absorbed during 
periods when a rate of change of a reference gas in 

said respiratory gas stream is within a 
predetermined range and interpolate a value from 

values for absorption in one of said bands from 
previous and subsequent periods based on a time-weighted 

average when the amount of radiation 
absorbed in said one band is not detected in one of 

said periods. 
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said 
means (206) for separating is arranged to separate said radiation 

into a reference band, corresponding to absorption 
by a reference gas indicative of inspired and 

expired events in a breath cycle of said respiratory 
gas stream, and N different agent bands of 

wavelengths of said radiation, and further 
comprising 


means (250) for detecting the absorption of 
radiation from radiation received, after passing 

through said portion of said respiratory gas stream, 
in said reference band; 
means (115), coupled to said optical bench, 
for determining the occurrence of an inspired or 

expired event from the amount of received radiation 
detected in said reference band; 
means (115) for computing and displaying  
 

said concentrations from said amounts of radiation 
in said agent bands absorbed for a period of time 

corresponding to one of said inspired and expired 
events wherein the rate of change of absorption by 

said reference gas is within a predetermined range. 
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said 
means (206) for detecting is arranged to detect the absorption of 

radiation from radiation received, after passing 
through said portion of said respiratory gas stream, 

in as many of said N bands of wavelengths of said 
radiation as is possible during each of a plurality 

of measurement periods and further comprising
 
   means (115), coupled to said optical bench, 

for interpolating a value from values for absorption 
in one of said bands from previous and subsequent 

periods to determine the absorption in said one band 
when absorption is not detected in one of said 

measurement periods and computing the concentrations 
of each of said N gases using detected and 

interpolated absorptions with multiple simultaneous 
equations. 
The apparatus of claim 6 comprising 
means (115), coupled to said optical bench, 

for comparing a detected absorption in one of said 
N bands to criteria for one of an inspired and an  

 
expired event of a breath cycle; 


means (115) for determining whether said 
absorption for said one band is within said event; 

and 
means (115) for computing the 
concentrations of each of said N gases during said 

event using detected absorptions with multiple 
simultaneous equations. 
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said 
means (206) for detecting includes means for moving 

a filter for one of said N bands through said 
respiratory gas stream, such that said moving is 

synchronized with said event. 
The apparatus of claim 16 or 17 
wherein said means (115) for comparing is arranged to determine 

whether the absorption levels for a reference gas 
cross threshold levels for inspired and expired 

events of a breath cycle. 
The apparatus of any of claims 16 to 
18 wherein said means (115) for comparing compares 

a detected absorption in one of said N bands with a 
predetermined range for a rate of change of 

absorption in said one band.  
 
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said 
one band corresponds to a reference gas. 
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said 
one band corresponds to an agent gas. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
