<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616575</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRACTION CONTROL SYSTEM RESPONSIVE TO WHEEL SPEED FLUCTUATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60K2816	B60K2816	B60L310	B60L310	F02D2902	F02D2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60K	B60K	B60L	B60L	F02D	F02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60K28	B60K28	B60L3	B60L3	F02D29	F02D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEXEL GLEASON USA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEXEL-GLEASON USA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAY KENNETH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAY, KENNETH, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLETRACTION CONTROL SYSTEM RESPONSIVE TO WHEEL SPEED FLUCTUATIONSTECHNICAL FIELDThe invention relates to the field of vehicle traction control systems for limiting wheel slip during transmissions of power to drive wheels.BACKGROUNDTraction control systems include three main components, namely, sensors, controllers, and actuators. The sensors provide the controllers with information about one or more vehicle operating conditions such as: vehicle body speed and acceleration, wheel speeds and accelerations, engine speed and torque, throttle position, and steering wheel angle. The controllers process the sensed information to determine the presence of wheel slip and output a command signal to control the actuators for limiting wheel slip. The actuators include one or more devices for accomplishing such tasks as: braking individual drive wheels, restricting differentiation between the drive wheels, limiting engine output power, and engaging additional drive wheels.The controllers of most traction control systems include microprocessors that execute programs for evaluating the sensed information by a variety of inferential methods to determine the presence of wheel slip. Some of these systems evaluate a large number of sensed operating conditions to help distinguish wheel slip from other independent operations of the drive wheels. Other of these systems exhibit a wide tolerance for wheel slip to avoid interfering with desirable operations of the drive wheels. The former systems are very 

 costly, and the latter systems are at least partly ineffective for eliminating undesirable wheel slip.European Patent 252 384 of Audi AG discloses a discovery that occurrences of wheel slip are accompanied by detectable vibrations in vehicle drive trains. The vibrations are within a frequency range between ten to fifteen hertz, and are detectable as both mechanical vibrations in the drive line and rotational speed fluctuations of slipping drive wheels. Although the European patent of Audi AG also contains some general suggestions about incorporating this discovery into traction control systems, these suggestions appear to have been largely overlooked commercially.For instance, the European patent of Audi AG suggests that in response to the detection of the characteristic vibration of wheel slip, vehicle brakes may be applied, engine power may be reduced, or a combination of these responses may be used to eliminate the wheel slip. In addition, individual drive wheels can be monitored for the characteristic vibrations; and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
/ CLAIM:
1. A method of controlling wheel slip by drive wheels of a motor vehicle having a drive train connecting an engine to the drive wheels including the steps of: monitoring the drive train for a pronounced vibration induced by a slipping drive wheel; measuring a duration of the pronounced vibration; restricting differentiation between the drive wheels as a function of a measured duration of the vibration; and reducing engine output power to the drive train as a function of a difference between the measured duration of the vibration and a threshold duration.
2. The method of claim 1 including the further step of measuring vehicle speed.
3. The method of claim 2 in which differential restriction also varies with a measured vehicle speed within a range of vehicle speeds.
4. The method of claim 3 in which the threshold duration also varies with the measured vehicle speed within said range of vehicle speeds.
5. The method of claim 4 in which differential restriction decreases with increases in vehicle speed throughout said range of vehicle speeds.
6. The method of claim 5 in which the threshold duration also decreases with increases in vehicle speed throughout said range of vehicle speeds.
7. The method of claim 6 in which a vehicle speed within said range of vehicle speeds at which differential restriction is at a minimum corresponds to a vehicle speed at which the threshold duration is also at a minimum. 


 8. The method of claim 6 in which a maximum threshold duration corresponds to a duration of wheel slip required to increase differential restriction to a maximum.
9. The method of claim 1 in which said step of monitoring the drive train includes steps of producing first and second signals indicative of respective rotational speeds of the drive wheels, combining the first and second signals into a third signal indicative of an average rotational speed of the drive wheels, and transmitting a portion of the third signal as a fourth signal that is limited to a predetermined frequency range of drive wheel speed fluctuations.
10. The method of claim 9 in which said step of monitoring the drive train also includes steps of producing a fifth signal that is proportional to an amplitude of the drive wheel speed fluctuations of the fourth signal, comparing magnitudes of the fifth signal to a threshold magnitude, and producing a sixth signal having a first state indicative of magnitudes that are above the threshold magnitude and a second state indicative of magnitudes that are below the threshold magnitude.
11. The method of claim 10 in which said step of monitoring the drive train also includes a step of decreasing the threshold magnitude with increases in vehicle speed.
12. The method of claim 10 in which said step of measuring a duration of the pronounced vibration includes producing a seventh signal proportional to a duration of the first state in the sixth signal.
13. The method of claim 12 in which said step of restricting differentiation includes converting the seventh signal into a first command signal corresponding to a predetermined restriction to differentiation between the two drive shafts. 


 14. The method of claim 13 in which said step of reducing engine output power includes converting a portion of the seventh signal into a second command signal corresponding to a predetermined reduction in engine output power.
15. A traction control system for controlling wheel slip by drive wheels of a motor vehicle having a drive train for connecting an engine to the drive wheels comprising: at least one sensor for detecting a pronounced vibration in said drive train induced by a slipping drive wheel; a controller for measuring a duration of the pronounced vibration, for producing a first command signal as a function of a measured duration of the vibration, and for producing a second command signal as a function of a difference between the measured duration of the vibration and a threshold duration; a first actuator responsive to the first command signal for restricting differentiation between the drive wheels; and a second actuator responsive to the second command signal for reducing engine output power to the drive wheels.
16. The traction control system of claim 15 including a sensor for measuring vehicle speed.
17. The traction control system of claim 16 in which the first command signal decreases with increases in speed throughout a range of vehicle speeds.
18. The traction control system of claim 17 in which the threshold duration also decreases with increases in vehicle speed throughout said range of vehicle speeds.
19. The traction control system of claim 18 in which a vehicle speed at which the first command signal is at a minimum corresponds to a vehicle speed at which the threshold duration is at a minimum. 


 20. The traction control system of claim 18 in which a maximum threshold duration corresponds to a duration of the vibration induced by wheel slip required to increase said first command signal to a maximum.
21. The traction control system of claim 15 in which said at least one sensor includes a first speed sensor and a second speed sensor for monitoring respective rotational speeds of two drive shafts interconnected by a differential and for producing respective signals indicative of the rotational speeds of the two drive shafts.
22. The traction control system of claim 21 in which said controller also provides for combining the respective signals from the first and second speed sensors into an averaged signal and for transmitting a portion of the averaged signal as a filtered signal that is limited to a predetermined frequency range of drive wheel speed fluctuations.
23. The traction control system of claim 22 including a sensor for measuring vehicle speed.
24. The traction control system of claim 23 in which said controller also provides for comparing a magnitude of the filtered signal against a threshold magnitude that varies with vehicle speed and for producing a signal that distinguishes between magnitudes of the filtered signal that are above and below the threshold magnitude.
25. The traction control system of claim 24 in which the threshold magnitude decreases with vehicle speed throughout a range of vehicle speeds.
26. A system for detecting wheel slip by drive wheels of a motor vehicle having a drive train for connecting an engine to the drive wheels comprising: 


 a sensor for detecting a pronounced vibration in said drive train induced by a slipping drive wheel and for transmitting a sensor signal that is limited to a predetermined frequency range of drive wheel speed fluctuations; a comparator for comparing magnitudes of the sensor signal to a threshold magnitude for determining the existence of wheel slip; and a threshold setting device for varying the threshold magnitude with vehicle speed.
27. The system of claim 26 in which the threshold magnitude of said comparator decreases with vehicle speed.
28. The system of claim 27 in which said comparator produces a comparator signal that distinguishes between magnitudes of the sensor signal that are above and below the threshold magnitude.
29. The system of claim 28 further comprising a timer for producing a timing signal proportional to a duration of the comparator signal above the threshold magnitude.
30. The system of claim 27 including a separate sensor for detecting vehicle speed.
31. A system for detecting wheel slip by a drive wheel of a motor vehicle having a motor and at least two drive shafts that are operatively connected to the motor for driving different drive wheels comprising: a first speed sensor for monitoring rotational speed of a first of the two drive shafts and for producing a signal indicative of the rotational speed of the first drive shaft; a second speed sensor for monitoring rotational speed of a second of the two drive shafts and for producing a signal indicative of the rotational speed of the second drive shaft; 


 a speed averager for combining said first and second signals into a third signal indicative of an average rotational speed of the two drive shafts; a filter for transmitting a portion of the third signal as a fourth signal that is limited to a predetermined frequency range of drive shaft speed fluctuations; a level detector for producing a fifth signal that is proportional to an amplitude of the drive shaft speed fluctuations of the fourth signal; and a comparator for comparing magnitudes of the fifth signal to a threshold magnitude and for producing a sixth signal that distinguishes between magnitudes of the fifth signal that are above and below the threshold magnitude.
32. The system of claim 31 in which the threshold magnitude of said comparator decreases with vehicle speed.
33. The system of claim 32 in which the sixth signal has a first state indicative of magnitudes that are above the threshold magnitude and a second state indicative of magnitudes that are below the threshold magnitude.
34. The system of claim 33 further comprising a timer for producing a seventh signal proportional to a duration of the first state in the sixth signal.
35. The system of claim 34 in which said timer is an integrator that approximates a moving average of the duration of the first state over a predetermined time interval. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
