<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618825</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR TREATING METAL-CONTAMINATED MATERIALS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A62D300	A62D300	A62D10108	B01D5346	B01D5364	B09C100	B09C106	F23G5027	F23G5027	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A62D	A62D	A62D	B01D	B01D	B09C	B09C	F23G	F23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A62D3	A62D3	A62D101	B01D53	B01D53	B09C1	B09C1	F23G5	F23G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHYSICAL SCIENCES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHYSICAL SCIENCES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITSE DANIEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORENCY JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SRINIVASACHAR SRIVATS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITSE, DANIEL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORENCY, JOSEPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SRINIVASACHAR, SRIVATS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR TREATING METAL-CONTAMINATED MATERIALSBackground of the InventionToxic and heavy metals are one of the most problematic classes of contaminants due to their ubiquity and toxicity. Heavy metals represent a significant source of pollution when released into the environment. They are present in fossil fuels and ores, for example, and are released into the environment via airborne emissions during industrial processing of these materials, e.g., during incineration, or leach into soils and groundwater from ash and other residues when these materials are landfilled. Heavy metals from all sources present a major environmental concern. Heavy metals are present in fossil fuels such as coal, oil and natural gas, in biomass, in ores and in wastes. Heavy metals are volatilized in the hot regions of process units such as boilers, incinerators or furnaces used for waste disposal, energy generation or metal recovery. Subsequently, as the gases are cooled, less volatile metal species (e.g., cadmium and lead) condense onto particles of ash entrained in the gas stream, while more volatile metals (e.g., arsenic and mercury) remain in the gas phase, where they end up as airborne emissions.Heavy metals include, for example, arsenic, beryllium, lead, cadmium, chromium, nickel, zinc, mercury and barium. Most of these metals are highly toxic to humans and animals. Metal-contaminated wastes often also contain organic contaminants. Thus, treatment technologies for treating wastes contaminated with toxic metals preferably should be effective for treating organic waste as well. 

 The necessity of dealing with toxic metals has given rise to important and growing technologies devoted to remediating soils, wastes, and other materials contaminated with them, and preventing their escape into the environment. Wastes contaminated with toxic metals and/or organics have been treated, for example, by immobilizing the waste materials or by incineration. Many treatment techniques use cement-forming additives or polymer resins to encapsulate the waste, and subsequently landfill the resulting mass. This technique is costly and may not destroy organics in the waste. Other treatment techniques melt the waste in conjunction with glass-forming materials into a glassy form. These techniques are even more expensive and energy intensive because of the very high temperatures required, and also may result in airborne emissions. Incineration is a more cost-effective treatment for waste remediation as it destroys most organic materials.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for treating waste, soils or other material contaminated with a metal in order to render the metal non-leachable, comprising: a. heating the waste, soils or other material to a temperature sufficient to volatilize the metal and to form a gas stream having the metal vapor and ash particles entrained therein; b. cooling the gas stream sufficiently to cause condensation of the metal vapor onto the surface of the ash particles; c. combining the metal-coated ash particles produced in step (b) with a sorbent which is reactive with the metal; and d. heating the combination formed in step (d) to a temperature sufficient to induce reaction between the metal and the sorbent thereby to produce an insoluble metal compound.
2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the metal comprise a toxic heavy metal.
3. The process of Claim 2 wherein the metal includes one or more heavy metals selected from the group consisting of: beryllium, chromium, lead, cadmium, nickel, zinc and barium.
4. The process of Claim 1 wherein step (a) is performed in a combustion chamber.
5. The process of Claim 1 wherein the waste, soils or other materials contaminated with metal further comprise organic matter. 


6. The process of Claim 5 wherein the temperature of step (a) is sufficient to remove the organic matter from the waste.
7. The process of Claim 1 wherein the temperature of step (a) is in the range of from about 300°C to about 1500°C.
8. The process of Claim 1 further comprising the step of adding a chlorinated compound to the waste, soils or other material, thereby forming metal chlorides in step (a).
9. The process of Claim 8 wherein the amount of chlorine added is about 100 ppm of the waste, soils or other material.
10. The process of Claim 1 wherein the sorbent is selected from the group consisting of: silica, silicates aluminosilicates and diatomaceous earth.
11. The process of Claim 1 wherein step (d) is performed by forming an intimate mixture between the particles and sorbent.
12. The process of Claim 1 further comprising the step of separating the metal-coated ash particles from the gas stream prior to step (c) .
13. The process of Claim 12 wherein the ash particles are collected on a filter having a pore size of lOμ or less. 


 14. The process of Claim 1 further comprising the step of compressing the combination formed in step (c) to form pellets, briquettes or bricks.
15. The process of Claim 14 wherein the pellet, briquette or brick comprises a core formed from the metal-coated ash surrounded by a layer of sorbent.
16. The process of Claim 1 wherein the temperatures used in step (d) are from about 300°C to about 900°C.
17. The process of Claim 1 further comprising the step of contacting the gas stream with a high surface area silicate compound prior to step (c) .
18. The process of Claim 17 wherein the sorbent contains calcium or magnesium.
19. The process of Claim 1 further comprising the step of removing particles having a diameter of greater than lOμ from the gas stream prior to step (c).
20. The process of Claim 1 wherein the material comprises mercury, and wherein the process further comprises the steps of contacting the gas stream with a carbonaceous material under conditions sufficient to permit the mercury to sorb onto the carbonaceous material and removing the carbonaceous material from the gas stream prior to step (c) .
21. A process for treating wastes, soils or other materials contaminated with arsenic comprising: a. heating the waste, soils or other material 


to a temperature sufficient to volatilize the arsenic thereby forming a gas stream having arsenic vapor entrained therein; b. contacting the gas stream containing arsenic vapor with a sorbent comprising a calcium or magnesium compound which reacts with the arsenic thereby removing it from the gas stream; and c. heating the arsenic-containing sorbent formed in (b) to a temperature sufficient to induce reaction between the arsenic and the sorbent thereby to produce a water-insoluble arsenic compound.
22. The process of Claim 21 wherein the compound is selected from the group consisting of: calcium hydroxide, calcium oxide, calcium carbonate, calcium sulfate, calcium chloride, magnesium carbonate, magnesium sulfate, magnesium chloride and diatomaceous earth.
23. The process of Claim 21 further comprising the step of compressing the arsenic-containing sorbent formed in step (b) to form pellets or bricks prior to step (c) .
24. The process of Claim 21 further comprising the step of contacting the gas stream containing arsenic vapor with a high surface area material prior to step (b) which adsorbs the arsenic thereby removing it from the gas stream and combining the arsenic-adsorbed material with the sorbent in step (b).
25. A process for treating wastes, soils or other materials contaminated with mercury comprising: a. heating the waste, soils or other material 


 to a temperature sufficient to volatilize the mercury . thereby forming a gas stream having mercury vapor and ash particles entrained therein; b. contacting the gas stream containing mercury vapor with a carbonaceous sorbent which sorbs the mercury; c. removing the ash particles and the carbonaceous sorbent with the mercury sorbed thereon from the gas stream; and d. separating the ash particles from the carbonaceous sorbent.
26. A process for removing mercury vapor from a gas stream having mercury vapor and ash particles entrained therein comprising a. contacting the gas stream with a carbonaceous sorbent which sorbs the mercury; b. removing the ash particles and the carbonaceous sorbent with the mercury sorbed thereon from the gas stream; and c. separating the ash particles from the carbonaceous sorbent.
27. The process of Claim 25 or 26 wherein the carbonaceous sorbent is selected from the group consisting of: activated carbon, carbon doped with halide salts and unburnt carbonaceous combustion residue.
28. The process of Claim 25 or 26 wherein the carbonaceous sorbent is in the form of an aqueous slurry. 


29. The process of Claim 28 wherein the aqueous slurry further comprises halide salts.
30. The process of Claim 28 wherein the aqueous slurry further comprises an oxidizing compound.
31. The process of Claim 25 further comprising the step of treating the carbonaceous sorbent after step (c) to separate the mercury from the sorbent thereby regenerating the sorbent.
32. The process of Claim 31 wherein the treating step is carried out b contacting the carbonaceous sorbent with an aqueous or acidic solution under conditions sufficient to solubilize the mercury thereby removing it from the sorbent.
33. The process of Claim 31 wherein the regenerated sorbent is reused in step (b).
34. A process for treating in situ waste, soils or other materials contaminated with metals to render the metals non-leachable wherein said waste, soils or other materials comprise a sorbent reactive with the metals, the process comprising: inducing a chemical reaction by heating the waste, soils or other material to a temperature sufficient to transform the metals to reactive metal species or to volatilize the metals to metal vapors and maintaining said heating for a time and at a temperature sufficient to induce said reactive metal species or said vapors to chemically react with the sorbent to form a substantially non-leachable metal or metal-sorbent complex. 


.35. The process of Claim 34 wherein the metal comprises a toxic metal.
35. The process of Claim 33 wherein the metal is selected from the group consisting of: arsenic, beryllium, chromium, lead, cadmium, mercury, nickel, zinc, barium, and mixtures thereof.
36. The process of Claim 34 wherein the heating step is performed by applying electromagnetic energy to the waste, soils or other material.
37. The process of Claim 36 wherein the electromagnetic energy is supplied by electrodes.
38. The process of Claim 34 comprising the additional step of mixing additional sorbent to the waste, soils or other materials prior to the heating step.
39. The process of Claim 38 wherein the sorbent is layered on top of the waste, soils or other materials prior to heating.
40. The process of Claim 34 wherein the temperature is in the range* of from about 300°C to about 1000°C.
41. A process for treating waste, soils or other material contaminated with metals in order to render the metals non-leachable, comprising: a. combining the metal-contaminated waste, soils or other material with a sorbent which is chemically reactive with the metals, b. heating the combination formed in step (a) 


to a temperature sufficient to render the metals reactive or to volatilize the metals thereby forming metal vapors; and c. maintaining the heating for a time sufficient to induce a chemical reaction between the reactive metals or metal vapors thereby forming a substantially non-leachable metal-sorbent complex.
42. The process of claim 41 wherein the sorbent is selected from the group consisting of silicate compounds, aluminosilicate compounds and alkaline earth compounds.
43. The process of claim 41 wherein the temperature in step (b) is in the range of from about 300°C to about 1000°C. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
