<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0868694</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR SETTING THE OPERATING MODE OF AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT AND AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3128	G01R31317	G11C2904	G11C2946	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R31	G01R31	G11C29	G11C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrated circuit (IC) which can function in a number of different operating modes is set to a setting mode by a control signal (SR1) on the control signal input (R). The circuit (IC) includes a signal sequence generator (PG) which in the setting mode generates setting signal sequences (SA0-SA3) on four of the address connections (A0-A3) of the circuit (IC). An operating mode is selected by coupling one of the address connections (A3) with a setting signal input (M) on a signal sequence detector (PD) in the circuit (IC). The signal sequence detector (PD) interprets the setting signal sequence (SA3) from the signal sequence generator (PG) and sets control outputs (PO1, PO2, SO1, SO2) on the signal sequence detector (PD) to different combinations of "low" and "high" signal levels respectively in dependence on the sequence (SM1) received in the detector (PD), whereafter the circuit (IC) switches to an operating mode in which the address conductors (A0-A3) forward signals in accordance with the operating mode.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET L M ERICSSON (PUBL)
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDQVIST DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDQVIST, DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD FOR SETTING THE OPERATING MODE OF AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT AND AN INTEGRATEDCIRCUITFIELD OF INVENTIONThe present invention relates to methods and apparatus for setting the operating mode of an integrated circuit which performs different functions in accordance with the operating mode selected.DESCRIPTION OF THE BACKGROUND ARTIntegrated circuits that are able to perform different functions are becoming more and more usual. Equipment in which an integrated circuit shall be included is often required to be compact and effective with respect to current consumption. Such requirements can be met by incorporating parts of the equipment in the integrating circuit. The more functions that are built into the integrated circuits, the larger the circuits. Furthermore, it is often beneficial to use one and the same circuit in different applications in which the circuit performs different working functions. In order for the circuit to operate, it is necessary to be able to set the circuit to different operating modes.Earlier solutions to setting such circuits in respective operating modes have involved dedicating a number of circuit- mounted setting signal inputs to solely control setting of the circuit. A signal level is applied to these inputs, by applying to the inputs either a low or a high signal level, for instance signal earth or an operational voltage respec¬ tively, e.g. with the aid of a switch. The applied signal level is read into the circuit at a predetermined time point, normally when starting-up, and is there interpreted as an operating mode.In a development of the aforedescribed method resulting in 

the ability to use the signal connections in normal opera¬ tions subsequent to said connection having served as setting signal inputs, the signal connections are coupled to the earlier mentioned signal levels through the medium of resistors. This enables the signal connections to be used also in the normal operation that follows termination of the setting process without risking short circuiting.The problem with these solutions is that it is necessary to dedicate a plurality of signal connections, and therewith a number of connecor pins, solely to the setting functions. The space available for accommodating electronics in modern equipment can be very limited, meaning that the larger the number of connector pins required by a circuit the more difficult it becomes to meet the requirement of compact equipmen .With regard to resistor-loaded setting signal inputs, a further problem resides in the fact that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of setting an integrated circuit (IC, IC2) in one of at least two predetermined separate operating modes, wherein the circuit (IC) includes at least two signal connections (A0-A3), a setting signal input (M) which upon receipt of a predetermined signal sequence (SMI) sets the circuit (IC) in the predetermined operating mode indicated by said sequence (SMI), wherein the circuit (IC) also includes a control signal input (R) which upon receipt of a control signal (SRI) sets the circuit (IC) to a setting mode in which each of the signal connections (A0-A3) transmit different predetermined signal sequences (SA0-SA3), and wherein the method includes the following method steps: - selecting one of the operating modes;
- connecting one of the signal connections (A0-A3) to the setting signal input (M), wherein in the setting mode the signal connection (A3) sends a signal sequence (SA3) which, when received on the setting signal input (M) indicates the selected operating mode;
- receiving the control signal (SRI) on the control signal input (R) so that the circuit (IC) is set to the setting mode and the signal sequence (SA3) is received on the setting signal input (M); and - setting the circuit (IC) to the operating mode indicated by the signal sequences (SA3) wherein each of the signal connections (A0-A3) functions in accordance with the selected operating mode.
2. A method of setting an integrated circuit (IC, IC2) in a predetermined one of at least two different operating modes, wherein the circuit (IC2) includes at least two signal connections (A0-A3), at least two setting signal inputs (Ml, M2) which upon receipt of at least one predetermined signal sequence (SMI, SM2) sets the circuit (IC2) to said predeter¬ mined operating mode indicated by the sequence (SMI), wherein the circuit (IC2) also includes a control signal input (R) 


which upon receipt of a control signal (SRI) sets the circuit (IC2) to a setting mode in which each of the signal connec¬ tions (A0-A3) transmit different predetermined signal sequences (SA0-SA3), and wherein the method comprises the following method steps:
- selecting one of the operating modes;
- connecting at least one of the signal connections (A0-A3) to at least one of the setting signal inputs (Ml, M2), wherein in the setting mode said signal connection (AO) transmits a signal sequence (SAO) which upon receipt on at least one of the setting signal inputs (Ml) indicates the selected operating mode;
- receiving the control signal (SRI) on the control signal input (R) so as to set the circuit IC2) to the setting mode, and the signal sequence (SAO) is received on at least one of the setting signal inputs (Ml); and
- setting the circuit (IC2) to the operating mode indicated by the signal sequence (SAO), wherein each of the signal connections (A0-A3) function in accordance with the selected operating mode.
3. A method according to Claim 2, wherein a circuit (IC2) external signal source (GND, Vcc) is connected to at least one of the setting signal inputs (Ml, M2).
4. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein when in its operating modes the integrated circuit (IC, IC2) has signal outputs (A0-A3) which are used for said signal connections (A0-A3).
5. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein when in its operating modes the integrated circuit (IC, IC2) has signal inputs (A0-A3) which are used for said signal connections (A0-A3).
6. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein when in its operating modes the integrated circuit (IC, IC2) 


has at least one signal output (AO-Al) and at least one signal input (A2-A3), said output and input being used for said signal connections (A0-A3).
7. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein when in its operating modes the integrated circuit (IC, IC2) has two-way signal inputs/signal outputs (A0-A3) which are used for said signal connections A0-A3).
8. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein when in its operating modes the integrated circuit (IC, IC2) has address conductors (A0-A3) on an address bus (AB), said address conductors (A0-A3) being used for said signal connections (A0-A3).
9. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein when in its operating modes the integrated circuit (IC, IC2) has data conductors (D0-D3) on a data bus (DB), said data conductors (D0-D3) being used for said signal connections (A0-A3).
10. A method according to any one of Claims 1-3, wherein when in its operating modes the integrated circuit (IC, IC2) has at least one address conductor (AO) on an address bus (AB) and at least one data conductor (DO) on a data bus (DB), said address conductor (AO) and said data conductor (DO) being used for said signal connections (A0-A3).
11. An integrated circuit (IC) comprising - at least one signal sequence generator (PG) which includes at least two signal connections (A0-A3), wherein the signal sequence generator (PG) sends setting signal sequences (SAO- SA3) via the signal connections (A0-A3); - at least one signal sequence detector (PD) which includes a setting signal input (M) and at least two control outputs (POl, P02, SOI, S02), wherein the signal sequence detector (PD) sets each of the control outputs (POl, P02, SOI, S02) 



to one of two signal levels in dependence on the received setting signal sequence (SMI);
- a connection (X) between one of the signal connections (
A
3) and the setting signal input (M); and - at least one time monitoring unit (TUl, TU2), wherein said time monitoring unit (TUl, TU2) includes means for interrupt¬ ing the transmission of setting signal sequences (SA0-SA3) by the signal sequence generator PG).
12. An integrated circuit (IC2) comprising
- at least one signal sequence generator (PG) which includes at least two signal connections (A0-A3), wherein the signal sequence generator (PG) sends setting signal sequences (SA0- SA3) via the signal connections (A0-A3); - at least one signal sequence detector (PD2) which includes at least two setting signal inputs (Ml, M2) and at least two control outputs (POl, P02, SOI, S02), wherein the signal sequence detector (PD2) sets each of the control units (POl, P02, SOI, S02) to one of two signal levels in dependence on the received setting signal sequences (SMI, SM2);
- at least two connections (XI, X2), wherein said connections (XI) maintain contact between at least one of the signal connections (AO) and at least one of the setting signal inputs (Ml); and - at least one time monitoring unit (TUl, TU2) which includes means for interrupting transmission of the setting signal sequences (SA0-SA3) by said signal sequence generator (PG).
13. An integrated circuit (IC2) according to Claim 12, wherein a circuit external signal source (GND, Vcc) is connected to at least one of the setting signal inputs (Ml, M2) .
14. An integrated circuit (IC, IC2) according to any one of Claims 11-13, wherein the signal connections (A0-A3) are signal outputs. 


15. An integrated circuit (IC, IC2) according to any one of Claims 11-13, wherein the signal connections (A0-A3) are signal inputs.
16. An integrated circuit (IC, IC2) according to any one of Claims 11-13, wherein the signal connections (A0-A3) include at least one signal output and at least one signal input.
17. An integrated circuit (IC, IC2) according to any one of Claims 11-13, wherein the signal connections (A0-A3) include at least one two-way signal output/signal input.
18. An integrated circuit (IC, IC2) according to any one of Claims 11-13, wherein the circuit (IC, IC2) includes an address bus (AB), and in that the signal connections (A0-A3) comprise part of the address bus (AB).
19. An integrated circuit (IC, IC2) according to any one of Claims 11-13, wherein the circuit (IC, IC2) includes a data bus (DB), and in that the signal connections (A0-A3) form part of the data bus (DB).
20. An integrated circuit (IC, IC2) according.to any one of Claims 11-13, wherein the circuit (IC, IC2) includes an address bus (AB) and a data bus (DB), and wherein the signal connections (A0-A3) include at least one address conductor (AO) on the address bus (AB) and at least one data conductor (DO) on the data bus (DB). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
