<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643594</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BLOOD EXTRACTION FLOW CONTROL CALIBRATION SYSTEM AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M130	A61M136	G05D706	G05D706	A61M130	A61M102	A61M136	A61M102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	G05D	G05D	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	G05D7	G05D7	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system for calibrating and controlling the withdrawal of a fluid, such as blood, from a fluid source, such as a blood vessel, includes a fluid pump (26), a pressure sensor (24), a flow rate sensor, and a microprocessor based flow control subsystem. The flow control subsystem optimizes the flow rate by sensing zero flow rate pressure within the subject, making a plurality of periodic flow path pressure measurements and extrapolating a calibration flow rate curve (110). A control curve (130) is generated by utilizing the zero-flow rate pressure point (100), the slope of the calibration curve (110), and an empirically predetermined pressure offset value (150). The blood pump (26) is then operated at a maximum speed that is limited by the flow control curve (130) to maximize flow without occlusion or collapse of the blood vessel during blood withdrawal. The method and system of the invention is particularly applicable to automated apheresis system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUFF ROBIN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINCE PAUL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUFF, ROBIN, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINCE, PAUL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a living subject adaptive
blood flow control system and more particularly to an
apheresis blood flow control system which optimizes blood
flow by limiting the blood flow rate in accordance with a
flow control curve determined individually for each donor
or patient subject from actual subject data. More
particularly, this invention relates to an improved blood
flow control system for controlling and optimizing the rate
of blood withdrawal from a blood vessel, thereby mitigating
the frequency and/or severity of occlusive interruptions
(e.g. collapse of vein or collapse of tubing) in the course
of blood withdrawal.Blood collection systems and apheresis systems such as
plasmapheresis, platelet pheresis, therapeutic plasma
exchange or processing, etc. as well as other systems are
known which require the extraction or reinfusion of bodily
fluids from or to a living subject. In the case of a
plasmapheresis system whole blood is extracted from the
subject, plasma is separated from the whole blood, and an
extraction product containing a higher concentration of
blood cells than the whole blood is reinfused back to the
subject while the separated plasma is retained and used for
desired purposes. Frequently, a selected volume of saline
solution or other fluids are infused into the subject to
replace the volume of plasma separated from the whole
blood.To optimize utilization of processing equipment and
support personnel and minimize inconvenience and discomfort
to the subject, it is often desirable to remove bodily
fluids as rapidly as possible. However, physiological 
restrictions on flow rates impose practical limitations on
how fast pumping can proceed.During extraction, if the pumping rate exceeds the flow
capacity of a vein into which a phlebotomy needle or
catheter is inserted, the intravenous pressure will drop
below approximate atmospheric pressure and the vein
sidewalls will collapse under atmospheric pressure. In the
following, atmospheric pressure refers to the local
extravascular pressure surrounding the vein in the location
away from the pressure cuff and toward the extremities.
When such collapse of the vein occurs, the blood pump must
be stopped or significantly slowed until the intravenous
blood flow restores the intravenous pressure to a point
greater than atmospheric pressure, thus refilling the
collapsed portion of the vein.Oftentimes, when the vein collapses about the needle,
the end of the needle will become compressed against the
sidewall of the vein. When this happens
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for calibrating the control of the flow of fluid in a given
direction to or from a subject having a limited flow rate accommodation

along a flow path having connecting means connectable to the subject and
being connectable between the subject and a fluid processor and/or

reservoir, the apparatus comprising:

a pressure cuff coupled to the subject to provide pressurisation of
the subject's blood vessel to increase the dynamic range of operating

internal vein pressures;
a fluid pump (26) connectable in fluid pumping relationship with
the fluid flow path (10);
pressure sensing means (24) coupled to sense fluid pressure in the
fluid flow path (10) between the fluid pump (26) and the connecting means

and generate indications of the sensed pressure;
a flow rate sensor coupled to provide indications of fluid flow rates
along the fluid flow path; and
a fluid pump controller coupled to receive the sensed pressure and
flow rate indications and programmed to provide to the controller signals

in response thereto, the controller including:

a) means for inflating and deflating the pressure cuff; characterised in
that the fluid pump controller includes:
b) means for generating a zero-flow point, including means for
sensing the internal fluid pressure within the subject's blood pressure at

zero flow rate while the pressure cuff is deflated, said zero flow point
being an indication of pressure within the subject at zero flow rate; 
c) means for making periodic flow path pressure measurements while
the pressure cuff is inflated and means for generating a calibration flow

rate curve comprised of a plurality of periodic flow path pressure
measurements;
d) means for generating a flow rate control curve utilizing the slope of
said calibration flow rate curve, said zero-flow point, and a translation

from said zero-flow point corresponding to a predetermined intravascular
pressure value; and
e) means for generating during conditions of normal operation flow
rate control signals limited the actual flow rate to a magnitude along the

flow rate control curve.
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for generating a zero-flow
point includes means for offsetting gravitational effects due to the

position of the subject. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 or 2 wherein the predetermined
pressure value is empirically determined by taking into

consideration variations in zero-flow vein pressure and
variations in the maximum operable vein pressure from

subject to subject.
The apparatus of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the predetermined
pressure value is a fraction of a maximum operable

pressure.
The system of any preceding Claim further comprising a pressure
cuff to provide pressurization of

the subject's blood vessel to increase the dynamic range of
operating internal vein pressures.
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said means for
generating a zero-flow point includes means for

depressurizing said pressure cuff.
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said means for
generating a calibration flow rate curve includes means for

pressurizing said pressure cuff and means for rapidly and
uniformly accelerating said fluid pump so that a large

number of pressure measurements can be taken periodically.
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said means for
generating a calibration flow rate curve includes means for

pressurizing said pressure cuff and means for rapidly and
uniformly accelerating and decelerating said fluid pump so

that a large number of pressure measurements can be taken
periodically. 
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein the predetermined
pressure value is between the zero-flow point value and the

cuff pressure value.
The apparatus of Claim 9 wherein the predetermined
pressure value is a fraction of the cuff pressure.
The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein the predetermined
pressure value is one-quarter the cuff pressure.
The apparatus of any preceding Claim wherein said means for
generating a calibration flow rate curve includes means for

mathematically processing the periodic flow path pressure
measurements to obtain a Least-Squares slope estimation.
The apparatus of anyone of Claims 1 to 11 wherein said means for
generating a calibration flow rate curve includes means for

adjusting the slope of said calibration flow rate curve to
correct for changes in internal vein pressure during the

calibration period.
The apparatus of anyone of Claims 1 to 11 wherein said means for
generating a calibration flow rate curve include means for

mathematically processing the periodic flow path pressure
measurements to obtain a Binomial fit having a linear

portion attributable to the slope.
A method of controlling flow rate of a bodily
fluid along a flow path using apparatus according to any preceding claim

comprising the steps of: 

making a plurality of periodic flow path pressure
measurements;
using the flow path pressure measurements to generate a
calibration flow rate curve;
generating a flow rate control curve utilizing the slope
of said calibration flow rate curve, a zero-flow

pressure point, and a translation from said zero-flow
pressure point corresponding to a predetermined

intravascular pressure value; and
generating during conditions of normal operation flow
rate control signals limiting the actual flow rate to a

magnitude along the flow rate control curve.
The method according to Claim 15
wherein the step of making periodic flow path measurements

includes the step of rapidly and uniformly accelerating
pumping of the fluid and periodically taking a large

number of pressure measurements.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
