<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638305</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical hand support apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1732	A61B1732	A61G1312	A61G1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61G	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61G13	A61G13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical hand support apparatus (10) comprising a base block (12) with a 
finger securing assembly comprising two uprights (22) slidably mounted on 

tracks (26) defined in the base block, a cross member (48) connected to the 
uprights. A thumb securing assembly is also slidably mounted to the base 

block, the thumb securing assembly (60) comprising a standard support 
member secured to the base block and a hook shaped rod (68) mounted in the 

standard support member, the standard support member defining a slot (66) 
through which a post (34) extending from the side of the base block 

allowing the standard support member and associated hook shaped rod to be 
reciprocated for selective positioning around the thumb of the patient. A 

wrist securing assembly (80) is incorporated comprising a plurality of 
brackets slidably mounted to the base block and a cylindrical cross bar 

(94) defining a plurality of instrument receiving holes (95) is mounted to 
the uprights. A lock screw (98) is connected to the cylindrical cross bar 

to lock the cross bar in place to secure the wrist of the patient and allow 
selective positioning of surgical instruments with respect to the hand. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERGER J LEE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BERGER, J., LEE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERGER J LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERGER, J., LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed towards a device
for immobilizing a patient's hand while holding the hand on
a specially constructed support board in order to facilitate
various surgical procedures including endoscopy carpal
tunnel release, percutaneous carpal tunnel-plasty and
arthoscopy of the hand and wrist.The human hand is the site of a large number of
operative procedures and prior art hand restraints have not
been able to fully immobilize the hand during a number of
surgical procedures.A number of restraint devices have been used to
support and restrain a patient's hand for intravenous
administration and various surgical procedures. U.S. Patent
Number 4,982,744 discloses an immobilizing apparatus
including a composite sheet and arm board. The composite
sheet includes an adhesive surface on one side and loop
fastener on the other side. The arm board includes a fabric
hook fastener which engages and holds the hook fasteners of
the composite sheet. The patient's hand and/or forearm is
secured to the composite sheet by placing the hand and/or
forearm on the adhesive surface, the hooked surface of the 
composite sheet having been previously mounted to the hooked
surface of the arm board. A hand belt constructed of fabric
loop fasteners, can be used with the restraining device to
immobilize the hand.U.S. Patent Number 5,140,998 discloses a surgical
hand restrainer device with a flat mitt shaped base member,
a spring finger trap and a slidable rigid thumb loop. The
spring finger trap is in the form of a mouse trap type
spring biased bar and it does not contain any wrist cross
bars or guides for the insertion of instruments for
performing any operative procedures inside the hand.U.S. Patent Number 3,762,401 discloses a paddle
shaped base with a strap hand restraint. The wrist of the
patient's hand is held by an optional wrist band and the
individual fingers and thumb are held by elastic finger
hands. The open wound is held open by a plurality of hooks
mounted to a ball and link chain. The chains are mounted to
the paddle base by inserting a link in one of a number of
notches cut along the periphery of the paddle base.U.S. Patent Number 5,136,743 discloses an
apparatus for positioning the distal radioulnar joint for
medical examination and is constructed with a platform and a
pair of upright blocks mounted on the platform in a spaced
relationship to each other. Each of the blocks defines a
plurality of slots which hold the posts of plexiglass
stabilizing blocks. A post located near the forward end of
the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical hand support (10) comprising a base block (12) adapted to support a
patient's hand (200), said base block defining an inclined surface (18) for

supporting the hand during surgery, the distal end (16) of the inclined surface
being lower than the proximal end (17) of the inclined surface to incline

downwardly away from the patient's wrist (201) towards the patient's fingers (204),
and a finger securing assembly (20) for attachment to said base block, the hand

support being characterised in that:

the finger securing assembly includes a cross member (48, 128) for
restraining the patient's fingers from moving up and down, said cross member

being movable towards and away from the inclined surface and also being movable
in the length direction of the inclined surface;

and further characterised by:
a movable wrist securing assembly (80) mounted to said base block and
comprising a surface (95) to hold a surgical instrument in a desired position for

surgery on the hand.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said cross member is provided as a
crossbar, and said finger securing assembly comprises a pair of upright members

(22) slidably mounted to said base block, one at each end of the crossbar, and with
the cross bar mounted to said uprights.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein each of said finger securing assembly
upright members defines a slot (40), a removable side post fastening mechanism

movably mounted in a channel (26) defined by said base block, said side post
fastening mechanism comprising a guide member (28) and a side post (34)

extending from said guide member through said upright member slot and fastening
means (36) fastening said upright member in a fixed position.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, further comprising track means (26)
formed in said base block, said finger securing assembly being mounted in said

track means. 
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said wrist
securing assembly (80) is rigid and includes a plurality of bracket members (82), a

cross bar (94) mounted in said bracket members and locking means (98) connected
to said cross bar to lock said cross bar in place, said rigid wrist securing assembly

movably mounted to said base block to selectively assume a desired vertical
position with respect to the surfaces of said base block.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said cross bar defines a plurality of
apertures (95) therein allowing an instrument guide to be placed therein.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 5 or 6, further comprising elevator means (84)
connected to said bracket members of said wrist assembly to move said bracket

members and associated cross bar relative to said base block to a selected vertical
position.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a
thumb securing means (60) movably mounted to said base block.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said thumb securing means further
includes a support member (64) and fastening means (36) mounted to said base

block allowing said support member to be moved to a selected position in two
orthogonal axes and then fastened in a fixed position.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said fastening means comprises a
guide member (28) mounted in a track (26) formed in said base block, a threaded

post (34) extending outward from the guide member, a slot (66) in the support
member, and means (36) meshably releasably to clamp the support member in a

chosen position along the slot and in a chosen position of the guide member along
the track.
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further comprising
removable pin means (50) selectively mounted in a plurality of bores (58, 59)

defined in said base block, said pin means extending from said base block inclined
surface to separate and limit lateral movement of the patient's fingers. 
An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further comprising a
braided finger retainer means (142) positioned on said base block and adapted to

engage the patient's finger.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
