<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Actuator with translational and rotational control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K41035	H02K41035	B23P1904	B23P1904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	B23P	B23P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K41	H02K41	B23P19	B23P19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An actuator for precisely moving and positioning a 
manufacturing component includes a housing on which a 

magnet is mounted. An electrical coil is wound around a 
coil piston which is slidingly mounted on the housing for 

movement within the magnetic field generated by the magnet. 
A rod, having a member for gripping the component, is 

attached for translational movement with the coil piston, 
and a source of electrical current is connected to the coil 

which is wrapped around the coil piston. A drive motor is 
mounted on the device, and a linkage connects the drive 

motor to the grip for rotation of the grip as desired. In 
the operation of the actuator, a current is selectively 

passed through the coil. This current in the coil then 
moves the coil piston and the attached grip within the 

magnetic field to position the component as desired in 
translation. Also, the drive motor can be activated to 

move the grip in rotation as desired. Additionally, 
position sensors
 can be mounted on the device to determine 
the location of the coil piston and a controller can be 

incorporated in the actuator to use this position 
determination for controlling movement of the coil piston 

and the attached grip in translation and rotation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYSTEMS, MACHINES, AUTOMATION COMPONENTS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSS JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEFF EDWARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARCELS JOSEPH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOSS, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEFF, EDWARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARCELS, JOSEPH S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains generally to machines
which are useful for the automated assembly of products.
More specifically, the present invention pertains to
apparatus and devices which are useful for inspecting,
assembling and positioning component parts in a product
assembly process. The present invention is particularly,
but not exclusively, useful as an actuator for the quick
movement and precise positioning of relatively fragile
component parts, in an appropriate translational and
rotational alignment, during an automated assembly
procedure while generating both extremely light forces and
normal forces on the component parts.Numerous devices which are useful for the automated
assembly of products have been successfully used for many
years. In each instance, automated assembly devices have
been employed with a view toward increasing the
efficiencies and accuracies of the methods, procedures and
processes which are followed during the manufacture and the
assembly of a completed product. Indeed, the vast majority
of consumer products are now manufactured on assembly lines
which incorporate automated assembly devices.It is easy to appreciate that as the complexity of a
manufactured product increases, there may also be a
commensurate increase in the complexity of the machines 
that are required to manufacture the product. This is
particularly so where the component parts are delicate or
fragile and precision is important. For example, many
products require the precise positioning and assembly of
extremely small and light weight components in their
manufacture. More specifically, these operations require
precision in both the movement of the component into
position and in the force with which the component is moved
and assembled with other components. Furthermore, for
quality control purposes it is often necessary that there
be some way to obtain a real time check on the precision
with which the component was positioned during the assembly
of the product. Where very small, fragile or light weight
components are being used in the manufacturing process, and
where either very light forces or normal forces are
required for the assembly of these components these
considerations become very important.US Patent No. 5 175 456 (corresponding to Application serial number
07/765,130) discloses an actuator for precisely moving and positioning a
manufacturing component. It includes a housing on which a magnet is
mounted and an electrical coil is would around a coil piston which is
slidingly mounted on the housing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device (10,100) for moving and positioning an assembly
component (14) in an automated assembly operation which comprises:


means (108) for creating a magnetic field mounted on a housing

(22);
an electrical coil (102) for carrying a current, said coil being
disposed for movement within said magnetic field in response to current

flow through said coil, said coil (102) being slidably mounted on said
housing (22) and being disposed for translational movement;
means electrically connected with said coil for providing said
electrical current to move said coil in translation; and
a grip (24) rotatably mounted on said coil (102) for translational
movement therewith, said grip (24) being engageable with said component

(14);

   characterised in that the device further comprises:

a drive motor (202,250) mounted on said device;
a linkage for connecting said drive motor (202,250) to said grip
(24); and
means electrically connected with said drive motor (202,250) for
activating said drive motor (202,250) to rotate said grip (24).
A device for transporting and positioning a workpiece which
comprises:


a housing;
a rare earth magnet (38) mounted on said housing for creating a
magnetic field and having a projection (40);
a bobbin (32) slidingly mounted on said housing, said bobbin being
disposed around said projection;
a grip (24) for holding said workpiece, said grip being attached to 
said bobbin for movement therewith and being attached rotatably to said

bobbin for translational movement therewith;
a coil (42) for generating an electrical current in said magnetic
field, said coil being wrapped around and connected to said bobbin to

move said bobbin in translation in response to a generated electrical
current; and
a first source (46) of electrical current, said first source being
electrically connected with said coil;

   characterised in that the device further comprises:

a drive motor (202,250) mounted on said device, said drive motor
(202,250) being engageable with said grip for rotating said grip; and
a second source of electrical current, said second source being
electrically connected with said drive motor.
A device according to Claim 1 characterised in that said means for
creating a magnetic field comprises a magnet (108) mounted on said

housing.
A device according to Claim 1, 2 or 3 characterised in that said
forces generated during positioning of said component or workpiece are

variable and in the range of approximately zero to three thousand grams
(0-3,000 gm).
A device according to Claims 1, 3 or 4 characterised in that it
further comprises a coil piston (106), and wherein said coil is wrapped

around said coil piston and said magnet is formed as a projection (40) with
said coil slidingly disposed around said projection.
A device according to any of Claims 1 to 5 characterised in it
further comprises means (48) for sensing the translational position of said 

grip (24); and means (70) for sensing the rotational position of said
grip (24).
A device according to any of Claims 1 to 6 characterised in that
said drive motor is mounted on said coil, for translational movement

therewith.
A device according to Claim 7 characterised in that said drive
motor includes a drive shaft (216) and a linkage (214) including a first

pulley (218) mounted on said drive shaft and a second pulley (22) mounted
on said grip with a belt (222) interconnecting said first pulley with said

second pulley.
A device according to Claim 7 characterised in that said drive
motor includes a drive shaft (216) and a linkage (214) including a first

toothed gear (224) mounted on said drive shaft and a second toothed gear
(228) mounted on said grip (24), and wherein said first gear is meshed

with said second gear for rotating said grip in accordance with rotations
of said drive shaft.
A device according to any of Claims 1 to 9 characterised in that it
further comprises an electrically activated stator (232) disposed around a

portion of said grip (24), said portion of said grip being magnetized, and
wherein said drive motor is an electronic drive (234) for activating said

stator to generate forces on said magnetized portion of said grip for
rotating said grip.
A device according to any of Claims 1 to 6 characterised in that
said drive motor is mounted on said housing. 
A device according to any of Claims 2 to 11 characterised in that
said magnet comprises a plurality of magnet segments (264,266), said

magnet segments being disposed in a surrounding relationship to said coil.
A device according to Claim 12 characterised in that said grip
includes a rod attached to said bobbin and means attached to said rod for

gripping said workpiece.
A method for inspecting and positioning an assembly component
(14) in an automated assembly operation which comprises the steps of:


providing a device (10,100) having a permanent magnet (108)
creating a magnetic field, an electrical coil (102) for carrying a current,

said coil being disposed for movement within said magnetic field in
response to current flow through said coil, said coil (102) being disposed

for translational movement within said magnetic field, a grip (24)
connected with said coil (102) and engageable with said component; and
providing a means (70) for determining the difference in translation
between an actual position of said grip and a desired position to generate

a first error signal and cause an electrical current to flow through said coil
for translational movement of said coil when said first error signal has an

absolute value greater than zero;

   characterised in that the method further comprises providing a drive
motor mounted on said device, said drive motor being engageable with

said grip for rotation thereof; and

   providing a means (70) for determining the difference in rotation
between an actual position of said grip and a desired position to generate

a second error signal and activate said drive motor to rotate said grip
when said second error signal has an absolute value greater than zero.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
