<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613935</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FCC disengagement apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J800	B01J800	B01J824	B01J824	B04C500	B04C524	B04C528	B04C900	B04C900	C10G1100	C10G1118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	B04C	B04C	B04C	B04C	B04C	C10G	C10G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J8	B01J8	B01J8	B01J8	B04C5	B04C5	B04C5	B04C9	B04C9	C10G11	C10G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A separator apparatus and method for a hydrocarbon 
fluidized catalytic cracking process are disclosed. The 

apparatus comprises a main plenum (30) in a disengagement 
vessel (10) which connects a plurality of riser cyclones (18) in a 

riser catalyst separation stage to a plurality of 
secondary cyclones (36) in a secondary catalyst separation 

stage. The cyclones in the second and each succeeding 
stage receive a substantially equal amount of gas from 

the plenum. The effluent gas is substantially prevented 
from leaking into the interior space of the disengagement 

vessel. Also disclosed is a method for retrofitting an 
existing plant with the plenum design to provide a more 

compact arrangement of the catalyst separation equipment 
in the disengagement vessel. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KELLOGG M W CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE M.W. KELLOGG COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON ROBERT BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, ROBERT BRUCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an apparatus for 
catalyst disengagement in fluidized catalytic cracking 
(FCC). Advances in the catalyst arts have greatly improved 
efficiencies of catalysts used in the fluidized catalytic 
cracking of hydrocarbons. As a result, much attention 
has been devoted to the separation of such catalysts from 
the effluent gas. Recent developments known as "closed" 
cyclone technology are disclosed in U. S. Patent 
4,909,993, to Haddad et al. which is hereby incorporated 
herein by reference. Briefly, the output of a reactor 
riser zone is fed to a primary cyclone separator which is 
connected in series by a conduit to a second cyclone 
separator. The conduit is said to prevent random post-riser 
thermal cracking of the hydrocarbons after they 
exit the primary cyclone separator by passing the gas 
directly to the second cyclone without additional 
residence time in the reaction vessel. The conduit 
contains an annular port to introduce a stripping gas to 
improve hydrocarbon/catalyst separation. As described in 
the Haddad reference, gas leaving the secondary cyclone 
separator can be passed directly to a tertiary cyclone 
separator by a pipe connection before leaving the  
 
reaction vessel in an exit port. Fourth, fifth, etc. 
stages can be used in series. Catalyst separated in the primary cyclone drops 
through a dipleg attached thereto and passes through a 
dipleg seal to substantially prevent gas flow through the 
dipleg. The separated catalyst from each subsequent 
cyclone separator stage in the series moves down similar 
cyclone diplegs and accumulates in a bed at the bottom of 
the reaction vessel. In the bed, stripping steam is used 
to remove residual hydrocarbons. The stripped catalyst 
can be removed for conventional reuse or regeneration. Since most existing hydrocarbon cracking plants were 
designed using the less efficient catalysts of the past, 
use of improved catalysts frequently requires 
retrofitting of an existing catalyst removal system with 
a design such as that disclosed in the Haddad reference. 
However, because of limited space in the disengagement 
vessel and the existing cyclone placement, it is not 
always possible to achieve efficient catalyst recovery in 
the retrofit. Often, the existing secondary cyclones 
must be replaced with expensive, resized newer cyclones. A catalyst disengagement apparatus has been designed 
for a high efficiency hydrocarbon fluidized catalytic 
cracking process which advantageously permits a plurality 
of cyclone
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In an apparatus for the fluidized catalytic cracking 
of a hydrocarbon stream comprising a catalyst 

disengagement vessel having disposed therein a riser 
cyclone in a riser catalyst separation stage ducted 

to receive effluent gas from a riser, and a 
secondary cyclone in a secondary catalyst separation 

stage ducted to receive discharge gas from the riser 
cyclone separator stage, the improvement comprising: 

   a main plenum, connecting a plurality of riser 
cyclones to a plurality of secondary cyclones, 

including a manifold section for gathering gas 
discharged from the riser cyclones into the 

plenum and a distribution section for 
distributing the gas to respective inlets of 

the secondary cyclones; 
   wherein the plenum substantially inhibits leakage 

into the disengagement vessel. 
The improvement of claim 1, further comprising 
tertiary cyclones in a tertiary catalyst separation 

stage, and an auxiliary plenum having a manifold 
section for gathering gas discharged from the 

secondary cyclones into the auxiliary plenum and a 
distribution section for distributing gas from the 

auxiliary plenum to the tertiary cyclones. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the manifold 
section includes a duct from each riser cyclone 

having one or more vents for introducing a stripping 
gas therein. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the number of 
riser cyclones is different from the number of 

secondary cyclones. 
The improvement of claim 4, wherein the number of 
riser cyclones is less than the number of secondary 

cyclones. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the riser and 
secondary cyclones are radially spaced in the 

disengagement vessel. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the radius of a 
circle inscribing an outermost wall of the riser 

cyclones is greater than the radius of a circle 
inscribing an innermost wall of the secondary 

cyclones. 
The improvement of claim 1, wherein the radius of a 
circle inscribing an innermost wall of the secondary 

cyclones is less than the radius of a circle 
inscribing the centerline of a riser cyclone. 
A method for disengaging catalyst particles from a 
cracked hydrocarbon gas in a fluidized cracking 

catalytic process, comprising the steps of: 
   passing cracked hydrocarbon gas containing suspended 

catalyst particles through a riser to a 
plurality of riser cyclones; 

   separating a portion of the suspended catalyst from 
the cracked hydrocarbon gas in the riser 

cyclones; 
   discharging gas from the riser cyclones to a 

plurality of secondary cyclones through a main 
plenum having a manifold section for gathering 

the riser cyclone discharge gas and a 
distribution section for distributing the riser 

cyclone discharge gas, wherein the leakage of 
hydrocarbons into the disengagement vessel is 

substantially inhibited; and 
   separating an additional portion of the suspended 

catalyst in the secondary cyclones. 
The method of claim 9, further comprising the steps 
of: 

   introducing the secondary cyclone discharge gas to a 
plurality of tertiary cyclones through an 

auxiliary plenum having a manifold section for 
gathering gas discharged from the secondary 

cyclones and a distribution section for 
distributing gas from the auxiliary plenum to a 

plurality of tertiary cyclones; 
   separating an additional portion of the suspended 

catalyst in the tertiary cyclones; and 
   gathering gas discharged from the tertiary cyclones 

in an outlet header. 
The method of claim 9, including the step of 
introducing a stripping gas into the riser discharge 

gas through a vent(s) formed in the manifold 
section. 
A method for retrofitting a hydrocarbon fluidized 
catalytic cracking plant including a riser catalyst 

separation stage and a secondary catalyst separation 
stage in a disengagement vessel, comprising the 

steps of: 
   connecting the riser cyclones to the secondary 

cyclones through a main plenum comprising a 
manifold section for gathering gas discharged 

from the riser cyclones and a distribution 
section for distributing gas to the secondary 

cyclones, wherein the gas is substantially 
prevented from passing into the disengagement 

vessel. 
The method of claim 12, wherein the manifold section 
includes a vent(s) for introducing a stripping gas. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
