<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646044</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF DISCRETE AGGLOMERATIONS OF PARTICULATE MATTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J2175	A61M1300	B41J204	B03C500	B41J206	A61M1300	B41J2175	B03C502	B41J2718	B01J202	B01J206	B41J2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	A61M	B41J	B03C	B41J	A61M	B41J	B03C	B41J	B01J	B01J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	A61M13	B41J2	B03C5	B41J2	A61M13	B41J2	B03C5	B41J27	B01J2	B01J2	B41J27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus is provided for the generation of agglomerations of particulate material in a liquid. Agglomerations are built up at a point under the effect of an electric field and ejected by electrostatic means. The size of the agglomeration is dependent upon the strength of the electric field, point geometry, the nature of the liquid and the nature of the particles. Agglomerations of particles in the range of from 1 to 500 microns are produced. The invention is useful for non-impact printing and other applications where delivery of agglomerations of particles is useful such as in inhalable pharmaceuticals.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TONEJET CORP PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TONEJET CORPORATION PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIMA-MARQUES LUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIMA-MARQUES, LUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for the transfer of
agglomerations of solid particulate matter suspended in a liquid to a recording
surface.One particular application to which this invention may be applied is the
transfer of agglomerations of high intensity colouring materials to a recording
surface for the purpose of non-impact printing. It is to be understood, however,
that the invention is not limited to delivering coloured materials for the purpose
of non-impact printing but may be used to deposit other materials in a defined
pattern on a substrate. Examples of other applications include the delivery of
biological materials for use in immunoassay, delivery of particulate drugs and
deposition of phosphors or flurophosphors for security coding.This invention, however, will be discussed in relation to its application
to printing but its scope is broader than this.There are a number of different forms of equipment used for the
non-impact printingsystems which are generally referred to as ink jet printing.
It is usual for ink to be fed through a nozzle, the exit diameter of which nozzle
being a major factor in determining the droplet size and hence the size of the
resulting dots on a recording surface. The droplets may be produced from the
nozzle either continuously in which case the method is termed continuous
printing or they may be produced individually as required in which case the
method is termed drop on demand printing. In continuous printing an ink is
delivered through the nozzle at high pressure and the nozzle is perturbed at a
substantially constant frequency which results in a stream of droplets of
constant size. By applying charge to the droplets and using an electric field
external to the nozzle selected droplets may be deflected in their passage to
the recording surface in response to a signal effecting the electric field whereby
forming a pattern on the recording surface in response to the control signal.
Drop on demand printing operates by producing local pressure pulses in the 
liquid in the vicinity of a small nozzle which results in a droplet of liquid being
ejected from the nozzle.In either type of jet printing the colouring material is a soluble dye
combined with binders to render the printed image more permanent. The
disadvantage of soluble dyes is that the printed image density is not high
enough in many applications and that the dyes fade under exposure in the
environment. A further disadvantage with soluble dye materials is that the
quality of the printed image
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of generation of discrete agglomerations of
a particulate material with a proportion of liquid from a

liquid (31) having the particulate material therein, the
method comprising the steps of providing the liquid (31)

including the particulate material to an ejection location
(36), characterised by applying an electrical potential

directly to the ejection location (36) to form an electric
field at the location (36), to cause agglomerations to form

at the ejection location (36) and to eject the
agglomerations out of the liquid (31) and away from the

ejection location (36) by electrostatic repulsion between
the agglomerations and the ejection location (36).
A method as in claim 1 further including the step of
periodic formation and ejection of agglomerations from the

ejection location (36).
A method as in claim 1 further including the step of
providing a flow of the liquid (31) including the

particulate material to the ejection location (36).
A method as in claim 1 further including the step of
withdrawal of excess liquid from the ejection location

(36).
A method as in claim 4 wherein the withdrawal of the
excess liquid from the ejection location (36) is by means

of vacuum extraction.
A method as in any one of the preceding claims wherein
the ejection location (36) is provided by a needle point

having a tip with a radius of curvature in the range of 5
to 50 microns. 
A method as in claim 1 wherein the ejection location
(36) comprises an elongate edge (13).
A method as in claim 7 wherein there is a plurality of
ejection points (20) along the elongate edge (17).
A method as in any one of the preceding claims wherein
agglomerations in the range of 1 microns to 500 microns in

diameter are produced.
A method as in any one of the preceding claims where
the liquid is a non-electrically conducting liquid.
A method as in any one of the preceding claims where

the particulate material is comprised of chargeable
particles.
A method as in claim 11 where the chargeable particles
are able to be charged to a sign polarity which is the same

as the electric potential applied to the ejection location
(36).
A method as in claim 11 wherein the chargeable
particles are inherently charged to the same polarity as

the voltage applied to the ejection location (36).
A method as in any of claims 1 to 13 wherein the
electrical potential is in the range of 500 to 5000 volts.
An apparatus for generation and ejection by
electrostatic repulsion into air of discrete agglomerations

of a particulate material with a proportion of liquid from
a liquid (31) having the particulate material therein

comprising an ejection location (36) and liquid supply
means (2) to supply liquid (31) with the particulate

material to the ejection location (36) characterised by
electrical potential application means (10) to apply an 

electrical potential directly to the ejection location (36)
to form an electric field at the location (36).
An apparatus as in claim 15 further including liquid
flow means (2) to provide a flow of liquid to the ejection

location.
An apparatus as in claim 15 further including vacuum
extraction means (7) to withdraw excess liquid and

particulate material from the ejection location (36).
An apparatus as in claim 15 where the ejection
location (36) is provided by needle point.
An apparatus as in claim 15 where the ejection
location is provided by an elongate edge (13).
An apparatus as in claim 15 where the ejection
location comprises a plurality of points (20) along an

elongate edge (17).
An apparatus as in claim 15 wherein the ejection
location (36) comprises a matrix of ejection points.
An apparatus as in any one of claims 15 to 21 wherein
the ejection location (36) provides a hemispherical or

semi-cylindrical surface having a radius of curvature in
the range of 5 to 50 microns.
An apparatus as in claim 15 adapted to provide
periodic formation and ejection into air of agglomerations

of particles in the liquid.
An apparatus as in claim 15 wherein the means to
supply electrical potential includes means to supply

electrical potential in the range of 500 to 5000 volts.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
