<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656654</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods for fabricating low leakage substrate plate trench dram cells and devices formed thereby.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L218242	H01L2704	H01L2704	H01L2710	H01L2710	H01L27108	H01L27108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods for fabricating low leakage trenches for Dynamic 
Random Access Memory (DRAM) cells and the devices formed 

thereby are disclosed. In one embodiment of the present 
invention, the method includes forming a diffusion ring 

surrounding an upper portion of the trench. In another 
embodiment, a portion of the diffusion ring extends to the 

surface of a substrate. The diffusion ring can be formed by 
outdiffusing a dopant from a doped material deposited within 

the trench. In a further embodiment, the present method 
includes forming an insulating ring surrounding an upper 

portion of the trench. The insulating ring can be formed by 
thermal oxidation or by etching a sidewall shallow trench and 

depositing an insulating material therein. In another 
embodiment, a portion of the insulating ring extends to the 

surface of the substrate. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAJEEVAKUMAR THEKKEMADATHIL V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAJEEVAKUMAR, THEKKEMADATHIL V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a method for making 
an improved trench for a semiconductor memory device and the 
device formed thereby and, more particularly, to a method for 
fabricating a low leakage trench for a Dynamic Random Access 
Memory (DRAM) cell wherein trench parasitic sidewall leakage 
currents from a bitline contact to the storage node and from 
the storage node to the substrate are eliminated by an 
insulating or diffusion ring surrounding an upper portion of 
the trench. There are many DRAM applications where it is important to 
maximize the retention time of the cell. In particular, 
applications depending on battery power for the system would 
benefit from a DRAM cell which did not need to be refreshed 
very often. Very Large Scale Integrated (VLSI) DRAM cells in 
the time frame of 4Mbit and beyond require trench storage 
capacitors in order to meet high density requirements. DRAM 
cells having a storage capacitor disposed in a trench formed 
in a semiconductor substrate are known in the art. For 
example, U.S. Patent No. 4,688,063 assigned to the same 
assignee as the present invention, which patent is hereby 
incorporated by reference, discloses a substrate plate trench 
(SPT) DRAM cell which utilizes a trench storage capacitor 
formed in a semiconductor substrate. A portion of the 
substrate is heavily doped and forms the counterelectrode of 
the storage capacitor while a heavily doped polycrystalline  
 
plug disposed in the trench forms the other electrode of the 
storage capacitor. The SPT DRAM cell includes a field effect 
access transistor disposed in a well which is opposite in 
conductivity type to that of the substrate. The trench 
capacitor extends from the surface of the well, through the 
well and lightly doped substrate portion, into the heavily 
doped portion of the substrate. The capacitor electrode 
disposed in the trench is directly connected to the 
source/drain of the access transistor. Trench DRAM cells suffer from two main disadvantages resulting 
from a parasitic sidewall leakage current. The two 
disadvantages are the trench parasitic sidewall leakage 
through the trench sidewalls (1) from the bitline contact to 
the storage node and (2) from the storage node to the 
substrate. The latter leakage mechanism is described in Lu et 
al., "A Substrate Plate Trench Capacitor (SPT) Memory Cell for 
Dynamic RAM's", IEEE J. of Solid State Circuits, Vol. SC-21, 
No. 5, pp. 627-633 (1986) and Noble et al., "Parasitic Leakage 
in DRAM Trench Storage Capacitor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for forming a diffusion ring around a 
trench of a DRAM cell comprising the steps of: 


(a) providing a substrate having a lightly 
doped upper portion of one conductivity 

type overlying a heavily doped lower 
portion of the same conductivity type; 
(b) forming a protective layer on a surface of 
said substrate; 
(c) etching a trench to a first depth into 
saidupper portion of said substrate at a 

first region; 
(d) forming a nitride collar on the sidewall 
surfaces of said trench; 
(e) etching said trench to a second depth 
beyond said nitride collar and within said 

upper portion of said substrate; 
(f) forming a diffusion ring of the second 
conductivity type extending from said 

nitride collar and 18 within said upper 
portion of said substrate; and 
(g) etching said trench to a third depth 
beyond the upper portion and within the 

lower portion of the substrate such that 
said diffusion ring surrounds an upper 

portion of said trench, said diffusion 
ring being contiguous with said trench on 

all sides and not within said trench. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said step of forming 
said diffusion ring comprises: 

depositing a doped material having a dopant of the 
second conductivity type on all surfaces of said 

trench; 
outdiffusing said dopant into said upper portion of 

said substrate to form said diffusion ring; and 
removing said doped material from said nitride 

collar and all vertical and horizontal surfaces of 
said trench. 
The method of claim 2, wherein said doped material 
is a material selected from the group consisting of 

arsenic doped glass, phosphorous doped glass, and 
antimony doped glass or from the group consisting of 

boron doped glass, and indium doped glass , and said 
first and second conductivity types are p-type and 

n-type or n-type and p-type respectively. 
The method of claim 2, wherein said out diffusing 
step comprises heating the structure to drive the 

dopant into the substrate trench sidewalls. 
The method of claim 4, wherein said out diffusing 
step comprises heating the structure to a 

temperature between 900°C and 1200°C for a period of 
one to six hours to drive the dopant into the 

substrate trench sidewalls. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 1 
to 5, wherein said step of forming said nitride 

collar further includes the step of removing a 
portion of said nitride collar from a sidewall of 

said trench such that a portion of said diffusion 
ring extends to a surface of said substrate. 
The method of claim 6, wherein said step of removing 
a portion of said nitride collar includes the steps 

of: 
depositing a planarization resist within said 

trench; 
masking a portion of said filled trench; 

removing a portion of said nitride collar; and 
removing said planarization resist. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claim 1 
to 7, further including the step of forming a region 

of a second conductivity type in said upper portion 
of said substrate, said region extending from the 

surface of said substrate and beyond the diffusion 
ring, said diffusion ring being disposed entirely 

within said region. 
The method of one or more of the the preceding 
claims 1 to 8, wherein said step of forming said 

protective layer comprises: 
depositing a nitride layer on the surface of said 

substrate; and 
depositing an oxide layer on said nitride layer. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 1 
to 9, wherein said step of forming the nitride 

collar comprises: 
depositing a nitride layer on all surfaces of said 

trench; 
etching the nitride collar formed on the horizontal 

surface of the trench to leave the nitride collar on 
all vertical sidewall surfaces of the trench. 
A method for forming an insulating ring around a 
trench of a DRAM cell comprising the steps of; 


(a) providing a substrate having a lightly 
doped upper portion of one conductivity 

type overlying a heavily doped lower 
portion of the same conductivity type; 
(b) forming a protective layer on a surface of 
said substrate; 
(c) etching a trench to a first depth into 
said upper portion of said substrate at a 

first region; 
(d) forming a thin oxide layer on all surfaces 
of said trench below said substrate 

surface; 
(e) forming an insulating ring within said 
upper portion of said substrate and 

surrounding a portion of the trench, said 
insulating ring being contiguous with said 

trench on all sides and not within said 
trench. 
The method of claim 11, further including the step 
of forming a region of a second conductivity type in 

said lightly doped upper portion of said substrate, 
said region extending from the surface of said 

substrate and beyond the insulating ring, said 
insulating ring being disposed entirely within said 

region. 
The method of claim 11 or 12, wherein said step of 
forming said protective layer comprises: 

depositing a first nitride layer on the surface of 
said substrate; 

depositing an oxide layer on said first nitride 
layer; and 

depositing a second nitride layer on said oxide 
layer. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 11 
to 13 wherein said trench comprises first, second 

and third contiguous regions, said first region 
being a horizontal surface and lower vertical 

surface of said trench, said third region being 
vertical surfaces of an uppermost portion of the 

trench and said second region being vertical 
surfaces of said trench between said first and third 

regions, said insulating ring being formed at said 
second region of said trench, said insulating ring 

forming step further including forming a nitride 
layer on first and third regions of said trench over 

said oxide layer. 
The method of claim 14, wherein said step of forming 
said nitride layer comprises: 

depositing a nitride layer within said trench over 
said thin oxide layer; 

forming a planarization resist within said trench on 
said nitride layer and recessing said resist to 

leave said resist within said first trench region; 
etching said nitride layer to leave a nitride layer 

only on said first trench region;
 

depositing polysilicon in said first and second 
trench regions; 

forming a nitride collar on said third trench 
region; and 

isotropically etching said polysilicon while leaving 
said nitride layer on said third trench region. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 11 
to 15, wherein said step of forming the insulating 

ring comprises: 
oxidizing said thin oxide layer; and 

anisotropically etching any of said oxidized layer 
that is within said trench. 
The method of claim 16, wherein said oxidizing step 
is performed in an atmosphere of nitride or in an 

ammonia atmosphere. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 14 
to 17, further including the step of anisotropically 

etching said nitride layer to remove the nitride 
layer from the first and third regions of said 

trench. 
The method of claim 18, further including the step 
of: 

etching said trench to a second depth within said 
heavily doped lower portion of said substrate such 

that said insulating ring surrounds an upper portion 
of said trench, said insulating ring being 

contiguous with said trench on all sides and not 
within said trench. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 14 
to 19, wherein said step of forming a nitride layer 

further comprises 
removing said nitride layer from one vertical 

surface of said third trench region such that during 
said step of forming the insulating ring a portion 

of said insulating ring at said one vertical surface 
extends to the surface of said substrate. 
The method of claim 20, wherein said step of 
removing said nitride layer comprises: 

forming a planarization resist within said trench to 
a level substantially equal to that of the surface 

of said protective layer; 
forming a mask on said surface having an opening; 

removing said nitride layer from said one vertical 
surface; and 

removing said planarization resist. 
The method of one or more of the preceding claims 11 
to 21, wherein said step of forming the insulating 

ring comprises: 
isotropically etching said portion of said trench to 

form a sidewall shallow trench; 
depositing an insulating material within said trench 

and said sidewall shallow trench; and 
etching said insulating material within said trench 

to leave a portion of said insulating material 
within said sidewall shallow trench. 
A dynamic random access memory cell comprising: 
a substrate of a first conductivity type the upper 

portion of which is less conductive than its highly 
conductive lower portion, 

a region disposed in said upper portion of said 
substrate having a second conductivity type; 

at least one access device disposed in said region, 
at least one storage means extending from the 

surface of said region through said region and said 
upper portion into said highly conductive lower 

portion of said substrate, said storage means being 
electrically isolated from said region and said 

upper and lower portions of said substrate by an 
insulating layer; and 

a buried diffusion ring disposed within said region, 
beneath the surface of said region, surrounding an 

upper portion of said at least one storage means and 
being contiguous with said insulating layer on all 

sides, said buried diffusion ring being heavily 
doped with said second conductivity type. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of claim 23, 
wherein a portion of said diffusion ring extends to 

a surface of said substrate. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of claim 23, 
wherein instead a buried diffusion ring a buried 

insulating ring is disposed within said region, 
benea
th the surface of said region, surrounding an 
upper portion of said at least one storage means and 

being contiguous with said insulating layer on all 
sides, a portion of said insulating ring extending 

to a surface of said substrate. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of claim 25, 
wherein said insulating ring is comprised of a 

material selected from the group consisting of 
silicon oxide, silicon dioxide, oxynitride and 

silicon nitride. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of one or more 
of the preceding claims 23 to 26, further including 

means for interconnecting said at least one access 
device and said at least one storage means. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of one or more 
of the preceding claims 23 to 27, wherein said 

substrate is made of semiconductor material at least 
a portion of which is heavily doped. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of claim 28, 
wherein said semiconductor material is silicon of n-conductivity 

or p-conductivity type. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of one or more 
of the preceding claims 23 to 29, wherein said at 

least one access device is a field effect 
transistor. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of one or more 
of the preceding claims 23 to 30, wherein said at 

least one storage means is an electrode disposed in 
an insulating spaced relationship with said 

substrate. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of claim 31, 
wherein said electrode is comprised ofheavily doped 

polycrystalline semiconductor material, preferably 
of silicon. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of one or more 
of the preceding claims 23 to 32, wherein said 

substrate includes a heavily doped lower portion and 
a lightly doped upper portion disposed over said 

heavily doped lower portion. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of one or more 
of the preceding claims 23 to 33, wherein said 

region is disposed in said lightly doped upper 
portion of said substrate. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of one or more 
of the preceding claims 27 to 34, wherein said means 

for interconnecting is a region of polycrystalline 
semiconductor material. 
The dynamic random access memory cell of claim 35, 
wherein said semiconductor material is silicon. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
