<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626605</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vibrating and rotating optical scanning device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2610	G02B2608	G02B2608	G06K710	G02B2610	G06K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G06K	G02B	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B26	G02B26	G06K7	G02B26	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical scanner device including rotary device to 
rotate a vibrating type optical scanner to ensure reading 

of coded data independent of the orientation of the coded 
data. The device is particularly suitable for as a bar 

code reader for point of sale applications. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OMRON TATEISI ELECTRONICS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OMRON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTO HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTO, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to an optical scanning 
device, an optical sensor device employing said optical 
scanning device, a device to read coded data and a point-of-sale 
(POS) system. More specifically, it the present 
invention is directed to an optical scanning device to be 
used with a laser beam printer, a bar code scanner, or an 
area scanner with a beam scanning scheme, and in particular 
an optical scanning device capable of scanning a light beam 
in two dimensions. In the past, various schemes have been advanced to 
enhance the reading capability of bar code scanners which 
read a bar code by scanning a light beam. To prevent 
reading errors caused by a scratch or dirt on part of the 
bar code, and to ensure that the code be read properly, the 
polygonal scanner was developed. This scanner employed a 
raster scanning scheme by which a light beam was scanned 
along a number of parallel lines 91, as shown in Figure 16 
(a). The scheme by which the polygonal scanner operated was 
as follows. A polygonal mirror caused a light beam to scan 
as it rotated and reflected the beam. If each of the 
mirror surfaces was made to have a different slope with 
respect to the rotational axis of the polygonal mirror, the 
scanner could be realized with a relatively simple 
configuration. However, with a polygonal scanner using a 
raster scanning scheme, if the fixed orientation of the bar 
code, that is to say, the path along which the bar code is  
 
arranged, is not kept virtually parallel with the path 
along which the beam is scanning, the beam will fail to 
scan the entire code and consequently be unable to read it. To insure that the light beam will make an accurate 
parallel scan of the bar code regardless of its 
orientation, a device was developed which used a hologram 
disc or a number of mirrors to scan a beam along the radial 
or X-shaped pattern 92, as shown in Figure 16 (b). Bar code scanners like these, which can scan a beam of 
light in many directions or in a radial pattern, can can read 
bar codes with relative accuracy regardless of how the code 
may be oriented. For this reason they are widely used for 
such applications as supermarket checkouts where the 
orientation of the code will vary. However, this type of 
bar code reader requires a hologram disc or multiple 
mirrors to scan the beam of light in numerous directions, 
which results in the reader itself becoming a relatively 
large item. Further, since it is necessary to use a large 
number of extremely accurate optical components,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical scanning device, comprising: 

a scanner (1), including: 

a scanning element (7) 
provided with a mirror surface (9); 
an elastically deformable shaft (11) for freely supporting at 
one end thereof said scanning element (7), said deformable 

shaft (11) being capable of flexure, and 
having at least two modes of resonance vibration ; 
a vibrating element (10) provided on another end 
of said deformable shaft (11), wherein said scanning element (7), 

said deformable shaft (11), and said vibrating element (10) are 
integrally formed as a flat plate-like member; and 
a drive source (8) for inducing vibrations in 
said vibrating element (10), said drive source (8) is capable of 

inducing oscillations in said vibrating element (10) of a 
resonant frequency corresponding to each mode of elastic 

deformation of said deformable shaft (11) so that said scanning 
element bends (7) and twists in at least two directions by the 

elastic deformation of said deformable shaft (11); characterised by 
a rotary device (2) for rotating said scanner (1) on an axis 
substantially perpendicular relative to said mirror 

surface (9). 
An optical scanning device according to Claim 2, 
wherein the frequency ratio of the resonant frequencies of 

said two modes of resonance is 1:N, where N is at least 2. 
An optical scanning device according to Claim 1 
or Claim 2, wherein said rotary device (2) is reversible and rotates said 

mirror surface (9) less than 180° in any direction using a 
reference position as a starting point. 
An optical scanning device according to Claim 3, 
wherein said rotary device (2) rotates said mirror surface (9) in  

 
a periodic fashion so that the period of movement of said 

mirror surface is longer than the longest period of 
resonant vibration of said drive source (8). 
An optical scanning device according to Claim 1, 
wherein said rotary device (2) causes said mirror surface (9) to 

rotate in step fashion corresponding to preselected 
specific angles. 
An optical scanning device according to any preceding 
Claim, wherein said drive source (8) for inducing vibrations includes 

a laminated piezoelectric element or an element using 
electrostatic force to induce resonance of said deformable 

shaft (11). 
An optical scanning device according to any preceding 
claim, wherein said scanning element (7) and a part of said rotary 

device (2) are formed on a single-crystal silicon wafer (18). 
An optical scanning and detecting device, comprising: 

a light source (26) or emitting a beam of light; 
an optical scanning device as defined in claim 1 ;  
 
a photodetector element (28) for receiving said beam of 
light reflected by said optical scanning device; and 
a processing device (31) for receiving electrical signals 
outputted by said photodetector element. 
An optical scanning and detecting device according to 
Claim 8, wherein said beam of light emitted by said light 

source (26) is made incident on said optical scanning device to scan an object so 
that said beam reflected by the object can be detected and 

identify presence of said object or said shape. 
An optical scanning and detecting device according to 
Claim 8 or Claim 9, further comprising a scanning position detector 

circuit (34) to monitor a scanning position to allow detection 
of an orientation, shape and size of an object. 
An optical scanning and detecting device according to 
any one of Claims 8 to 10, wherein said light source is a semiconductor 

laser configured so that said beam of light reflected by said 
optical scanning device has a round cross section with a 

vertical-to-horizontal ratio of 1:1. 
An optical scanning and detecting device according to 
any one of Claims 8 to 11, wherein the device is configured to read coded 

data in a form of bar code, multistage bar code, or two-dimensional 
code in a form of matrix which are labeled on 

an object.  
 
An optical scanning and detecting device according to 
any one of Claims 8 to 12, further comprising a control unit (32) that can be 

programmed to a preselected orientation of coded data on 
one or more objects so that said optical scanning device 

can scan in a direction substantially parallel to a path 
along which said coded data is oriented. 
An optical scanning and detecting device according to 
any one of Claims 8 to 13, further comprising an orientation detector device (38) 

to detect an orientation of a coded data so that said beam 
of light is made to scan virtually parallel to a path along 

which said coded data is oriented. 
A device according to any one of Claims 10 to 14, further comprising a 
memory device (38) for storing an angle of rotation of said 

vibrating element from a previous scanning operation of 
coded data so that the next scanning operation begins from 

said angle of rotation detected by the previous angle of 
rotation from the previous scanning operation. 
A point of sales system, comprising: 

an optical scanning and detecting device as defined in Claim 8 ;  
 
processing and display means (41,43) for interpreting coded 
data on each product, and for checking the data against 

product data such as name of product and price, which were 
stored previously in an external memory unit (42); displaying to 

the exterior the results of the data check; and storing 
this result in a second memory unit (44). 
A device according to any one of Claims 8 to 15, wherein the device is 
configured so that the beam of light is reflected is 

virtually in the center of said mirror surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
