<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615455</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RETRACTABLE SAFETY PENETRATING INSTRUMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A retractable safety penetrating instrument includes a cannula (14) and a needle (12) disposed within the cannula and supported in a manner to automatically move proximally from an extended position wherein a sharp distal end (18) of the neddle protrudes from the cannula to a retracted position wherein a sharp distal end (18) of the needle protrudes from the cannula to a retracted position wherein the sharp distal end of the needle is protected in response to distal movement of the retractable safety penetrating instrument upon penetration into a cavity in the body. A retracting mechanism (48) moves the needle proximally, is normally locked in a position preventing proximal movement of the needle and is released by distal movement of an operating member (68) to trigger retraction of the needle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Retractable Safety Penetrating InstrumentBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention:The present invention pertains to safety penetrating instruments and, more particularly, to safety penetrating instruments having cannulas or sleeves for introduction into anatomical cavities and needles disposed within the cannulas with sharp tips for penetrating cavity walls.Discussion of the Prior Art;Penetrating instruments are widely used in medical procedures to gain access to anatomical cavities ranging in size from the abdomen to small blood vessels, such as veins and arteries, epidural, pleural and subarachnoid spaces, heart ventricle and spinal and synovial cavities, with access being established via a sleeve or cannula positioned during penetration into the cavity with the penetrating instrument. Such penetrating instruments include a penetrating member having a sharp tip or point to pierce or penetrate the tissue forming the cavity wall, and the force required to penetrate the cavity wall is dependent upon the type and thickness of the tissue of the wall. Once the wall is penetrated, it is desirable to prevent the sharp tip of the penetrating member from inadvertent contact with or injury to tissue or organ structures in or forming the cavity, and a particular problem exists where substantial force is required to penetrate the cavity wall or the cavity is very small in that, once penetration is achieved, the lack of tissue resistance can result in the sharp tip traveling too far into the cavity and injuring adjacent tissue or organ structures. 

 Safety penetrating instruments including a safety probe biased to extend beyond the sharp tip of a penetrating member have become widely accepted for use in penetrating anatomical cavities. For example, the Verres needle, commonly used to create a pneumoperitoneum, has a spring-loaded inner member disposed within a tubular needle. U.S. Patents No. 1,527,291 to Zoraquin, No. 2,623,521 to Shaw and No. 2,630,803 to Baran are exemplary of safety penetrating instruments with a spring-loaded inner member disposed in a needle, while U.S. Patent No. 4,254,762 to Yoon shows an endoscope spring-biased in a hollow needle. German Offenlegungsschrift 2,544,262 discloses an intrauterine catheter including a tube having a distal sharp point, a spring-biased blunt member in the tube distal end and a hose or catheter slidable over the tube.Safety trocars having a spring-biased protective shield disposed between an outer sleeve and an inner trocar are marketed by Ethicon, Inc.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for introducing a cannula into a cavity in the body comprising a cannula having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal ends; a needle slidably disposed in said cannula lumen having a sharp distal tip for penetrating a wall of the cavity; retracting means for moving said needle proximally from an extended position where said sharp distal tip protrudes beyond said cannula distal end to a retracted position where said sharp distal tip is withdrawn into said cannula to prevent contact of said sharp distal tip with tissue; and trigger means including an operating member movable distally when said sharp distal tip has penetrated into said cavity for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said needle to said retracted position.
2. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 and further comprising means for permitting said needle to move proximally as said needle penetrates the cavity wall and wherein said operating member is disposed on said needle.
3. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 2 wherein said needle includes an angled distal end surface at said sharp distal tip and said cannula includes a distal peripheral edge, said needle distal end surface being aligned with said cannula distal peripheral edge as said needle penetrates the cavity wall.
4. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 and further comprising an inner member disposed within said needle and means for permitting said inner member to move proximally as said needle penetrates the cavity wall and wherein said operating member is disposed on said inner member. 


 5. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 4 wherein said inner member includes an angled distal end surface and said needle includes an angled distal end surface at said sharp distal tip and wherein said inner member distal end surface is aligned with said needle distal end surface as said needle penetrates the cavity wall.
6. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 and further comprising means for permitting said cannula to move proximally as the needle penetrates the cavity wall and wherein said operating member is disposed on said cannula.
7. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said retracting means includes means for biasing said needle proximally and further including locking means engageable with said retracting means for preventing movement of said retracting means proximally, said trigger means further including releasing means for being engaged by said operating member when said operating member moves distally for disengaging said locking means from said retracting means.
8. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 7 wherein said locking means includes a latch biased into engagement with said retracting means.
9. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 8 wherein said latch includes a spring.
10. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 9 wherein said releasing means includes cam means for disengaging said latch from said retracting means.
11. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 10 wherein said releasing means further includes a trigger on said cam means for being engaged by said operating member when said operating member moves distally. 


 12. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 11 wherein said cam means is biased to a rest position wherein said trigger is disposed within the path of distal movement of said operating member.
13. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 9 wherein said releasing means includes spring means and a trigger on said spring means biased into the path of distal movement of said operating member.
14. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 8 wherein said latch includes a locking bar and said releasing means includes spring means for biasing said locking bar into engagement with said retracting means and disengaging said locking bar from said retracting means, said releasing means further including a trigger biased into the path of distal movement of said operating member.
15. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 8 wherein said locking means and said releasing means are of integral, unitary construction.
16. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 8 wherein said locking means and said releasing means are of multi-part construction.
17. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for introducing a cannula into a tubular vessel in the body comprising a cannula having a distal end for positioning in the tubular vessel, a proximal end for positioning externally of the tubular vessel and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal ends; a needle disposed in said lumen of said cannula having a sharp distal end for penetrating the wall of the tubular vessel; retracting means for moving the needle proximally relative to the cannula from an extended position where said sharp distal 



 end protrudes beyond said cannula distal end to a retracted position where said sharp distal end is disposed within said cannula distal end; and trigger means for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said needle to said retracted position in response to movement of said retractable safety penetrating instrument distally upon said cannula distal end entering the tubular vessel whereby said sharp distal end of said needle is protected from inadvertent contact with tissue in the tubular vessel.
18. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 17 wherein said retracting means includes means for biasing said needle in a proximal direction.
19. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 18 further including means engageable with said retracting means for preventing movement of said needle in the proximal direction and said trigger means includes means for automatically disengaging said movement preventing means.
20. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 19 wherein said needle includes a hollow proximal end and further including housing means for mounting said proximal end of said needle and cylindrical member means secured to said housing means and extending into said needle proximal end for guiding proximal movement of said needle.
21. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 20 wherein said biasing means includes a spring disposed within said needle concentrically around said cylindrical member means.
22. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 21 further including a rim on said cylindrical member means disposed within said proximal end of said needle and a plate on said proximal end of said needle, said spring being mounted in compression between said rim and said plate. 


 23. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recitedin claim 20 wherein said biasing means is disposed within said housing means externally of said needle.
24. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 23 further including rail means mounted externally on said proximal end of said needle and having an abutment wall, and said biasing means includes a spring mounted in compression between said housing means and said abutment wall.
25. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 24 further including plate means extending from said rail means and having an aperture therein for receiving said proximal end of said needle.
26. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 25 further including pin means on said rail means for providing a positive stop limiting proximal movement of said needle.
27. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 25 further including a tube secured to said housing means and extending into said proximal end of said needle, longitudinal slot means in said proximal end of said needle and pin means on said tube received within said slot means for providing a positive stop limiting proximal movement of said needle.
28. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 20 wherein said biasing means includes a spring disposed concentrically around said needle.
29. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 28 further including a plate mounted on said proximal end of said needle and an annular skirt disposed concentrically around said needle and extending from said plate, said spring being disposed concentrically around said needle within said 


 skirt and maintained in compression between said housing means and said plate.
30. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for providing fluid communication with a cavity in the body comprising a cannula for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal ends; a needle having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; and means for mounting the needle in said lumen of said cannula for allowing proximal movement of said needle relative to said cannula during penetration of the cavity wall.
31. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 30 wherein said means for mounting includes means for biasing said needle in a distal direction to allow proximal movement of said needle against the distal bias in response to a proximal force from tissue contact at said distal end of said needle during penetration of the cavity wall.
32. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 31 wherein said needle includes a proximal end and further including a housing mounting said needle proximal end and a flange on said needle proximal end disposed in said housing and wherein said distal biasing means includes a spring mounted in compression between said flange and said housing.
33. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 32 wherein said housing includes a end wall and said needle proximal end is hollow and further including a tube extending from said end wall into said proximal end of said needle, said spring being disposed concentrically around said tube. 


 34. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 31 wherein said needle distal end includes an end surface tapering to a sharp tip and a cylindrical body joined to said end surface at a trailing edge and said cannula distal end includes a peripheral edge, said trailing edge being aligned with said peripheral edge when said needle moves proximally against the distal bias in response to a proximal force from tissue contact at said distal end of said needle to present a substantially smooth profile.
35. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 34 further including positive stop means for limiting proximal movement of said needle against said distal bias.
36. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 35 wherein said positive stop means is disposed at said proximal end of said needle.
37. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for introducing a cannula into a cavity in the body comprising a cannula having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal ends; a needle disposed in said lumen of said cannula having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; means for biasing said needle distally within said lumen of said cannula to an extended position where said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said cannula distal end; retracting means for moving said needle proximally relative to said cannula from said extended position to a retracted position to prevent contact of said sharp distal end with tissue; and trigger means for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said needle to said retracted position in response to movement of said needle distally within said lumen of said cannula. 


 38. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 37 further including means for selectively moving said needle from said retracted position to said extended position.
39. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 38 wherein said means for selectively moving includes knob means on said needle, housing means for mounting said needle and slot means in said housing means for receiving said knob means, said knob means being movable along said slot means to move said needle from said retracted position to said extended position.
40. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 39 further including means for selectively locking said needle in said extended position.
41. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 40 wherein said means for locking includes a locking member pivotably mounted on said housing means for being selectively moved into a position preventing proximal movement of said knob means along said slot means.
42. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 37 further including a tube extending through said housing means and into said proximal end of said needle and a hub mounting said tube externally of said housing means.
43. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 42 further including a valve mounted externally of said housing for controlling flow through said tube.
44. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 42 further including at least one conduit mounted externally of said housing in fluid communication with said tube. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
