<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647314</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TIME-OF-FLIGHT FLOW MEASUREMENT WITH SECONDARY FLUID INJECTED AS THERMAL TRACER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F1704	G01F1704	G01F1708	G01F174	G01F174	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A temperature probe (3) determines the instantaneous ambient temperature of a multiphase fluid (2) flowing through a pipe (1), and at a position further downstream there is an inlet (4) for water at a constant temperature significantly different from that of the fluid (2) injected at timed intervals through a high pressure water jet nozzle (5). The effect of the jet is to mix the injected water intimately with the fluid (2) flowing through the pipe and create a localised pulse of heated (or cooled) fluid which then flows through the pipe (1) to be measured by means of a further temperature probe (10) and possibly by yet another probe (11) at positions downstream of the nozzle (5). The time taken for the localised heated pulse of fluid to travel along a fixed length of the pipe (1) can be measured, and will be a function of the rate of flow of the fluid through the pipe.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JORDAN KENT METERING SYSTEMS L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JORDAN KENT METERING SYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAPPI JAMES BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAPPI, JAMES, BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TIME-OF-PLIGHT FLOW MEASUREMENT WITH SECONDARY FLUID INJECTED AS THERMAL TRACERCrude oil discharging from a production well is usuall a mixture of oil and water or of oil, water and gas. I also frequently contains some sand, or similar particulates, which have been swept out of the rock formations by th fluid flow.Normal practice is to discharge this mixture into separating vessel where the various phases are separated b gravity into a gas flow, an oil flow, and a water flow whic usually contains the sand. On a typical North Sea produc¬ tion platform there may be 20 wells discharging into single separator. The single phase oil and gas flows discharging from the separator can be accurately metered for the purposes of custody transfer (sale) and taxation. Flow measured in this way measures the combined flow of all the wells together.In order to best manage the oil field so as to maximise the recoverable reserves and/or minimise the cost it is necessary to know what flows are being produced by each well individually. This is currently achieved by the use of a"test separator" which is a smaller version of the separator previously referred to. Periodically each well will be connected to the test separator so that the flows of each phase can be measured from that well. This has the disad- vantages that:The test separator is heavy and costly; The results are infrequent; 

 The manpower costs are high;It is not suitable for sub-sea production systems. The industry would like to have a flow meter that can be installed in each oil well flow line that can measure the. flows of the three fluid phases, known as a multiphase flow meter, so as to provide continuous field management informa¬ tion. Ideally it should be capable of sub-sea installation. The accuracy does not need to be as high as for single phase metering, and a typical target is ± 5% Because of the importance of this topic it is the subject of considerable activity in the U.K. and elsewhere. Various techniques are being examined, but at this time there is no proven commercially available device.The problem is a complex one, made even more complex by the behaviour of multiphase flow. When two or three fluid phases flow together in a pipe many types of flow pattern and distribution of phases are possible especially when one of the phases is a gas. Different behaviour is seen in horizontal pipes, pipes inclined up, pipes inclined down, and vertical pipes. Surges are common. It is also common for the different phases to travel at substantially differ¬ ent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A mixing and flow measurement device in a flui flow pipe, comprising means for determining the ambien temperature of the main fluid comprising one or more flui phases flowing through the pipe, an injection means fo injecting a jet of a secondary fluid into the pipe to creat intimate mixing of all the phases comprising the main flui and intimate mixing of the secondary fluid with the mai fluid, a source of the secondary fluid at a temperatur substantially different from that of the ambient temperatur of the main fluid and temperature measurement means withi the flow pipe at one or more positions downstream from th injection means.
2. A method of measuring the flow of a fluid in fluid flow pipe, comprising the steps of determining th ambient temperature of the main fluid comprising one or mor fluid phases flowing through the pipe, injecting a jet of secondary fluid by injection means into the pipe to creat intimate mixing of all the phases comprising the main fluid and intimate mixing of the secondary fluid with the main fluid, the secondary fluid being at a temperature substan¬ tially different from that of the ambient temperature of the main fluid, measuring the temperature of the fluid by temperature measurement means within the flow pipe at one or more positions downstream from the injection means, and calculating the flow rate of the main fluid by tracking the movement down the flow pipe of the temperature pulse created 


 by the injection of the jet of secondary fluid by means of the temperature measurement means.
3. A device or a method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the injection means incorporates one or more pressure nozzles in the wall of the pipe.
4. A device or a method as claimed in claim 3 wherein a ram is provided for supplying the secondary fluid to the pressure nozzle at timed intervals to create the temperature pulses of the injected secondary fluid. 5. A device or a method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the injection means is provided by a pressurised supply source with a control tap.
6. A device or a method as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the pressure nozzle enters through the lower or upper wall of a horizontal flow pipe at right angles to the pipe wall, or angled into the downstream direction of the flow of fluid.
7. A device or a method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, including a timing arrangement for determin- ing the movement of the temperature pulse between two fixed points.
8. A device or a method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said two fixed points are provided by the injection point for the secondary fluid and a single temperature measurement means downstream of the injection point.
9. A device or a method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said two fixed points are provided by said temperature measurement means and a further temperature measurement 


 means spaced therefrom along the pipe and a timing device i provided for calculating the time of arrival of the tempera ture pulse at each of the two temperature measurement mean respectively. 10. A device or a method as claimed in claim 9 wherei said further temperature measurement means measures th ambient temperature of the main fluid.
11. A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 10 wherein the temperature change registered by the temperatur measurement means together with a knowledge of the volumet ric flow rate of the main fluid, the temperature an specific or latent heat of the secondary fluid and the rat of injection of the secondary fluid is used to calculate th heat capacity per unit volume of the main fluid. 12. A method as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 11, wherein the temperature change registered by the temperatur measurement means over the whole interval of time durin which a temperature pulse passes the temperature measurin device, together with knowledge of the volumetric flow rat of the main fluid, and the temperature, specific or laten heat and quantity of injected secondary fluid is used t calculate the heat capacity per unit volume of the mai fluid.
13. A method as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 12, wherein the heat capacity of the main fluid is calculated on the basis of the temperature recorded when a steady state condition is achieved by said temperature measurement means during injection of the secondary fluid at a continuous 


 steady rate.
14. A method as claimed in Claim 13, wherein said temperature measurement means comprises a resistance thermometer. 15. A method as claimed in any one of Claims 2 to 14, wherein the electrical capacity of the main fluid is additionally calculated by means which measures the di- electrical constant of the fluid flowing through the pipe.
16. A device or method according to any one of Claims 1 to 15, wherein a fluid density measurement device is additionally incorporated in the flow pipe.
17. A device or method according to Claim 16, wherein the fluid density measurement device comprises a head loss device such as an orifice plate, a classical venturi tube, a nozzle, a venturi nozzle, or any other similar device capable of measuring by pressure loss techniques the momentum flux in the pipe.
18. A method according to Claim 16 or 17, wherein the reading from the density measurement device are used to determine the mass flow rate of fluids in the pipe.
19. A method according to any one of Claims 2 to 18, wherein measurement of one or more of the heat capacity, di¬ electric constant and density of the fluid mixture enables the mass or volume fraction of each of the individual phases in a two or three phase mixture is calculated, from one or more of the measured physical properties of the main fluid.
20. A mixing and flow measurement device substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying 


drawings .
21. A method of measuring the flow of a fluid in fluid flow pipe and substantially as herein described wit reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
