<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613724</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Separating constituents of a liquid material.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1502	B01D1502	B01D1704	B01D1704	B01D1900	B01D1900	B01D5702	B01D5702	B03B500	B03B500	B03C500	B03C500	B03C502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B03B	B03B	B03C	B03C	B03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D15	B01D15	B01D17	B01D17	B01D19	B01D19	B01D57	B01D57	B03B5	B03B5	B03C5	B03C5	B03C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The specification describes method and an apparatus for separating different 
components of liquid mixture in a separation chamber (120). The separation is 

performed by admitting the liquid mixture into the separation chamber (120), the 
separation chamber (120) having confronting surfaces spaced more closely than 

the respective lengths of the confronting surfaces. An electric field is then 
impressed toward at least one of the confronting surfaces of the separation 

chamber for separating the different the liquid components according to their 
relative influenceability to the electric field. The separated liquid components of 

the same influenceability are then mechanically moved in streams each of unlike 
net influenceability near each other transversely to the electric field, the streams 

being in communication parallel to the separation influence, so as to transfer a 
portion of at least one of the liquid components to another of the respective 

streams by virtue of the continued action of the electric field as the streams 
progress transversely to the e
lectric field. Finally, the separated steams are 
removed from the separation chamber (120). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEPARATION TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEPARATION TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITLOCK DAVID R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITLOCK, DAVID R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is a continuation-in-part of 
application Serial No. 06/872,082, filed June 6, 
1986. This invention relates in general to 
improvements in separation processes for the 
physical separation of different species of liquid 
material constituents of a mixture of species, more 
particularly to new methods and means for increasing 
the respective concentrations of separated species 
of such constituents. The invention is applicable 
to a wide variety of physical mixtures, such as 
separating ice crystals from pulverized, frozen 
aqueous solutions, as well as to the beneficiation 
of ores. It has been found to be particularly 
useful in the separation of impurities form coal, 
i.e.: coal benefication.  The present invention relates broadly to 
separation of dissimilar species ranging in size 
from macroscopic particles to molecular mixtures. 
Recent advances in biotechnology have allowed 
production of hormones, enzymes, antibodies and 
other biologically active materials, and large scale 
production of these will revolutionize the treatment 
of disease, the raising of plants and animals for 
food, and the renewable synthesis of industrial 
materials. Separation technology has not kept pace 
with the needs of the biotechnology industries. 
Separation and purification of these materials is 
the most costly and difficult aspect of making these 
products on a preparative scale. Scale up of 
laboratory techniques has allowed production, but at 
high cost. A low cost, effective separation 
technique would lower the cost of these products and 
enormously increase the benefits that will result. Laboratory analytical techniques emphasize 
sensitivity and the detection of very low levels of 
material. Techniques such as chromatography, field 
flow fractionation (FFF) (see Giddings U.S. 
3,449,938), electrophoresis, micro-sieving, 
molecular distillation, and liquid-liquid extraction 
originated in the laboratory and have limited 
commercial application. These separation techniques 
are expensive when scaled to produce commercial 
quantities of materials requiring high levels of 
separation.  Attempts have been made to scale laboratory 
techniques using apparatus of commercial size. 
Problems arise becaue of the difficulty of 
maintaining consistent flow over a large cross 
section. In preparative scale chromatography one 
way to achieve consistent flow is to use a packing 
with a large pressure drop, but channeling and flow 
maldistribution can still occur. In preparative 
eletrophoresis, convection
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of separating different components of a liquid 
mixture of a material in a separation chamber (120) 

characterized in that it comprises the steps of: 
   admitting said fluid material into the separation chamber 

(120), said separation chamber (120) having confronting 
surfaces spaced more closely than the respective lengths of 

said confronting surfaces; 
   impressing an electric field toward at least one of said 

confronting surfaces of said separation chamber (120); 
   separating said different components in the direction of 

said electric field according to their relative 
influenceability to said electric field; 

   mechanically moving components of like net 
influenceability in streams each of unlike net influenceability 

near each other transversely to said electric field, said 
streams being in communication parallel to said electric field, 

so as to transfer a portion of at least one of said components 
to another of said respective streams by virtue of the 

continued action of said electric field as said streams 
progress transversely to said electric field; and 

   removing separated streams from said separation chamber 
(120). 
The method according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
 

electric field is generated by electrodes in a fluid 
electrolyte which are isolated from the separation chamber 

(120) by a barrier (141-143) that is permeable to charge 
carriers but substantially impermeable to products of the 

electrolysis. 
The method according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in 
that said streams are mechanically moved in opposite 

directions. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the step of impressing an 

electric field includes providing more than one electric field 
generating means (181, 182, 182a, 182b; 183) to generate said 

electric field. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said electric field is impressed 

in a spatially periodic manner. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that there is impressed in addition to 

said electric field, towards at least one of said confronting 
surfaces of said separation chamber (120), a separation 

influence chosen from a list of an electric field gradient, a 
 

shear field, a shear field gradient, a magnetic field gradient, 
a flow field, and a temperature gradient. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the step of admitting includes 

providing more than one feed material admission opening (130, 
131, 133) in the separation chamber (120). 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the step of mechanically moving 

components includes generating regions of shear within the 
separation chamber. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said streams are mechanically 

moved in opposite directions at different speeds. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the step of mechanically moving 

components includes generating regions with different levels of 
shear within said separation cheer (120). 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that fluid materials of different 

compositions are each admitted to different regions of the 
 

separation chamber at different distances along the direction 
of motion of said streams. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it further includes the step of 

providing a barrier interposed between said separating streams. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the temperature of regions in the 

separation chamber (120) is regulated as a function of distance 
in the direction of motion of said streams. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said temperature differences 

between said regions of said separation chamber are sufficient 
to produce a phase change effecting at least one of said 

components of the liquid as said streams transport said 

components between said regions. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the phase change is chosen from a 

list of vaporization, condensation, solidification, melting, 
sublimation, adsorption, desorption, dissolution, and 

precipitation. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that two different materials are each 

admitted to different regions of the separation chamber (120) 
at different distances along the direction of motion of said 

streams, so as to develop a countercurrent flow of components 
from the two admitted materials between said admitting regions 

so as to facilitate the transfer of at least one component from 
one of said streams to another of said streams. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the pairs of different material 

are chosen from a list of a liquid and a gas, two substantially 
immiscible liquids, two materials of near critical composition, 

two polymer solutions of different molecular weights, a fluid 
and a particulate material, a slurry and a fluid, an emulsion 

and a fluid, a catalyst ad a reacting fluid, a slurry and a 
gas. 
The method according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a component - component 

interaction chosen from the list of adsorption, ion exchange, 
antibody binding, pH equilibrium, solvent extraction, phase 

equilibrium, vapor liquid equilibrium, phase partitioning, 
capillary adhesion, bubble attachment, and wetability is used 

to enhance the recovery of a desired component. 
A material processed using the method of claim 18. 
The method according to one or more of claims 1-18, 
characterized in that said streams are mechanically moved by an 

endless transport belt (150-154). 
The method according to one or more of claims 1-18 and 20, 
characterized in that at least one of said components is held 

to said belt (150-154). 
The method according to claim 21, characterized in that 
said at least one of said components held to said belt 

(150-155) is held as a result of a mechanism chosen from the 
list of adsorption, magnetic attraction, electrostatic 

attraction, antibody binding, ion exchange, and surface 
tension. 
The method according to one or more of claims 1-18 and 
20-22, characterized in that said means to mechanically 

transport (150-155) furthermore removes adhering layers of 
particles from said confronting surfaces. 
The method according to one or more claims 1-18 and 20-23, 
characterized in that said different components are removed 

 
from said belt using a method from a list of a centrifugal 

force, an air knife, a fiber brush, gravitational attraction, 
electrostatic forces, a fluid spray, and a dissolving fluid. 
The method according to claim 12 characterized in that 
said barrier provided between said separating streams is 

permeable to at least one of said components. 
An apparatus for separating different components of a 
mixture of a liquid material, characterized by comprising: 

   a separation chamber (120) having confronting surfaces 
spaced more closely than the respective length of said 

confronting surfaces; 
   means (181-182, 182A-182B, 183, 191-195) to apply an 

electric field across the smaller dimension of the separation 
chamber (120) toward at least one of said confronting surfaces; 

   means (150-154) to mechanically transport material in 
streams running transversely to said electric field, and with 

said electric field deflecting influenced components from said 
streams in accordance with their influenceability; and 

   means to remove separated components from said separation 
chamber. 
The apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that 
the electric field is generated by electrodes in a fluid 

 
electrolyte which are isolated from the separation chamber 

(120) by a barrier (141-143) that is permeable to charge 
carriers but substantially impermeable to products of 

electrolysis. 
An apparatus according to claims 26 or 27, characterized 
in that said mechanical transport means comprises an endless 

belt of foranimous construction. 
Apparatus according to claims 26-28 characterized in that 
said mechanical transport means (150-154) and said confronting 

surfaces (141-143) are provided by imperforate endless 
transport belts. 
Apparatus according to one or more of claims 26 to 29 
characterized in that more than one electric field generating 

means (181, 182, 182a, 182b; 183) is provided. 
Apparatus according to one or more of claims 26 to 30 
characterized in that more than one means (130, 131, 133) to 

introduce a material mixture into said separation chamber (120) 
is provided. 
The apparatus according to one or more of claims 26-31, 
characterized in that a barrier is interposed between said 

streams. 
The apparatus according to one or more of claims 26-32, 
characterized in that the barrier is permeable to at least one 

of said different components. 
Apparatus according to one or more of claims 26 to 33 
characterized in that said separation chamber (120) includes 

temperature controlling means (191-195); 
Apparatus according to one or more of claims 26 to 34, 
characterized in that more than one means (135-136) to remove 

separated components from said separation chamber (120) is 
provided. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
