<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631705</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF GROUPING LINKS IN A PACKET SWITCH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04Q1104	H04L2906	H04L1256	H04Q1104	H04L2906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04Q	H04L	H04L	H04Q	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04Q11	H04L29	H04L12	H04Q11	H04L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a packet switch, which is intended for packets of constant length, and which, between switch ports, is divided into a number of nodes (12) and transmission links (14), where the nodes carry out space selection and the transmission links offer point-to-point transmission between the nodes, link grouping is carried out. More particularly, from multiple parallel physical links coming into the switch, link groups are produced, each in the form of a logical link with a bandwidth that is the sum of the bandwidths of the physical links included in the link group, said logical link being restored to outgoing parallel physical links from the switch. One or more link protocols (G1, G2) are used according to which a label in the packet's header is made to describe a route that holds together the grouped links through the entire switch, such that bits in the label describing the route over a certain transmission link are the same for packets belonging to the same link group.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to link grouping
in packet switches for packets with constant length, e.g., ATM
switches (ATM = Asynchronous Transfer Mode). Link grouping
means that a logical link is created consisting of many
parallel physical links. The logical link offers a bandwidth
that is the sum of that of the physical links. In this way,
for example, a logical link with a bandwidth of 622.08 Mb/s can
be provided through link grouping of four physical 155.52 Mb/s
links.More particularly the invention relates to a method for
link grouping in a packet switch for constant length packets,
the packet switch having a plurality of nodes and a plurality
of transmission links for selectively connecting a plurality of
input ports to a plurality of output ports, wherein the nodes
enable space selection and the transmission links interconnect
the nodes,
   said link grouping comprising creating, out of a number of
parallel physical links coming into the switch, link groups,
each in the form of a logical link with a bandwidth that is the
sum of the bandwidths of the incoming physical links included
in the link group, and restoring said logical link to outgoing
parallel physical links from the switch.In an ATM-switch for wideband telecommunication there is a
need for higher bandwidth than that which is physically
available. Link grouping can offer good traffic characteristics
and hardware flexibility and effectivity, for example smaller
delay, fewer buffers, and the realization of different types of
concentrators/multiplexers and switches in different speed
classes while using the same base components. Blocking
characteristics in a link coupled network, for example a 
Clos-network, are also improved through logical speedup,
achieved with the help of link grouping.Methods available thus far for offering a wideband link
are:
1. high physical speed,2. series-parallel conversion in order to attain higher
logical speed than the physical one.Disadvantages with the first method are the difficulty in
realizing high speed electronics and mechanics, as well as the
consequent power dissipation. The other method builds normally
on multiplexing at bit-level and therefore requires
bit-synchronous transmission.Among publications discussing the need to create greater
bandwidth than that which is physically available can be
mentioned EP 0 374 574, WO 85/04300, WO 90/12467, and IBM
Technical Disclosure Bulletin Vol 32, No. 9A, February 1990,
pp. 45-49.One object of the present invention is to provide a method
for doing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for link grouping in a packet switch for
constant length packets, the packet switch having a plurality

of nodes (12) and a plurality of transmission links (14) for
selectively connecting a plurality of input ports (6) to a

plurality of output ports (8), wherein the nodes (12) enable
space selection and the transmission links (14) interconnect

the nodes,

said link grouping comprising creating, out of a number of
parallel physical links (4) coming into the switch, link

groups (l,m), each in the form of a logical link with a
bandwidth that is the sum of the bandwidths of the incoming

physical links included in the link group, and restoring said
logical link to outgoing parallel physical links (10) from the

switch,

   characterized by

using one or more link protocols, according to which a
label in the head of the packets is made to describe a

route that holds together the grouped links through the whole
switch, in a way that bits in the label describing the route

over a certain transmission link are the same for packets
belonging to the same link group.
A method according to claim 1, comprising holding
together the link group by space selection in the nodes based

on the labels such that a sequence of the grouped incoming
physical links are connected to a corresponding sequence of

outgoing physical links.
A method according to claim 2, comprising writing
links belonging to a same logical link group (n,m) into a same

buffer (16,18) in the node and reading them out sequentially
over outgoing physical links.
A method according to claim 2, comprising writing
several logical link groups into a same buffer (20) in the

node, and performing readout on respective grouped outgoing
link outputs (24,26) by integrating link grouping and readout 

in a memory management function (22).
A method according to any of claims 2 to 4,
comprising securing correct packet sequence between the

physical links by a write and read algorithm included in the
link protocol, said protocol also providing synchronizing for

transmitting the packets with a determined timing
pattern.
A method according to claim 5, comprising sending the
packets out simultaneously or time delayed with a constant

interval.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the protocol
only acts between the switch ports (6,8, Fig. 7).
A method according to claim 7, wherein the switch
ports (6,8, Fig. 7) by means of labeling (6, Fig. 7) sort

incoming packets within a link group such that the packet
sequence is preserved.
A method according to claim 7, comprising using a
protocol based on a grouping means located in switch ports or

between switch ports and switch core and containing a buffer
having a number of outputs corresponding to the number of

links to be grouped, and writing the links into the buffer and
reading them out sequentially on outputs.
A method according to claim 9, comprising performing
the readout so as to distribute the packets evenly over all

the links in the group.
A method according to claim 10, comprising providing
the grouped packets with a label code containing essentially

the same bits.
A method according to claim 11, comprising buffering
by means of said grouping means enough packets to make

possible choosing packets that shall go out on the same
grouped link, and evenly distributing them on all the links in

the group.
A method according to claim 12, comprising
supplementing odd numbers of packets on a link with empty 

packets.
A method according to any of claims 9 to 13,
comprising securing packet synchronization in and between the

switch ports and the nodes such that packets in a group flow
packet-synchronously through the entire switch.
A method according to claim 14, comprising
performing sorting in the switch ports aided by bits in the

label that are different between packets within the group.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
