<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645814</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor power switching device module
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2518	H01L2507	H01L2358	H01L2507	H01L2366	H01L2518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L25	H01L25	H01L23	H01L25	H01L23	H01L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low inductance coaxial semiconductor 
switching module (10) includes high power, high 

frequency semiconductor switching devices (10) 
operative to provide high power at low inductance. 

The module incorporates compositional, geometrical and 

electrical symmetry in a coaxial configuration, short 
internal leads, a special circumferential array of 

substrates, a special circular gate circuit, a special 
circular kelvin circuit, and special terminal 

subassembly and special module mounting features. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DELCO ELECTRONICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DELCO ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EYTCHESON CHARLES TYLER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAKE DONALD EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EYTCHESON, CHARLES TYLER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAKE, DONALD EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a semiconductor
switching device module. A preferred embodiment relates
to a power module containing a plurality of high voltage
and high current semiconductor switching devices which
are connected electrically in parallel and operated at
high frequency.Insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs) are
an extremely attractive semiconductor device for power
applications. They are more attractive than a power-type
insulated gate field effect transistor (IGFET), which is
popularly referred to as a MOSFET. An IGBT can handle
both high voltages and high currents with small die size
and with relatively low "on" resistance. In addition, an
IGBT can be switched rapidly, making IGBTs potentially
useful as switches in a three phase inverter for a high
power alternating current motor application.On the other hand, the high current density
capability and low "on" resistance of the IGBT also
present new challenges. The possibility of device
failure is aggravated when the IGBT is handling high
power. By high power, we mean current densities above
about 135 amps per square centimetre of active chip area,
at hundreds of volts. By high frequency switching we
mean on/off frequencies above about 18 kilohertz, for
example 30 kilohertz. As might be expected, significant
impedance, material and mechanical problems are
encountered in handling such power at high frequencies
and low resistances. This is especially true for a high
power/high frequency module, in which several such IGBTs
are connected electrically in parallel. Heretofore, the
foregoing problems have been so difficult that not many
high power/high frequency IGBT modules have been
commercially manufactured. Those made thus far have been
made in relatively low volume, such that each module
could be individually specially crafted. JP-A-62 150871 describes a module in accordance
with the preamble of Claim 1. JP-A-57 010958 discloses a
radial array of chips in a semiconductor device.
WO-A-93/08601 describes a mounting arrangement for
semiconductors.The present invention seeks to provide an
improved semiconductor switching device module.A semiconductor switching device module
according to the present invention is characterised over
JP-A-62 150871 by the features specified in the
characterising portion of Claim 1.The invention seeks to provide a high
frequency/high power linear-type and circular-type
modules capable of being manufactured on a commercial
production basis. By commercial production basis, it is
meant production volumes such used in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor switching device module
including a housing (46) having a baseplate (44) and

defining a chamber, a plurality of semiconductor
switching devices (18), a first terminal member (34) for

conducting switched electric current into said module,
and a second terminal member (36) for conducting the

switched electric current out of said module, both terminal members having a low electrical resistance,
characterized in that: said first and second terminal

members (34, 36) have cylindrical body portions
concentrically disposed about an axis and flanges (34a,

36a) that extend radially outward with respect to said
axis, the body portion and flange of said first and

second terminal members being closely separated by an
insulating member (54) having a body portion and flange

so that in operation the flow of said switched current in said
terminal members (34, 36) is substantially equal but opposite in direction and substantially negates the combined

inductance of both said terminal members; said switching
devices (18) are mounted on individual substrates (12),

which in turn are mounted on said baseplate (44) radially
outward from and in proximity to the flanges (34a, 36a)

of said first and second terminal members (34, 36) ; and
input and output regions of said switching devices (18)

are electrically coupled to the flanges (34a, 36a) of
said first and second terminal members (34, 36) by

electrical connections (14a, 36a) that are closely spaced
and radially extending with respect to said axis so that

the flow of said switched current in said electrical
connections (14a, 36a) substantially negates the

inductance of said electrical connections. 
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 1, wherein each flange (34a,36a) is a

radially outwardly circumferential flange.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the flange (34a,36a)

on at least one of said terminal members includes a
plurality of flange segments.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the cylindrical

portion of the outermost one of the terminal members
includes at least one radial enlargement (37) adapted for

attachment to a conductor of a bus.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 4, wherein the outermost terminal

member includes a plurality of radial enlargements (37) 
substantially symmetrically disposed around the

cylindrical portion of the outermost terminal member.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to any preceding claim, wherein the chamber

includes a plurality of insulated gate semiconductor
switching devices (10) radially arrayed around the

terminal flanges.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 6, wherein the insulated gate

semiconductor switching devices are insulated gate
bipolar transistors and comprise a single switch.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 7, wherein the semiconductor switching

devices comprise a dual switch.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 8, comprising an additional coaxial

flanged terminal for connection to a first group of
semiconductor switching devices forming one of said

switches, and gate terminal means, gate conductor bus and
bus-device interconnection means for the first group of

semiconductor switching devices and for a second group of
semiconductor switching devices forming the second

switch.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to any one of claims 6 to 9, wherein the

insulated gate semiconductor switching devices (10) are
matched chips, each chip being disposed on a separate

substrate, the substrates being symmetrically arrayed
around the terminal flanges and being spaced from the

terminal flanges.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 10, wherein each substrate is formed

from a wafer of dielectric material metallised on its
opposing faces. 
A semiconductor switching device module
according to any one of claims 6 to 11, wherein the

chamber includes a circuit pattern surrounding the radial
array of insulated gate devices, the circuit pattern (50)

including a gate conductor pattern (30), an input kelvin
conductor pattern (34) and an output kelvin conductor

pattern (36).
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 12, wherein the circuit pattern (50)

includes at least
one trimmable resistor (32) in series with a connector to

a gate electrode on one of the insulated gate
semiconductor switching devices (10), for matching gate

voltages applied to the devices (10).
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 13, wherein the circuit pattern is a

thick film pattern (50)
and includes a trimmable thick film printed resistor

(32) in series with a connector to each of the insulated
gate semiconductor switching devices (10), effective to

provide means for setting gate voltage to each of the
devices to a predetermined value when a preset voltage is

applied to the gate conductor of the circuit pattern.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to any preceding claim, wherein

the coaxial terminal members
(34,36) comprising a subassembly affixed to the

baseplate, at least one of the coaxial terminals (36)
including a threaded bore for attachment of an electrical

bus conductor, the baseplate containing a recess and a
surface of the subassembly contacting the baseplate

containing a complementary boss (56c) nested in the
recess to provide a mechanical lock against rotation of

the subassembly.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to any preceding claim, wherein the coaxial 

terminal members are spaced by a dielectric plastics
spacer (54) including a cylindrical portion and a flanged

portion, the dielectric plastics spacer and the coaxial
terminal members forming a moulded unitary subassembly.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to any preceding claim, wherein the innermost

terminal member includes integral mounting bolt means
(56).
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 17, wherein the cylindrical portion of

the innermost of the terminal members is hollow and
includes openings at either end thereof, one of the

openings being adjacent the or a baseplate (44) of the
module and adapted to accommodate a mounting bolt head

(58) of a mounting bolt of the module, the other opening
being smaller than the bolt head and adapted to receive

in use a tool for coaction with the bolt head, the
baseplate including an opening (68) for receiving a shank

of the bolt.
A semiconductor switching device module
according to claim 18, comprising a sprung washer coupled

to the mounting bolt and adapted to maintain a
predetermined clamping force between the baseplate of the

module housing and a module support when the bolt is
secured to the module support.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
