<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615105</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Air separation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25J304	F25J304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25J	F25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25J3	F25J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A first stream of compressed, cooled air is introduced into a higher 
pressure rectification column 12 through an inlet 14 and is separated 

into nitrogen vapour and oxygen-enriched liquid. At least some of the 
nitrogen vapour is condensed in a condenser 22 and one stream of the 

resulting liquid nitrogen is used as reflux in the column 12 and another 
stream as reflux in a lower pressure rectification column 30. Oxygen 

enriched liquid withdrawn from the column 12 through an outlet 32 is 
separated in the column 30. Impure liquid oxygen product is withdrawn 

form the column 30 through an outlet 52. A less pure stream of liquid 
oxygen is withdrawn from the column 30 through an outlet 48, is reboiled 

in a condenser-reboiler 16 by indirect heat exchange with a second stream 
of air and is reintroduced into the column 30 at its bottom through an 

inlet 51. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOC GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHBONE THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHBONE, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for separating air. The most important method commercially of separating air is by rectification. The 
most frequently used air separation cycles include the steps of compressing a 
stream of air, purifying the resulting stream of compressed air by removing water 
vapour and carbon dioxide, and cooling the stream of compressed air by heat 
exchange with returning product streams to a temperature suitable for its 
rectification. The rectification is performed in a so-called "double rectification 
column" comprising a higher pressure and a lower pressure rectification column i.e. 
one of the two columns operates at higher pressure than the other. Most if not all 
of the air is introduced into the higher pressure column and is separated into 
oxygen-enriched liquid air and liquid nitrogen vapour. The nitrogen vapour is 
condensed. A part of the condensate is used as liquid reflux in the higher pressure 
column. Oxygen-enriched liquid is withdrawn from the bottom of the higher 
pressure column, is sub-cooled, and is introduced into an intermediate region of the 
lower pressure column through a throttling or pressure reduction valve. The 
oxygen-enriched liquid is separated into substantially pure oxygen and nitrogen 
products in the lower pressure column. These products are withdrawn in the 
vapour state from the lower pressure column and form the returning streams 
against which the incoming air stream is heat exchanged. Liquid reflux for the 
lower pressure column is provided by taking the remainder of the condensate from 
the higher pressure column, sub-cooling it, and passing it into the top of the lower 
pressure column through a throttling or pressure reduction valve. Conventionally, the lower pressure column is operated at pressures in the range of 
1 to 1.5 atmospheres absolute (1-1.5 bar) . Liquid oxygen at the bottom of the 
lower pressure column is used to meet the condensation duty at the top of the 
higher pressure column. Accordingly, nitrogen vapour from the top of higher 
pressure column is heat exchanged with liquid oxygen in the bottom of the lower 
pressure column. Sufficient liquid oxygen is able to be evaporated thereby to meet 
the requirements of the lower pressure column for reboil and to enable a good yield  
 
of gaseous oxygen product to be achieved. The pressure at the top of the higher 
pressure column and hence the pressure to which the incoming air is compressed 
are arranged to be such that the temperature of the condensing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of separating air comprising rectifying a first stream of air in a 
higher pressure rectification column and thereby producing nitrogen 

vapour and oxygen-enriched liquid; condensing at least some of the 
nitrogen vapour and employing a first stream of resulting condensate as 

reflux in the higher pressure rectification column and a second stream of 

the condensate as reflux in a lower pressure rectification column; 
withdrawing from the higher pressure rectification column a stream of 

said oxygen-enriched liquid, rectifying it in the lower pressure rectification 
column and producing thereby an impure liquid oxygen product; 

withdrawing said impure liquid oxygen product from the lower pressure 
rectification column in the liquid state; and providing a flow of reboiled 

liquid upwardly through the lower pressure rectification column by 
withdrawing from the lower pressure rectification column a stream of 

liquid, reboiling the stream of liquid by heat exchange with a second 
stream of air, and returning the resulting reboiled stream of liquid to a 

bottom region of the lower pressure rectification column characterised in 
that the said stream of liquid is an intermediate stream which has an 

oxygen concentration greater than that of the said oxygen-enriched liquid 
but less than that of the said impure liquid oxygen product. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the intermediate stream has an 
oxygen content in the range of 50% to 85% by volume. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, in which the nitrogen vapour 
produced in the higher pressure rectification column is condensed by heat 

exchange with said oxygen-enriched liquid, at least part of said 
oxygen-enriched liquid thereby being vaporised upstream of its 

introduction into the lower pressure rectification column. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first 
and second air streams are each formed by removing carbon dioxide and  

 
water vapour from a flow of compressed air and cooling the resulting 

purified air flow in a main heat exchanger by countercurrent heat 
exchange with the impure liquid oxygen product and with a nitrogen 

stream withdrawn from the lower pressure rectification column. 
A method as claimed in claim 4, in which the impure liquid oxygen is heat 
exchanged in the main heat exchanger with a third air stream at a 

pressure higher than either that of the first air stream or that of the 
second air stream, the third air stream is thereby at least partially 

condensed and is introduced into the higher pressure rectification column, 
and said third air stream is taken from said purified air flow. 
A method as claimed in claim 5, in which a part of the third air stream is 
taken therefrom and is expanded with the performance of external work in 

an expansion turbine to the pressure of the higher pressure rectification 
column, and at least part of the expanded air is introduced into the higher 

pressure rectification column. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, additionally including 
reducing the pressure of the impure oxygen product and at least partially 

vaporising it by countercurrent heat exchange with the condensing 
nitrogen vapour. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which at least 
part of the second air stream is introduced into the higher pressure 

rectification column downstream of its heat exchange with the 
intermediate stream. 
Apparatus for separating air comprising a higher pressure rectification 
column (12, 108) for separating a first stream of air into nitrogen vapour 

and oxygen-enriched liquid, a lower pressure rectification column (30, 
122) for producing an impure liquid oxygen product having an inlet (38 

and 40, 38, 146) for oxygen-enriched liquid withdrawn from said higher 
pressure rectification column (12, 108), a condenser (22, 128) for 

condensing nitrogen separated in the higher pressure rectification column  
 

(12, 108), means for supplying resulting condensate as reflux to the higher 
pressure rectification column (12, 108) and to the lower pressure 

rectification column (30, 122), an outlet (52, 156) from the lower 
pressure rectification column (30, 122) for said impure liquid oxygen 

product, a reboiler (16, 114) for boiling by heat exchange with a second 
stream of air a stream of liquid withdrawn from the lower pressure 

rectification column (30, 122) through an outlet (48, 152), and means 
(51, 154) for returning the resulting reboiled liquid to the bottom of the 

lower pressure rectification column (30, 122), characterised in that the 
outlet (48, 152) for the said stream of liquid is at a region intermediate 

said inlet (38 and 40, 38, 146) for the oxygen-enriched liquid and said 
outlet (52, 156) for the impure liquid oxygen product, whereby, in use, 

the said stream of liquid is of an intermediate liquid which has an oxygen 
concentration greater than that of the oxygen-enriched liquid but less than 

that of the impure liquid oxygen product. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, in which the said condenser (22, 128) 
is arranged to receive, in use, oxygen-enriched liquid from the higher 

pressure rectification column (12, 108). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10, additionally including means 
(4, 102) for purifying a flow of compressed air by removal of water 

vapour and carbon dioxide therefrom, a main heat exchanger (6, 104 and 
106) for cooling the air flow by heat exchange, in use, with the impure 

liquid oxygen product and a stream of nitrogen from the lower pressure 
rectification column (30, 122), means for taking said first and second air 

streams from the cooled air flow, a compressor (56, 112) for creating a 
third air stream from said air flow at a region intermediate said purification 

means (4, 102) and said main heat exchanger (6, 104 and 106), and 
means for conducting the third air stream through said main heat 

exchanger (6, 104 and 106). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, additionally including an expansion turbine 
(60, 148) having an inlet communicating with a region of the main heat 

exchanger (6, 104 and 106) through which said third air stream is able to  
 

flow and an outlet communicating with said higher pressure rectification 
column (12, 108). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
