<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610285</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CERAMIC FIBRES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B35622	C04B35622	D01F800	D01F818	D01F908	D01F908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	D01F	D01F	D01F	D01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B35	C04B35	D01F8	D01F8	D01F9	D01F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composite ceramic fibre (10) is made from a self-supporting composite polymeric fibre by the conjugate spinning of at least two dissimilar pre-ceramic polymers in shapes varying from cylindrical to ribbon-like, and pyrolysing the spun fibre to form a composite bilateral, core-sheath or matrix-fibril ceramic fibre having regions with ceramic compositions derived from each of the polymers, enabling physical and chemical characteristics to be widely varied for use as matrix reinforcements and other applications. A pyrolysis furnace (14) includes countercurrent controlled atmosphere gas flow for chemically stabilising or modifying the fibres.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CURRAN DENNIS JOHN GERARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CURRAN, DENNIS, JOHN, GERARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRAN DENNIS JOHN GERARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRAN, DENNIS, JOHN, GERARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CERA IC FIBRESThis invention relates to ceramic fibres. It is concerned with methods of making such fibres, and with the fibres so made, and with their uses.Ceramic compositions typically include oxides, carbides and nitrides of metals and non-metals, and extend more generally to simple binary or more complex solid inorganic compounds, excluding salts. Ceramics tend to result from high temperature processing which consolidates the material. Fibres containing ceramic compounds are referred to herein as ceramic fibres. Compounds which yield ceramics after pyrolysis, or firing, are referred to as ceramic precursors, or pre-ceramic materials. Fibres containing ceramic precursors, which after firing will form ceramic fibres, are referred to as pre-ceramic fibres.This invention is especially concerned with composite or multicomponent ceramic materials that include compounds between metals and non-metals; although ceramics including compounds wholly between non-metals, such as silicon carbide and boron nitride, are also made available by the invention. Glasses may be included among the ceramics, and the invention is applicable to non-glass ceramics and glassy ceramics as distinct classes of product.References to fibres are intended also to include filaments, ie long or continuous fibres. The fibres are generally manufactured as filaments. Short fibres can be made from the filaments by chopping or other processes.A particularly important use of ceramic fibres is as reinforcements for glass, metal and ceramic products, to prevent catastrophic failure of the products under stress. A serious problem can be that the fibre that in itself has good properties from a mechanical point of view may not be chemically or physically compatible with the matrix into which it is to 

 be incorporated as a reinforcement. Ceramic materials also have many other uses, and. show a very wide range of electrical properties, from insulators through semiconductors to superconductors.Known methods of making ceramic fibres include chemical vapour deposition and pyrolysis of a given polymer. The former 1s slow and expensive, and tends to give stoichiometric, monolithic. Inflexible fibres of large diameter. The latter gives monolithic nonstoichiometric fibres which are more flexible. Both give fibres that can be reactive with the matrix unless they are reprocessed to coat them.My International Patent Application PCT/6B91/00604, Publication No WO 91/16479, discloses methods of making a range of ceramic materials which can be tailored and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C IMS
1. A method of making a composite ceramic fibre comprising forming a self-supporting composite polymeric fibre by the conjugate spinning of at least two dissimilar pre-ceramic polymers, wherein each of said polymers Includes repeating units containing a ceramic-forming element other than carbon and oxygen, and thereafter pyrolysing the spun fibre to form a composite ceramic fibre having a region with a first ceramic composition derived from one of the said two polymers and a region with a second ceramic composition derived from the other of the said two polymers.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the conjugate spinning is carried out to form a composite bilateral, core-sheath or matrix-fibril fibre structure.
3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the conjugate spinning is carried out to form a core, an intermediate sheath and an outer sheath.
4. A method according to claim 2 wherein a first polymeric ceramic precursor is co-extruded around a central core of a second polymeric ceramic precursor, and the second polymer 1s from 5 to 85% of the whole, by weight, at the point of extrusion.
5. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the conjugate spinning is carried out by a method selected from wet spinning, dry spinning, melt spinning, dispersion spinning, emulsion spinning, and reaction spinning.
6. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the dissimilar pre-ceramic polymers are immiscible.
7. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the 


 proportion of each pre-ceramic polymer is at least 5% by weight of the whole fibre before pyrolysis.
8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the pre-ceramic polymer is selected from organometallic and Inorganic fibre-forming polymers, being polymeric compounds of ceramic-forming elements.
9. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein at least one of the pre-ceram1c polymers is a pre-ceram1c organic polymer.
10. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein at least one of the pre-ceramic polymers contains metal atoms in its repeating groups.
11. A method according to claim 10 wherein the metal 1s at least one selected from titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt, nickel, aluminium, gallium, yttrium, zirconium, niobium, molybdenum, ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, lanthanum, hafnium, tantalum, tungsten, rhenium, osmium, iridium, platinum and the lanthanoids.
12. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein at least one of the pre-ceramic polymers includes non-metals or metalloids selected from carbon, boron, silicon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, sulfur, germanium, and arsenic.
13. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the composite polymeric fibre comprises a pre-ceram1c polymer that is without metals and includes silicon or boron.
14. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the composite polymeric fibre comprises a pre-ceramic polymer that forms a glass upon pyrolysis.
15. A method according to claim 14 wherein the glass 1s an aluminosilicate. 


 16. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the composite polymeric fibre comprises a pre-ceramic alkoxide polymer.
17. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the composite polymeric fibre comprises a pre-ceramic polyorganosiloxane.
18. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the composite polymeric fibre comprises a pre-ceramic co-ordination polymer containing a co-ordination compound or metal complex in Its repeating unit.
19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the said co-ordination polymer comprises a substituted metallocene.
20. A method according to claim 19 wherein the metallocene is a transition metal : cyclopentadiene pi-complex.
21. A method according to claim 18 wherein the said co-ordination polymer comprises a polymer of an organo-metallic co-ordination compound copolymerised with other species.
22. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the composite polymeric fibre comprises a pre-ceramic organo-metallic vinyl polymer.
23. A method according to claim 22 wherein the vinyl polymer is a fibre-forming copolymer of two or more organo-metallic vinyl polymers.
24. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the composite polymeric fibre includes a refractory, ceramic, pre-ceramic and/or metal additive to modify the stoichiometry of the ceramic product upon pyrolysis.
25. A method according to claim 24 wherein the ceramic additive is incorporated by mixing with unpyrolysed polymer, or by surface coating it, in an amount up to 80% of the total weight. 


 26. A method according to claim 24 or 25 wherein the additive is selected from silicon nitride, silicon carbide and silicon hexaboride, and carbides, nitrides, carbonitrides, carboborides, diborides, silicides and carbosilicides of transition metals.
27. A method according to claim 24 or 25 wherein the additive is the ceramic oxide of a metal in the pre-ceramic polymer.
28. A method according to claim 24 or 25 wherein the additive comprises up to 80% by weight of a finely divided metal, silicon or boron.
29. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the spun fibre is drawn whereby to orient the polymer chains and develop tensile strength before pyrolysis.
30. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the fibre is spun at an initial diameter of 50 to 200 microns.
31. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the spun fibre is given a preliminary surface oxidation before pyrolysis.
32. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the spun fibre is given a preliminary heat treatment at about 300 to 700°C in a controlled atmosphere prior to storage before pyrolysis.
33. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein a spun core-sheath fibre is chopped before pyrolysis by pressing together the opposite sides of the sheath in such a way that the continuous core polymer is interrupted, and the sheath polymer is closed and sealed over the parted core polymer ends, before the sheath polymer 1s cut to separate the individual short fibres.
34. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the pyrolysis temperature is from 600°C to 2000°C. 


 35. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the pyrolysis step is performed by passing the spun pre-ceramic fibre to a controlled atmosphere furnace, and pyrolysing the fibre in the furnace.
36. A method according to claim 35 wherein the controlled atmosphere 1s provided by a gas which passes counter-current to the fibre or fibres through the furnace, and the furnace is divided into a fibre pre-heater zone, a pyrolysis zone, and a fibre after-cooler zone.
37. A method according to claim 35 or 36 wherein the controlled atmosphere 1s a reducing atmosphere provided by carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, hydrogen, ammonia, or mixtures thereof.
38. A method according to claim 35 or 36 wherein the controlled atmosphere Is a carburising atmosphere provided by methane, ethane, acetylene, or mixtures thereof.
39. A method according to claim 35 or 36 wherein the controlled atmosphere is a nitriding atmosphere provided by ammonia, nitrogen or hydrogen/ammonia mixtures.
40. A method according to any one of claims 35 to 39 wherein the spun fibre is pyrolysed in a continuous helical groove on a rotating refractory cylinder.
41. A method according to any one of claims 35 to 39 wherein chopped short fibres are pyrolysed during tumbling through a rotary cylindrical furnace.
42. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the pyrolysed ceramic fibre is modified after pyrolysis by subjecting the fibre at elevated temperatures to a reactive material in vapour form.
43. A method according to claim 42 wherein the reactive material is selected from organometallic compounds, and metal and non-metal halides, in a carrier gas. 


44. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the ceramic fibre is subjected to chemical vapour deposition as a separate step or integrated with the pyrolysis.
45. A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the product of pyrolysis is thereafter annealed at a lower temperature. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
