<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656215</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Glycosaminoglycan-synthetic polymer conjugates.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4748	A61K4748	A61L2700	A61L2700	A61L2720	A61L2734	A61L3104	A61L3104	C08B3700	C08B3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	C08B	C08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K47	A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61L27	A61L31	A61L31	C08B37	C08B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pharmaceutically acceptable, nonimmunogenic compositions are formed by covalently 

binding glycosaminoglycans or derivatives thereof, to hydrophilic synthetic polymers via 
specific types of chemical bonds to provide biocompatible conjugates. Useful 

glycosaminoglycans include hyaluronic acid, the chondroitin sulfates, keratan sulfate, chitin 
and heparin, each of which is chemically derivatized to react with a hydrophilic synthetic 

polymer. The conjugate comprising a glycosaminoglycan covalently bound to a hydrophilic 
synthetic polymer may be further bound to collagen to form a three component conjugate 

having different properties. The hydrophilic synthetic polymer may be polyethylene glycol and 
derivatives thereof having an average molecular weight over a range of from about 100 to about 

100,000. The compositions may include other components such as fluid, pharmaceutically 
acceptable carriers to form injectable formulations, and/or biologically active proteins such as 

growth factors or cytokines. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COLLAGEN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COLLAGEN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHEE WOONZA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERG, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHEE, WOONZA M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to biocompatible conjugates and, specifically, to pharmaceutically 
acceptable, nonimmunogenic compositions comprising one or more glycosaminoglycans, or 
derivatives thereof, conjugated to a synthetic hydrophilic polymer such as polyethylene glycol 
(PEG), which is optionally conjugated to collagen as well. Daniels et al, U.S. Pat. No. 3,949,073, disclosed the preparation of soluble collagen by 
dissolving tissue in aqueous acid, followed by enzymatic digestion. The resulting atelopeptide 
collagen is soluble, and substantially less immunogenic than unmodified collagen. It may be 
injected into suitable locations of a subject with a fibril-formation promoter (described as a polymerization 
promoter in the patent) to form fibrous collagen implants in situ, for augmenting hard or 
soft tissue. This material is now commercially available from Collagen Corporation (Palo Alto, 
CA) under the trademark Zyderm® Collagen Implant. Luck et al, U.S. Pat No. 4,488,911, disclosed a method for preparing collagen in solution 
(CIS), wherein native collagen is extracted from animal tissue in dilute aqueous acid, followed by 
digestion with an enzyme such as pepsin, trypsin, or Pronase®, a trademark of American Hoechst 
Corporation, Somerville, NJ. The enzymatic-digestion removes the telopeptide portions of the 
collagen molecules, providing "atelopeptide" collagen in solution. The atelopeptide CIS so produced 
is substantially nonimmunogenic, and is also substantially non-crosslinked 
due to loss of the  
 
primary crosslinking regions. The CIS may then be precipitated by dialysis in a moderate shear 
environment to produce collagen fibers which resemble native collagen fibers. The precipitated, 
reconstituted fibers may additionally be crosslinked using a chemical agent (for example, aldehydes 
such as formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde), heat, or radiation. The resulting products are suitable 
for use in medical implants due to their biocompatability and reduced immunogenicity. Wallace et al, U.S. Pat. No. 4,424,208, disclosed an improved collagen formulation 
suitable for use in soft tissue augmentation. Wallace's formulation comprises reconstituted fibrillar 
atelopeptide collagen (for example, Zyderm® Collagen) in combination with particulate, 
crosslinked atelopeptide collagen dispersed in an aqueous medium. The addition of particulate 
crosslinked collagen improves the implant's persistence, or ability to resist shrinkage following 
implantation. Smestad et al, U.S. Pat. No. 4,582,640,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A biocompatible, biologically inert conjugate comprising a glycosaminoglycan or 
derivative thereof chemically conjugated to a hydrophilic synthetic polymer. 
The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the glycosaminoglycan is derivatized by 
deacetylation or desulfation. 
The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the synthetic hydrophilic polymer is a 
multifunctionally activated polyethylene glycol. 
The conjugate of claim 3, wherein the synthetic hydrophilic polymer is a 
difunctionally activated polyethylene glycol. 
The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the conjugate has the following general 
structural formula:GAG-HN-OC-(CH₂)n-Z-PEG-Z-(CH₂)n-CO-NH-GAG

 
wherein n is an integer ranging from 0 to about 4, GAG is a glycosaminoglycan or 

a derivative thereof, and Z is O or O-C=O. 
The conjugate of claim 1, wherein the conjugate has the following structural 
formula:GAG-HN-OC-(CH₂)n-Z-PEG-Z-(CH₂)n-CO-NH-GAG'

 
wherein n is an integer ranging from 0 to about 4, GAG is a species of 

glycosaminoglycan or a derivative thereof, GAG' is a different species of 
glycosaminoglycan or a derivative thereof, and Z is O or O-C=O. 
A biocompatible, biologically inert conjugate comprising a difunctionally activated 
hydrophilic synthetic polymer chemically conjugated to both collagen, or a 

derivative thereof, and to a glycosaminoglycan, or a derivative thereof. 
The conjugative of claim 7, wherein the conjugate has the following structural 
formula:GAG-HN-OC-(CH₂)n-Z-PEG-Z-(CH₂)n-CO-NH-COL

 
wherein n is an integer ranging from 0 to about 4 and GAG is a glycosaminoglycan 

or a derivative thereof; COL is collagen, or a derivative thereof; and Z is O or 
O-C=O. 
The conjugate of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the glycosaminoglycan 
is selected from the group consisting of hyaluronic acid, the chondroitin sulfates, 

particularly chondroitin sulfate A and chondroitin sulfate C, heparin, keratan 
sulfate, dermatan sulfate, keratosulfate, chitin, chitosan 1, chitosan 2, and 

derivatives thereof, and mixtures of these glycosaminoglycans or their derivatives. 
The conjugate of claim 7, wherein the collagen is selected from the group 
consisting of fibrillar collagen and nonfibrillar collagen. 
The conjugate of claim 7, in a form selected from the group consisting of a 
membrane, bead, sponge, tube, sheet and formed implant. 
The conjugate of any one of the preceding claims, in the form of a hydrogel 
composition having a moisture content in the range of from about 5 % to about 

95 %. 
The conjugate of claim 11, in the form of a formed implant for use in the repair, 
augmentation, or replacement of a body part selected from the group consisting of 

a heart valve, patella, ear, nose, and cheekbone. 
The conjugate of claim 7, in the form of a bodily fluid replacement for joint fluid 
or vitreous humor. 
A composition comprising: 
a conjugate comprising a glycosaminoglycan or a derivative thereof chemically 

conjugated to a hydrophilic synthetic polymer; and 
a therapeutically effective amount of a cytokine or growth factor. 
The composition of claim 15, wherein said cytokine or growth factor is selected 
from the group consisting of epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor-α, 

transforming growth factor-β, transforming growth factor-β1, transforming 
growth factor-β2, platelet-derived growth factor-AA, platelet derived growth 

factor-AB, platelet-derived growth factor-BB, acidic fibroblast growth factor, basic 
fibroblast growth factor, connective tissue activating peptide, β-thromoglobulin, 

insulin-like growth factors, tumor necrosis factor, interleukins, colony stimulating 
factors, erythropoietin, nerve growth factor, interferons, bone morphogenic protein 

and osteogenic factors. 
The composition of claim 16, wherein the growth factor is selected from the group 
consisting of transforming growth factor-β, transforming growth factor-β1, 

transforming growth factor-β2, and erythropoietin. 
An injectable, pharmaceutically acceptable composition comprising: 
a conjugate comprised of a glycosaminoglycan or a derivative thereof chemically 

conjugated to a hydrophilic synthetic polymer; and 
a sufficient amount of a fluid pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to render the 

composition injectable. 
A composition suitable for coating an implant, comprising a conjugate including a 
difunctionally activated hydrophilic synthetic polymer chemically conjugated to at 

least one species of glycosaminoglycan or derivative thereof. 
A composition suitable for augmentation of hard tissue in a mammal, comprising a 
biocompatible, biologically inert conjugate comprising a difunctionally activated 

hydrophilic synthetic polymer chemically conjugated to at least one species of 
glycosaminoglycan or derivative thereof, wherein the conjugate has been 

dehydrated to remove substantially all unbound water. 
The composition of claim 19 or 20, wherein the conjugate comprises a 
difunctionally activated hydrophilic synthetic polymer chemically conjugated to 

one species of glycosaminoglycan or a derivative thereof, and to collagen or a 
derivative thereof. 
The composition of claim 19 or 20, wherein the conjugate comprises a 
difunctionally activated hydrophylic synthetic polymer chemically conjugated to 

two different species of glycosaminoglycans or derivatives thereof. 
The composition of claim 19 or 20, wherein the conjugate comprises a 
difunctionally activated hydrophylic synthetic polymer chemically conjugated to 

one species of glycosaminoglycan or a derivative thereof. 
The composition of any one of claims 15 to 23, wherein the glycosaminoglycan is 
selected from the group consisting of hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate A, 

chondroitin sulfate C, dermatan sulfate, heparin, keratan sulfate, keratosulfate, 
chitin, chitosan 1, chitosan 2, and derivatives thereof, and mixtures of these 

glycosaminoglycans or their derivatives. 
The composition of claim 21, wherein the collagen is selected from the group 
consisting of fibrillar collagen and nonfibrillar collagen. 
The composition of claim 20, wherein the glycosaminoglycans are covalently bound 
to the hydrophilic synthetic polymer via a linkage selected from the group 

consisting of an ester linkage, an ether linkage, a urethane linkage, and a - 
(CH₂)n-NH-linkage. 
A method for preparing a glycosaminoglycan-polymer conjugate suitable for 
administration to mammals, comprising the steps of 

   providing an aqueous solution of at least one species of glycosaminoglycan or 
a derivative thereof, 

   adding a solution of an activated synthetic polymer to form a reaction mixture, 
wherein said activated polymer comprises a hydrophilic synthetic polymer having a 

reactive group capable of forming a covalent bond with an available amino group 
on the chemically derivatized glycosaminoglycan; and 

   causing said polymer to form covalent bonds with the glycosaminoglycan. 
The method of claim 27, wherein the solution comprises one species of 
glycosaminoglycan or derivative thereof. 
The method of claim 27, wherein the injectable composition comprises two species 
of glycosaminoglycans or derivatives thereof. 
The method of any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein the conjugate further comprises 
collagen or a derivative thereof. 
The method of claim 30, wherein the collagen is selected from the group consisting 
of fibrillar collagen or nonfibrillar collagen. 
The method of any one of claims 27 to 31, wherein the glycosaminoglycan is 
selected from the group consisting of hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate A, 

chondroitin sulfate C, dermatan sulfate, heparin, keratan sulfate, keratosulfate, 
chitin, chitosan 1, chitosan 2, and derivatives thereof, and mixtures of these 

glycosaminoglycans or their derivatives. 
Use of at least one species of glycosaminoglycan derivative and a difunctionally 
activated hydrophilic synthetic polymer for preparing an injectable composition for 

augmenting soft tissue in a mammal. 
Use of a biocompatible, biologically inert conjugate comprising a difunctionally 
activated hydrophilic synthetic polymer chemically conjugated to at least one 

species of glycosaminoglycan or derivative thereof, wherein the conjugate has been 
dehydrated to remove substantially all unbound water, for preparing a composition 

to be applied by injection or surgical implantation for augmenting hard tissue in a 
mammal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
