<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658084</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR FORMING ICE CONFECTIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G904	A23G904	A23G916	A23G926	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	A23G	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	A23G9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and method for molding ice confections on plastic sticks which includes the step and equipment for cooling the sticks to critically low temperatures prior to insertion by inserting apparatus (2) into the cold confection mold (9) to prevent shattering, splintering and warping of the plastic stick which results from the temperature change of the plastic stick in a matter of fractions of a second. In addition, methods and apparatus for forming plastic confection sticks having unique shapes, texture and surface configuration are disclosed and sticks having such characteristics are shown. The apparatus includes a brine tank (1) to freeze the confection inserted into the mold (9) by metering apparatus (3) through supply ducts (4). The mold (9) is moved through the brine tank (1) by driven holding apparatus (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATKINS DONALD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WATKINS, DONALD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATKINS DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATKINS, DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR FORMING ICE CONFECTIONSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention: ' The invention relates to forming ice cream and ice confections on plastic sticks and specifically relates to the one problem that has made it virtually impossible to use plastic sticks in forming ice confections. It is currently the industry standard to form such ice confections on sticks made of wood. Producers in the ice confection art have tried for years to employ plastic sticks but have had no success. As the speed of production of ice confections has increased, the time allowed for the stick to be inserted into the confection mold and to permit the temperature of the stick to equalize with the confection mold has decreased. The stresses resulting from the rapid thermal changes within the stick cause the stick to shatter, become unacceptably brittle, splinter, warp and become unusable.Ice confection producers have been forced to use wooden sticks because sticks made of wood do not develop the thermal stresses when plunged from room temperature to the low temperature of the confection molds. Because wooden sticks are fibrous, the stresses within the wooden stick are relieved because the fibers can slip and adjust relative to one another to relieve the stresses of the thermal shock. As a matter of fact, wooden sticks become even more integral as the temperature is rapidly reduced because the fibers of wood not only slip relative to each other when under thermal stress, but they actually interlock and form a more rigid structure at low temperatures. Any consumer of ice confections which employ wooden sticks will note that the stick will become softer and the fibers will unlock as the confection is eaten and the stick is held in the mouth. 

 Further problems relating to the use of plastic sticks in the ice confection art relate to the smoothness of plastic surfaces, the lack of porosity of the plastic and the fact that the ice confection tends to slip from the plastic stick either during the confection forming process or during consumption of the confection. This problem is even more pronounced in the formation and consumption of ice cream having plastic sticks because of the low coefficient of friction of the plastic stick, which is oil based, and the ice cream, which is high in fat.Description of the Prior Art:The present invention can be used with any conventional ice confection, ice cream or any other confection forming machine or method and simply includes the step in the process or apparatus in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of forming frozen confections which includes filling a plurality of molds with confection material, cooling the molds to freeze said confection material, gripping and inserting plastic sticks into said confection material at a point in the cooling step wherein the confection material is only partially frozen, gripping and withdrawing the sticks and the confections from the molds at a point in the cooling step wherein the confections are frozen and bonded to the plastic sticks, said method including the step of cooling the plastic sticks prior to insertion into the partially frozen confection material and controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks are cooled to reduce the thermal shock resulting from inserting said plastic sticks into said confection material and the subsequent freezing thereof.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks are cooled includes reducing the temperature to below 30° F.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks are cooled includes reducing the temperature to the point where the thermal shock is reduced to a rate of less than 0.6° F. per second.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of cooling the plastic sticks includes cooling the plastic sticks in a refrigerated storage means which is separated from the point in the process of gripping and inserting the plastic sticks into said confection material.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks are cooled includes reducing the temperature to below 30° F.
6. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks 


are cooled includes reducing the temperature to the point where the thermal shock is reduced to a rate of less than 0.6° F. per second.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of cooling the plastic sticks includes cooling the plastic sticks in a refrigerated means which is mounted on or near the ice confection machine proximate the point in the process of gripping and inserting the plastic sticks into the confection material. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks are cooled includes reducing the temperature to below 30° F.
9. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks are cooled includes reducing the temperature to the point where the thermal shock is reduced to a rate of less than 0.6° F. per second.
10. An apparatus for forming frozen confections including means for filling a plurality of molds with confection material, means for advancing said molds through a medium for cooling the molds to freeze said confection material, means for gripping and inserting plastic sticks into said confection material when it is only partially frozen, means for gripping and withdrawing the sticks and the confection frozen onto said sticks, said apparatus further including means for cooling the plastic sticks prior to insertion into the partially frozen confection material and said apparatus including means for controlling the temperature to which said plastic sticks are cooled to reduce the thermal shock resulting from inserting said plastic sticks into the confection material and the subsequent freezing thereof.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the means for cooling the plastic sticks includes refrigerated storage means which is separated from the ice confection forming machine. 


 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the means for cooling the plastic sticks includes a refrigerated container for holding the sticks and the container is mounted on the ice confection machine proximate the means for gripping and inserting the sticks in the partially frozen confection material.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the refrigerated container comprises a walled, box shaped container having internal dimensions to accommodate boxes of sticks, a coil of tubing adjacent said container, means for circulating a refrigerating material through said coil, and means for controlling the circulation of the refrigerant in the coil and thereby controlling the temperature of the sticks. 14. A plastic stick for use in ice confections having a surface texture which is specular and rough and includes pits and cavities.
15. A plastic stick for use in ice confections according to claim 14, wherein the surface texture includes small protrusions or fibrils extending outwardly from the planar surface of said stick.
16. A plastic stick for use in ice confections according to claim 14, having depressions in opposite planar sides thereof and having a specular or roughened surface texture on said depressions.
17. A plastic stick for use in ice confections according to claim 14, comprised of a first thermoplastic material covered with a second thermoplastic material and said second material being more porous than said first material.
18. A plastic stick for use in ice confections according to claim 14, wherein the surface includes grooves extending angularly relative to the longitudinal axis of said stick on the planar surfaces of said stick. 19. A plastic stick for use in ice confections according to claim 14, wherein the opposite planar surfaces of said stick comprise two different thermoplastic materials laminated together. 


 20. A plastic stick for use in ice confections as in claim 1 , wherein the surface of said plastic stick is molded to provide a surface texture which resembles the surface texture of wooden sticks. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
