<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632484</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for connecting wires between a semiconductor chip and corresponding pins
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21607	H01L2160	B23K2000	B23K2000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	B23K	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	B23K20	B23K20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for connecting wire leads (7) between a 
semiconductor circuit chip (1) and corresponding terminal 

connectors comprises the steps of, 

providing a bonding tool (9) having a working end (12) 
formed with at least a pair of grooves (13,14) of different 

length, 
holding one end of the wire (7) on the pin in one (13) of 
said grooves and bonding it, and 
holding the other end of said wire on the chip (1) in the 
other (14) of said grooves and bonding it. The grooves 

(13,14) have different lengths to allow of different wire 
spans across the bonded connection areas, on the chip and 

the pins. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for connecting wire 
leads between a semiconductor circuit chip and 
corresponding terminal connectors. The invention also concerns an improved tool head for 
implementing the method on stitch bonding equipment. As is well known, in the specific field of this invention, 
there exists a need to establish electrical connections 
between a semiconductor circuit chip and corresponding pins 
or rheophores on a supporting metal frame. The connecting pins are formed integrally with the frame 
and allow the semiconductor circuit to be mounted on and 
connected to a pre-printed electronic board. Provided on the semiconductor chip periphery are 
predetermined contact pads whereto the terminations of the 
circuit structure are led; thin wires are connected between 
said pads and the inward ends of the corresponding pins. This process step of providing the electrical connections 
between the semiconductor chip and the corresponding pins 
is obviously critical. In fact, at this stage of the semiconductor circuit 
manufacturing process, a chip has already passed an 
electric test checking the proper operation of its 
circuitry. Therefore, should the wire connections be performed in  
 
anything less than a workmanlike fashion, there would be a 
material risk that the circuit is unable to operate 
correctly and that it is rejected. An even more undesirable and dangerous event is that the 
device is initially found in proper working condition, but 
it fails to operate after some time of use. The importance of having the wire connection bonding 
carried out in a truly reliable manner is, therefore, self-evident. To this aim, some special equipment such as the stitch 
bonding machines have been developed. Each machine includes 
at its tooling end a bonding tool head driven automatically 
toward and away from a silicon chip mounted on a central 
portion of the frame. An apparatus for bonding wires to metal surfaces is 
described in the US Patent No. 3,218,702 of November 23, 
1965. Such an apparatus relates to the pressure bonding or 
welding of metal elements, particularly to the bonding of 
fine wires formed of precious metals to small metallic 
areas on transistors, and comprises a bonding tool having a 
groove for receiving the wire during the bonding operation. 
The tool of this known bonding apparatus makes bonds of 
identical area. Furthermore, the GB Patent No. 2 177 639 of July 8, 1985 
describes an improved ultrasonic wire bonder which can 
perform the simultaneous bonding of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of connecting wire leads (7) between a 
semiconductor circuit chip (1) and corresponding terminal 

connectors (5) comprising the following steps: 

providing a bonding head (9) comprising a bonding tip (11) having a working end (12) 
including at least a pair of different length grooves 
(13,14), defining at least first and second bonding surfaces with different areas 

and receiving said wire leads (7); 

holding one end of the wire (7) on the connector (5) in 
one (13) of said grooves and bonding it; 
holding the other end of said wire on the chip (1) in the 
other (14) of said grooves and bonding it; and 
indenting said other end of the wire (7) by means of a 
projection (15) closing one end of the other (14) of 

said grooves to facilitate breaking of the wire after bonding. 
A method according to Claim 1, characterized in that 
said one groove (13) is longer than said other groove (14). 
A bonding head for equipment operated in a stitch bonding 
mode to bond wire leads (7) elongated between a 

semiconductor circuit chip (1) and corresponding terminal 
connectors (5), comprising a 

bonding tip (11) having a working end (12) including at least a 
first and a second bonding surfaces having different areas, 

characterized in that said bonding tip (11) comprises at 
least a first (13) and a second wire-holding groove (14) 

having different lengths and defining said first and second 
bonding surfaces, the second wire-holding groove (14) being 

closed at one end by a projection (15) to indent said wire and 
facilitate breaking of the wire after bonding. 
A tool head according to Claim 3, characterized in that  
 

said grooves (13,14) lie mutually parallel along said working end 
(12). 
A tool head according to Claim 3, characterized in that 
the first (13) of said grooves is approximately one third 

to one half longer than the second (14) of said grooves. 
A tool head according to Claim 3, characterized in that 
said grooves (13,14) are substantially V-shaped 

with a flare angle of about sixty degrees in a cross-section perpendicular to the length of the grooves. 
A tool head according to Claim 3, characterized in that 
the first groove (13) has a substantially straight-line 

profile shape (16) with curved opposite ends 
(17), said opposite ends (17) having a curvature pointed 

toward the center of the bonding tip (11) in a cross-section parallel to the length of the groove. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
