<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616384</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Antenna device and apparatus including such an antenna device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K118	H01Q127	H05K118	H01Q127	G02F113	G02F113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H01Q	H05K	H01Q	G02F	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K1	H01Q1	H05K1	H01Q1	G02F1	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wrist-mounted-type portable device comprises a main body (1a) having a front 
surface facing opposite to a user's wrist, a rear surface facing the user's wrist when mounted 

around the user's wrist, a circuit board (5) formed thereon and an antenna (13; 39) fixed in 
the main body and the wrist bands. The antenna may be arranged in the main body so that it 

is positioned at the same side of the front surface with respect to the circuit board. 
Since the circuit board is not disposed on the front surface of the antenna radiation 
waves generated by the antenna is not disturbed. Therefore, the wrist-mounted-type 

antenna device according to the present invention has high directivity and sensitivity. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMA NORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMA, NORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to antenna devices and apparatus including such
antenna devices.Conventionally, small-size portable apparatus, such as TV, a radio receiver, radio
transmitter or mobile telephone, including an antenna device, includes an antenna of the
loop type. The electrical operational theory and structure of this type antenna is, for
example, is disclosed in the article entitled "A loop antenna for a small-sized portable
radio set" published in "National Technical Report Vol. 19, No. 2, Apr. 1973". It is
also known to provide a loop antenna at its central portion in the longitudinal direction
with a reactance element. In addition, where the radio frequency is relatively high, an
inverted F antenna is sometimes used for a radio set.A small size portable radio set capable of being mounted on a user's wrist, like a
watch, has been developed. Typical examples of such wrist-mounted portable radio sets
are disclosed in US-A-4,713,808, wherein a loop antenna is provided, and in Japanese
Patent Laid-Open No. HEI 4-211522, wherein a short dipole antenna is provided.However, where a loop antenna or dipole antenna is used in a wrist-mounted
portable radio set, the sensitive directivity of the antenna is degraded, and the
satisfactory properties of the antenna cannot be expected, because the antenna is set in a
state contacting the user's wrist when the radio set is mounted.EP-A-0565725 proposes to use a slot antenna for wrist-mounted portable radio
sets and the like, comprising a wrist-mountable electronic device, with a main body
having a circuit board therein, and a slot antenna connected to the circuit board, the slot
antenna including antenna elements located in wrist straps attached to the main body and
electrically conductive members connecting the antenna elements and located within the
main body. Further improvements are desirable in controlling and improving antenna
gain and directivity. The present invention provides a wrist-mountable electronic device, comprising
a main body having a front surface facing away from a wearer in use, and a rear
surface facing towards the wearer in use, and a circuit board therein, and an antenna
device comprising a slot antenna connected to the circuit board, the slot antenna
including antenna elements located in wrist straps attached to the main body, and
electrically conductive members connecting the antenna elements and located within the
main body, characterised in that the electrically conductive members are spaced from
and on the side of the circuit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wrist-mountable electronic device, comprising a main body (1a) having a
front surface facing away from a wearer in use, and a rear surface facing towards the

wearer in use, and a circuit board (5) therein, and an antenna device comprising a slot
antenna (13; 39) connected to the circuit board, the slot antenna including antenna

elements (11A, 11B) located in wrist straps (2a, 2b) attached to the main body (1a), and
electrically conductive members (4a, 4b) connecting the antenna elements (11A, 11B)

and located within the main body (1a), in which the electrically conductive
members (4a, 4b) are spaced from and on the side of the circuit board (5) closer to the

front surface of the main body (1a); characterised in that the main body (1a) contains a reflective
plate (6) to enhance the antenna gain effect, the reflective plate (6) being located in the

main body (1a) on the side of the circuit board (5) closer to the rear surface of the main
body (1a).
A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the main body (1a) has a
display unit (3) adjacent to and visible from the front surface of the main body (1a), and

the antenna element connecting members (4a, 4b) are disposed along outside edges of
the display unit (3).
A device as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the antenna element
connecting members (4a, 4b) are located closer to the front surface of the main body

(1a) than the display unit (3) and are of substantially transparent thin film.
A device as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the antenna (39) is located
around an outer frame (38a) of the main body (1a) with its slot (39c) extending

peripherally of the outer frame (36a).
A device as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the antenna
element connecting members (4a, 4b) are separated by the antenna slot, and one

member is connected to a reference voltage side of a high frequency wave amplifier on 
the circuit board (5), and the other member is connected to a signal voltage side of the

amplifier, the other member being further from noise sources in circuits on the circuit
board (5) than the one member.
A device as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the one member is
connected to the reference voltage side through a reactance element.
A device as claimed in claim 5 or 6, characterised in that the circuits on the
circuit board (5) include a local oscillator on the rear surface side of the circuit board

(5).
A device as claimed in claim 7, characterised in that the local oscillator is
surrounded by a plurality of parts at the same voltage level.
A device as claimed in claim 5, 6, 7 or 8, characterised in that the one member
is electrically connected to a power source for driving the circuits on the circuit board

(5).
A device as claimed in claim 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9, characterised in that the one
member is electrically connected to a shield member by which the noise sources are

covered.
A device as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised by a reactance
element (62) connecting the portions of the antenna across the slot at the central

longitudinal point thereof.
A device as claimed in claim 11, characterised in that the antenna elements
(11A, 11B) have different lengths, the connecting point to the antenna being within the

main body (1a) and offset from the reactance element connecting position. 
A device as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that the shorter element (11A)
is located in the wrist strap (2a) having a pin-type buckle (67,68) for connecting the

wrist straps together, and the longer element (11B) is located in the wrist strap (2b)
with at least one hole (69) for receiving the pin (68) of the buckle (67).
A device as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that the hole or holes (69) is or
are located at the cross-wise centre of the slot.
A device as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the slot has a widened
portion (71) at the or each pin-receiving hole location.
A device as claimed in claim 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15, characterised in that the
reactance element is a capacitor (62).
A device as claimed in claim 16, characterised in that the portions (11b, 11d) of
the antenna element (11B) have inward projections (71b, 72b)
 overlapping across the
slot to form the capacitor (62).
A device as claimed in any of claims 11 to 17, characterised in that the antenna
elements (11A, 11B) are perforated by holes (77), the number of which increases

towards the connecting point of the reactance element (62).
A device as claimed in any of claims 11 to 18, characterised in that the thickness
of the wrist straps (2a, 2b) increases towards the connecting point of the reactance

element (62) on the side of the antenna elements towards the wearer in use.
A device as claimed in claim 19, characterised in that the increased thickness is
provided by raised portions (91a) or projections (92a) of the strap. 
A device as claimed in claim 10, or any claim appendant to claim 10,
characterised in that the slot-divided portions (11a, 11c; 11b, 11d) of each antenna

element (11A, 11B) are connected at their ends remote from the main body (1a) by
means for reducing the resistivity to high frequency current.
A device as claimed in claim 21, characterised in that the portion (11p)
connecting the slot-divided portions (11a, 11c; 11b, 11d) is coated with a layer (89) of

high electrical conductivity metal.
A device as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the slot
antenna has a high dielectric material layer coated on one or other side thereof.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
