<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620905</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LAMP SHADE HAVING LIGHT DEFLECTORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F21V100	F21V100	F21V114	F21V1100	F21V1100	F21V1118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F21V	F21V	F21V	F21V	F21V	F21V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F21V1	F21V1	F21V1	F21V11	F21V11	F21V11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lamp shade (10) including a plurality of light deflectors (16). The light deflectors (16) are mounted so as to be independently moveable with respect to the frame (42, 44) and one another. Most preferably the lamp shade (10) is defined by two or more spaced arrays of light deflectors (16). In one embodiment the light deflectors (16) are mounted end to end to allow vertical variation in light intensity and direction. In another embodiment the light deflectors (16) are both horizontally and vertically disposed to increase versatility in both appearance and lighting effect.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLZHACKER ALBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLZHACKER ALBERT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZHACKER ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZHACKER ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LAMPSHADEHAVINGLIGHTDEFLECTORSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates to illumination devices and, in particular, to an adjustable lamp shade or shield formed from at least two laterally spaced arrays of light deflectors. 2. Description of the Related ArtMost lighting fixtures whether floor lamps, wall mounted light fixtures or ceiling fixtures, have diffusers or shades to prevent the light emitted from the light source from shining in the user's eyes, to direct the light towards the object or area to be lit, and/or for aesthetic purposes. For example, floor and table lights typically have a shade which is semi-cylindrical or is conical to direct the light from the light source downwardly onto the surface of the desk or table, or towards a reading chair or the like.A significant deficiency of conventional lamp shades and deflectors is that the intensity of light directed in a particular direction can not be altered, unless the entire shade is moved. For example, the light emitted from desk lamps is directed almost entirely downwardly. Accordingly, additional lamps and/or ceiling lights are 

typically required to fully illuminate a room. Likewise many wall mounted lamps have shades which direct substantially all of the light against or along the wall whereby the surrounding area will be only dimly lit. Thus, ceiling lights or a great number of fixtures must be provided for total lighting.Further, because light emanating from a light source is typically confined to a particular area by lamp shades, a high light intensity is required if there is to be any peripheral lighting. Thus, a relatively high wattage light source is required for shaded lamps to achieve a given level of peripheral lighting. Efforts have been made heretofore to produce devices for controlling the amount and direction of light emitted from a light source. For example, 3-way light bulbs and dimmer switches are commonly used to offer the user a variety of light intensities. Such devices, however, do not allow directional intensity variation.Others have developed shades which allow the user to vary the amount of light allowed to pass therethrough. Typically, such shades are in the form of a plurality of louvers disposed either in a single plane in front of a spot or track light or in a cylinder surrounding the light source. 

 For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,800,473 to Tremblay shows a lamp having a series of louvers that are lengthwise pivotable between an opened and a closed position. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1- A lamp shade comprising: a) a first lamp shade portion including: a first support frame; a plurality of light deflecting elements, each of said light deflecting elements having a first end and a second end spaced from said first end; and first mounting means for mounting at least one of said light deflecting elements to said first support frame so that said at least one of the light deflecting elements can be moved, independently, relative to said first support frame and other light deflecting elements; b) a second lamp shade portion including: a second support frame; a plurality of light deflecting members, each of said light deflecting members having a first end and a second end spaced from said second end; and second mounting means for mounting at least one of said light deflecting members to said second support frame so that said at least one of the light deflecting members can be moved, independently, relative to said second support frame and other light deflecting members; and c) said first lamp shade portion and said second lamp shade portion are interconnected but laterally spaced so that the light deflecting elements define a first array of light deflectors 


and the light deflecting members define a second
'
 array of light deflectors, and a lateral gap is defined between said first and second arrays of light deflectors.
2. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1, wherein each of said first and second support frames comprises a ring member, at least some of said light deflecting elements and at least some of said light deflecting members being mounted to a respective said ring member.
3. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1, wherein at least some of said light deflecting elements depend downwardly from said first support frame and at least some of said light deflecting members depend downwardly from said second support frame.
4. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of at least some of said light deflecting elements are light reflective.
5. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of at least some of said light deflecting elements are translucent. 


 6. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1,
'
 wherein each of said first and second support frames comprises an upper support element and a lower support element, at least some of said light deflecting elements being mounted at said first end thereof to said upper support element and at said second end thereof to said lower support element.
7. A lamp shade as recited in claim 6, wherein said upper support element is an upper ring member and said lower support element is a lower ring member.
8. A lamp shade as recited in claim 7, wherein said lower ring member has a diameter greater than said upper ring member.
9. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1, wherein at least some of said light deflecting elements are mounted so as to be aligned end to end, to define light deflecting assemblies.
10. A lamp shade as recited in claim 9, wherein at least some of said light deflecting assemblies are disposed at an angle of greater than zero with respect to a horizontal plane. 


 11. A lamp shade as recited in claim 9,
'
 wherein each of said light deflecting elements in said light deflecting assemblies are independently rotatable.
12. A lamp shade as recited in claim 9, wherein at least some of said light deflecting elements are mounted horizontally.
13. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second support frames comprises a plurality of vertically spaced apart, interconnected support tiers, a plurality of light deflecting elements being rotatably mounted to each said support tier.
14. A lamp shade as recited in claim l, wherein at least some of said light deflecting elements are pivotable relative to said support frame.
15. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1 wherein said first mounting means allows the light deflecting elements to be moved with at least two degrees of freedom.
16. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1 wherein said first mounting means allows the light 


deflecting elements to be moved with three degrees of freedom.
17. A lamp shade as recited in claim 16, wherein said first mounting means comprises a ball and socket connection.
18. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1 wherein said first mounting means comprises a pin and socket therefor.
19. A lamp shade as in claim 1, wherein at least some of said light deflecting elements are mounted horizontally and at least some of said light deflecting elements are mounted vertically.
20. A lamp shade as in claim 1, wherein said light deflecting elements each have substantially the same width, said light deflecting members each have substantially the same width, and the light deflecting elements each have substantially the same width as said light deflecting members.
21. A lamp shade as recited in claim 1 , wherein said first support frame comprises a plurality of vertically spaced apart, interconnected support tiers, a plurality of light 


deflecting elements being mounted to each said support tier. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
