<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644144</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Box sealing machine with tape applicator sensor system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B5100	B65B5106	B65H3500	B65H3500	G01P1300	G01P1300	G01V900	G01V900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65H	B65H	G01P	G01P	G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B51	B65B51	B65H35	B65H35	G01P13	G01P13	G01V9	G01V9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sensor system (12) for use with a taping head of a 
box sealing machine includes a tape dispensing sensor (48) 

and an box presence sensor. The tape dispensing sensor 
is positioned along the tape guide path of the taping 

head. The box presence 
sensor (50) is positioned on the taping head for detecting 

movement of an element of the taping head that reacts 
to the box being moved along the taping head and for 

providing a positive response if a box is present. A 
control system (12) is provided and is connected to the tape 

dispensing sensor and the object presence sensor for 
determining a potential error condition if only one of 

the tape dispensing sensor and the object presence 
sensor provides a positive response. A relatively 

simple magnetic sensor system is provided for 
monitoring the rotation of a single roller (110) which uses 

flexible permanent magnetic material (124) having 

substantially linear magnetic poles (126). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER DANIEL D C O MINNESOTA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALE JOHNSON A C O MINNESOTA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROPP KARL M C O MINNESOTA MIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER, DANIEL D., C/O MINNESOTA MINING AND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DALE, JOHNSON A., C/O MINNESOTA MINING AND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KROPP, KARL M., C/O MINNESOTA MINING AND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a sensor system 
which monitors the tape application of box sealing 
machines to boxes. More specifically, the present 
invention detects and identifies a variety of error 
conditions which may occur on box sealing machines. 
Moreover, output from the sensor system can be used to 
control the box sealing operation. The use of pressure-sensitive adhesive tape for 
the purpose of sealing boxes, and more specifically box 
flaps, is generally known. Moreover, it is known that 
cartons or boxes which are continuously moved along a 
conveyor can be automatically sealed by such adhesive 
tape. Box sealing machines have been developed for 
applying lengths of tape to boxes as they are moved 
through such machines in a continuous manner. 
Moreover, such box sealing machines are known to be 
provided as part of a packaging line where the boxes 
are fed continuously to the box sealing machine from 
which the sealed boxes are further conveyed for further 
processing, such as palletizing, shipping, etc. Boxes 
are typically sealed on one or more sides, and such box 
sealing machines typically provide taping heads of a 
number corresponding to the number of box sides to be 
sealed. The taping heads may be arranged to seal the 
top and bottom box flaps, opposite side flaps, or any 
combination thereof. Such box sealing machines, like any other machine 
within the packaging line, when down, have the 
potential to slow down or even stop the entire 
packaging line. Thus, it is beneficial to minimize 
such down time. Unless the adhesive tape is supplied 
to the box sealing machine by a continuous tape supply,  
 
that is of indefinite length, the box sealing machine 
will need to be stopped on a regular basis to change 
tape rolls. Minimizing other down time is highly 
desirable. It is not only important to minimize machine down 
time, it is also important to minimize improper taping 
and sealing of boxes. Further in this regard, it is 
desirable to detect any improper taping or other errors 
within the packaging line so that it can be corrected 
as soon as possible. Of course, the longer that it 
takes to detect such error, the more boxes that are 
improperly sealed and which must be redone. The monitoring of equipment in general as well as 
the monitoring of product exiting any production line 
for quality purposes is well known. Such monitoring 
includes the use of a wide variety of inspection 
systems which rely on many different kinds of sensors 
depending on the object being
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sensor system for use with a taping head for 
applying adhesive tape to an object as the object 

is moved relative to the taping head that includes 
a tape guide path defined through the taping head 

and an element which moves in reaction to the 
object, said sensor system comprising: 


a tape dispensing sensor to be positioned along 
the tape guide path of a taping head for determining 

whether tape is being dispensed from the 
taping head and for providing a positive 

response if tape is being dispensed, 
an object presence sensor to be positioned on 
the taping head for detecting movement of an 

object reacting element of the taping head and 
determining whether an object is present for 

taping and for providing a positive response if 
an object is present, 
a control system operatively connected to said 
tape dispensing sensor and said object presence 

sensor for determining a potential error condition 
if only one of said tape dispensing sensor 

and said object presence sensor provides a 
positive response. 
The sensor system according to claim 1 characterized 
by a means for comparing a time period of 

each potential error to a lock out time period and 
for providing a signal of an acutal error condition 

if the period of the potential error is greater 
than the lock out time period. 
The sensor system according to claim 2 characterized 
by an error responsive system which is activated 

 
upon the signal of an actual error from 

said comparison means. 
The sensor system according to claim 3 characterized 
in that said error responsive system comprises 

a warning device that is activated by the 
signal of an acutal error. 
The sensor system according to claim 3 or 4 characterized 
in that said error responsive system 

further comprises an interface for switching off 
the power to a load to prevent further objects from 

being moved relative to the taping head. 
The sensor system according to any one of claims 1 
to 5 characterized by a low tape supply sensor for 

providing a signal to said control system when the 
tape supply is below a predetermined quantity. 
The sensor system according to any one of claims 1 
to 6 characterized in that said control system 

further includes a low tape responsive system for 
activating a warning device upon a signal from said 

low tape supply sensor. 
The sensor system according to claim 7 characterized 
in that said low tape responsive system 

activates the same warning device as the warning 
device that is activated by the signal of an actual 

error, but in a different functional mode, and said 
control system further includes a decision means 

for giving priority to the activation of the 
warning device in response to an actual error. 
A taping head and sensor system for use in a box 
taping machine for applying adhesive tape to a box 

 
as the box is moved relative to the taping head, 

said taping head including a tape guide path means 
defined through the taping head and a box reacting 

element that is moved in response to the box being 
moved relative to said taping head, said sensor 

system comprising: 

a tape dispensing sensor positioned along the 
tape guide path of said taping head for determining 

whether tape is being dispensed from the 
taping head and for providing a positive 

response if tape is being dispensed, 
an object presence sensor positioned on said 
taping head for detecting movement of the box 

reacting element and determining whether a box 
is present for taping and for providing a positive 

response if a box is present, and 
a control system operatively connected to said 
tape dispensing sensor and said object presence 

sensor for determining a potential error condition 
if only one of said tape dispensing sensor 

and said box presence sensor provides a 
positive response. 
The taping head and sensor system according to 
claim 9 characterized by a tension roller mounted 

on a frame of said taping head which is rotated by 
the tape when it is dispensed from said taping head 

and wherein said tape dispensing sensor detects 
rotation of said tension roller. 
The taping head and sensor system according to 
claim 9 or 10 characterized in that said control 

system further includes a means for comparing a 
time period of each potential error to a lock out 

time period and for providing a signal of an acutal 
 

error condition if the period of the potential 
error is greater than the lock out time period. 
The taping head and sensor system according to 
claim 11 characterized by an error responsive 

system which is activated upon the signal of an 
actual error from said comparison means. 
The taping head and sensor system according to 
claim 12 characterized in that said error responsive 

system comprises a warning device that is 
activated by the signal of an actual error. 
The taping head and sensor system according to 
claim 12 or 13 characterized in that said error 

responsive system further comprises an interface 
for switching off the power to a load to prevent 

further objects from being moved relative to said 
taping head. 
The taping head and sensor system according to any 
one of claims 9 to 14 characterized by a low tape 

supply sensor for providing a signal to said control 
system when the tape supply is below a predetermined 

quantity. 
The taping head and sensor system according to any 
one of claims 9 to 15 characterized in that said 

control system further includes a low tape responsive 
system for activating a warning device upon a 

signal from said low tape supply sensor. 
The taping head and sensor system according to 
claim 16 characterized in that said low tape 

responsive system activates the same warning device 
as the warning device that is activated by the signal 

 
of an actual error, but in a different 

functional mode, and said control system further 
includes a decision means for giving priority to 

the activation of the warning device in response to 
an actual error. 
A sensor system for detecting rotation of a 
rotatable element comprising a layer of flexible 

magnetic material conformable to have an arcuate 
surface with a plurality of substantially linear 

magnetic poles arranged at regular spaced intervals 
on said arcuate surface of the flexible magnetic 

material, said flexible magnetic material to be 
positioned over at least an arc portion of a surface 

of the rotatable element with said substantially 
linear magnetic poles extending in the same 

general direction as the axis of rotation of the 
rotatable element, and a magnetic sensor that 

provides a signal in response to detected magnetic 
fields of each magnetic pole when the rotatable 

element is rotated. 
The sensor system according to claim 18 characterized 
in that said magnetic sensor comprises an 

analog Hall effect sensor. 
The sensor system according to claim 19 characterized 
by a DC blocker circuit for removing any DC 

signal from the output signal of the analog Hall 
effect sensor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
