<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629164</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THRUST VECTORING FREE WING AIRCRAFT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64C3904	B64C338	B64C2902	B64C2900	B64C3900	B64C2900	B64C3902	B64C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	B64C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64C39	B64C3	B64C29	B64C29	B64C39	B64C29	B64C39	B64C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The VTOL aircraft (10) includes a free wing (16) having wings on opposite sides of the fuselage (12) connected to one another for joint free rotation and for differential pitch settings under pilot, computer or remote control. On vertical launch, pitch, yaw and roll control is effected by the elevators (26), rudder (24) and the differential pitch settings of the wings, respectively. At launch, the elevator (26) pitches the fuselage (12) nose downwardly to alter the thrust vector and provide horizontal speed to the aircraft whereby the free wing (16) rotates relative to the fuselage (12) into a generally horizontal orientation to provide lift during horizontal flight. Transition from horizontal to vertical flight is achieved by the reverse process and the aircraft may be gently recovered in or on a resilient surface such as a net (66).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHMITTLE HUGH J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHMITTLE, HUGH J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMITTLE HUGH J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMITTLE, HUGH J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to a vertical
take-off and landing (VTOL) aircraft having a wing free for
rotation about a spanwise axis to maintain a constant angle
of attack with the relative wind. More particularly, the
present invention relates to a VTOL aircraft having a free
wing comprised of left and right wings projecting on
opposite sides of the fuselage and mounted to the fuselage
for free joint pivotal movement about a spanwise axis
forward of the aerodynamic centers and controlled pivotal
movement relative to one another for roll control during
vertical and horizontal flight, as well as transitions
therebetween.A free wing or "freewing" is a wing attached to an
aircraft fuselage in a manner such that the wing is freely
pivotable about its spanwise axis forward of its
aerodynamic center. This arrangement enables the wing to
have an angle of attack which is determined solely by
aerodynamic forces acting on the wing. Rotation of the
wing, without pilot intervention, induced by changes in the
direction of wind over the wing surfaces causes the angle
of incidence between the wing and the aircraft fuselage to
vary so that the wing presents a constant angle of attack
to the relative wind which, in horizontal flight, enables
the aircraft to be essentially stall-free.Among other advantages realized when employing a free
wing in horizontal flight are increased resistance to
stalls, increased C.G. (center of gravity) range,
alleviation of gust loads, e.g., on the order of a 4:1
reduction, extension of the payload capability due to the 
ability to reduce the structural weight of the aircraft and
the ability to utilize a smaller engine with a lower fuel
requirement, thus increasing flight range of the aircraft.One the major advantages of a free wing aircraft is
that the aircraft is intrinsically stable, i.e., much more
stable than conventional fixed wing aircraft in response to
atmospheric turbulence. In accordance with the present
invention, a free wing aircraft is provided, preferably for
use as an unmanned aerial vehicle where a highly stable
platform is necessary and desirable, although the vehicle
could be manned. For example, unmanned aerial vehicles
(UAV) are often used by the military as platforms for
maintaining sensors trained on a target. The sensor, for
example, may comprise a video camera or a laser spot
designator. UAV aircraft are highly desirable for their
target standoff ability and, importantly, are usable
without risk to pilots of fixed wing aircraft performing
the same
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Aerodynamic apparatus comprising : a free wing
aircraft having a fuselage, with left (16a) and right (16b)

free wings on opposite sides of the fuselage (12) connected one
to the other and to said fuselage (12) for joint free pivotal

movement relative to said fuselage (12) about a spanwise axis
forwardly of the aerodynamic center of the wings for flight in

a first free wing mode with the fuselage (12) generally
horizontal relative to a predetermined direction of flight and

in a second free wing mode with the fuselage inclined relative
to the predetermined direction of flight and a common

propulsion system (20) for propelling the aircraft in said
first and second flight modes, and comprising :


means (50,52) for differentially altering the
angle of attack of said wings relative to one another while

maintaining free pivotal movement of said wings relative to
said fuselage to enable roll control ;
means (24,26) for controlling the fuselage in
pitch independently of said wings (16a,16b) to vector said

fuselage (12) relative to said predetermined direction of
flight thereby to establish a predetermined angle of incidence

of said fuselage relative to said direction of flight
characterized in
 that said common propulsion means includes a
tractor propulsion system (20) carried by said fuselage (12)

and located to afford air flow over said wings (16a,16b) so
that said differential angle of attack altering means enables

roll control during transition between said first and second
flight modes.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that said tractor propulsion system includes a propeller

(20) rotatable in one direction to develop thrust.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that said tractor propulsion system includes counter-rotating 

propellers (28,30) to minimize rotation of said
aircraft about a roll axis.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that said wings (16a,16b) are set at different angles of

incidence relative to one another to minimize rotation of said
aircraft about a roll axis.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that said fuselage (12) carries an elevator (26) and a

rudder (24) for pitch and yaw control, respectively.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that the roll control is provided solely by rotating at

least one wing relative to the other wing wherein said wings
serve as ailerons.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that the roll control is provided by elevators (57a-57c)

located in said freely pivotable wings.
Apparatus according to claim 7, characterized
in that an elevator (57a-57c) is located in each free wing

within the air flow over said wings caused by said tractor
propulsion system.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that said common propulsion system (20) has a thrust

sufficient such that said aircraft has a ratio of thrust, from
said common propulsion system, to aircraft weight in excess of

one.
Apparatus according to claim 1, characterized
in that said common propulsion system (20) has the capacity to

propel the aircraft in generally horizontal flight in said
first free wing flight mode and in vertical flight, including

vertical take-off, in said second free wing flight mode.
A thrust vectoring free wing aircraft having a
fuselage (12) and a propulsion system (20) carried by said

fuselage for developing thrust and propelling the aircraft,
comprising : 


a wing (16a, 16b) having an aerodynamic center and
connected to said fuselage for free pivotal movement about a

spanwise axis forwardly of said aerodynamic center far flight
in a predetermined direction and in a free wing mode of

aircraft operation ; and
aerodynamic surfaces carried by said fuselage for
vectoring the thrust of said propulsion system away from the

predetermined direction of flight sufficiently to achieve near
vertical flight orientation, thereby establishing an angle

between the fuselage (12) and the direction of flight, and
characterized in that said propulsion system
includes at least one unducted propeller (20) for propelling

said aircraft both in said predetermined direction and in a
near vertical orientation, said unducted propeller providing

airflow over at least inboard portions of the free wing.
An aircraft according to claim 11,
characterized in that the fuselage (12) has a longitudinal axis

extending substantially parallel to the predetermined direction
of flight to establish a first free wing mode of flight, the

axis of said fuselage (12) being inclined to said predetermined
direction when the thrust is vectored away from the

predetermined direction of flight to establish a second free
wing mode of flight with said fuselage (12) near vertical

flight orientation, thereby reducing wing loading and aircraft
speed.
An aircraft according to claim 12,
characterized in that said common propulsion system (20) has a

thrust sufficient such that said aircraft has a ratio of
thrust, from said common propulsion system (20), to aircraft

weight in excess of one.
An aircraft according to claim 13,
characterized in that said common propulsion system (20) has

the capacity to propel the aircraft in generally horizontal 
flight in said first free wing flight mode and in free wing

vertical flight in and said second free wing flight mode.
An aircraft according to claim 11,
characterized in that the axis of said free wing (16a,16b)

passes through said fuselage (12).
An aircraft according to claim 11,
characterized in that propulsion system (20) includes a

propeller for developing propwash, and control surfaces
(57a-57c) carried by said aircraft and located within the

propwash for controlling the aircraft in roll, pitch and yaw.
An aircraft according to claim 11,
characterized in that said aerodynamic surfaces carried by said

fuselage include all-moving stabilizer surfaces.
An aircraft according to claim 11,
characterized in that each free wing (16a,16b) is a rigid wing

structure from the trailing edge to the leading edge.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
