<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617635</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXERCISE APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B2102	A63B2104	A63B21055	A63B2200	A63B2216	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B21	A63B21	A63B21	A63B22	A63B22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An exercise apparatus comprising a platform (1) mounted on a support structure (2) with a curved base, so that the platform (1) can rock between two end positions. The platform (1) being adapted so that a person can exercise thereon. The curved base ensures that the person maintains a preferred posture whilst exercising. Normally, the exercises will utilise an elastic (9) tied to the platform (1).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAPESCO GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAPESCO GROUP PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASER JACQUELINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASER, JACQUELINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EXERCISE APPARATUSThis invention relates to exercise apparatus for use in a gymnasium or domestic situation and is particularly but not exclusively intended to enable a user to exercise in accordance with a predetermined programme.It is known to carry out exercises in a predetermined sequence, and in one technique, known as circuit training, one exercise consists of stepping on and off a step or low bench a certain number of times, which essentially exercises the leg muscles only. It is also known to use springs in the form of coil springs or elongate lengths of rubber, colloquially known as elastics, to strengthen the muscles of the upper body, particularly the arms. One name for such devices is chest expanders.The present invention seeks to provide an improved apparatus which not only combines the benefits of the above two exercises but also requires the user to maintain a correct posture while exercising which greatly increases the benefits to be derived.According to the present invention there is provided an exercise apparatus including a platform adapted to enable a person to stand thereon, characterised in that the apparatus includes a platform base having a curved ground interface surface to enable the platform to rock between two end positions.In a preferred embodiment, at least one resilient exercise element is adapted to be used by said person in cooperation with the platform. A plurality of orifices can be provided in the platform and said exercise element comprises an elongate member or "elastic" that is adapted to pass through two of said orifices such that a central portion of the elongate member is adjacent the underside of the platform, so that the ends of the elastic which are held by the said person are at a desired spacing. Preferably, the orifices extend at spaced intervals along the two longitudinal edges of the platform, but they can be in other positions. 

 Each orifice may have mounted therein a rotatable member to enable the elastic to run smoothly with little friction through the orifice. The rotatable member may be mounted so that its axis of rotation is pivotable in the plane of the platform.A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in whic :-Figure l shows a side view of an exercise apparatus, Figure 2 shows a plan view of Figure 1, Figure 3 shows an end view of Figure 1 , Figure 4 shows an underneath view of an alternative elastic arrangement, Figure 5 shows an enlarged plan view of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Exercise apparatus including a platform (1) adapted to enable a person to stand thereon, characterised in that the apparatus includes a platform base (2) having a curved ground interface surface to enable the platform to rock between two end positions.
2. Exercise apparatus according to claim 1, characterised by at least one resilient exercise element (9) adapted to be used by said person in cooperation with the platform (1).
3. Exercise apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that a plurality of orifices (5) are provided in the platform (1) and said exercise element (9) comprises an elongate member (9) that is adapted to pass through two of said orifices (5) such that a central portion of the elongate member (9) is adjacent the underside of the platform (1).
4. Exercise apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the exercise element (9) comprises an elongate member (9) secured to the platform (1).
5. Exercise apparatus according to claim 4, characterised in that a plurality of anchor means (14) are located on the underside of the platform (1), wherein the elongate member (9) passes through an orifice (5) in the platform (1) and is secured at one of said anchor means (14) such that a predetermined length of the elongate member (9) extends on the upperside of the platform (1).
6. Exercise apparatus according to claim 5, characterised in that a plurality of capstans (12) are located on the underside of the platform (1), and the elongate member (9) extends about at least one of said capstans (12) to the anchor means (14). 


 7. Exercise apparatus according to claim 2, characterised in that the exercise element (9) comprises an elongate member (9) which is looped about a runner (18) mounted in an orifice (5) of the platform (1).
8. Exercise apparatus according to claim 3 to 7, characterised in that a shaft (17) is mounted in each orifice (5), the shaft (17) being rotatable about an axis substantially transverse to the plane of the platform (1), wherein the associated elongate member (9) turns about the shaft (17).
9. Exercise apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, characterised in that damping means are provided on the underside of the ends (6) of the platform (1).
10. Exercise apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the apparatus is provided with chocks to prevent said rocking of the platform (1) , the chocks being releasably mounted to the underside of the platform (1) . 

AME3SIDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 21 May 1993 (21.05.93); original claim 1 amended; other claims unchanged (2 pages)]
1. Exercise apparatus including a platform (1) extending longitudinally and transversely and being adapted to enable a person to stand thereon, the apparatus including a platform base (2) having a ground interface surface on one side of the platform (1), characterised in that the ground interface surface is curved in a single plane to enable the platform (1) to rock between two end positions, the rocking motion comprising only movement of the platform about a longitudinally oscillating transverse axis.
2. Exercise apparatus according to claim 1, characterised by at least one resilient exercise element (9) adapted to be used by said person in cooperation with the platform (1).
"
3. Exercise apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that a plurality of orifices (5) are provided in the platform (1) and said exercise element (9) comprises an elongate member (9) that is adapted to pass through two of said orifices (5) such that a central portion of the elongate member (9) is adjacent the underside of the platform (1).
4. Exercise apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the exercise element (9) comprises an elongate member (9) secured to the platform (1).
5. Exercise apparatus according to claim 4, characterised in that a plurality of anchor means (14) are located on the underside of the platform (1), wherein the elongate member (9) passes through an orifice (5) in the platform (1) and is secured at one of said anchor means (14) such that a predetermined length of the elongate member (9) extends on the upperside of the platform (1). 


 6. Exercise apparatus according to claim 5, characterised in that a plurality of capstans (12) are located on the underside of the platform (1), and the elongate member (9) extends about at least one of said capstans (12) to the anchor means (14) .
7. Exercise apparatus according to claim 2, characterised in that the exercise element (9) comprises an elongate member (9) which is looped about a runner (18) mounted in an orifice (5) of the platform (1).
8. Exercise apparatus according to claim 3 to 7, characterised in that a shaft (17) is mounted in each orifice (5), the shaft (17) being rotatable about an axis substantially transverse to the plane of the platform (1) , wherein the associated elongate member (9) turns about the shaft (17).
9. Exercise apparatus according to any one of the previous claims, characterised in that damping means are provided on the underside of the ends (6) of the platform (1).
10. Exercise apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the apparatus is provided with chocks to prevent said rocking of the platform (1) , the chocks being releasably mounted to the underside of the platform (1)- 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
