<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0903985</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED FOOTWEAR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B714	A43B714	A43B722	A43B732	A43B732	A43B1302	A43B1312	A43B1318	A43B1318	A43B1338	A43B1341	A43B1700	A43B1710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B7	A43B7	A43B7	A43B7	A43B7	A43B13	A43B13	A43B13	A43B13	A43B13	A43B13	A43B17	A43B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Footwear comprising a sole (10) formed from a first resilient material (40) for attenuating the shock of impact and a second material (42) for providing firm support for the wearer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JEFFREY S BROOKS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JEFFREY S. BROOKS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROOKS JEFFREY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROOKS, JEFFREY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED FOOTWEARBackground of the InventionThis invention relates generally to footwear representing an improvement on the design described in my U.S. Patent No. 4,272,899 which is hereby incorporated by reference.The footwear of the present invention comprises a sole of composite construction, that is, the sole is formed of a first material positioned for attenuating the impact forces applied to the foot and other skeletal structures during standing, walking and running, and a second harder material for firmly supporting the foot.When walking and running, the lateral (outside) portion of the heel is generally the first part of the foot to strike the ground, with the foot then pivoting on the heel to bring the lateral part of the forefoot into contact with the ground. At this point, the foot is supinated (inclined upwardly from the lateral to the medial side of the foot) , but rapidly pronates to a neutral position in which the bottom of the heel and the metatarsal heads of the forefoot are in contact with the ground, and in which the central vertical plane of the heel is ideally generally perpendicular to the ground. During this sequence of movements, various muscles and tendons contract to stabilize the foot in preparation for movement from the neutral position back to a supinated position prior to the propulsive phase of the gait cycle. (The propulsive phase is sometimes referred to as toe-off or push-off.) The arch (i.e., the bone structural alignment) of the foot should be firmly supported when the foot is in the neutral position in order to prevent the ligaments, muscles and tendons from becoming over stressed. During toe-off, it is preferable that the second and third metatarsals be firmly supported, and that the first metatarsal head plantarflex (move 

downward) relative the second and third metatarsal heads . The toes also should be firmly supported during push-off so that they remain straight and thus stronger due to the pillar effect of the phalanges. In view of the foregoing, it will be observed that certain parts of the foot are subjected to higher stress during standing, running and walking, and that other parts of the foot require different degrees of support for maximum biomechanical efficiency. Moreover, high impact forces to the foot are transferred to other skeletal structures such as the shins and knees. The present invention takes these considerations into account and provides the appropriate amount of shock attenuation and support to different regions of the foot, thus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS
1. Footwear comprising a sole formed in part from a first resilient material for attenuating the shock of impact to the wearer during running or walking, and in part from a second material harder than said first material for providing firm support for the foot, said sole having:
(a) a heel section for supporting a heel of the foot, said heel section having medial and lateral regions; (b) an arch section forward of the heel section for supporting an arch of the foot, said arch section having medial and lateral regions; and
(c) a forefoot section forward of the arch section for supporting a ball of the foot including first, second, third, fourth and fifth metatarsal heads and associated metatarsal necks, proximal phalanges and metatarsal phalangeal joints, said forefoot section having a first region for supporting the first, second, third, fourth and fifth metatarsal heads, associated phalanges and metatarsal phalangeal joints, and the metatarsal necks associated with the fourth and fifth metatarsal heads, and a second region for supporting the metatarsal necks associated with the second and third metatarsal heads; said sole being formed so that said first resilient material is located in the lateral region of the heel section, the lateral region of the arch section, and the first region of the forefoot section, and so that said second harder material is located in the medial region of the arch section and the second region of the forefoot section. 


 2. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first resilient material is formed as a body having a shape resembling a numeral seven.
3. Footwear as set forth in claim 2 wherein said first resilient material has a Type C durometer hardness of less than about 70, and wherein said second harder material has a Type C durometer hardness of 50-85.
4. Footwear as set forth in claim 3 wherein said first resilient material has a Type C durometer hardness in the range of about 40-60, and wherein said second harder material has a Type C durometer hardness of about 75.
5. Footwear as set forth in claim 2 wherein said body of said first resilient material is a unitary body and wherein said second harder material is formed as a unitary body permanently bonded to said body of said first material.
6. Footwear as set forth in claim 5 wherein said unitary bodies of said first and second materials are bonded together in side-by-side relation to form at least a portion of said sole.
7. Footwear as set forth in claim 6 further comprising a sock liner overlying upper surfaces of said unitary bodies.
8. Footwear as set forth in claim 7 wherein said sole comprises a midsole, and wherein said footwear further comprises an outsole permanently attached to the midsole for engagement with the ground. 


 9. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first resilient material located in the first region of the forefoot section and said second harder material located in the second region of the forefoot section are adapted to permit the first metatarsal neck and head of the foot to plantarflex relative to the second and third metatarsal heads during toe-off.
10. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first material is located in the medial region of the heel section.
11. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein said second material is located in the medial region of the heel section.
12. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein the first and second regions of said forefoot section are defined by a boundary line which extends under the metatarsal necks associated with the first, second and third metatarsal heads. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 26 September 1997 (26.09.97); original claims 1-12 replaced by new claims 1-15 (4 pages)]
1. Footwear comprising a sole having:
(a) a heel section for supporting a heel of the foot, said heel section having medial and lateral regions; (b) an arch section forward of the heel section for supporting an arch of the foot, said arch section having medial and lateral regions; and
(c) a forefoot section forward of the arch section for supporting a ball of the foot including first, second, third, fourth and fifth metatarsal heads and associated metatarsal necks, proximal phalanges and metatarsal phalangeal joints, said forefoot section having a first region for supporting the first, second, third, fourth and fifth metatarsal heads, associated phalanges and metatarsal phalangeal joints, and the metatarsal necks associated with the fourth and fifth metatarsal heads, and a second region for supporting the metatarsal necks associated with the second and third metatarsal heads; said sole being constructed to have a first resilient area for attenuating the shock of impact to the wearer during running and walking, and a second area harder than said first area for providing firm support for the foot during running and walking, said first area comprising the lateral region of the heel section, the lateral region of the arch section, and the first region of the forefoot section, and said second area comprising the medial region of the arch section and the second region of the forefoot section.
2. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein the sole is formed m part from a first resilient material for attenuating the shock of impact to the wearer during running or walking, and in part from a second material 


harder than said first material for providing firm support for the foot, said sole being formed so that said first resilient material is located in the lateral region of the heel section, the lateral region of the arch section, and the first region of the forefoot section, and so that said second harder material is located in the medial region of the arch section and the second region of the forefoot section.
3. Footwear as set forth in claim 2 wherein said first resilient material is formed as a body having a shape resembling a numeral seven.
4. Footwear as set forth in claim 3 wherein said first resilient material has a Type C durometer hardness of less than about 70, and wherein said second harder material has a Type C durometer hardness of 50-85.
5. Footwear as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first resilient material has a Type C durometer hardness in the range of about 40-60, and wherein said second harder material has a Type C durometer hardness of about 75.
6. Footwear as set forth in claim 3 wherein said body of said first resilient material is a unitary body and wherein said second harder material is formed as a unitary body permanently bonded to said body of said first material.
7. Footwear as set forth in claim 6 wherein said unitary bodies of said first and second materials are bonded together in side-by-side relation to form at least a portion of said sole. 


 8. Footwear as set forth in claim 7 further comprising a sock liner overlying upper surfaces of said unitary bodies.
9. Footwear as set forth in claim 8 wherein said sole comprises a midsole, and wherein said footwear further comprises an outsole permanently attached to the midsole for engagement with the ground.
10. Footwear as set forth in claim 2 wherein said first resilient material located in the first region of the forefoot section and said second harder material located in the second region of the forefoot section are adapted to permit the first metatarsal neck and head of the foot to plantarflex relative to the second and third metatarsal heads during toe-off.
11. Footwear as set forth in claim 2 wherein said first material is located in the medial region of the heel section.
12. Footwear as set forth in claim 2 wherein said second material is located in the medial region of the heel section.
13. Footwear as set forth in claim 2 wherein the first and second regions of said forefoot section are defined by a boundary line which extends under the metatarsal necks associated with the first, second and third metatarsal heads.
14. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first area further comprises the medial region of the heel section. 


 15. Footwear as set forth in claim 1 wherein said second area further comprises the medial region of the heel section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
