<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615424</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SENSOR APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B50408	A61B50408	A61B511	A61B5113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stretchable harness-like apparatus (10) enables physiological parameters of a patient to be measured while he or she is ambulatory or stationary. The invention has a chest band (14), an optional shoulder band(s) (12), and an optional abdominal band (16) that can house respiration (26), pulse (26) and ECG sensors (24). The shoulder band(s) (12) are attached to the chest band (14) and all of the bands are worn on the body under a low tension. The apparatus (10) is typically used in conjunction with on-body monitoring electronics (102) and radio-linked to remote alerting modules or it can be hard-wired to on-body or remote monitoring and alerting equipment. The compliant nature of the device (10) allows for accurate monitoring without sacrificing patient mobility or comfort.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OISHI KOGYO COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OISHI KOGYO COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORNN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORNN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SE SOR APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to medical monitoring systems and, in particular, to a highly portable, non-invasive, simple to use, physiological sensor and sensor support apparatus. In addition to critical care monitoring, this apparatus can be utilized to comfortably and reliably monitor patients who are ambulatory or sleeping.2. Discussion of the Prior ArtIn the medical monitoring area, single and multi-channel electrocardiographic patient monitoring apparatus are currently available such as those manufactured by Hewlett-Packard Company of Palo Alto, Calif.; SpaceLabs of Redmond, Washington; and Marguette Electronics of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.These types of systems require the patient's skin to be first vigorously scrubbed in preparation for gluing probes on or applying probes to the patient's skin with a "wet" process, or the systems use bulky apparatus to hold the probes in place. If these probes lose electrical contact with the patient's skin, trained personnel are needed to re- prepare the skin and re-attach the probes."Holter monitors" involve the use of a tape recorder to record signals from a number of "wet" electrode sensors which are hard-wired to the tape recorder. Uncomfortable sensors, wires, and equipment can dig into the patient's skin and restrict mobility.Non-Invasive Monitoring Systems, Inc. (NIMS) of Miami Beach, Florida, manufactures a cardiorespiratory monitoring system called RESPITRACE 

 PLUS which uses wet electrodes to monitor ECG and a pair of bands to measure respiration through inductance plethysmography. Inductance plethysmography, as implemented in the NIMS system, involves the use two bands. In each band, a wire is laid down in a sinusoidal pattern and sewn into a stretch fabric. An oscillator, having fragile connectors that tend to break readily, supplies a signal which is applied to the wire. As the signal propagates through the wire, changes in the shape of the wire caused by patient respiration, or other movement, cause changes in the signal out of the wire. Recent modifications to the NIMS product include the addition of one channel to measure ECG using traditionally attached electrodes. The bands used to measure respiration are not very durable and laundering the bands to sterilize them is difficult. Further, the wire-carrying band and oscillator create a bumpy surface which can cause discomfort to a patient when lying on them.The monitoring apparatus manufactured by- American Health Products of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A sensor support apparatus, suitable for wearing by a patient, comprising: chest band means for forming a compliant loop having a selected circumference such that when said chest band means is worn around the patient's chest, substantially all of said chest band means elongates and produces a resilient tension, said chest band means having a front portion and a back portion; shoulder band means for forming a compliant band having a first end connected to the back portion of said chest band means and a second end connected to the front portion of said chest band means, said shoulder band means having a selected length such that when said shoulder band means is worn over the patient's shoulder and said chest band means is worn around the patient's chest substantially all of said shoulder band means elongates and produces a resilient tension; and a plurality of sensor means for sensing at least one physiological parameter of the patient, wherein said sensor means are positioned on said chest and shoulder band means, and further wherein resilient tensioning provided by said chest and shoulder band means operates to maintain the sensor means in the proper physical orientation with respect to the patient's body for proper operation.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said chest band means and said shoulder band means are each comprised of an outer skin formed of and filled with a visco-elastic polymer. 



 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said visco-elastic polymer is a polyurethane.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said chest and shoulder band means further contain recesses in said outer skin which extend into said visco-elastic polymer for housing said sensor means.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said chest band means comprises a length of an outer skin formed of and filled with a visco-elastic polymer and having first and second ends; and fastening means for removably connecting the first end of said outer skin to the second end.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said fastening means is adjustable.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said chest band means is formed of a continuous loop of an outer skin formed of and filled with a visco-elastic polymer.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein one of the first and second ends of said shoulder band means is removably connected to said chest band means by way of fastening means.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said fastening means is adjustable.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor means comprise means for sensing ECG signals. 


 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said ECG sensor means comprise: a conductive substrate; a thin layer of a conductive, galvanically inert substance enveloping said substrate; and means affixed to said thin layer for forming a conductive and inert interface between said ECG sensor means and the patient's skin.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said interface forming means include a hydrogel.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said interface forming means include a striated surface.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said interface forming means include a layer of carbonized rubber affixed to said thin layer.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said interface forming means include a striated surface.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said shoulder and chest band means each have a surface which comes in contact with the patient's skin, said surfaces further have recesses for housing said ECG sensor means, and said sensor means are adhesively attached to the bottom of said recesses and are generally flush with said surfaces. 


 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor means comprise means for sensing changes in the tension in said chest band means.
18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor means comprise means for sensing changes in the tension in said shoulder band means.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said means for sensing changes in tension comprise a strip of piezoelectric material positioned longitudinally in said chest band means.
20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor means comprise a strip of piezoelectric material positioned longitudinally in said chest band means for sensing small amounts of flexing caused by the patient's pulse.
21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor means comprise a strip of piezoelectric material positioned longitudinally in said shoulder band means for sensing small amounts of flexing caused by the patient's pulse.
22. The apparatus of claim 1, further including wiring means for providing electrical connection to said sensor means, said wiring means being formed in a manner which permits said wiring means to elongate when said chest band means and shoulder band means are placed under tension.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said wiring means are embedded within a visco-elastic polymer located in said chest and shoulder band means, and out of contact with the patient's skin. 


 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said wiring means are snaked in an accordion fashion through the visco-elastic polymer to permit stretching of said chest and shoulder band means.
25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said wiring means include a plurality of conductors which are woven together to form a tube that elongates when said chest and shoulder band means elongate.
26. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said wiring means are formed on the skin of said chest band means and said shoulder band means in a manner which permits said wiring means to elongate when said chest band means and shoulder band means are placed under tension.
27. A sensor band, suitable for wearing by a patient, comprising: torso band means for forming a compliant loop having a selected circumference such that when said torso band means is worn around the patient's torso substantially all of said torso band means elongates and is placed under a resilient tension; and sensor means for sensing at least one physiological parameter of the patient, wherein said sensor means are positioned on and cushioned by said torso band means, and further wherein the resilient tension of said torso band means operates to maintain the sensor means in the proper physical orientation with respect to the patient's body for proper operation. 


 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said sensor means include a strip of piezoelectric material positioned longitudinally in said torso band means.
29. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of said recesses have a bottom of predetermined width and side walls, and each of said sensor means comprise a conductive substrate fastened to said recess bottom and having a width less than said predetermined width of said recess bottom; interface means communicating with the conductive substrate for forming a conductive and galvanically inert interface between the conductive substrate and the patient's skin.
30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said interface means substantially fills the recess.
31. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said ECG sensors each comprise a layer of carbonized rubber.
32. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a patient-activated switch positioned in the chest band means.
33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the switch is activated by squeezing at least two opposite sides of the switch.
34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the switch is located in the center of the front portion of the chest band. 


 35. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the switch is located under an arm of the patient.
36. A method for maintaining a surface of a physiological sensor in contact with the skin of a patient, wherein the physiological sensor is positioned in and cushioned by a band which forms a compliant loop having a circumference around the torso of the patient, comprising the steps of: adjusting the circumference of the band to provide a selectable amount of tension in the band; providing a degree of texture on the surface of the physiological sensor; providing a level of tackiness on the surface of the physiological sensor; and selecting the degree of texture, the level of tackiness, and the amount of tension as a function of the condition of the patient's skin, so that the physiological sensor is comfortably urged against the skin of the patient and has a a friction generating surface which resists lateral movement along the patient's skin. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
