<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0580595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AQUEOUS PHASE REMOVAL OF NITROGEN FROM NITROGEN COMPOUNDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F102	C02F10316	C02F158	C02F158	C02F102	C02F10116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F103	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FASSBENDER ALEXANDER G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FASSBENDER, ALEXANDER, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of 
denitrification of compounds containing nitrogen including 
nitrates, ammonia, nitro-organic compounds, amides and 
amines. Such compounds are found in aqueous waste streams 
of sewage treatment and metal finishing plants and 
treatment by this method results in less harmful nitrogen 
gas, oxygen gas, hydroxides, alcohols, and hydrocarbons. 
As used herein, the term aqueous is used to mean of, 
relating to or resembling water, in a liquid or a 
supercritical phase. Compounds containing nitrogen including but not 
limited to nitrates, nitrites, nitro-organic compounds, 
ammonia, amines, and amides are often present together in 
various combinations in non-radioactive aqueous mixed waste 
streams such as sewage, sewage sludge, nitrate or nitrite 
wastes at metal finishing plants, and chemical and 
munitions plants. Nuclear materials production facilities 
also generate waste streams containing both nitrogen 
bearing compounds and radioactive materials. In many waste or process streams, the concentration of 
nitrogen compounds is below 1% which is insufficient for 
cost effective removal of nitrogen compounds by traditional 
means. Removal of nitrogen from nitrogen bearing streams 
of higher concentration may be precluded by the presence of 
hazardous chemicals and/or radioactivity. Moreover, 
nitrogen compounds at any concentration in a waste stream, 
present problems such as nitrous oxide (NOx) emission upon 
disposal by incineration, and algae bloom induced 
eutrophication upon disposal by drainage into bodies of 
water.  
 Of the many methods of denitrification, very few are 
effective for anything other than a single nitrogen 
containing compound. For example, The Nalco Water 
Handbook, 1979, pp. 6-11, states that "[t]he only chemical 
process that removes nitrate is anion exchange". However, 
the anion exchange process suffers from a number of 
disadvantages including 1) other nitrogen compounds are 
unaffected by the anion exchange, 2) additional chemicals 
are required to regenerate the anion exchange resin and 
3) additional chemicals are required to regenerate the 
anion exchange resin and a waste stream is produced upon 
resin regeneration. Further examples of single nitrogen compound removal 
include methods of ammonia removal. The Handbook (pp. 6-10) 
also states that "[a]mmonia can be removed by 
degasification, by cation exchange on the hydrogen cycle, 
and by adsorption on certain clays, such as 
clinoptilolite". The disadvantage of these
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of denitrification of an aqueous stream 
comprising at least one compound containing nitrogen in 

which stream the oxidised and reduced forms of nitrogen 
are not equivalent one to another; characterised by 

identifying the nitrogen containing compound(s) in the 
aqueous stream and determining their concentration(s), 


balancing the oxidized and reduced forms of nitrogen 
in the stream such that the molar fractions of the 

reduced and oxidized forms of nitrogen are substantially 
equivalent one to the another, 
and thereafter heating the stream in the absence of a 
denitrification catalyst to a temperature of 300-600°C at 

a pressure to maintain the stream in a liquid or 
supercritical phase, 
thereby to cause or allow the oxidised and reduced forms 
of nitrogen to undergo a redox reaction with each other 

thereby releasing nitrogen in the form of nitrogen gas. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that 
the balancing step comprises adding to the aqueous stream 

an amount of a non-nitrogen-containing oxidizing or 
reducing reactant substantially equivalent to half the 

mole fraction of the excess of respectively the reduced 
or oxidized form of the nitrogen containing compound(s) 

in the stream. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that 
the aqueous stream is divided into substantially equal 

first and second streams, an amount of a non-nitrogen-containing 
oxidizing or reducing reactant equivalent to 

the mole fraction of the excess of respectively the 
reduced or oxidized form of the nitrogen containing 

compound(s) in one of the streams is added to the one 
stream, and thereafter the first and second streams are 

re-combined the one with the other.  
 
A method as claimed in claims 2 or 3 wherein the non-nitrogen-containing 
oxidizing or reducing reactant is 

selected from hydrogen, hydrogen sulfide, hydrogen 
peroxide or potassium permanganate. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 2, 3 or 4 
characterised by reacting the non-nitrogen-containing 

oxidising or reducing reactant with respectively the 
excess reduced or oxidized form of nitrogen at a 

temperature of 90-150°C at a pressure sufficient to 
maintain the stream in an aqueous or supercritical phase. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-5 further 
comprising the step of mixing carbon dioxide with the 

aqueous product to form a carbonate. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
said at least one compound containing nitrogen is 

ammonium nitrate. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-6 wherein said 
at least one compound containing nitrogen is selected 

from ammonium ion, amide ion, amides, amines, amino 
acids, ammonia, nitro derivatives, azo compounds, 

glycine, pyridine, nitric acid, nitrites, and nitrates. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1 or 6-8 wherein 
balancing the oxidized and reduced forms of nitrogen 

comprises adding a compound selected from nitrates, 
nitrites, nitric acid, amides, amines, nitro derivatives, 

azo compounds, glycine, pyridine, ammonium ion, amide 
ion, amides, amines and amino acids. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim further 
comprising lowering the pH of the stream.  

 
A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein lowering 
pH comprises adding a compound selected from mineral 

acids, carbon dioxide and organic acids. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
the mole fraction of the compound(s) containing nitrogen 

in the aqueous stream is from about TKN detection limits 
up to a saturated solution. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein 
said at least one compound is glycine, and nitric acid 

is added to balance the oxidized and reducing forms of 
nitrogen. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 wherein 
said at least one compound is pyridine, and nitric acid 

is added in the balancing step. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 wherein 
said at least one compound is nitric acid, and glycine 

is added in the balancing step. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 wherein 
said at least one compound is nitric acid, and pyridine 

is added in the balancing step. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 wherein 
said at least one compound is selected from ammonium ion, 

amide ion, amides, amines, amino acids, ammonia, azo 
compounds, glycine and pyridine; a compound selected from 

nitrites, nitrates and nitric acid is added to the stream 
in the balancing step. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 wherein 
said at least one compound is selected from nitrites,  

 
nitrates and nitric acid; and a compound selected from 

ammonium ion, amide ion, amides, amines, amino acids, 
ammonia, azo compounds, glycine and pyridine is added 

in the balancing step. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 wherein 
said at least one compound is selected from R-NO and 

nitro derivatives; and a compound selected from ammonia, 
amide ion, amines, amides and ammonium ion is added in 

the balancing step. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 1-12 wherein 
said at least one compound is selected from ammonia, 

amide ion, amines, amides and ammonium ion; and a 
compound selected from R-NO and nitro derivatives; is 

added in the balancing step. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim 
characterised in that the mixture is maintained in the 

aqueous or supercritical phase for a period of from about 
one minute to about two hours. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
