<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0783874</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vascular prosthesis
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F284	A61M2510	A61F206	A61M2512	A61F200	A61F206	A61F200	A61F282	A61F282	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61M	A61F	A61M	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61M25	A61F2	A61M25	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a prosthesis comprising a first 
stent and a second stent and stent joining means for 

joining two endoluminal stents one to the other to define 
a continuous lumen through the two stents, said stent 

joining means comprising: 

a male engaging portion (42) on said first stent 
which can be compressed radially inwardly; and 
a female cooperating portion (15) on said second 
stent;

 
wherein the male engaging portion (42) can be 

entered into the female cooperating portion (18) in 
a radially compressed state and thereafter caused 

or allowed to expand in the female cooperating 
portion; the arrangement being such that in service 

the inter-engagement of the male engaging portion 
and the female cooperating portion so as to resist 

relative longitudinal movement of the two stents 
one from the other. 
 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a stent assembly comprising stent
joining means for joining two endoluminal stents one to the other to define a
continuous lumen through the two endoluminal stents.An endoluminal stent is used to provide a prosthetic intraluminal wall
e.g. in the case of a stenosis to provide an unobstructed conduit for blood in the area
of the stenosis. An endoluminal prosthesis comprising a stent which carries a
prosthetic graft layer of fabric is used e.g. to treat an aneurysm by removing the
pressure on a weakened part of an artery so as to reduce the risk of embolism, or of
the natural artery wall bursting. Typically, a stent or endoluminal prosthesis is
implanted in a blood vessel at the site of a stenosis or aneurysm by so-called
"minimally invasive techniques" in which the stent is compressed radially inwards and
is delivered by a catheter to the site where it is required through the patient's skin or
by a "cut down" technique in which the blood vessel concerned is exposed by minor
surgical means. When the stent is positioned at the correct location, the catheter is
withdrawn and the stent is caused or allowed to re-expand to a predetermined
diameter in the vessel.US-A-4733665 discloses an expandable intraluminal graft which is
constituted by a tubular member formed from a plurality of intersecting elongate
members which permit radial expansion and compression of the stent.US-A-5064435 discloses a body implantable stent consisting of two or
more generally tubular co-axially and slidably connected stent segments. The stent is
elastically deformed to a reduced radius when deployed, and when released after
positioning, self-expands radially into contact with a tissue wall segment defining a
blood vessel or other body cavity As each stent segment expands radially, it
contracts in the axial direction. Such contraction is accommodated by a reduction in
the length of medial regions where adjacent stent segments overlap; thus maintaining
the overall length of the stent. Throughout this specification, the term "proximal" shall mean "nearest
to the heart," and the term "distal" shall mean "furthest from the heart."According to the present invention there is provided a stent assembly
as claimed in claim 1 below.Typically, the said other stent may include a proximal male engaging
portion; and said one stent may include a distal female cooperating portion. The male
engaging portion may be flared radially outwardly towards its extremity, and the
female cooperating portion may be tapered
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A stent assembly comprising two endoluminal stents and stent joining means

for joining the two endoluminal stents one to the other to define a continuous
lumen through the two endoluminal stents, wherein said stent joining means

comprises a female cooperating portion (18;78;95) on one of said endoluminal
stents and a male engaging portion (42;88), which can be compressed radially

inwardly, on the other of said endoluminal stents, characterised in that:

said male engaging portion is configured to be deployed and engaged with said
female cooperating portion subsequent to deployment of said female cooperating

portion;
wherein the male engaging portion (42;88) can be entered into the female
cooperating portion (18;78;95) in a radially compressed state and thereafter caused

or allowed to expand in the female cooperating portion;
the arrangement being such that the male engaging portion and the female
cooperating portion are thereby interengaged to resist longitudinal movement to

prevent separation of the two endoluminal stents one from the other in service.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein said other stent includes a 
proximal male engaging portion.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said one stent
includes a distal female cooperating portion.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3 wherein said male
engaging portion is flared radially outwardly towards its extremity.
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the male engaging
portion comprises a frustoconical wall which flares outwardly towards its

longitudinal extremity.
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the female
engaging portion comprises a frustoconical wall which tapers radially inwardly

towards its longitudinal extremity.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3 wherein said male
engaging portion and said female cooperating portion are substantially untapered.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 1, claim 2, claim 3 or claim 7 wherein
said male engaging portion and said female cooperating portion are substantially

cylindrical. 
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said male
engaging portion is resiliently compressible in a radially inwards direction such

that in a radially compressed state the male engaging portion is capable of self re-expansion
to engage in the female cooperating portion.
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein each of said
stents is resiliently compressible.
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the proximal end
of said one stent is flared radially outwardly towards its extremity to engage the

endoluminal surface of the blood vessel thereby to resist longitudinal movement
of the one stent in service.
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein each of said 
stents comprises a sinuous wire formed into a tubular configuration.
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein each of said
stents is formed from a shape memory nitinol (nickel/titanium) wire.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 12 or 13 wherein said each of the wires
5 forming said stents defines a plurality of hoops (20) such that the plane of the

circumference of each hoop is disposed substantially perpendicular to the
longitudinal axis of the respective stent.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 14 wherein each hoop comprises a
substantially complete turn of the wire.
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 14 or 15 wherein the plane of the
circumference of the hoop at each longitudinal end of the stent is square to the

longitudinal axis of the respective stent.
A stent assembly as claimed in any of claims 14-16, further comprising
securing means (99) for securing an apex (22) of sinuous wire in one hoop to

a juxtaposed apex of a neighbouring hoop so that each hoop is supported by its
neighbours. 
A stent assembly as claimed in claim 17 wherein said securing means
comprises a loop element (99c) to tie the juxtaposed apices together.
A stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said other stent
and said one stent consist of a shape memory alloy.
An endoluminal prosthesis comprising a stent assembly as claimed in any
preceding claim, wherein at least one of said one and other stents comprises a

graft layer.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 20 wherein a graft layer is disposed either
externally or internally on at least one of said female cooperating portion and said

male engaging portion. 
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 20 or 21 wherein a graft layer is disposed
internally on said female cooperating portion.
A prosthesis as claimed in claim 20, 21 or 22 wherein a graft layer is
disposed externally on said male cooperating portion.
A prosthesis as claimed in any of claims 20 to 23 wherein a graft layer is
interposed between said female cooperating portion and said male engaging

portion to form a substantially blood tight seal.
A prosthesis or stent assembly as claimed in any preceding claim further
including a radiographic marker disposed on at least one of said stents to facilitate

alignment of said stents or insertion of said male cooperating portion in said
female cooperating portion.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
