<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622205</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Paper pre-conditioning heater for ink jet printer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J1100	B41J201	B41J2900	B41J1100	B41J201	B41J2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J11	B41J2	B41J29	B41J11	B41J2	B41J29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A paper preconditioning preheater (72) 
with a curved surface and a multi-purpose paper path 

component (70) accomplish the direction reversal. As the 
print medium is driven through the paper path, it contacts 

the preheater (72). The preheating dries and shrinks the 
paper to condition it for the printing operation. The 

preheater is a thin flexible film carrying heating elements 
(122,128), and is suspended in air, to provide extremely 

low thermal mass and eliminate the need for long warmup 
times. The preheater defines a first, hotter, preheating 

area (130) adjacent the printing area, and a second, 
cooler, preheating area (124) separated from the printing 

area by the first preheating area. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODER DAMON W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWIEBERT WILLIAM H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRODER, DAMON W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWIEBERT, WILLIAM H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of ink-jet 
printers. With the advent of computers came the need for devices 
which could produce the results of computer generated work 
product in a printed form. Early devices used for this 
purpose were simple modifications of the then current 
electric typewriter technology. But these devices could 
not produce graphics or multicolored images, nor could they 
print as rapidly as was desired. Numerous advances have been made in the field. The 
impact dot matrix printer is still widely used, but is not 
as fast or as durable as required in many applications, and 
cannot easily produce high definition color printouts. The 
development of the thermal ink-jet printer has solved many 
of these problems. Commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 
4,728,963, issued to S.O. Rasmussen et al., describes an 
example of this type of printer technology. Thermal ink-jet printers employ a plurality of resistor 
elements to expel droplets of ink through an associated 
plurality of nozzles. In particular, each resistor element, 
which is typically a pad of resistive material about 
50µm by 50µm in size, is located in a chamber filled with 
ink supplied from an ink reservoir comprising an ink-jet 
cartridge. A nozzle plate, comprising a plurality of 
nozzles, or openings, with each nozzle associated with a 
resistor element, defines a part of the chamber. Upon the 
energizing of a particular resistor element, a droplet of 
ink is expelled by droplet vaporization through the nozzle 
toward the print medium, whether paper, fabric, or the 
like. The firing of ink droplets is typically under the 
control of a microprocessor, the signals of which are 
conveyed by electrical traces to the resistor elements. The ink cartridge containing the nozzles is moved 
repeatedly across the width of the medium to be printed 
upon. At each of a designated number of increments of this 
movement across the medium, each of the nozzles is caused 
either to eject ink or to refrain from ejecting ink according  
 
to the program output of the controlling microprocessor. 
Each completed movement across the medium can print 
a swath approximately as wide as the number of nozzles 
arranged in a column on the ink cartridge multiplied times 
the distance between nozzle centers. After each such 
completed movement or swath, the medium is moved forward 
the width of the swath, and the ink cartridge begins the 
next swath. By proper selection and timing of the signals, 
the desired print is obtained on the medium.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink-jet printer (50) for printing onto a print medium (90), including a 
printhead for ejecting droplets of ink onto a first surface of said medium at a 

print area (104) in a controlled fashion; and means for advancing the print 
medium via a medium path to said print area during print operations; the printer 

having a preheater (72) disposed along said medium path for preheating said 
medium before said medium reaches said print area (104) to precondition said 

medium for printing operations; characterised in that said preheater comprises a 
sheet-like heating element of low thermal mass; means (122, 128) for heating said 

element; and means (140, 142, 144) for supporting said preheater (72) so that 
said heating element is suspended in air along said medium path so that said 

element presents a curved heating surface which is contacted by and heats said 
medium as said medium is advanced along said medium path to said print area. 
A printer according to Claim 1, wherein said preheater comprises a 
flexible film dielectric layer (72A), a pattern of flexible electrical conductors 

(122, 128) carried by said layer, and means (120, 126, 204) for passing electrical 
current through said flexible electrical conductors.  

 
A printer according to Claim 2, further characterized 
in that said energizing means comprises a DC power 

source (204). 
A printer according to Claim 2 or Claim 3, 
further characterized in that a first set (128) of said 

conductors is disposed within a first area (130) of said 
heating surface to heat said surface at a first rate, and 

a second set (122) of said conductors is disposed within a 
second area (130) of said heating surface to heat said 

surface at a second rate. 
A printer according to Claim 4, further characterized 
in that said first rate is a higher heating rate 

than said second rate, and wherein said first area (130) is 
disposed adjacent said print zone (104), such that said 

medium first encounters said second heating area (124), and 
subsequently encounters said first heating area (130) 

immediately prior to encountering said print area (104). 
A printer according to any of Claims 2-5, further 
characterized in that said means for supporting said 

flexible heating layer comprises means (142) for supporting 
first and second opposed edges (72C, 72D) of said layer 

along first and second curved paths, said first and second 
edges being generally parallel to the direction of advancement 

of said medium. 
A printer according to Claim 6, further characterized 
in that said means for supporting said flexible 

heating layer further comprises means for fixing a third 
edge (72A) of said heating layer in a direction generally 

orthogonal to said direction of medium advancement, and 
means (144) for biasing a portion of a fourth edge (72E) of  

 
said heating layer so as to hold said flexible heating 

surface taut along said first and second curved paths. 
A printer according to any preceding claim, 
wherein said heating element comprises an area of a thin 

film suspended in air by said supporting means, thereby 
minimizing the time required to heat said element. 
A printer according to Claim 8 further characterized 
by a printer controller (200) for controlling the 

operation of said preheater (72) via application of electrical 
power, said controller acting to apply power to said 

preheating means only during active printing operations 
when a medium (90) is loaded into said paper path. 
A printer according to Claim 9, wherein said 
printer controller (200) further comprises means for 

receiving printing instructions to print onto a print 
medium, means for activating said medium advancing means 

and means for energizing said preheating means to preheat 
said medium commencing when said advancing means is activated. 
A printer according to Claim 10, wherein said 
printing instructions comprise data defining a type of 

print medium to be advanced to the print area for print 
operations, and said type is selected from a media type 

group including plain paper and polyester-based media, and 
wherein said controller (200) comprises means responsive to 

said print medium type data to energize said preheating 
means only if said instructions indicate that said medium 

type is plain paper.  
 
A printer according to an preceding claim, 
further characterized by an input media tray (54) for 

holding a input supply of media in sheet form, and by an 
output media tray (56) for receiving said medium sheet of 

media after completion of said printing operations on said 
medium sheet, wherein said input and output trays are 

disposed on the same side of the printer, to facilitate 
access by a printer operator, and said paper path includes 

a direction reversal to allow paper to be fed in a first 
direction from said input tray into said paper path, and to 

be ejected in a second direction from said print area into 
said output tray, said second direction substantially 

opposite to said first direction. 
A printer according to Claim 12 wherein said 
paper path defines a curved portion to enable said direction 

reversal, and wherein said curved surface of said 
preheater (200) means serves to define a portion of said 

paper path. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
