<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636064</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LENSES WITH HIGH IMPACT RESISTANCE AND HIGH SCRATCH RESISTANCE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C3508	B29C3508	B29C3902	B29C3902	B29C3910	B29C3910	B29C3922	B29C3940	B29C7000	B29C7078	B29D1100	B29D1100	B29K6900	B32B2708	B32B2708	C08F28300	C08F28300	C08F28301	G02B104	G02B104	G02B110	G02B110	G02B111	G02C706	G02C706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29D	B29D	B29K	B32B	B32B	C08F	C08F	C08F	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C35	B29C35	B29C39	B29C39	B29C39	B29C39	B29C39	B29C39	B29C70	B29C70	B29D11	B29D11	B29K69	B32B27	B32B27	C08F283	C08F283	C08F283	G02B1	G02B1	G02B1	G02B1	G02B1	G02C7	G02C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention is a composite lens that includes a front scratch-resistant polymeric wafer (317) and a back impact-resistant polymeric layer (318). The unique structure allows maximal design flexibility, and is easily and relatively quickly manufactured. The design allows simultaneous optimization of impact and scratch resistance. A polymerizable composition for the rapid preparation of high quality lenses is also provided that includes: a) between 20 and 90 weight percent, and preferably, at least 50 weight percent, of urethane, epoxy, or polyester oligomers end terminated with acrylate or mathacrylate (or mixtures of acrylate and methacrylate); b) between 5 and 50 to 80 percent, preferably between 10 and 40 percent, by weight of an optional diluent, such as a hydrocarbon diol end terminated with acrylate or methacrylate, or mixtures thereof, or a crosslinkable tri-, tetra-, or poly-acrylate or methacrylate, or mixtures thereof; and c) conventional optional additives.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOANE TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOANE TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAE YOUNG C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIM FREDRIC J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOANE DAVID S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAE, YOUNG C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIM, FREDRIC J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOANE, DAVID, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Lenses With High Impact Resistance and High Scratch ResistanceThis invention is in the area of composite lens structures, and in particular is a polymer-polymer composite lens structure exhibiting high impact resistance and high scratch resistance. This invention also includes fast curing polymeric compositions that are suitable for casting into ophthalmic lenses, lenses prepared from these compositions, and apparatus for the production of lenses.Background of the InventionThe invention disclosed herein addresses two problems in the area of the production of ophthalmic lenses. The first problem is the need to provide a lens structure that has both high impact resistance and high scratch resistance. The second problem is the desire on the part of retail eyewear outlets to be able to produce plastic lenses on-site for customers, instead of merely grinding plastic lens blanks to a desired prescription. The art in these areas are considered below in order.High Scratch Resistant, High Impact ResistantOphthalmic LensesOphthalmic (prescription) glasses and both prescription and nonprescription sun glasses have traditionally been prepared using inorganic glass as the lens material. Recently, organic polymers have been introduced as an alternative lens material. Currently, both inorganic glass and organic polymers play a major role in the prescription and nonprescription lens market.Glass is considered a pristine optical-quality material and is extremely scratch resistant. However, glass is heavy and is easily shattered. Tempering (either by thermal or chemical processes) improves the impact resistance, but at the expense of lengthening process time and escalating production cost. Plastics perform better in impact resistance, and are light weight. However, the 

scratch resistance of plastics is inferior to glass. A marriage of the two in the form of a front piano glass wafer with a back polymer layer has been used as a means to obtain the desired qualities of both materials. The outer glass layer is convex outward- where the majority of the scratch "incidences" would normally occur. Hence the structure offers protection against scratch. The inner plastic layer enhances the overall shatter resistance of the composite. The glass-plastic interface has to be chemically coupled to ensure strong adhesion over the complete service temperature range (from sub-zero to above standard room temperature) . A significant disadvantage of the glass/plastic composite is that firm attachment of the two', especially in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A polymer-polymer composite lens that comprises: (i) a front scratch resistant polymeric wafer with a hardness of at least that of bare CR-39 and a thickness of at least 100 microns, wherein the wafer has a convex surface that forms the outside surface of the lens, and a concave surface; and (ii) a back polymeric layer with an impact resistance of at least that of CR-39 that has a concave surface and a convex surface, and wherein the concave surface of the front wafer interfaces with the convex surface of the back layer.
2. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim 1, wherein the front scratch resistant wafer has an antireflective coating on its convex surface.
3. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim l, wherein the concave surface of the front wafer has a complex thickness profile that corrects for astigmatism.
4. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim 1, wherein, the concave surface of the front wafer has a complex thickness profile that provides bifocal correction.
5. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim 1, wherein the concave surface of the front wafer has a complex thickness profile that provides progressive correction.
6. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim 1, wherein the concave surface of the front wafer a diffraction pattern that imparts anti-reflective properties to lens.
7. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim l, wherein the convex surface of the front polymeric wafer provides bifocal or multifocal correction.
8. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim 1, wherein the back impact resistant lens comprises a polymer selected from the group consisting of block copolymers, interpenetrating networks, graft copolymers, random copolymers, and homopolymers. 


 9. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim 1, wherein the back polymeric wafer comprises a composition according to claim 21.
10. The polymer-polymer composite lens of claim 1, wherein the back polymeric layer comprises a composition according to claim 21.
11. The composite lens of claim 1, wherein the front scratch-resistant wafer comprises a material selected from the group consisting of the polymer of allyl diglycol carbonate, polymethylmethacrylate, and polycarbonate.
12. The composite lens of claim 1, wherein the front scratch-resistant wafer comprises a material selected from the group consisting of polyetherimides, polyimides, polyethersulfones, polysulfones, polyethyleneterephthalate,
* and other amorphous (random copolymer) polyamides, polyesters and urethanes.
13. The composite lens of claim.1, wherein the front scratch-resistant wafer comprises a polymer or copolymer of a monomer selected from the group consisting of alkyl methacrylate, alkyl acrylate, allyl or aryl acrylates and methacrylates, styrene, ---methyl styrene, vinyl esters, vinyl chloride, methyl vinyl ketone, vinylidene chloride, acrylamide, methacrylamide, acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, glycidyl acrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, allyl glycidyl ether, and 1,2-epoxy-3-allyl propane, and mixtures thereof.
14. The composite lens of claim 13, wherein the monomer is methylmethacrylate.
15. The composite lens of claim 1, wherein the front wafer comprises an unsaturated urethane, carbonate, or epoxy.
16. The composite lens of claim 1, wherein the front wafer is attached to the back layer with an adhesive.
17. The composite lens of claim 1, wherein the back layer is polymerized onto the front wafer.
18. A process for preparing a polymer-polymer lens composite comprising: 


 attaching a preformed front wafer with a scratch resistance of at least that of CR-39, and a thickness of at least 100 microns, onto a preformed back wafer that has an impact resistance of at least that of CR-39, with an adhesive.
19. The process of claim 28, wherein the adhesive is polymerized sequentially.
20. A process of forming a polymer-polymer lens composite comprising the steps of: a. providing a mold body having a first part and a second part, the first and second part defining an internal cavity therebetween, the cavity corresponding to the precise dimensions of the finished article and having a closed end and an open end, said open end opposite said closed end, at least one of the first or the second part formed to permit exposure of the polymerizable material in the internal cavity to an energy source in a differential and sequential manner, and wherein a pre ormed wafer with convex and concave surfaces, a scratch resistance of at least that of CR-39, and a thickness of at least 100 microns is positioned in the mold body such that the polymerizable material hardens onto the concave surface of the wafer; b. providing a source of energy for imposition upon the surface of the polymerizable material in a differential and sequential manner; c. providing a source of the polymerizable material at said open end of said mold body; d. filling the internal cavity with the polymerizable material such that the polymerizable material contacts the concave surface of the preformed front wafer; and e. differentially exposing the polymerizable material to the energy source starting at the closed end and proceeding to the open and while continuously supplying polymerizable material to the open end. 


 21. A free radical polymerizable composition for the production of ophthalmic lenses, comprising: a) between 20 and 90 weight percent of urethane, epoxy, or polyester oligomers, or mixtures thereof, end terminated with acrylate or methacrylate, or mixtures of acrylate and methacrylate; b) between 5 and 80 weight percent of a diluent selected from the group consisting of a hydrocarbon diol end terminated with acrylate or methacrylate, and a tri-, tetra-, or poly- acrylate or methacrylate, or mixtures thereof.
22. The composition of claim 21, further comprising an additive selected from the group consisting of free radical initiators, UV absorbers, mold release agents, stabilizers, dyes, antioxidants, and wetting agents.
23. The composition of claim 21, wherein the diluent is present in the composition in an amount between 10 to 40% by weight.
24. The composition of claim 21, wherein the urethane oligomer is prepared from a material selected from the group consisting of a polyol, a polyester, and a , polyether.
25. The composition of claim 21, wherein the urethane is a difunctional or polyfunctional prepolymer of the structure:
wherein P is an aliphatic or aromatic polyether, polyester or polyol, R is the residue of the diisocyanate to which the isocyanate moieties are attached, n is 2 or 3, and A is the aliphatic or aromatic ester portion of a hydroxylated acrylate or methacrylate. 


 26. The composition of claim 21, wherein the urethane, epoxy, or polyester oligomer contains between 2 and 6 acrylate or methacrylate groups.
27. The composition of claim 21, wherein the oligomer has a molecular weight of between
"
400 and 7000.
28. The composition of claim 21, wherein the oligomer has a molecular weight of between 800 and 2500.
29. The composition of claim 21, wherein the oligomers used are a combination of difunctional and trifunctional urethane acrylates.
30. The composition of claim 21, wherein the oligomer comprises between 50% and 75% by weight of composition.
31. The composition of claim 21, wherein the diluent is a mixture of 1,6-hexane diol diacrylate and ethoxylated pentaerythritol tri- or tetra- acrylate.
32. The composition of claim 21, wherein the diluent is a mixture of 1,6-hexane diol diacrylate and ethoxylated trimethylolpropane triacrylate.
33. The composition of claim 21, wherein the diluent consists of tri, tetra, or higher functional polyacrylates and methacrylates or mixtures thereof.
34. A lens prepared from the polymerizable composition of claim 21.
35. An apparatus for the production of a lens from a polymerizable composition, comprising: i) a carriage frame; ii) a concave mold attached to the carriage frame that allows transmission of energy that is capable of initiating polymerization; iii) a moving stage that can be driven across the carriage frame; iv) a means for moving the stage across the carriage frame; v) a convex mold, wherein the convex mold is attached to the moving stage, and wherein the convex mold can be moved adjacent to the concave mold to define an internal 


cavity therebetween, the cavity corresponding to the precise dimensions of the lens; vi) a means for introducing polymerizable composition into the internal cavity; vii) a source of energy for transmission through the concave mold in a sequential manner; viii) a means for sequentially exposing the polymerizable material to the energy source beginning at a point opposite to that wherein the polymerizable composition is introduced, and proceeding to the point wherein the polymerizable composition is introduced.
36. An apparatus for the production of a lens from a polymerizable composition, comprising: i) a carriage frame; ii) a convex mold attached to the carriage frame that allows transmission of energy that is capable of initiating polymerization of energy; iii) a moving stage that can be driven across the carriage frame; iv) a means for moving the stage across the carriage frame; v) a concave mold, wherein the concave mold is attached to the moving stage, and wherein the convex mold can be moved adjacent to the concave mold to define an internal cavity therebetween, the cavity corresponding to the precise dimensions of the lens and having a top side and a bottom side; vi) a means for introducing polymerizable composition into the internal cavity; vii) a source of energy for transmission through the convex mold in a sequential manner; viii) a means for sequentially exposing the polymerizable material to the energy source beginning at a point opposite to that wherein the polymerizable composition is introduced, and proceeding to the point wherein the polymerizable composition is introduced. 


 37. The apparatus of claim 35 or 36, wherein the source of energy is ultraviolet radiation.
38. The apparatus of claim 35 or 36, further comprising a distance indicator attached to the moving stage that informs the user of the location of the stage with respect to the carriage.
39. The apparatus of claim 35 or 36, wherein the means for introducing the polymerizable composition is a syringe or reservoir.
40. The apparatus of claim 35 or 36, wherein the means for moving the stage across the carriage comprises a lead screw.
41. The apparatus of claim 35 or 36 wherein the stage is moved along the carriage on a guide rod.
42. The apparatus of claim 35 or 36, further comprising a flexible gasket that is fitted around the concave and convex molds when adjacent, and through which the polymerizable composition is introduced.
43. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a rigid clamp attached to the gasket.
44. The apparatus of claim 35 or 36, further comprising a means for locking the stage to the carriage in a desired position. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
