<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624285</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BATTERY CHARGER FOR CHARGING PRIMARY CELLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J700	H02J700	H02J702	H02J702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H02J	H02J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	H02J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATONEX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATONEX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FELDSTEIN ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FELDSTEIN, ROBERT, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionBattery Charger For Charging Primary CellsTechnical FieldA battery charger suitable for charging conventional alkaline-manganese primary or secondary batteries is dis¬ closed.Background ArtThe recharging of primary batteries is frequently discouraged by battery manufacturers. To the best of appli¬ cant's knowledge and belief, no one has provided an apparatus who can safely and effectively charge such batteries.It is an object of this invention to provide a bat¬ tery charger for recharging primary batteries which can permit an operating voltage on discharge substantially below 1.0 volt, which minimizes the adverse effect of delayed recharging and of deep discharge, and which can effectively recharge a primary battery in as little as about 8 hours. It is also an object of this invention to provide a battery charger which will provide recharged primary batteries with substantially improved shelf lives, and which is suitable for recharging rechargeable alkaline-manganese ("RAM") batteries, rechargeable nickel-cadmium batteries, rechargeable nickel metal hydride batteries, ordinary carbon-zinc batteries, lithium—thionyl chloride batteries, lithium—sulfur batter¬ ies, and other viable lithium systems.Summary of the inventionIn accordance with this invention, there is provided a battery charger comprised of a means for individually charging each of a multiplicity of cells with a direct cur¬ rent which has a specified range of current and voltage values, means for separately controlling the direct current 

applied to each of said cells, and means for providing a different amount of charge to each of said cells.Brief description of the drawingsThe present invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following detailed description thereof, when read in conjunction with the attached drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements, and wherein:Figure 1 is a schematic of a one preferred embodiment of the battery charger of this invention which utilizes a dual pulse reverse current patternFigure 2 is a schematic of another preferred battery charger of this invention utilizing a dual pulse reverse current pattern.Figure 3 is a schematic of another preferred battery charger of this invention.Figure 4 is a schematic of modified version of the battery charger of Figure 3.Figure 5 is a schematic of a battery charger suitable for charging a series connected group of cells with individu¬ al shunt regulation.Figure 6 is a schematic of a modified version of the battery charger of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A battery charger for charging primary alkaline zinc/manganese dioxide cells, wherein said battery charger comprises:
(a) means for producing a direct current voltage at 25 degrees centigrade of from 1.6 to 1.7 volts;
(b) means for individually and independently limiting the voltage delivered by said battery charger to each of said cells to said voltage of from 1.6 to 1.7 volts at 25 degrees centigrade;
(c) means for individually and independently limiting the current applied to each of said cells by said battery charger;
(d)means for individually and continuously varying the current applied to each of said cells by said battery charger, wherein during a portion of the charging cycle for each of said cells, the current supplied to any one of said cells differs from the current supplied to any other of said cells; and (e) means for reducing the current applied to any of said cells when said cell has reached a cell voltage which is substantially equal to said direct current voltage.
2. The battery charger as recited in claim 1, wherein said direct current voltage at 25 degrees centigrade is from 1.625 to 1.630 volts.
3. The battery charger as recited in claim 1, wherein said battery charger is comprised of only one power source.
4. The battery charger as recited in claim 1, wherein said direct current voltage of from 1.6 to 1.7 volts decreases at a rate of from 1 to 4 millivolts per degree Centigrade for each degree above 25 degrees Centigrade.
5. The battery charger as recited in claim 4, wherein said direct current voltage of from 1.6 to 1.7 volts increases 


at a rate of from 1 to 4 millivolts per degree Centigrade for each degree below 25 degrees Centigrade.
6. The battery charger as recited in claim 1, wherein said means for producing a direct current voltage at 25 degrees centigrade of from 1.6 to 1.7 volts is comprised of a temperature stable voltage source.
7. The battery charger as recited in claim 6, wherein said temperature stable voltage source is operatively connected to a temperature-sensitive voltage source.
8. The battery charger as recited in claim 7, wherein said temperature stable voltage source is connected to a a first voltage divider between said temperature stable voltage source and said temperature-sensitive voltage source, wherein said first voltage divider is comprised of two resistors connected in series, the junction of which is connected to said a second voltage divider whose output is from 1.6 to 1.7 volts at 25 degrees Centigrade.
9. The battery charger as recited in claim 1, wherein said battery charger is comprised of a network comprised of an npn/pnp inverse transistor pair, wherein the lower current transistor of said pair is biased by two forward biased silicon diodes.
10. The battery charger as recited in claim 9, wherein said pair of forward biased silicon diodes are shunted by a resistor.
11. The battery charger as recited in claim 10, wherein the base emitter junction of said npn transistor is shunted by a resistor.
12. The battery charger as recited in claim 11, wherein the base emitter junction of said pnp transistor is shunted by a resistor and the collector of said pnp transistor is connected through a resistor to its negative supply.
13. A process for charging a zinc—manganese dioxide primary cell, comprising the steps of:
(a)providing a discharged zinc-manganese dioxide 


 primary cell;
(b)connecting said discharged primary cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct current charging pulses with a duration of at least 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed 40 percent of the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a discharge interval, wherein:
1. said discharging pulses of direct current have a duration of from 5 to 35 percent of the duration of said direct current charging pulses, and
2. said discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 10 to 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage; and
(e)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said discharge interval is greater than said specified reference voltage.
14. A process for charging a zinc—manganese dioxide primary cell, comprising the steps of:
(a)providing a discharged zinc-manganese dioxide primary cell;
(b)connecting said discharged primary cell to a 


 battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct current charging pulses with a duration of at least 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed 40 percent of the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a discharge interval, wherein:
1. said discharging pulses have a duration of at least 0.5 seconds, and
2. said discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 10 to 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage;
(e)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said discharge interval is greater than said specified reference voltage;
15. A process for charging a zinc—manganese dioxide primary cell, comprising the steps of:
(a)providing a discharged zinc-manganese dioxide primary cell;
(b)connecting said discharged primary cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically 


discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct current charging pulses with a duration of at least about 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed about 40 percent of the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing first discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a first discharge interval, wherein:
1. said first discharging pulses of direct cur rent have a duration of from about 5 to about 35 percent of the duration of said direct current charging pulses, and
2. said first discharging pulses of direct cur rent have a current value during discharge of from about 10 to about 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d)periodically withdrawing second discharging pulses from said cell during a second discharge interval, wherein:
1. said second discharging pulses have a dura¬ tion of at least about 0.5 seconds, and
2. said second discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from about 10 to about 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(e) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said first discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage;
(f)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said first discharge inter¬ val is greater than said specified reference voltage; 


 (g) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said second discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage; and (h)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said second discharge inter¬ val is greater than said specified reference voltage.
16. The process as recited in claim 13, wherein said zinc- manganese primary cell is a an alkaline cell.
17. The process as recited in claim 16, wherein said speci¬ fied reference voltage does not exceed 1.7 volts.
18. The process as recited in claim 14, wherein said zinc- manganese primary cell is a an alkaline cell.
19. The process as recited in claim 18, wherein said speci¬ fied reference voltage does not exceed 1.7 volts.
20. The process as recited in claim 15, wherein said zinc- manganese primary cell is a an alkaline cell.
21. The process as recited in claim 20, wherein said speci¬ fied reference voltage does not exceed 1.7 volts.
22. A process for charging a cell, comprising the steps of:
(a)providing a discharged cell;
(b)connecting said discharged cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct current charging pulses with a duration of at least about 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed 40 percent of the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a discharge interval, wherein: 


 1. said discharging pulses of direct current have a duration of from 5 to 35 percent of the duration of said direct current charging pulses, and
2. said discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 10 to 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage; and
(e)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said discharge interval is greater than said specified reference voltage. 23. A process for charging a cell, comprising the steps of: (a)providing a discharged cell;
(b)connecting said discharged cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct current charging pulses with a duration of at least 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed 40 percent of the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a discharge interval, wherein:
1. said discharging pulses have a duration of at least 0.5 seconds, and
2. said discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 10 


 to 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses; (d) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage;
(e)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said discharge interval is greater than said specified reference voltage; 24. A process for charging a cell, comprising the steps of: (a)providing a discharged cell;
(b)connecting said discharged cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct current charging pulses with a duration of at least 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed 40 percent of the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing first discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a first discharge interval, wherein:
1. said first discharging pulses of direct current have a duration of from 5 to 35 percent of the duration of said direct current charging pulses, and
2. said first discharging pulses of direct cur rent have a current value during discharge of from 10 to 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d)periodically withdrawing second discharging pulses from said cell during a second discharge interval, 


 wherein:
1. said second discharging pulses have a dura¬ tion of at least 0.5 seconds, and
2. said second discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 10 to 25 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(e) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said first discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage;
(f)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said first discharge inter¬ val is greater than said specified reference voltage; (g) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said second discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage; and (h)preventing the delivery of said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said second discharge inter¬ val is greater than said specified reference voltage.
25. The process as recited in claim 22, wherein said cell is a rechargeable alkaline manganese cell.
26. The process as recited in claim 23, wherein said cell is a rechargeable alkaline manganese cell.
27. The process as recited in claim 24, wherein said cell is a rechargable alkaline manganese cell.
28. The process as recited in claim 22, wherein said cell is a rechargeable lead acid cell.
29. The process as recited in claim 23, wherein said cell is a rechargeable lead acid cell.
30. The process as recited in claim 24, wherein said cell is a rechargable lead acid cell. 


31. A process for charging a nickel—cadmium cell, compris¬ ing the steps of:
(a)providing a discharged nickel—cadmium cell; (b)connecting said discharged cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct high current charging pulses with a duration of at least 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed twice the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a discharge interval, wherein:
1. said discharging pulses of direct current have a duration of from 5 to 35 percent of the duration of said direct current charging pulses, and
2. said discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 5 to 15 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage; and
(e)substituting a lower current pulse of from 5 to 10 percent of the current capacity of said cell for said high current pulse and deliverying said lower current pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said discharge interval is greater than said specified reference voltage.
32. A process for charging a nickel cadmium cell, comprising 


the steps of :
(a)providing a discharged nickel—cadmium cell; (b)connecting said discharged cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct high current charging pulses with a duration of at least 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed twice the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a discharge interval, wherein:
1. said discharging pulses have a duration of at least 0.5 seconds, and
2. said discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 5 to 15 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d) delivering said direct current charging pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell at the end of said discharge interval is less than said specified reference voltage;
(e)substituting a lower current pulse of from 5 to 10 percent of the current capacity of said cell for said high current pulse and delivering said lower current pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said discharge interval is greater than said specified reference voltage.
33. A process for charging a nickel—cadmium cell, compris¬ ing the steps of:
(a)providing a discharged nickel—cadmium cell; 


 (b) connecting said discharged cell to a battery charger, wherein said battery charger is comprised of means for comparing the voltage of said cell at the termination of a discharge interval with a specified reference voltage, means for periodically discharging said cell, and means for periodically producing direct high current charging pulses with a duration of at least 1 millisecond and an average value which does not exceed twice the initial capacity of the cell;
(c)periodically withdrawing first discharging pulses of direct current from said cell during a first discharge interval, wherein:
1. said first discharging pulses of direct current have a duration of from 5 to 35 percent of the duration of said direct current charging pulses, and
2. said first discharging pulses of direct cur rent have a current value during discharge of from 5 to 15 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(d)periodically withdrawing second discharging pulses from said cell during a second discharge interval, wherein:
1. said second discharging pulses have a dura¬ tion of at least 0.5 seconds, and
2. said second discharging pulses of direct current have a current value during discharge of from 5 to 15 percent of the average current value of said direct current charging pulses;
(e)substituting a lower current pulse of from 5 to 10 percent of the current capacity of said cell for said high current pulse and delivering said lower current pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said first discharge interval is 


greater than said specified reference voltage; and (f)substituting a lower current pulse of from 5 to 10 percent of the current capacity of said cell for said high current pulse and delivering said lower current pulse to said cell whenever said voltage of said cell and the end of said second discharge interval is greater than said specified reference voltage. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
