<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635795</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and computer system for detecting error strings in a text.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1721	G06F1721	G06F1727	G06F1727	G10L1500	G10L1522	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G10L	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G10L15	G10L15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method and a computer system for detecting 
and/or correcting an error string F
i
 in a text stored in 
the computer system. Hereby, in step 10 an error-free string S
i
 
is first selected. In step 11, the error-free string S
i
 is 
modified such that a possible error string is produced, which 

serves to calculate a value α
ij
 in step 12, whereby the value 
α
ij
 represents an indication of the probability that the possible 
error string f
ij
 is an actual error string F
i
. If, accordingly, 
the value α
ij
 exceeds a threshold value β, the result is 
output in step 14. Otherwise, step 15 is executed to produce another 

possible error string f
ij
 in step 11. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNING ANDREAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNING, ANDREAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method and a computer system for detecting 
and/or correcting an error string in a text. In known word processing systems, the entered text is stored 
separate from a dictionary. The dictionary belonging to a word 
processing system is a file that contains a reasonably complete 
list of known words and possibly their inflected forms, i.e., 
their conjugations and declinations. When searching for errors 
in the text, each individual word is searched for in the dictionary. 
If a word is not contained in the dictionary, the word 
processing system issues an error message and asks the user to 
check the word. Such systems have been disclosed, for example, 
in U.S. Patents 4 689 678, 4 671 684, and 4 777 617. A word processing system has also been disclosed in U.S. Patent 
4 674 065, for example, which is based on a statistical N-gram 
analysis technique. When an incorrect word is detected, the user 
is offered a list of possible correct alternatives to select 
from. An overview of known techniques for automatic correction of 
words in a text is provided by the publication "Techniques for 
Automatically Correcting Words in Text," by Caron Kukich, ACM 
Computing Surveys, Volume 24, No. 4, December 1992. The known methods for error detection and correction share the 
characteristic that a dictionary separate from the text is used 
as the standard for comparison. The known systems thus require a 
relatively large amount of memory for storing the dictionary, 
and this memory is thus not available to other applications.  Further disadvantages of using a dictionary are that in general 
the dictionary itself contains some errors and is thus not reliable 
as a standard. After all, the dictionary itself cannot be 
checked for errors by the word processing system, since a dictionary 
is considered to be the most reliable standard. Moreover, 
the dictionary must be continually updated, enabling additional 
errors to creep in. The use of known word processing systems 
is practically unsuitable for checking multilingual texts, 
since all foreign words not present in the dictionary will be 
flagged as errors. The same also holds true for monolingual 
texts which employ unusual words or newly-coined words, as well 
as for computer code or texts that contain phonetic information 
or formatting controls. In these cases, known word processing 
systems flag a large number of correct strings as incorrect, 
since they do not occur in the dictionary. This problem is especially 
evident when the text
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for detecting and/or correcting an error string Fi in 
a text using a computer system, 

characterized in that 
the frequency H(Si) of the corresponding error-free string 

Si in the text is used to detect and/or correct the error 
string Fi, 

whereby the error-free string Si occurs in the text and the 
text is stored in the computer system. 
Method in accordance with Claim 1, characterized in that 

a) the error-free string Si is modified in accordance with 
a rule Rj so that a possible error string fij is generated, 
b) the frequency H(fij) of the string fij in the text is 
determined, 
c) the frequencies H(fij) and H(Si) are compared, and 
d) based on the comparison in step c), a decision is made 
whether the possible error string fij is an actual error 

string Fi. 
Method in accordance with Claim 2, characterized in that in 
step a) of Claim 2, possible error sources, psychological 

and/or technically related to the computer system used, in 
particular its display screen or keyboard, are simulated by 

suitable selection of the rules Rj. 
Method in accordance with Claim 2 or 3, characterized in 
that, in comparing the frequency H(fij) of the possible error 

string fij and the frequency H(Si) of the error-free 
string Si in step c) of Claim 2, the values H(fij) and H(Si) 

are evaluated according to a computing rule:(1)   Φij (H(fij),H(Si)) = αij
 

and in step d) of Claim 2 the value αij is compared with a 
threshold value β. 
Method in accordance with Claim 4, characterized in that the 
computing rule Φ is defined as 

 
where Ψ is a factor and κ an exponent, whereby the exponent 

κ is preferably 1 or -1. 
Method in accordance with Claim 5, characterized in that the 
factor Ψ is defined asΨ = [L(Si)]
p, 
 

where L(Si) is the number of characters in the error-free 
string Si and p is an exponent, whereby the exponent p is 

preferably equal to 2 or 3. 
Method in accordance with Claim 4, 5, or 6, characterized in 
that in the computer system a dictionary-based method is implemented 

that can be used to determine valid strings Gi, 
 

that for a possible error string fij having a frequency 
H(fij) 
>
 0, the dictionary-based method is used to determine 
whether the string fij is a valid string Gi, and that 

the value αij of the possible error string fij is modified 
if the possible error string fij is a valid string Gi. 
Method in accordance with any one of the Claims 4 to 7, 
characterized in that in the computer system a method for 

automated learning is implemented that assigns to a rule Rj 
a variable factor δj(B) so that the value αij of a possible 

error string fij generated by applying the rule Rj in step 
a) of Claim 2 is modified accordingly. 
Method for detecting and/or correcting error strings Fi in a 
text, characterized in that 


a) the frequencies H(Zi) of different strings Zi in the 
text are determined, whereby those strings Zi having a 

frequency H(Zi) exceeding a threshold value γ are defined 
as error-free strings Si, 
b) the error string Fi associated with an error-free 
string Si is detected and/or corrected in accordance 

with the method of any one of the Claims 1 to 8. 
Method in accordance with Claim 9, characterized in that the 
strings Zi are sorted and stored with their corresponding 

frequencies H(Zi) in the computer system and a binary search 
of the sorted strings Zi is conducted to determine the frequency 

H(fij) in step b) of Claim 2. 
Method in accordance with Claim 10, characterized in that 
the storing of the strings Zi with their corresponding frequencies 

 
H(Zi) is accomplished using a hashing method or a 

tree structure, preferably a binary tree or a linked trie. 
Method in accordance with any one of the Claims 9 to 11, 
characterized in that for various possible error strings fij 

of various error-free strings Si, the corresponding values 
αij are calculated and those possible error strings fij 

that are error strings Fi according to the decision in step 
d) of Claim 2 are preferably automatically replaced by the 

corresponding error-free strings Si in the stored text. 
Method in accordance with Claim 12, characterized in that 

a) the various possible error strings fij are sorted according 
to their corresponding values αij, and that 
b) a criterion is chosen for the values αij such that only 
those possible error strings fij in step d) of Claim 2 

are used whose value αij satisfies the criterion, 
whereby the criterion is preferably a threshold value 

β. 
Computer system, in particular a word processing system, for 
detecting and/or correcting an error string Fi in a text, 

whereby the corresponding error-free string Si occurs in the 
text, 

with first storage means (1) for storing the text, 
with second storage means for storing the frequency H(Si) of 

the error-free string Si, and 
with processor means (2) for using the frequency H(Si) of 

the error-free string Si in detecting and/or correcting the 
error string Fi. 
Computer system in accordance with Claim 14, 
with third storage means (3) for storing the frequency 

H(fij) of a possible error string fij, 
with fourth storage means (4) for storing a rule Rj, 

whereby the processor means (2) include 
means (5) for modifying the error-free string Si according 

to the rule Rj such that a possible error string fij can be 
generated, as well as 

means (6) for determining the frequency H(fij) of a possible 
error string fij, 

means (7) for comparing the frequencies H(Si) and H(fij), 
and 

means (8) for associating the possible error string fij to 
the error string Fi based on an output signal from the means 

(7) for comparing. 
Computer system in accordance with Claim 15, whereby the 
means (7) for comparing contained in the processor means (2) 

include computing means (9) for computing a value αij in 
accordance with a computing rule(1)   Φij (H(fij),H(Si)) = αij

 
and the output signal transmits the value αij, 

and the means (8) for associating include means (10) for 
storing a threshold value β for comparison with the value 

αij. 
Computer system in accordance with any one of the Claims 14 
to 16, 

with means (11) for determining the frequency H(Zi) of different 
strings Zi in the text, 

with fifth storage means (12) for storing the frequency 
H(Zi), 

with means (14) for storing a threshold value γ, and 
with comparison means (13) for comparing the threshold value 

γ with a frequency H(Zi), whereby those strings Zi having a 
frequency H(Zi) exceeding the threshold value γ are defined 

to be error-free strings Si. 
System for character recognition 
with a system for automated optical character recognition 

and with a computer system in accordance with any one of the 
Claims 14 to 17, 

whereby the system for automated optical character recognition 
generates a raw text and enters the raw text into the 

computer system for detecting and/or correcting one or 
possibly more than one error string Fi. 
System for automatic recording of dictation, with a speech 
recognition system and with a computer system in accordance 

with any one of the Claims 14 to 17, 
whereby the speech recognition system generates a raw text 

and enters the raw text into the computer system for detecting 
and/or correcting one or possibly more than one error 

string Fi. 
Storage medium, in particular a diskette, for a programmable 
computer system, whereby a program for executing a method in 

accordance with any one of the Claims 1 to 13 is recorded on 
the storage medium using physical and/or chemical means, 

and the storage medium can interact with the computer system 
such that, through the program recorded on the storage medium 

together with an operating program associated with the 
computer system, the computer system is constituted in accord
ance 
with any one of the Claims 14 to 17. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
