<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1051605</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEASUREMENT OF RELATIVE DENSITY OF COMBUSTIBLE GASES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N900	G01N926	G01N932	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N9	G01N9	G01N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The relative density of a sample of a supply gas under test is determined by measuring an atmospheric pressure and a pressure differential for the reference gas and the sample gas as each is passed through a small orifice (16) with smooth walls, such as a pore formed in a sapphire jewel. The pressure measurements are made on a time base determined during the reference gas cycle. A microcontroller (15) them computes a relative density for the sample gas based on a known relative density for the reference gas and a ratio of pressure factors for the sample gas and the reference gas in a system operating at in a range from 1 to about 6 psig.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTROMET INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTROMET, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDER HEYDEN WILLIAM H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDER HEYDEN, WILLIAM, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MEASUREMENT OF RELATIVE DENSITY OF COMBUSTIBLE GASESTECHNICAL FIELDThe field of the invention is methods and apparatus for determining the relative density of gases.DESCRIPTION OF THE BACKGROUND ARTControl and reporting for combustible gases such as natural gases or industrial gas mixtures is necessary to assure the quality and usefulness of the gas to a user. While this is sometimes accomplished using composition analysis such as from a gas chromotography and by other methods, it is often sufficient to just determine the relative density of the gas as a basis for control and reporting. Natural gases, primarily methane with dilute mixtures of other gases, is a preferred fuel for energy generation or heat generation because it is clean and efficient .In many countries, gas for use in households and industries is not available from long distance natural gas pipelines. In these instances, industrially produced gases such as propane and butane are mixed for distribution in local distribution systems. In some cases, natural gas is available, but in limited supply. Mixtures of propane and butane are then used for peak shaving of the natural gas supply. In still other situations, gas which is represented to be propane contains butane in some amount . In order to use such industrially produced gases for 

 - 2 - residential and industrial fuel, it is necessary that the composition and relative density of the gas be controlled. This is accomplished by measuring the relative density of the mixed gases and controlling the proportion of air in the mixture to adjust relative density of the overall mixture. This prevents the gas from being supplied to customers in a mixture that is too rich or too lean.In such blending systems, mixing to a consistent Wobbe Index (the ratio of heating value to the square root of relative density) is the operating goal. When the supply gas relative density is known, relative density and heating value are sufficiently related to make it possible to control the blending of the product using only the relative density measurement. Many local distribution systems for such gases operate at pressures of just 5 to 6 psig. Therefore, whether the fuel gas mixture includes methane or includes propane, butane and air, the relative density measurements should be made at that pressure or a lower pressure to avoid requiring an expensive gas compressor.The measurement of the relative density of gases has been carried out using several methods and instruments . One instrument has a construction
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
- 14 -
CLAIMS
I claim:
1. A method for measuring the relative density of a gas, the method comprising: flowing a reference gas and then a sample gas from a volume chamber through an orifice that is sized to be small relative to a connecting line and sized with respect to an initial pressure of the reference gas and the sample gas, respectively, such that the effects of discharge coefficient of the orifice are not necessary to a computation of relative density; and characterized by the steps of: measuring an elapsed time of discharge when the reference gas reaches a target discharge pressure; measuring the pressure of the sample gas across the orifice at the elapsed time determined for the reference gas; and computing the relative density of the sample gas from a known relative density of a reference gas and from a ratio of the pressure of the sample gas across the orifice to the pressure of the reference gas across the orifice.
2. The method of claim 1, further characterized in that an initial pressure of gas released through said orifice is determined according to an identity of the reference gas and is in a range from about 1 to about 6 psig. 


 - 15 -
3. The method of claim 1, further characterized in that the sample gases are natural gases or are mixtures including at least one of the gases methane, propane or butane, and wherein the reference gas has a pressure ratio of target discharge pressure to initial pressure between 0.05 and 0.35.
4. The method of claim 1, further characterized by the step of determining the target discharge pressure for the reference gas from a calibration pressure ratio of discharge pressure to initial pressure for the reference gas determined from a calibration cycle and determined from said initial pressure for the reference gas in the volume chamber .
5. The method of claim 4, further characterized in that the calibration cycle further comprises the step of alternately discharging the first-mentioned reference gas and a second reference gas from a known initial pressure, and determining the calibration ratio when the discharge pressures of the first-mentioned reference gas and the second reference gas at a common elapsed time are proportional to a ratio of their respective known relative densities.
6. The method of claim 1, further characterized in that the reference gas is air, carbon dioxide or methane. 


 - 16 -
7. The method of claim 1, further characterized in that the orifice is a pore in a range from at about 0.0012 inches to about 0.0047 inches in diameter.
8. The method of claim 1, further characterized in that the pore is mounted in a structure having a diameter at least three times that of the diameter of the pore.
9. The method of claim 1, further characterized by the step of initiating a reference gas cycle in response to changes of selected magnitude in either atmospheric pressure or in temperature of the sample gas .
10. The method of claim 1, further characterized by the step of adjusting the frequency of reference gas cycling between one and a selected number of sample gas cycles .
11. The method of claim 1, further characterized in that the sample gas is a sample of a mixture including a supply gas that is distributed in a gas distribution system and further comprising the step of adding a gas to adjust relative density of the mixture that includes the supply gas.
12. The method of claim 1, further characterized by the step of controlling the initial pressure of the reference gas and the sample gas . 


 - 17 -
13. An apparatus for measuring the relative density of a gas, the apparatus comprising: an orifice having a pore that is sized to be very small relative to a connecting line and sized with respect to an orifice inlet pressure of the gas such that the effects of an orifice discharge coefficient are not necessary to a computation of relative density; a chamber of non-varying volume for holding gas at a preselected pressure, said chamber communicating with said connecting line to said orifice; means for supplying a reference gas to said chamber; means for supplying a sample gas to said chamber; a valve for controlling release of gas from said chamber to said orifice; first pressure sensing means for measuring a difference in pressure across said orifice; and characterized by a processor for receiving signals from said first pressure sensing means, wherein said processor executes program instructions for computing relative density of a sample gas released from said chamber through said orifice based on a known relative density of a reference gas and pressure measurements made for the reference gas and the sample gas as each is released from said chamber through said orifice.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, further characterized in that an initial pressure of gas released from said chamber is from about 1 to about 6 psig. 


 - 18 -
15. The apparatus of claim 13, further characterized in that the sample gas is a mixture that includes methane or a mixture that includes propane or butane, and further characterized in that the reference gas has a pressure ratio of measurement pressure to the initial chamber pressure of between 0.05 and 0.35.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, further characterized in that the reference gas is air, carbon dioxide or methane .
17. The apparatus of claim 13, further characterized in that the pore has a diameter from about 0.0012 to about 0.0047 inches.
18. The apparatus of claim 13, further characterized in that the pore is mounted in a structure having a diameter at least three times that of the diameter of the pore .
19. The apparatus of claim 13, further characterized in that the processor executes further program instructions for adjusting the frequency of reference gas cycling from one to a selected number of cycles of the sample gas.
20. The apparatus as in claim 13, further characterized in that the sample gas is a sample of a mixture including a supply gas which is distributed through a gas distribution system and further characterized by 


 - 19 - means for adjusting composition of the mixture to adjust relative density of the mixture.
21. The apparatus as in claim 13, further characterized by means for introducing a second reference gas for calibration of the apparatus relative to the first reference gas.
22. The apparatus of claim 13, further characterized in that the processor further includes means responsive to changes in either barometric pressure or in temperature of the sample gas for initiating a reference gas cycle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
