<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1003535</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR EXTRACTING SYNERGISTIC AND BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITY MAINTAINING COMPOUND FROM CAMELLIA SINENSIS; AN EXTRACTED COMPOUND AND USE OF SAID COMPOUND IN THE FOOD PROCESSING OR PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23F300	A23F318	A23L130	A23L130	A61K3600	A61K3600	A61K36185	A61K3682	C11B902	C11B902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23F	A23F	A23L	A23L	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	C11B	C11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23F3	A23F3	A23L1	A23L1	A61K36	A61K36	A61K36	A61K36	C11B9	C11B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system in which a biologically active compound of catechins, polyphenols and other substances are extracted from Camellia sinensis in an optimally efficient way for industrial production. The raw material is Camellia sinensis and the extraction medium is water. The temperature of the water during the extraction process is a critical factor and should be less than the boiling point of water (the boiling point of water being normally 100 degrees centigrade, depending on altitude) to maintain a biologically active extract. While the extraction medium (water) itself may be heated in a stainless steel (but not aluminium) container (or in non-reactive glass, ceramic, porcelain), the extraction itself process itself where the water and Camellia sinensis leaves are combined, must take place in a non-reactive glass, or ceramic, or porcelain container which is non-metallic.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLASS JOEL HOWARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLASS, JOEL, HOWARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASS JOEL HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASS, JOEL, HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
METHOD FOR EXTRACTING SYNERGISTIC AND BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITY MAINTAINING COMPOUND FROM CAMELLIA SINENSIS: AN EXTRACTED COMPOUND AND USE OF SAID COMPOUND IN THE FOOD PROCESSING OR PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRYFIELD OF THE INVENTION:The invention relates to an exraction process which results in the production of a biologically active extract compound of catechins, polyphenols and other substances derived from Camellia sinensis in a process suitable for industrial production of processed foods and pharmaceutical prescription and non-prescription medications using the Camellia sinensis extract which may be utilized in the form of a powder, or a liquid, or a semi-liquid form.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:Extraction process of solid ingredients from plants may be achieved in a number of ways. These include alcohol extracts, extracts through the use of various chemicals, extracting through water as an extract medium at various possible temperatures which normally includes boiling the raw materials in water, or physical pressure applied to the raw materials.In the case of Camellia sinensis several methods involving chemicals, alcohol, and water will produce an extract. However the objective of the present invention is to produce an extract which maintains specific biological activities, and which will contain catechins/polyphenols as well as other ingredients found in the raw material Camellia sinensis. Use of solvents other than water produce variations in the composition of the extract which are unwanted, and which furthermore degrade the quality of the catechins/polyphenols and other ingredients. Furthermore, some of the solvents often remain in the extract, and this is not desirable.It is an objective of the present invention to produce a biologically active extract which contains catechins, polyphenols and other substances, ail maintaining biological activity. Therefore alcohol-medium extraction and chemical-medium extraction is not utilized in the present invention. The present invention utilizes water as a medium of extraction.It is an objective of the present invention to produce biologically active extract from Camellia sinensis by control of the temperature of the water during the extraction process. To secure the optimal extraction of a synergistically effective Camellia sinensis extract, and to assure the optimal extraction process, the water must remain at a temperature below the boiling point of water. The temperature of the water at the beginning of the extraction process should range 

approximately
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for extracting a synergistic and it's biological activity maintaining compound from raw material (leaves) Camellia sinensis, where the used extraction medium is water and the extraction takes place in a container which is non-reactive with the raw material, being preferably non-metallic container, said method comprising the steps:
- the amount of Camellia sinensis is elected between 20 - 70 gm per liter of water for producing biological active extract with approximately 20 - 90% polyphenols,
- Camellia sinensis and water is heated in the extraction process at a temperature below boiling point of water but over 60° C at least one heating period at said temperature.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the used extraction period is between 20 - 40 minutes.
3. A method according to claim 1 wherein multiple extraction is used by drawing off water medium and adding water to the raw material.
4. A synergistic and it's biological activity maintaining compound extracted from Camellia sinensis by using water as extraction medium having produced according to the method claimed in claim 1 characterized in that said compound comprises 20 - 90 % polyphenols wherein said polyphenols further comprise EGCG between 10 - 90 %.
5. A compound according to claim 4 characterized in that compound is a form of liquid, powder or chrystal.
6. An use of an extracted compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used as food preservative wherein the compound concentration is between 10 mg - 1g per kilo food the amount depending on concentration of 


polyphenols in the extract and on the type of food.
7. An use of an extracted compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used in pharmaceutical industry for lowering high serum LDL cholesterol levels of humans when preferred amount of Camellia sinensis extract per day per person is between 600 mg - 2.400 mg depending upon concentration of polyphenols in the extracted compound.
8. An use of an extracted compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used in pharmaceutical and dental consumer products industry for eliminating dental caries.
9. An use of an extracted compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used in food processing industry as a food ingredient for protecting against cancer of cigarette smokers. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 15 December 1998 (15.12.-1998); original claims 1, 4 and 5-9 amended; remaining claims unchanged (2 pages)]
1. A method for extracting a synergistic and its biological activity maintaining compound from raw material (green leaves) Camellia sinensis, where the used extraction medium is water and the extraction takes place in a container which is non- reactive with the raw material, said method comprising the steps:
- the amount of Camellia sinensis is elected between 40 - 50 gm per liter of water for producing biologically active extract with approximately 40 - 50% polyphenols,
- Camellia sinensis and water is heated in a non-metallic container in the extraction process at a temperature below boiling point of water between 90° - 95°C at least one heating period at said temperature,
- the resulting liquid extract is then dryed into a powder by heating resulting in evaporazation.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the used extraction period is between 20 - 40 minutes.
3. A method according to claim 1 wherein multiple extraction is used by drawing off water medium and adding water to the raw material.
4. A synergistic and its biological activity maintaining single compound extracted from Camellia sinensis by using water as extraction medium having produced according to the method claimed in claim 1 characterized in that said compound comprises 40 - 50 % polyphenols wherein said polyphenols further comprise EGCG between 30 - 60 %.
5. A single compound according to claim 4 characterized in that compound is a form of liquid, powder or crystal.
6. An use of an extracted single compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used as food preservative wherein the compound concentration 


is between 10 mg - 1g per kilo food (=0,001 - 0,1 %) preferably 0,01 - 0,05 % , the amount depending on concentration of polyphenols in the extract and on the type of food.
7. An use of an extracted single compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used in food processing industry for lowering high serum LDL cholesterol levels of humans when preferred amount of Camellia sinensis extract per day per person is between 600 mg - 2.400 mg depending upon concentration of polyphenols in the extracted compound.
8. An use of an extracted single compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used in food processing industry or in pharmaceutical and dental consumer products industry for eliminating or reducing dental caries.
9. An use of an extracted single compound according to claim 4 characterized in that said compound is used in food processing industry as a food ingredient for protecting against cancer of cigarette smokers and to lower high blood pressure. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
