<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1100065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Container wrap
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D2520	B65D2520	G09F304	G09F304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	G09F	G09F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D25	B65D25	G09F3	G09F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wrap for a container having an exterior includes a transparent
laminar substrate. An ink design is placed on at least a portion of a surface of

the substrate to leave other portions of the surface uncovered by the design.
The substrate is then positioned and held against the exterior of the container

to visually integrate the exterior of the container with the design on the
substrate. For one method of manufacture, the substrate may be made of a

shrinkable polyvinylchloride and is first formed as a tube with a lumen. The
container is then inserted into the lumen of the substrate and the substrate is

made to contact and conform with the exterior of the container by heat
shrinking.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHROMIUM GRAPHICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHROMIUM GRAPHICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKILLIP BARRON G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKILLIP, BARRON G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains generally to containers and methods for
their manufacture. More particularly, the present invention pertains to
fancifully designed containers. The present invention is particularly, but not
exclusively, useful as a device and method for visually integrating the exterior
of a container with an ink design that is printed on a laminar substrate to
create a fanciful design for the container.It has long been a practice to provide fanciful and eye-catching trade
dress for products that are to be commercialized. The ultimate merchandising
objective is, of course, to bring the product to the attention of the consumer in
a manner which will influence the consumer to purchase the product. For this
same end, it is also an objective to provide an informative, entertaining, and
distinctive commercial presentation for the product which will emphasize the
beneficial aspects of the product in the eye of the consumer. To accomplish
these objectives, a number of factors are important. These include: the color
or combinations of color that are used for the trade dress of the product; the
shape and texture of the product's packaging; and the overall visual
appearance of the product's trade dress.For the purposes of merchandising a product, the visual presentation of
articles such as signs, cards, tags or labels which are used to attract the
attention of consumers need to be distinctive and readily recognizable.
Accordingly, it has happened in recent years that technology has been
advantageously employed to provide new and exciting, visually distinctive
trade dress and art work for a wide variety of products and objects. For
example, U.S. Patent No. 5,082,703, which issued to Longobardi for an
invention entitled "Sign with Transparent Substrate", and which is assigned to
the same assignee as the present invention, discloses a sign which 
incorporate inks in a way that gives the sign an etched or embossed
appearance. As another example of signage technology, U.S. Patent No.
5,407,711, which issued to Lovison et al. for an invention entitled "Display with
Enhanced Highlights", and which is also assigned to the same assignee as
the present invention, discloses a display that uses process printing together
with a pattern of opaque white ink dots against a reflective layer to give the
display an appearance of relative depth.As noted above, many products require some form of specialized
packaging in order for them to be properly commercialized. Indeed, for items
such as aerosols, shaving cream
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wrap for a container having an exterior which comprises:

a laminar substrate having a surface, said surface being located
between a first edge of said substrate and a second edge of said

substrate;
a design placed on at least a portion of said surface of said
substrate; and
a means for attaching said first edge of said substrate to said
second edge of said substrate to position said substrate against said

exterior of said container to visually integrate said exterior of said
container with said design on said surface.
A wrap as recited in claim 1 wherein said substrate is
transparent for viewing said exterior through said substrate.
A wrap as recited in claim 2 wherein said substrate is tinted.
A wrap as recited in claim 1 wherein said substrate is made of
polyvinylchloride (PVC).
A wrap as recited in claim 1 wherein said surface of said
substrate is positioned against said exterior with said design between said

exterior and said substrate.
A wrap as recited in claim 1 wherein said design is made of ink.
A wrap as recited in claim 6 wherein said design has an edge
and includes an extraordinarily thick ridge of ink applied on said surface at the

edge of said design.
A wrap for a container having an exterior which comprises:

a hollow, substantially tubular shaped substrate formed with a
lumen and having a surface;
a design placed on at least a portion of said surface of said
substrate; and
a means for holding said container in said lumen of said
substrate with said substrate against said exterior of said container to

visually integrate said exterior of said container with said design on
said surface.
A wrap as recited in claim 8 wherein said substrate is made of
an unplasticized polyvinylchloride and is shrinkable from a first configuration

wherein said container is insertable into said lumen of said tubular shaped
substrate to a second configuration wherein said substrate conforms with said

exterior of said container.
A wrap as recited in claim 9 wherein said holding means is a
heat source for shrinking said substrate from said first configuration to said

second configuration.
A wrap as recited in claim 9 wherein said substrate is
transparent.
A wrap as recited in claim 9 wherein said surface of said
substrate is positioned against said exterior with said design between said

exterior and said substrate.
A wrap as recited in claim 9 wherein said design is made of ink.
A wrap as recited in claim 9 wherein said design has an edge
and includes an extraordinarily thick ridge of ink applied on said surface at the

edge of said design.
A method for manufacturing a container which comprises the
steps of:


providing a container having an exterior;
placing a design on at least a portion of the surface of a laminar
substrate, the surface being located between a first edge of the

substrate and a second edge of the substrate; and
attaching the first edge of the substrate to the second edge of
the substrate to position the substrate against the ex
terior of the
container to visually integrate the exterior of the container with the

design on the surface.
A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said attaching step
forms the substrate as a hollow tube with a lumen, and wherein the substrate

is made of an unplasticized polyvinylchloride and is shrinkable from a first
configuration wherein the container is insertable into the lumen of the tubular

shaped substrate and a second configuration wherein the substrate is
conformed with the exterior of the container, and wherein said method further

comprises the step of shrinking the substrate from the first configuration to the
second configuration.
A method as recited in claim 16 wherein said shrinking step is
accomplished by heating the substrate.
A method as recited in claim 15 wherein the substrate is
transparent.
A method as recited in claim 15 wherein the design is made of
ink.
A method as recited in claim 19 wherein the design has an edge
and said method further comprises the step of applying an extraordinarily

thick ridge of ink on the surface at the edge of the design.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
