<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1004225</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF RADIATION HEATING SUBSTRATES AND APPLYING EXTRUDED MATERIAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05D306	B05D306	B32B704	B32B704	B32B2734	B32B2734	B32B3714	B32B3715	B32B3800	B32B3800	H05B300	H05B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05D	B05D	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05D3	B05D3	B32B7	B32B7	B32B27	B32B27	B32B37	B32B37	B32B38	B32B38	H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for applying extrudable material (26) from nozzle (28) to substrate (32), in which concentrated light beam (30) as from lamp (22) is directed onto the substrate before or after application of the extrudable material. The beam energy is concentrated by mirror (24) on the substrate surface. It is subsequently transferred to the deposited extrudable material, thereby increasing the temperature and lowering the viscosity of the closely situated material, facilitating material penetration into the substrate. This allows use of illumination of modest energy density and of wavelengths not absorbed by the extrudable material. When the extrudable material is an adhesive and is applied to a plurality of substrates, of which at least one is treated with a light beam according to this method, and the extrudable materials adhered to the substrates are brought into contact, joining of the extrudable materials creates a strong bond between the substrates. The invention includes articles made by the method.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDBERG DAVID A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOLDBERG, DAVID A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDBERG DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDBERG, DAVID A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF RADIATION HEATING SUBSTRATES AND APPLYING EXTRUDED MATERIALCross-Reference To Related Patent ApplicationsThis application is related to and claims priority from Provisional Patent Application No. 60/016,905, filed May 6, 1996, titled "Method for Extrudable Material Application with Light- Mediated Heating of the Substrate," the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.Technical FieldThis invention relates to the application of extrudable materials to substrates, which may be used for the adhesive bonding of a plurality of substrates.Background Art The application of extrudable materials to substrates to form thick protective films, penetrating films, thick films with beneficial optical, electrical, aesthetic or physical properties, or for adhesive bonding is widely used. Such practices include the use of varnishes to protect wood surfaces, paints to protect and embellish wood, plastic, ceramic or metallic surfaces, and the use of hot-melt and solvent-based adhesives to bond a wide variety of substrates. Examples of extrudable adhesive use include the bonding of metallic, fabric, foam, wood, leather, and plastic substrates in the assembly of such products as furniture, packaging, automotive sub-assemblies, wooden and metallic windows, trade show exhibits and point-of-purchase displays, electrical components, apparel, luggage, and more.Many treatments are known to affect the joining of an applied extrudable material to a substrate. Many of these include the use either of chemical reagents to pre-treat the substrate, or the use of laser irradiation either as a pre-treatment (U.S. Patent No. 4,931,125 to Volkmann et al. and U.S. Patent No. 4,644,127 to LaRocca), a post-treatment (U.S. Patent No. 4,861,404 to Neff and U.S. Patent No. 4,636,609 to Nakamata), or simultaneous with the application of the material to the substrate (U.S. Patent No. 5,348,604 to Neff). U.S. Patent No. 4,931,125 to Volkmann et al. describes a method for pre-treatment of components using a laser beam to create projections and/or depressions in the substrate. This treatment is limited in the tjrpes of substrates to which it can be applied, and is generally useful only for non-porous substrates. Also, because of the multiple processes (pre-treatment, followed by bonding) required by this method, it may be expensive to implement in certain industrial environments.U.S. Patent No. 4,636,609 to Nakamata teaches the joining of two different kinds of solid synthetic resins, wherein the laser irradiation is used to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CJaim£
What is claimed is:
1. A method for applying an extrudable material to a substrate, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) generating a concentrated electromagnetic energy field;
(b) irradiating the substrate with a concentrated electromagnetic energy field with an energy sufficient to heat the substrate without causing pyrolysis of the substrate; and
(c) applying the extrudable material to the substrate at a location upon which the concentrated energy field was previously directed.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the concentrated electromagnetic energy field is generated by a laser.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the laser is a carbon-dioxide laser.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the laser is a linear diode array.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the concentrated electromagnetic energy field is generated using a substantially isotropic energy illumination source.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the isotropic energy illumination source is a high- pressure xenon arc lamp.
7. The method of claim 5 wherein the isotropic energy illumination source is a coiled tungsten wire.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the longitudinal axis of the coiled tungsten wire is longer than 5 mm.
9. The method of claim 5 wherein the energy from the substantially isotropic energy illumination source is collected using a reflecting surface.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the reflecting surface contains a shape selected from the group consisting of eUipses, circles and parabolas through one of its cross-sections.
11. The method of claim 5 wherein the energy from the substantially isotropic energy iUumination source is collected using a converging optical lens.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein irradiating the substrate includes the additional step of removing unwanted Ught frequencies.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein unwanted light frequencies are removed using a cold mirror.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the concentrated electromagnetic energy field has at least one cross-sectional dimension greater than 3 mm when it irradiates the substrate.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the method contains the additional step of treating the substrate to improve its absorption of electromagnetic energy, prior to the step of irradiating.
16. The method of claim 15, wherem treating the substrate involves the appUcation of a material to the substrate that strongly absorbs the electromagnetic energy.. 


 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the method contains the additional step of protecting the substrate from oxidation while irradiating by means of a stream of non-reactive gas which excludes oxygen-bearing atmosphere from contacting the substrate.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the extrudable material is a heat-activatable polyamide.
19. A method for applying a substantially transparent extrudable material to a substrate, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) applying the substantially transparent extrudable material to the substrate;
(b) generating a concentrated electromagnetic energy field;
(c) irradiating the substrate with the concentrated energy field at a location upon which the extrudable material has been previously applied with an energy sufficient to heat the substrate without causing pyrolysis of the substrate.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein the concentrated electromagnetic energy field is generated by a laser.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser is a linear diode array.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the concentrated electromagnetic energy field is generated using a substantially isotropic energy iUumination source.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the isotropic energy illumination source is a high- pressure xenon arc lamp.
24. The method of claim 22 wherein the isotropic energy illumination source is a coiled tungsten wire.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the longitudinal axis of the coiled tungsten wire is longer than 5 mm.
26. The method of claim 22 wherein the energy from the substantially isotropic energy illumination source is collected using a reflecting surface.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the reflecting surface contains a shape selected from the group consisting of ellipses, circles and parabolas through one of its cross-sections.
28. The method of claim 22 wherein the energy from the substantially isotropic energy illumination source is collected using a converging optical lens.
29. The method of claim 19 wherein irradiating the substrate includes the additional step of removing unwanted Ught frequencies.
30. The method of claim 29 wherein unwanted Ught frequencies are removed using a cold mirror.
31. The method of claim 19, wherein the concentrated electromagnetic energy field has at least one cross-sectional dimension greater than 3 mm when it irradiates the substrate.
32. The method of claim 19, wherein the method contains the additional step of treating the substrate to improve its absorption of electromagnetic energy, prior to the step of applying the extrudable material. 


 33. The method of claim 32, wherein treating the substrate involves the appUcation of a material to the substrate that highly absorbs the electromagnetic energy.
34. The method of claimlθ, wherein the substantially-transparent extrudable material is a heat-activatable polyamide.
35. The method of claim 19, wherein the substantially-transparent extrudable material is a light-activatable cross-linkable material.
36. An article made in accordance with the method of claim 1.
37. An article according to claim 36 comprising a plurality of substrates bonded together by the extrudable material.
38. An article according to claim 36 comprising a plurality of substrates in which at least one substrate is bonded to an object not made according to the method of claim 1, wherein the extrudable material bonds the substrate to the object.
39. An article made in accordance with the method of claim 19.
40. An article according to claim 39 comprising a plurality of substrates bonded together by the substantially-transparent extrudable material.
41. An article according to claim 39 comprising a plurality of substrates in which at least one substrate is bonded to an object not made according to the method of claim 19, wherein the extrudable material bonds the substrate to the object. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
