<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1124875</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR MAKING MICROCELLULAR POLYURETHANE ELASTOMERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G1812	C08G10100	C08G1848	C08G1879	C08G1800	C08G1800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G18	C08G101	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Microcellular elastomers and a process for making them are disclosed. The process comprises reacting a resin component ("B" side) with an isocyanate-terminated prepolymer ("A" side). Pre-reacting the right proportion of chain extender into an "A" side that also includes a high-primary, low-unsaturation polyol is the key to making low-density (less than 0.5 g/cm
<
3
>
) microcellular elastomers while avoiding problems with poor processing or inferior physical properties. The process is easy to practice, and provides lighter, high-quality polyurethane products, including protective sports equipment, arm rests or steering wheels for the auto industry, and midsoles or shoe soles for footwear.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to microcellular polyurethane elastomers and
a process for making them. The elastomers are valuable for a variety of
uses, most notably in automotive applications and footwear.Microcellular polyurethane elastomers are well known. They have
fine, evenly distributed cells, and densities that are low compared with
solid urethane elastomers yet high compared with flexible polyurethane
foam. Microcellular polyurethane elastomers are used in automotive parts
(e.g., bumpers and armrests), gaskets, vibration damping applications, and
footwear.While many ways to make microcellular polyurethane elastomers
have been revealed, most approaches fit into two categories: the "one-shot"
method and the "prepolymer" method. In the one-shot method, all
of the components (polyols, polyisocyanate, blowing agents, surfactant,
catalyst, chain extenders) are combined and reacted in a single step. In
contrast, the prepolymer approach pre-reacts the polyisocyanate with a
polyol to make a "prepolymer" (the "A" side) that is subsequently combined
with the remaining reactants including any chain extenders (the "B" side),
in a second step to make the elastomer. As U.S. Pat. No. 4,559,366
illustrates, it can be beneficial to make a "quasiprepolymer" by using an by
reacting the polyol with enough polyisocyanate to produce a mixture of
isocyanate-terminated prepolymer and free polyisocyanate. Such
quasiprepolymers are commonly used to boost the available NCO content
of the "A" side.It is also known to prepare prepolymers ("A" sides) from isocyanates
and polyol-chain extender mixtures. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,658,959 
teaches to make an isocyanate-terminated prepolymer from MDI,
dipropylene glycol, a polyoxypropylated/ethoxylated glycerine, and a
polyoxypropylated/ethoxylated glycol (see Example 1). The reference
polyols have up to 35 wt.% of ethylene oxide content, but an undisclosed
degree of "endcapping" or primary hydroxyl group content (see column 5,
lines 17-38). The reference is also silent regarding the unsaturation level
of the polyols. U.S. Pat No. 5,618,967 contains a similar disclosure. In
sum, these references suggest that neither the unsaturation level nor the
primary hydroxyl content of the polyols is important.U.S. Pat. No. 5,284,880 also shows (see, e.g., column 13, lines 30-45)
a prepolymer made from an isocyanate, a polyol, and a chain extender
(dipropylene glycol). This reference teaches, however, that the "A" side
polyol must be a "polyether containing predominately secondary hydroxyl
groups
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process which comprises reacting a resin component ("B" side)
with an isocyanate-terminated prepolymer ("A" side), optionally in the

presence of a blowing agent, a surfactant, and a catalyst, to produce a
microcellular polyurethane elastomer having a density less than 500

kg/m
3
;

   wherein the resin component comprises a mixture of a first chain
extender which is a compound having at least two active hydrogens and a number average

molecular weight of less than 400 and a first high-primary, low unsaturation polyol, which is a polyol having a number average molecular weight within the range of
500 to 50,000, at least 50% of the hydroxyl groups primary and less than 0.02 meq/g

of unsaturation measured according to ASTM-D 2849-69,

   wherein the prepolymer is made by reacting a polyisocyanate, a
second high-primary, low-unsaturation polyol, which is a polyol having a number average molecular weight within the range of

500 to 50,000, at least 50% of the hydroxyl groups primary and less than 0.02 meq/g
of unsaturation measured according to ASTM-D 2849-69, which may be the same

as or different from the first polyol, and a second chain extender, which is a compound having at least two active hydrogens and a number average
molecular weight of less than 400, which

may be the same as or different from the first chain extender, and

   wherein the second chain extender reacted into the "A" side
comprises from 5 to 60 equivalent percent of the total chain extender.
The process of claim 1 wherein the second chain extender
comprises from 10 to 40 equivalent percent of the total chain extender.
A microcellular polyurethane elastomer which comprises the
reaction product of:


(a) a resin component ("B" side) comprising a mixture
of:


(i) a first high-primary, low-unsaturation
polyol; which is a polyol having a number average molecular weight within the range of

500 to 50,000, at least 50% of the hydroxyl groups primary and less than 0.02 meq/g
of unsaturation measured according to ASTM-D 2849-69
(ii) a first chain extender which is a compound having at least two active hydrogens and a number average
molecular weight of less than 400;

and
(iii) optionally, a blowing agent, a
surfactant, and a catalyst; and
(b) an isocyanate-terminated prepolymer ("A" side)
comprising the reaction product of:


(i) a polyisocyanate; 
(ii) a second high-primary, low-unsaturation
polyol, which is a polyol having a number average molecular weight within the range of

500 to 50,000, at least 50% of the hydroxyl groups primary and less than 0.02 meq/g
of unsaturation measured according to ASTM-D 2849-69, which may be the

same as or different from the first
polyol; and
(iii) a second chain extender, which is a compound having at least two active hydrogens and a number average
molecular weight of less than 400, which may

be the same as or different from the
first chain extender;

   wherein the second chain extender reacted into the
"A" side comprises from 5 to 60 equivalent percent

of the total chain extender; and

   wherein the elastomer has a density less than 500
kg/m
3
.
The elastomer of claim 3 having a density within the range of 20
to 400 kg/m
3
.
The elastomer of claim 3 or 4 wherein the "B" side includes a
polymer polyol.
The elastomer of claim 3, 4 or 5 wherein the blowing agent is
water.
The elastomer of any of claims 3 to 6 wherein the polyisocyanate
comprises a mixture of a major proportion of 4,4'-MDI and a minor

proportion of carbodiimide-modified MDI.
The elastomer of any of claims 3 to 7 wherein one or both of the
polyols have a primary hydroxyl end group contents greater than 75%

and unsaturation levels of less than 0.007 meq/g. 
The elastomer of any of claims 3 to 8 wherein the second chain
extender comprises from 10 to 40 equivalent percent of the total chain

extender.
The elastomer of any of claims 3 to 9 wherein one or both chain
extenders are selected from the group consisting of ethylene glycol,

propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, triethylene glycol,
tripropylene glycol, ethylene diamine, and mixtures thereof.
A shoe sole comprising the microcallular elastomer of any of
claims 3 to 10.
A midsole comprising the microcellular elastomer of any of claims
3 to 10.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
