<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999053435</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TERMINAL FOR LIBRARIES AND THE LIKE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K1700	G06K1700	G06Q5000	G06Q5000	G07F700	G07F700	G07G100	G07G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06Q	G06Q	G07F	G07F	G07G	G07G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K17	G06K17	G06Q50	G06Q50	G07F7	G07F7	G07G1	G07G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A library terminal permits a user to execute a loan transaction without assistance. The library terminal (i) provides a visible scan line from a bar code reader indicating the correct positioning of the bar code on a circulating item, (ii) leads a user through a loan transaction, (iii) provides an explicit feedback to a user when an article has an improper position on the article receiving area, (iv) both checks out and checks in circulating items, (v) stores fonts in bit maps of screen displays instead of in a separate font memory, (vi) integrates a security marker reader, a printer, and a controller in the same housing, (vii) processes financial transactions related to the borrowing of circulating items, and/or (viii) displays actions for helping the user to correct errors in use of the terminal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRACE THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERGEN JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUNES MITCHELL B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAREL GERALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIEFFER MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON ROGER D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSOLEK GERALD G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCLEOD KATHLEEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWIETZ JOSEPH E JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLEMS RICHARD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WURZ RONALD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YORKOVICH JOHN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRACE, THOMAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERGEN, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUNES, MITCHELL, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAREL, GERALD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIEFFER, MICHAEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON, ROGER, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARSOLEK, GERALD, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCLEOD, KATHLEEN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON, JOHN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWIETZ, JOSEPH, E., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WILLEMS, RICHARD, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WURZ, RONALD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YORKOVICH, JOHN, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TERMINAL FOR LIBRARIES AND THE LIKETechnical Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a library terminal which may be used, for example, by borrowers to check circulating items out of, and/or to return circulating items to, a library.Background of the InventionMany businesses and other enterprises are increasingly automating their systems in order to reduce operating cost and improve service. When such systems are used by the customers of these businesses and other enterprises, automation typically involves self-service facilities which allow customers to satisfy their own requirements. For example, financial institutions and library systems are beginning to use self-service terminals in order to reduce costs and to improve service. In the case of libraries, the libraries' patrons may use these self-service library terminals to conduct at least some of their business with the libraries.Known self-service library terminals typically include a cradle on which circulating items to be checked out from, or returned to, a library can be placed. A scanner reads a code, such as a bar code, which has been placed 

on the circulating item by library staff and which identifies the circulating item. Typically the scanner projects a visible scan line in order to read the code. The visible scan line used by current scanners do little more than read codes, and are not arranged to provide information back to library patrons. Accordingly, known self-service library terminals are under-utilized.Known self-service library terminals also do not lead a user through a loan transaction and do not provide feedback to the user regarding the proper use of the self- service library terminal. For example, known self-service library terminals do not indicate to the user when a circulating item has been placed in an improper position on the cradle. Moreover, when known self-service library terminals are configured according to the specifications of a particular library, the configuration data is not conveniently generated and distributed to each of the self-service library terminals provided by a library. Accordingly, unnecessary expense and time consuming labor are required to configure the self-service library terminals of a library.In addition, known self-service library terminals typically rely on only one circulating item receiving area, such as a cradle, in order to receive circulating items whose codes are to be scanned by the scanner during check out and/or check in. This limitation means that either current
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS :
1. A library terminal comprising: an article receiving area arranged to receive an article; a code reader arranged to read a code on the article when placed on the article receiving area; and, a controller coupled to the code reader, wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader so as to project a visible indicator onto the article receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states, and wherein the controller is arranged to process a signal from the code reader corresponding to the code read by the code reader.
2. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein one of the first and second states is a blinking state.
3. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein one of the first and second states is a steady state.
4. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein one of the first and second states is an elongated length.
5. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein one of the first and second states is a shortened length. 

6. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein the first state is a blinking state having a first rate of blinking, wherein the second state is a blinking state having a second rate of blinking, and wherein the first and second rates of blinking are different.
7. The library terminal of claim 1 further comprising a proximity sensor arranged to sense proximity of a user.
8. The library terminal of claim 7 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader so as to project the visible indicator in response to the proximity sensor.
9. The library terminal of claim 7 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader in response to the proximity sensor so as to cause the visible indicator to change to the first state, and wherein the first state is a blinking state.
10. The library terminal of claim 7 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader in response to the proximity sensor so as to cause the visible indicator to change to the first state, and wherein the first state is a steady state. 

11. The library terminal of claim 7 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader in response to the proximity sensor so as to cause the visible indicator to change to the first state, and wherein the first state is an elongated length.
12. The library terminal of claim 7 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader in response to the proximity sensor so as to cause the visible indicator to change to the first state, and wherein the first state is a shortened length.
13. The library terminal of claim 7 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader in re- sponse to the proximity sensor so as to cause the visible indicator to change from the first state to the second state, wherein the first state is a blinking state having a first rate of blinking, wherein the second state is a blinking state having a second rate of blinking, and wherein the first and second rates of blinking are different.
14. The library terminal of claim 7 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader in response to the proximity sensor so as to change the visible indicator from the first state to the second state. 

15. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein the code reader is arranged to read a code on a circulating item.
16. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein the code reader is arranged to read a code on an identification card.
17. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein the article receiving area has an idle indicator thereon readable by the code reader in order to determine whether an article is placed in the article receiving area.
18. The library terminal of claim 1 wherein the controller is arranged to process both loans and returns.
19. The library terminal of claim 1 further comprising a monitor, a data storage memory, and a video display memory, wherein the data storage memory stores screen displays, and wherein the controller transfers the screen displays from the data storage memory to the video display memory for display on the monitor during interaction with a borrower.
20. The library terminal of claim 1 further comprising a connector, wherein the connector is arranged to couple the library terminal over a link to a circulation system, and wherein the controller is arranged to store loan 


transactions during periods when the link to the circulation system is down so that the loan transactions can be later transferred to the circulation system.
21. The library terminal of claim 1 further comprising a proximity sensor arranged to sense an article placed on the article receiving area.
22. The library terminal of claim l wherein the visible indicator indicates the correct position of the code on the article placed on the article receiving area.
23. A library terminal comprising: a display; a transducer; a code reader arranged to read a code on an article involved in a loan transaction; and, a controller coupled to the display, the transducer, and the code reader, wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader so to as read the code on the article, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display so as to lead a user through the loan transaction, and wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so as to provide an audible feedback having first and second on-states depending upon operation of the library terminal by the user. 

24. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the first on-state indicates proper operation of the library terminal by the user.
25. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the first on-state indicates improper operation of the library terminal by the user.
26. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the first on-state of the audible feedback indicates improper operation of the library terminal by the user, and wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the second on-state of the audible feedback indicates proper operation of the library terminal by the user.
27. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the first on-state of the audible feedback indicates improper operation of the library terminal by the user, and wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the second on-state of the audible feedback indicates that the library terminal needs servicing.
28. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the 


first on-state of the audible feedback indicates proper operation of the library terminal by the user, and wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the second on-state of the audible feedback indicates that the library terminal needs servicing.
29. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so as to provide an audible feedback having a third on-state, wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the first on-state of the audible feedback indicates improper operation of the library terminal by the user, wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the second on-state of the audible feedback indicates proper operation of the library terminal by the user, and wherein the controller is arranged to control the transducer so that the third on-state of the audible feedback indicates that the library terminal needs attention.
30. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the audible feedback is a first tone for the first on-state and a second tone for the second on-state.
31. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to control the display so as to provide a visible feedback of the operation of the library terminal by the user. 

32. The library terminal of claim 23 further comprising an article receiving area arranged to receive the article, wherein the article receiving area has an idle indicator thereon readable by the code reader in order to determine whether an article is placed in the article receiving area.
33. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the controller is arranged to process both loans and returns.
34. The library terminal of claim 23 wherein the library terminal is a self-service library terminal configured for use by a borrower in order conduct self-service loan transactions.
35. The library terminal of claim 23 further comprising a connector, wherein the connector is arranged to couple the library terminal over a link to a circulation system, and wherein the controller is arranged to store loan transactions during periods when the link to the circulation system is down so that the loan transactions can be later transferred to the circulation system.
36. The library terminal of claim 23 further comprising an article receiving area, wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader so as to project a visible indicator onto the article receiving area and so as 


to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states.
37. A self-service library terminal comprising: an article receiving area arranged to receive an article; a code reader arranged to read a code on the article when the article is placed on the article receiving area; and, a controller coupled to the code reader, wherein the controller is arranged to process signals from the code reader and to provide an explicit feedback to a borrower when an article has an improper position on the article receiving area.
38. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the article receiving area has an idle indicator, and wherein the controller is arranged to process a signal from the code reader corresponding to the idle indicator in order to provide the explicit feedback as to whether an article is placed in the article receiving area.
39. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 further comprising a security marker reader arranged to read a security marker attached to a circulating item, wherein the circulating item has a code thereon readable by the code reader, and wherein the controller is arranged to process 


signals from the code reader and the security marker reader in order to provide the explicit feedback.
40. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 further comprising a security marker reader arranged to read a security marker attached to a circulating item, wherein the article receiving area has an idle indicator thereon readable by the code reader in order to determine whether an article is placed in the article receiving area, and wherein the controller is arranged to process signals from the code reader corresponding to the idle indicator, and from the security marker reader corresponding to the security marker, in order to provide the explicit feedback.
41. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the article receiving area has an idle indicator thereon readable by the code reader in order to determine whether an article is placed in the article receiving area.
42. The self-service library terminal of claim 41 wherein the idle indicator is a code.
43. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to process both loans and returns.
44. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 further comprising a display, a data storage memory, and a 


display memory, wherein the data storage memory stores screen displays, and wherein the controller transfers the screen displays from the data storage memory to the display memory for display during interaction with a borrower.
45. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 further comprising a connector, wherein the connector is arranged to couple the self-service library terminal over a link to a circulation system, and wherein the controller is arranged to store loan transactions during periods when the link to the circulation system is down so that the loan transactions can be later transferred to the circulation system.
46. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the article receiving area includes a user card receiving area having a card idle indicator, and wherein the controller is arranged to direct a user to correctly position a user card on user card receiving area if the control- ler detects that the card idle indicator is not being read by the code reader.
47. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller determines that a library card is not correctly placed in the article receiving area when the code reader reads an article other than the library card before the code reader reads the library card. 

48. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the article receiving area includes a position sensor, and wherein the controller is responsive to the code reader and the position sensor in order to provide the explicit feedback when a circulating item is not in a reference position.
49. The self-service library terminal of claim 48 wherein the controller is arranged to direct a user to properly position an article when the code reader reads the code but the controller determines that the article is not properly positioned against a back wall of the article receiving area based upon the position sensor.
50. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the article receiving area is a first article receiving area arranged to receive an article of a first type, wherein the self-service library terminal further comprises a second article receiving area arranged to receive an article of a second type, and wherein the controller is arranged to direct a user to properly place the article of the second type at the second article receiving area if the controller determines that the article of the second type is improperly placed at the first article receiving area.
51. The self-service library terminal of claim 50 wherein the article of the first type has a first type code, wherein the article of the second type has a second type 


code, and wherein the controller is arranged to direct a user to place the article of the second type at the second article receiving area if the controller determines that the code reader reads the second type code when the article of the second type is at the first article receiving area.
52. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein circulating items have first type codes, and wherein the controller is arranged to direct a user to place one of the circulating items at the article receiving area if the code reader reads a second type code from an article at the article receiving area.
53. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to notify a user that the article has been previously processed if the code reader twice reads the code from the article before the article is returned by the user.
54. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein a circulating item has first and second codes thereon, and wherein the controller is arranged to direct a user to place the first code in a reference position where the first code can be read by the code reader if the controller determines that a user has placed the second code in the reference position. 

55. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to provide a notice if a user is conducting a transaction but the controller detects no activity for a predetermined amount of time.
56. The self-service library terminal of claim 55 wherein the notice directs the clearing of the self-service library terminal.
57. The self-service library terminal of claim 55 wherein the notice requests the user to indicate whether the user needs more time.
58. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the user has a loan card, and wherein the controller is arranged to block the user's loan card if the user is conducting a transaction but the controller detects no activity for a predetermined amount of time.
59. The self-service library terminal of claim 58 wherein the explicit feedback is an indication that the self-service library terminal must be reset before it can be used again.
60. The self-service library terminal of claim 58 wherein the explicit feedback is an audible tone alert to .indicate that the self-service library terminal needs attention. 

61. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to detect an error state, and wherein the controller is arranged to notify a user that the user may elect to continue a transaction upon detection of the error state.
62. The self-service library terminal of claim 61 further comprising a printer, and wherein the error state is the printer being out of paper.
63. The self-service library terminal of claim 61 further comprising a printer, and wherein the error state is the printer being out of service.
64. The self-service library terminal of claim 61 wherein the error state is a failure of a communication link.
65. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to detect an error state, and wherein the controller is arranged to block the transaction upon detection of the error state.
66. The self-service library terminal of claim 65 wherein the error state is the code reader being out of service. 

67. The self-service library terminal of claim 65 wherein the error state is a first error state, wherein the controller is arranged to detect a second error state, and wherein the controller is arranged to notify a user that the user may elect to continue a transaction upon detection of the first error state.
68. The self-service library terminal of claim 67 further comprising a printer, and wherein the first error state is the printer being out of paper.
69. The self-service library terminal of claim 67 further comprising a printer, and wherein the first error state is the printer being out of service.
70. The self-service library terminal of claim 67 wherein the first error state is a failure of a communication link.
71. The self-service library terminal of claim 67 wherein the second error state is the code reader being out of service.
72. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader so as to project a visible indicator onto the article receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states. 

73. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to direct the borrower to re-position the article.
74. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 further comprising a display device, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display device in order to lead the borrower through processing of a loan transaction, wherein the controller is arranged to detect an error in the processing of the loan transaction, and wherein the controller is arranged to control the display device in order to display an action for helping the borrower to correct the error.
75. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein the controller is arranged to direct the borrower to replace a circulating item involved in a loan transaction if the borrower removes an identification card from the article receiving area before placing the circulating item in a position to be read by the code reader.
76. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein, if a loan transaction is rejected with respect to the borrower, the controller is arranged to inform the borrower of the reason for the rejection. 

77. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein, if the borrower positions anything other than an identification card in a reading position with respect to the code reader before an identification card is positioned so that the identification card can be read by the code reader, the controller is arranged to direct the borrower to first place the identification card in the reading position with respect to the code reader.
78. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein, if data is incorrectly entered by the borrower, the controller is arranged to direct the borrower to retry entry of the data.
79. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein, if a circulating item has already been checked out by the borrower during a current transaction, and if the borrower attempts to check out the circulating item again, the controller is arranged to inform the borrower that the borrower has already checked out the circulating item.
80. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 further comprising a video receiver, wherein, if the borrower leaves a circulating item in a position to be read by the code reader while inserting a video into the video receiver, the controller is arranged to direct the borrower to remove the circulating item before inserting the video. 

81. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein, if the borrower places multiple articles together in the article receiving area, the controller is arranged to direct the borrower to place articles one at a time in the article receiving area.
82. The self-service library terminal of claim 37 wherein, if any part of the self-service library terminal is out of service, the controller is arranged to inform the borrower as to which part of the self-service library terminal is out of service.
83. A method of preparing configuration data for multiple self-service library terminals and of storing the configuration data in data storage memories of the multiple self-service library terminals, wherein the multiple self- service library terminals are configured by the configuration data to interact with users during loan transactions, the method comprising the following steps: a) preparing the configuration data on an administration terminal; and, b) transferring the configuration data from the administration terminal to the data storage memories of the multiple self-service library terminals. 

84. The method of claim 83 wherein at least a first of the self-service library terminals has a video display memory, and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: c) preparing bit maps representing screen displays; d) storing the bit maps in the data storage memory of the first self-service library terminal; and, e) transferring the bit maps from the data stor- age memory of the first self-service library terminal to the video display memory during interaction with at least one of the users.
85. The method of claim 84 wherein step c) com- prises the step of preparing the bit maps by use of a screen display editor which is separate from the first self-service library terminal.
86. The method of claim 84 wherein step c) com- prises the step of preparing the bit maps by use of a screen display editor which is part of the first self-service library terminal.
87. The method of claim 84 wherein step e) com- prises the step of transferring the bit maps from the data storage memory to the video display memory in order to render fonts. 

88. The method of claim 83 further comprising the step of reading a code on an article placed on an article receiving area of one of the self-service library terminals.
89. The method of claim 88 wherein the step of reading a code comprises the step of reading a code on a circulating item.
90. The method of claim 88 wherein the step of reading a code comprises the step of reading a code on an identification card.
91. The method of claim 88 wherein the step of reading a code comprises the step of reading an idle indica- tor on the article receiving area in order to determine whether an article is placed in the article receiving area.
92. The method of claim 83 further comprising the step of sensing proximity of the borrower.
93. The method of claim 83 further comprising the step of presenting the configuration data in screen displays to a user so as to lead the user through configuration of the self-service library terminal.
94. The method of claim 83 wherein the step of transferring the configuration data from the administration 


terminal to the data storage memories of the multiple self- service library terminals comprises the following steps: transferring the configuration data from the administration terminal to a first self-service library terminal; and, transferring the configuration data from the first self-service library terminal to a second self-service library terminal.
95. The method of claim 83 wherein the administration terminal is one of the self-service library terminals.
96. The method of claim 83 wherein the step of transferring the configuration data from the administration terminal to the data storage memories of the multiple self- service library terminals comprises the following steps: transferring the configuration data from a first self-service library terminal to a second self-service library terminal; and, transferring the configuration data from the second self-service library terminal to a third self-service library terminal.
97. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data includes bit maps. 

98. The method of claim 97 wherein the bit maps comprise first and second sets of bit maps representing screen displays in corresponding first and second different languages.
99. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data pertain to machine setup data.
100. The method of claim 83 wherein the configu- ration data pertain to language selection data.
101. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data pertain to bar code filters.
102. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data pertain to layout of receipts.
103. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data pertain to sends/selects.
104. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data pertain to upgrades.
105. The method of claim 83 wherein the configu- ration data pertain to diagnostics.
106. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data pertain to communication diagnostics. 

107. The method of claim 83 wherein the configuration data pertain to a host interface.
108. The method of claim 83 further comprising the steps of projecting visible indicators onto article receiving areas of the multiple self-service library terminals and changing the visible indicator between first and second visible states.
109. A library terminal comprising: a monitor; a data storage memory storing screen displays, wherein the screen displays include fonts; and, a controller, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display of the screen displays, including the fonts, on the monitor without performing font rendering from fonts stored separately from the screen displays.
110. The library terminal of claim 109 further comprising an article receiving area arranged to receive an article, and a code reader arranged to read a code on the article when placed on the article receiving area, wherein the controller is arranged to process a signal from the code reader corresponding to the code read by the code reader.
111. The library terminal of claim 110 wherein the article is a circulating item. 

112. The library terminal of claim 110 wherein the article is an identification card.
113. The library terminal of claim 110 wherein the article receiving area has an idle indicator thereon readable by the code reader in order to determine whether an article is placed in the article receiving area.
114. The library terminal of claim 109 further comprising a proximity sensor arranged to sense proximity of a borrower.
115. The library terminal of claim 109 further comprising a connector, wherein the connector is arranged to couple the library terminal over a link to a circulation system, and wherein the controller is arranged to store loan transactions during periods when the link to the circulation system is down so that the loan transactions can be later transferred to the circulation system.
116. The library terminal of claim 109 wherein the controller is arranged to control a code reader so as to project a visible indicator onto an article receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states.
117. A library terminal comprising: 


 a housing; an item receiving area incorporated in the housing, wherein the item receiving area is arranged to receive a circulating item; a video receiving area incorporated in the housing, wherein the video receiver area is arranged to receive a video; a reader supported by the housing and arranged to read the circulating item and the video when the circulating item is placed in the item receiving area and when the video is placed in the video receiving area; and, a controller, wherein the controller is contained with the housing, and wherein the controller is coupled to the reader.
118. The library terminal of claim 117 wherein reader comprises: a bar code reader supported by the housing and arranged to read a bar code on the circulating item when the circulating item is placed in the item receiving area; and, a video reader supported by the housing and arranged to read the video when the video is placed in the video receiving area.
119. The library terminal of claim 117 wherein the video receiving area is within the housing, and wherein the housing has an opening so that a video may be inserted into the video receiving area. 

120. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a magnetic stripe reader, wherein the magnetic stripe reader is contained with the housing, wherein the housing has an opening, wherein the opening is arranged to permit access to the magnetic stripe reader from outside of the housing, and wherein the controller is coupled to the magnetic stripe reader.
121. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a printer, wherein the printer is contained with the housing, wherein the housing has an opening, wherein the opening is arranged to permit access from outside of the housing, wherein the printer is arranged to print a document and to present the document through the opening to a borrower, and wherein the controller is coupled to the printer.
122. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a display, wherein the display is contained within the housing so that the display is viewable by a user, and wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to display screen displays to the user.
123. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a proximity sensor, wherein the proximity sensor is supported by the housing so that the proximity sensor is arranged to sense proximity of a user. 

124. The library terminal of claim 117 wherein the item receiving area has an idle bar code thereon readable by the reader in order to determine whether a circulating item is placed in the item receiving area.
125. The library terminal of claim 117 wherein the controller is arranged to process both loans and returns.
126. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a transducer, wherein the transducer is supported by the housing so that the transducer is arranged to provide an audible feedback of the operation of the library terminal by a user.
127. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a security marker reader, wherein the security marker reader is contained within the housing adjacent to the item receiving area, and wherein the security marker reader is arranged to read a security marker attached to the circulating item.
128. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a keypad, wherein the keypad is supported by the housing so that the keypad is arranged to interact with a user during returns and loans. 

129. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a CD receiver, wherein the CD receiver is contained within the housing, and wherein the housing has an opening so that a CD may be inserted into the CD receiver and may be read during a loan transaction.
130. The library terminal of claim 117 further comprising a connector, wherein the connector is arranged to couple the library terminal over a link to a circulation system, and wherein the controller is arranged to store loan transactions during periods when the link to the circulation system is down so that the loan transactions can be later transferred to the circulation system.
131. The library terminal of claim 117 wherein the controller is arranged to control the code reader so as to project a visible indicator onto at least one of the item receiving area and the video receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visi- ble states.
- Ill - 

132. A self-service library terminal comprising: a reader arranged to read identifications on articles involved in library loan transactions; and, a controller, wherein the controller is arranged to process signals from the reader corresponding to the identifications read by the reader, and wherein the controller is arranged to process financial credit transactions related to the library loan transactions and to remind a borrower of the borrower ' s account status.
133. The self-service library terminal of claim
132 further comprising a display, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to remind the borrower that a loan is a chargeable loan.
134. The self-service library terminal of claim
133 wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to request that the borrower pay a fee for the chargeable loan.
135. The self-service library terminal of claim 133 wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to request that the borrower pay a fee for the chargeable loan upon return of the article.
136. The self-service library terminal of claim 133 wherein the display is a monitor. 

137. The self-service library terminal of claim 133 wherein the display is a printer.
138. The self-service library terminal of claim 132 further comprising a display, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to remind the borrower of an overdue article chargeable to the borrower.
139. The self-service library terminal of claim 138 wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to remind the borrower to pay immediately for the overdue article.
140. The self-service library terminal of claim 138 wherein the controller is arranged to allow the borrower to continue a present loan transaction even though the borrower has not paid for overdue article.
141. The self-service library terminal of claim 138 wherein the controller is arranged to give the borrower the option of continuing a present loan transaction even though the borrower has not paid for an overdue article or of paying immediately for the overdue article.
142. The self-service library terminal of claim
132 further comprising a display, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to remind the borrower of a hold reserved for the borrower. 

143. The self-service library terminal of claim 132 further comprising a display, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to remind the borrower of a fine owed by the borrower.
144. The self-service library terminal of claim 132 further comprising a collection device, wherein the controller is arranged to interact with the collection device in order to collect a fine or a fee from the borrower.
145. The self-service library terminal of claim 144 wherein the collection device is a credit card reader.
146. The self-service library terminal of claim 144 wherein the collection device is a debit card reader.
147. The self-service library terminal of claim 144 wherein the collection device is a smart card reader.
148. The self-service library terminal of claim 144 wherein the collection device is a cash receiver.
149. The self-service library terminal of claim
132 further comprising a connector, wherein the connector is arranged to couple the self-service library terminal over a link to a circulation system, and wherein the controller is 


arranged to store loan transactions during periods when the link to the circulation system is down so that the loan transactions can be later transferred to the circulation system.
150. The self-service library terminal of claim 132 further comprising a display, wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to remind the borrower of a new charge.
151. The self-service library terminal of claim 150 wherein the controller is arranged to control the display in order to remind the borrower that the borrower can accept or reject the new charge.
152. The self-service library terminal of claim 132 further comprising an article receiving area, wherein the controller is arranged to control the reader so as to project a visible indicator onto the article receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states.
153. An arrangement comprising a self-service library terminal, a circulation system, and a communication link, wherein the communication link couples the self-service library terminal to the circulation system, wherein the self-service library terminal has a controller arranged to process a loan transaction of a borrower of a circulating 


item, wherein the controller stores the loan transaction during a period when the communication link between the self-service library terminal and the circulation system is down, and wherein the controller transfers the stored loan transaction from the self-service library terminal to the circulation system during a period when the communication link between the self-service library terminal and the circulation system is not down.
154. The arrangement of claim 153 wherein the self-service library terminal comprises an article receiving area and a scanner, wherein the controller is arranged to control the scanner so as to project a visible indicator onto the article receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states.
155. A library terminal comprising: a card receiving area arranged to receive a library card; a card reader arranged to read the library card when the library card is placed on the card receiving area; and, a controller coupled to the card reader, wherein the controller is responsive to the card reader in order to determine incorrect library card placement on the card receiving area. 

156. The library terminal of claim 155 wherein the card receiving area has an idle indicator, and wherein the controller determines that the library card is incorrectly placed on the card receiving area when the card reader fails to read the library card and the idle indicator.
157. The library terminal of claim 155 wherein the controller determines incorrect library card placement when the card reader reads an article other than the library card before the card reader reads the library card.
158. The library terminal of claim 155 wherein the controller is arranged to control the card reader so as to project a visible indicator onto the card receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states.
159. A library terminal comprising: a circulating item receiving area arranged to receive a circulating item; a scanner arranged to scan the circulating item when the circulating item is placed on the circulating item receiving area; and, a controller coupled to the scanner, wherein the controller is responsive to the scanner in order to determine when the circulating item is in the circulating item receiving area but is not in a reference position. 

160. The library terminal of claim 159 further comprising an indicator, wherein the controller controls the indicator to provide feedback that the circulating item is not in the reference position.
161. The library terminal of claim 159 further comprising a security marker reader arranged to read a security marker attached to the circulating item, and where- in the controller is arranged to control a sensing range of the security marker reader when the circulating item is in the circulating item receiving area but is not in a reference position.
162. The library terminal of claim 159 further comprising an item proximity sensor, and wherein the controller is responsive to the scanner and the item proximity sensor in order to determine when the circulating item is in the circulating item receiving area but is not in the refer- ence position.
163. The library terminal of claim 162 further comprising a back wall of the circulating item receiving area, wherein the item proximity sensor is positioned to detect when the circulating item is not against the back wall, and wherein the reference position is against the back wall. 

164. The library terminal of claim 159 further comprising first and second item proximity sensors, and wherein the controller is responsive to the scanner and the first and second item proximity sensors in order to deter- mine when the circulating item is in the circulating item receiving area but is not in the reference position.
165. The library terminal of claim 164 further comprising a back wall of the circulating item receiving area, wherein the first and second item proximity sensors are positioned to detect when the circulating item is not against the back wall, and wherein the reference position is against the back wall.
166. The library terminal of claim 164 further comprising a back wall of the circulating item receiving area, and wherein the first and second item proximity sensors are positioned to detect when the circulating item is skewed with respect to the back wall.
167. The library terminal of claim 159 wherein the controller is arranged to control the scanner so as to project a visible indicator onto the circulating item receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states.
168. A library terminal comprising: 


 a first circulating item receiving area arranged to receive a first circulating item of a first type; a first scanner arranged to read the first circulating item when the first circulating item is placed in the first circulating item receiving area; a second circulating item receiving area arranged to receive a second circulating item of a second type, wherein the first and second types are different; a second scanner arranged to read the second circulating item when the second circulating item is placed in the second circulating item receiving area; and, a controller coupled to the first and second scanners, wherein the controller is responsive to the first scanner in order to determine when the second circulating item is placed on the first circulating item receiving area.
169. The library terminal of claim 168 wherein the first scanner is a bar code scanner.
170. The library terminal of claim 168 wherein the first scanner is a dimension scanner.
171. The library terminal of claim 168 wherein the first circulating item is a book and the second circu- lating item is a video. 

172. The library terminal of claim 168 wherein the first circulating item is a book and the second circulating item is a CD.
173. The library terminal of claim 168 further comprising a security marker state setter arranged to set a state of a security marker attached to a circulating item, and wherein the controller is arranged to inhibit the security marker state setter when the controller determines that the second circulating item is placed on the first circulating item receiving area.
174. The library terminal of claim 173 wherein the state is a desensitized state.
175. The library terminal of claim 173 wherein the state is a sensitized state.
176. The library terminal of claim 168 wherein the controller is arranged to control one of the first and second scanners so as to project a visible indicator onto a corresponding one of the first and second circulating item receiving areas and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states. 

177. A self-service library terminal comprising a controller and a display, wherein the controller is arranged to detect an error state of the self-service library terminal and, while the self-service library terminal is in the error state, to notify a user through use of the display that the user may continue a transaction at the option of the user.
178. The self-service library terminal of claim 177 wherein the controller is arranged to detect first and second error states, wherein the controller is arranged to notify a user that the user may elect to continue a transaction upon detection of the first error state, and wherein the controller is arranged to block the transaction upon detection of the second error state.
179. The self-service library terminal of claim 177 further comprising a printer, and wherein the error state is the printer being out of paper.
180. The self-service library terminal of claim 177 further comprising a printer, and wherein the error state is the printer being out of service.
181. The self-service library terminal of claim
177 wherein the error state is a failure of a communication link. 

182. The self-service library terminal of claim 177 further comprising an article receiving area and a scanner, wherein the controller is arranged to control the scanner so as to project a visible indicator onto the article receiving area and so as to change the visible indicator between first and second visible states. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
