<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1990008564</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPOSABLE AUTOMATIC HYPODERMIC NEEDLE GUARD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M532	A61M532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A needle tip protecting device is provided for hypodermic needles, catheters and the like. The device is small enough to be stored at the base of the needle prior to and during use. After use it may be slid to cover the needle tip where it automatically self-attaches and becomes non-removable. Various embodiments of mechanisms to achieve this effect are described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANADA INC 167300
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANADA INC 167300
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIRCOM RICHARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOLOMON ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
Y USSEF M YOUSSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIRCOM, RICHARD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOLOMON, ROBERT, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
Y0USSEF, M., YOUSSEF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE: DISPOSABLE AUTOMATIC HYPODERMIC NEEDLE GUARD1. FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to the safe disposal of hypodermic needles by a guard device which protects the needle tip from exposure after use. More particularly, it relates to a tip protector which is storable on the needle and which automatically locks over the end of the needle when slid into position by the user.2. BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION2.1 The dangers of infection from accidental contact with the pointed end of used hypodermic needles has long been recognized and is well documented. For example, refer to Jagger, Hunt, Brand-Elnaggar and Pearson, the New England Journal of Medicine, August, 1988. In most procedures, the greatest avoidable risk of accidental needle puncture, or "needle-stick", occurs during handling of the used needle, when it is generally inserted into a protective sheath for disposal. This action usually requires moving the hand which holds the sheath towards the pointed tip of the needle, and any inaccuracy in this operation raises the possibility of a puncture. The risk of this is greatly increased if the operator is working under stress, such as time-pressure or fatigue, or is handicapped by marginal eyesight or unsteady hands.2.2 A number of devices have been developed to deal with the general problem of needle-sticks, and reference may be made to U.S. Patents 4,747,835 (Sandhaus);4,735,618 (Hagen); 4,735,617 (Nelson, Flome); 4,731,059 (Wanderer, Sagstretter); 4,725,267 (Vaillancourt); 4,720,285 (Pickhard); 4,623,336 (Pedicano, Kane); 4,430,082 (Schwabacher, et al), and 4,755,170 (Golden).2.3 Some of these, for example Sandhaus, Nelson/Flome, and Pedicano/Kane, provide an enlarged conical entry to the protective sheath, so that the resulting larger target reduces the chance of the operator missing the entry. This may be combined with some non-manual means of holding the sheath assembly, further reducing the risk. All of these devices require the operator to divert his attention from his immediate task and to exercise some measure of care in placing the needle into the sheathing device. 2.4 Others of these, for example Hagen and Vaillancourt, aspire to attain the desirable goal of keeping the hands wholly behind the sharpened tip of the needle during the manipulation of the protective device. The Hagen design stores the tip protector around the base of the needle, but in this mode the lateral retaining members are folded in an "arms akimbo" configuration, extending to either side of the needle in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention for which an exclusive right is claimed are a follows:
1. A needle tip protecting device for covering the tip of a needle comprising protecting means which is characterized by engagement means for automatically, non- removably, directly engaging the outer surface of needle with said protecting means when said protecting means is moved from a position on said needle, spaced from said tip, to a position where said protecting means encloses said tip.
2. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 in which said engagement means is characterized by:
(a) locking means adapted to lockingly engage with the outer surface of said needle and thereby restrain axial displacement of said protecting means with respect to said needle in the direction proceeding towards the tip of said needle, when said protecting means encloses said tip; and
(b) means to prevent re-emergence of said tip from said guard body upon attempted movement of said protecting means in the opposing axial direction.
3. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 2 wherein said locking means is characterized by a clamping means which applies a clamping force to said needle.
4. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 wherein said engagement means is characterized by comprising:
(i) a spring adapted to applying an engaging force to said needle when said spring is permitted to contract in a constricting fashion; (ii) a retention means positioned to hold said spring in a partially expanded condition such as which will permit said protecting means to be slid along said needle prior to enveloping the tip of said needle; and (iii) release means positioned to release said spring and permit it to lockingly engage said needle when said protecting means encloses said tip.
5. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 wherein said device comprises a body and said engagement means is characterized by:
(i) a locking element in the form of leaf means mounted in said body; (ii) an energy storage means; and 


 (iii) latch means for releaseably containing said energy storage means, whereby, upon entry of the needle tip within said protecting means, said leaf means is thereupon, by the release of said latch means, thrust by said energy storage means into jamming engagement with said needle.
6. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 5 wherein said leaf means is characterized by a pair of leaf elements that are conically deployed about said needle in a symmetrical fashion.
7. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 wherein said device is characterized by:
(i) a body, having a narrowing cavity therein; and
(ii) jaw means, contained within said cavity, said jaw means being biased to move into the narrowing portion of said cavity and lockingly engage said needle when said protecting means is positioned so as to envelop the tip of said needle.
8. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 7 wherein said jaw means is characterized in that it is a rolling element.
9. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 8 wherein said jaw means is characterized in that it is cylindrical.
10. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 8 wherein said jaw means is characterized in that it is spherical.
11. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 7 wherein said jaw means is characterized in that it is comprised of at least a pair of bisected conical segments that respectively contact said needle along their bisecting edges.
12. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 wherein said engagement means is characterized by comprising:
(i) a body having an interior cavity;
(ii) a locking plate positioned within said cavity, said locking plate having a hole therethrough, said hole being pierced by said needle; (iii) alignment means to maintain said hole and said needle in alignment while the needle tip is outside of said protecting means; and 


 (iv) canting means to cant said locking plate into locking engagement with said needle when said tip enters within said protecting means.
13. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 12 wherein said canting means is characterized by comprising energy storage means consisting of a spring means with a first end thereof in contact with said body and with the second end thereof in contact with said locking plate, the stored energy of said spring being thereby directed to bias said locking plate to be canted on said needle shaft.
14. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 12 or 13 characterized in that said alignment means comprises:
(i) a lever arm, with first and second ends, contained within said body and having the first end of said lever arm attached to a first end of said locking plate, and the second end of said lever arm in contact with said needle, said lever arm being aligned so as to prevent canting of said locking plate only so long as said needle tip is exterior to said needle protecting means; and said canting means comprises:
(ii) spring means positioned to bias said locking plate to be canted into locking engagement with said needle when said lever arm ceases to be in contact with said needle.
15. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 characterized in that it comprises:
(a) a body provided with a passage therethrough capable of enveloping a needle inserted therein, said body having a narrowing interior cavity;
(b) a locking means within said cavity capable of engaging and locking relative movement between said needle and said body in at least one axial direction of said needle;
(c) spring means within said body positioned to bias said locking element to advance into the narrowing interior of said cavity and lockingly engage said needle in at least one axial direction of said needle;
(d) latch means positioned to releaseably restrain said locking element from being advanced into said cavity;
(e) trigger means, positioned to release said latching means when the tip of said 


 needle is withdrawn into said guard body; and (f) containment means for preventing re-emergence of said needle tip from said body once the needle tip has been withdrawn into said body.
16. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 15 characterized in that:
(a) said latch means comprises a latching ball positioned between a shoulder on said locking element and a shoulder on said guard body, said latching ball being releaseably retained in a latching position against each of said shoulders by a coaxially displaceable retention means positioned to release said latching ball upon displacement of said retention means; and
(b) said trigger means comprises a second ball constituting a sensing ball, positioned so as to restrain said retention means from displacement, while said needle passes entirely through said guard body, and being positioned and biased to move into the path previously occupied by said needle upon withdrawal of the tip of said needle to within said body and thereby permit displacement of said retention means, release of said latching ball, and engagement of said locking means with said needle.
17. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1, characterized in that said device comprises:
(a) a body having a tapered interior cavity;
(b) a jaw element adjacent said needle;
(c) spring means positioned to bias said jaw element to move into jamming engagement between said needle and the tapering surface of said interior cavity;
(d) a retention member within said body, said retention member being biased to be displaced towards the tip of said needle;
(e) latch means in the form of a latching element releaseably held in a mutually engaging position between said jaw element and said body by said retention member,
(f) a sensing element disposed between said retention member and the inner end of said body most proximate to the needle tip, said sensing element being initially in contact with said needle and being biased to move into axial 


 alignment with said needle under the urging of pressure from said retention member, whereby, upon withdrawal of said needle past the point of contact with said sensing element, said sensing element will move into coaxial alignment with said needle and said retention member will advance in the direction of the tip of the needle and release said latching element, thus permitting said jaw element to effect engagement with said needle.
18. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 comprising:
(a) a body with a needle entry hole therethrough, which body is adapted to substantially surround the shaft of a needle and slide axially thereon;
(b) locking means associated with said body for fixing said body in a needle- protecting position over the tip of said needle comprising:
(i) means for applying a clamping force to said needle that will restrain relative movement between said guard body and said needle shaft in at least the axial direction for removal of the guard body from said needle shaft; and
(ii) means for prevention of the re-emergence of said needle from said guard once the tip of said needle has been withdrawn within said body;
(c) energy storage means within said protecting device for actuating said locking means; (d) retention means for releaseably suspending the actuation of said locking means by said energy storage means; and (e) trigger means for sensing the presence or absence of the tip of said needle within said protecting means and releasing said retention means when the tip of said needle is withdrawn into said body thereby allowing said energy storage means to actuate said locking means.
19. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 characterized in that said device comprises a sensing means for detecting the presence and absence of the needle tip within the protecting means and for activating engagement of said protecting means with said needle when said tip is drawn within said protecting means. 20. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 19 wherein said sensing means comprises 


a cylindrical member mounted in said device with its axis transverse to the axis of said needle, said cylindrical member being pierced by said needle and being biased to rotate about its axis but restrained from such rotation by the presence of said needle therethrough. 21. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 19 wherein said sensing means comprises a pivoting arm with a free sensing end, said arm being biased to rotate about a pivot point in a direction that tends to bring said sensing end into the path of said needle through said device, said arm being restrained from rotation by the presence of said needle in contact with said sensing end. 22. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 19 wherein said sensing means comprises a sensing element that is located adjacent to said needle when said needle passes entirely through said protective means, and is biased to move into the path of said needle through said device, thereby effecting engagement of said protective means with said needle. 23. An intravenous catheter assembly comprising an intravenous catheter with a base, an insertion needle and a needle tip protective guard as in claim 1, characterized in that said needle tip protective device:
(a) is coupled to and frictionally retained with said base of said intravenous catheter, with said insertion needle passing therethrough; (b) remains frictionally attached to said catheter base during withdrawal of said needle from said catheter, until the tip of said needle enters said needle protective device and is non-removeably engaged therein; and (c) thereafter may be detached from said catheter base by further axial withdrawal of said insertion needle. 24. A needle assembly comprising a needle having a base end and a pointed end wherein a needle tip protective device as in claim 1 is mounted on said needle in a stored position.
25. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 characterized by an outer, substantially cylindrical shell, rotationally isolated from said protecting means so as to prevent said protecting means from being disengaged from said needle by the application of an 


external rotational force, after engagement with said needle has been effected.
26. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 1 characterized by handle means for remotely moving said protecting means along said needle without direct manual contact with said protective means.
27. A needle tip protecting device as in claim 18 characterized in that said locking means and energy storage means comprise:
(a) a cylindrical coil spring having two end coupling elements and whose inner diameter in its free state is sufficiently less than the outer diameter of the needle shaft such as to generate a substantial frictional coupling with the needl when said spring is disposed on said needle shaft; and
(b) torque sustaining means adapted to apply torque about the axis of said coil spring to each end coupling element of said coil spring in relative directions such as to partially unwind and increase the diameter of said coil spring thereby placing said spring in a preloaded, unlocked state. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
