<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999017975</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RAILWAY TRUCK LEVELING VALVE ARRANGEMENT FOR CLOSER OVERALL HEIGHT CONTROL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60G1704	B60G17052	B60G2100	B60G2104	B61F502	B61F522	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B61F	B61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60G17	B60G17	B60G21	B60G21	B61F5	B61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A railway truck leveling valve arrangement for improved railway car floor height control comprises a pneumatic level regulating valve (26), a rigid, lightweight bar (14), and a leveling valve linkage (12). The level regulating valve (26) is connected to and mounted above a secondary air spring suspension (30). The rigid, lightweight bar (14) extends between the axleboxes (16) of the railway truck wheelsets (19), the railway truck wheelsets (19) being coupled to a primary suspension (28). The level regulating valve linkage (12) connects the level regulating valve (26) and the rigid bar (14). The level regulating valve (26) senses spring deflection in both primary and secondary suspensions (28, 30) and signals the secondary air spring suspension (30) to compensate for both deflections. Consequently, the correction of the overall railway car floor height by the secondary suspension provides more precise car floor to station platform height control.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUCKEYE STEEL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BUCKEYE STEEL COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLLEY RICHARD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLLEY, RICHARD, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RAILWAY TRUCK LEVELING VALVE ARRANGEMENT FOR CLOSER OVERALL HEIGHT CONTROLBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates in general to railway car trucks and, in particular, to railway truck air spring suspensions. More specifically, but without restriction to the particular use which is shown and described, this invention relates to railway truck leveling valves which better control the overall height of railcars.Description of the Related Art It is known that in passenger railway cars, especially for high-speed trains, the use of air springs absorb the track shocks and vibrations of the railway trucks such that the vibrations are not greatly perceptible in the railway car body. It is also known that air spring suspensions on railway trucks attempt to maintain an essentially constant railway car floor height relative to the railroad track and relative to the height of a station platform. The air spring suspensions attempt to maintain this constant floor height over an entire load range, that is, from an empty railway car to a full car. A constant railway floor height, for example, facilitates safer loading and unloading of passengers, especially disabled persons.U.S. Patent No. 5,588,367 issued to Scheffel generally teaches railway vehicle suspensions and is incorporated by reference. Typically, a passenger railway truck has both a primary and a secondary suspension system. The secondary suspension generally comprises air springs and provides the majority of the total equivalent spring deflection and is thus the dominant factor in determining passenger ride comfort. The primary suspension generally comprises elastomeric or steel springs and contributes to ride comfort to a lesser degree. The most vital function of the primary suspension is to provide adequate wheel load equalization so the train can safely traverse uneven track.Conventionally, the air spring height of the secondary suspension is controlled by a pneumatic level regulating valve connected to the air spring. The air spring is disposed between the truck side frame and truck bolster. Air springs are located on each side of the railway truck and it is customary to employ a level regulating valve with each of the air springs. Thus, the air springs for each railway truck maintain constant height and control the railway car floor height 

above the railway truck frame. As the railway car is loaded or unloaded with passengers, the level regulating valve controls the air pressure in the air springs in accordance
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A railway truck leveling valve arrangement for improved railway car height control comprising: a level regulating valve connected to a secondary suspension, a bar connected between a pair of railway truck wheelsets, the railway truck wheelsets positioned below a primary suspension, and a leveling valve linkage connecting the level regulating valve and the bar, whereby the level regulating valve senses deflection in both the primary and secondary suspensions and signals the secondary suspension to compensate for both deflections, thereby correcting the railway car height.
2. The railway truck leveling valve arrangement as in claim 1 wherein the secondary suspension is an air spring for supporting a railway car body and is mounted between a railway truck frame and a railway truck bolster.
3. The railway truck leveling valve arrangement as in claim 1 wherein the primary suspension is an elastomeric spring disposed between a railway truck frame and an axlebox of the railway truck wheelset for providing wheel load equalization and shock absorption of forces caused by the railway car traversing uneven railroad track.
4. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 1 wherein the primary suspension is a steel spring disposed between a railway truck frame and an axlebox of the railway track wheelset for providing wheel load equalization and shock absorption of forces caused by the railway car traversing uneven railroad track.
5. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 1 wherein the level regulating valve is a pneumatic leveling valve and is mounted above the secondary suspension.
6. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 1 wherein the bar is rigid and is connected between the axleboxes of the pair of wheelsets. 

7. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 1 wherein the bar is connected between unsprung elements of the pair of wheelsets.
8. The railway truck leveling valve arrangement as in claim 6 wherein the bar includes a telescoping device to accomodate small longitudinal motions which may occur between the connected axleboxes.
9. A railway track leveling valve arrangement for improved railway car height control comprising: a pneumatic level regulating valve connected to and mounted above a secondary suspension, a bar connected to a pair of railway truck axleboxes, the railway track axleboxes positioned below a primary suspension, and linkage means for connecting the level regulating valve and the bar, whereby the pneumatic level regulating valve senses deflection in both the primary and secondary suspensions and signals the secondary suspension to compensate for both deflections, thereby correcting the railway car height.
10. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 9 wherein the secondary suspension is an air spring for supporting a railway car body for providing passenger ride comfort and is mounted between a railway truck frame and a railway track bolster.
11. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 9 wherein the primary suspension is an elastomeric spring disposed between a railway track frame and the axlebox for providing wheel load equalization and shock absoφtion of forces caused by the railway car traversing uneven railroad track.
12. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 9 wherein the primary suspension is a steel spring disposed between a railway truck frame and the axlebox for providing wheel load equalization and shock absorption of forces caused by the railway car traversing 


uneven railroad track.
13. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 9 wherein the bar is rigid.
14. The railway track leveling valve arrangement as in claim 9 wherein the bar includes a telescoping device to accomodate small longitudinal motions which may occur between the connected axleboxes.
15. A railway vehicle suspension arrangement for railway car leveling including a primary suspension and a secondary suspension, the primary suspension including primary spring means for providing wheel load equalization, the secondary suspension including an air spring for supporting a railway car body, the improvement comprising: a rigid bar mounted between and connected to a pair of railway truck axleboxes, the pair of railway track axleboxes mounted to a pair of railway truck wheelsets, the primary suspension disposed between the pair of railway track axleboxes and a railway track frame which is suspended on the pair of railway track wheelsets for providing shock absoφtion of forces created by the railway vehicle traversing uneven railroad track, a level regulating valve operatively connected to the secondary suspension, and a leveling valve linkage connected between the level regulating valve and the rigid bar, whereby the level regulating valve senses both the spring deflection of the air spring of the secondary suspension and the spring deflection of the primary spring means of the primary suspension via the leveling valve linkage connected to the rigid bar which is mounted between the axleboxes and signals the secondary suspension to correct the total deflection, thereby correcting the railway car height.
16. The railway truck as in claim 15 wherein the level regulating valve is a pneumatic leveling valve and is mounted above the secondary suspension.
17. The railway truck as in claim 15 wherein the primary spring means
'
 is an elastomeric spring. 

18. The railway track as in claim 15 wherein the primary spring means is a steel spπng.
19. The railway track as in claim 15 wherein the secondary suspension is mounted between the railway truck frame and a railway track bolster.
20. A railway truck including a track frame mounted on at least two wheelsets coupled to one another by the track frame, each wheelset having an axle which has axle ends mounted in respective axleboxes, a truck bolster which has track bolster ends, the track bolster supported by the track frame, comprising: a primary suspension for providing wheel load equalization comprising an elastomeric spring for each wheelset located adjacent each axle end of each wheelset and positioned between the axlebox and the track frame, a secondary suspension for supporting a railway car body comprising an air spring positioned between each track bolster end and the track frame, a pneumatic level regulating valve positioned above the secondary suspension, a rigid bar mounted between the axlebox of one of the wheelsets to the axlebox of the other of the wheelsets, and a leveling valve linkage coupling the rigid bar to the level regulating valve, whereby the level regulating valve senses both the spring deflection of the secondary suspension air spring and spring deflection of the primary suspension elastomeric spring via the rigid bar mounted between the axleboxes and signals the secondary suspension to correct the total deflection, thereby correcting the railway car height.
21. The railway track as in claim 20 wherein the rigid bar further comprises a telescoping sleeve device to accomodate small longitudinal motions between the axleboxes.
22. The railway track as in claim 20 wherein the primary suspension comprises a steel spring. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
