<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997000444</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANIMAL EXHALATION MONITORING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B508	A61B5083	A61B5097	A61D1700	A61D1700	G01N33483	G01N33497	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61D	A61D	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61D17	A61D17	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus and a method for monitoring animal exhalation, to provide an indication of the condition of an animal is disclosed. Apparatus for collection and temporary or permanent storage of animal exhalation sample is disclosed, together with apparatus for conditioning a sample prior to analysis. A method of conditioning a sample prior to analysis is also disclosed. Use may be made of the above mentioned apparatus and method in the diagnosis of the condition of an animal. Conditions of interest include metabolic conditions of animals such as dairy cattle; these can be monitored by measuring analytes in the exhaled breath, emanations from the milk or both. Use may also be made of said apparatus and method in the detection of antibodies present in samples of blood, milk and mucus particulates in exhaled breath. It is preferred that the monitoring apparatus is portable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECH GROUP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTTRAM TOBY TREVOR FURY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECHNOLOGY GROUP LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTTRAM, TOBY, TREVOR, FURY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOTTRAM TOBY TREVOR FURY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOTTRAM, TOBY, TREVOR, FURY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANIMAL EXHALATION MONITORINGThe present invention relates to the monitoring of the exhalation of an animal in order to provide information about the animal. The information can relate to health, diet or other condition. The animal can be farm livestock such as cattle, domesticated animals such as cats, dogs and horses or poultry such as turkeys and chickens.Animals produce exhalations some of which are odours such as those from the skin, breath, milk and solid and liquid waste products. It is important that any monitoring is based on an accurately taken sample. GB 2272773 A discloses a method for the examination of the condition of a ruminant animal including sampling odours from at least one part of the animal with an olfactory sensor thereby to identify a specific aspect ofthe animal condition and apparatus to examine a ruminant animal including means to collect breath or other flow containing an odour ofthe animal as a sample, means to purge said collecting means, sensing means to receive said sample and identify at least one specific condition ofthe animal and means to supply an indication of said condition. The method and apparatus may be used to detect conditions such as oestrus, ketosis and other metabolic disorders of ruminant animals in general.GB 2272626A discloses the use of an olfactory sensor for the checking of any residual contamination after a teat cleaning operation. Purge air or gas can be used.It is an object of the present invention to provide an effective technique for monitoring livestock on the basis of exhalation from the livestock. Exhalation includes breath from the animal, vapour from milk or any other volatile materials emanating therefrom. Condition can be determined from a component of the exhalation, which component may be an odour or specific compound or other material. The composition of such exhalation can provide a valuable source of information regarding the animal's state of health. The determination ofthe presence of a particular component in the exhalation can be used to identify an animal's condition.In a first aspect ofthe present invention there is provided apparatus for collecting an exhalation sample comprising a housing having inlet and outlet means; a flow path between the inlet and outlet means; and a collapsible container positioned within the 

housing and in communication with said flow path; means for introducing the sample to the apparatus and means for expelling the sample from the apparatus. It is particularly preferred that the means for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Apparatus for collecting an exhalation sample comprising a housing; inlet and outlet means; a flow path between the inlet and outlet means; a collapsible container positioned within the housing and in communication with said flow path; means for introducing the sample to the apparatus and means for expelling the sample from the apparatus.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the housing comprises a rigid tube, in communication with the flow path at one end and at the other with means for facilitating the introduction or expulsion ofthe sample from the apparatus.
3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the end ofthe housing in communication with the flow path comprises inlet means for admitting the sample to the apparatus and outlet means for its expulsion.
4. Apparatus according to claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the housing is sealed to prevent the ingress of unwanted contaminants.
5. Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein sealing ofthe housing is effected by the use of closures, positioned at the opemngs ofthe housing.
6. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the closures are adapted to accommodate the inlet and/or outlet means.
7. Apparatus according to either claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the closures are adapted to accommodate the means for introducing and/or the exhalation means. 8. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the collapsible container is adapted for the collection and temporary storage ofthe sample.
9. Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the collapsible container is made of inert material such as to prevent contamination ofthe sample.
10. Apparatus according to claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the collapsible container comprises a length of plastic tubing, sealed at one end and in communication with the flow path at the other.
11. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the means for introducing the sample to and the means for expelling the sample from the apparatus facilitates the flow of exhalation through the apparatus. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the means for introducing the sample to the apparatus produces a reduced pressure within the housing in the region sunounding the 


collapsible container.
13. Apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the reduced pressure causes the collapsible container to inflate and thus facilitates the flow of exhalation through the inlet and into the collection apparatus. 14. Apparatus according to any one of claims 11 to 13 wherein the means for expelling the sample from the apparatus produces an increased pressure within the housing in the region sunounding the collapsible container.
15. Apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the increased pressure causes the collapsible container to collapse thereby expelling the exhalation, via the outlet means, from the collection apparatus.
16. Apparatus according to any one ofthe preceding claims wherein the inlet and outlet means are formed integrally.
17. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein the inlet and outlet means are independent of each other. 18. Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the inlet and outlet means and are constructed of inert material.
19. Apparatus according to any one ofthe preceding claims wherein the inlet and outlet means are adapted for agricultural use.
20. Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 19 wherein the inlet and outlet means are provided with valve means to selectively control the direction of flow of sample into or out ofthe apparatus.
21. Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the valve means comprises a two way valve.
22. Apparatus according to claim 20 or claim 21 wherein the direction of flow ofthe exhalation sample either into or out of the apparatus is regulated by use of electronic control means.
23. Apparatus according to any one ofthe preceeding claims which further comprises flow sensing means.
24. Apparatus according to claim 23 wherein the flow sensing means detect the flow of exhalation.
25. Apparatus according to claim 23 or claim 24 wherein the flow sensing means is 


connected to a central control unit where, upon detection of a flow of exhalation, actuation ofthe sample introduction means occurs thereby effecting flow of the exhalation into the apparatus.
26. Apparatus according to any one ofthe preceeding claims which further comprises temperature control means.
27. Apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the temperature control means are selected from an electrical heating element and a thermostatically controlled water jacket.
28. Apparatus according to claim 26 or claim 27 wherein the temperature control means suπound or forms part of the housing. 29. Apparatus according to any one ofthe preceeding claims characterised in that it is adapted to form part of an animal condition monitor.
30. Apparatus according to any one ofthe preceding claims characterised in that said apparatus is portable.
31. An animal condition monitor comprising inlet and outlet means for animal exhalation and any conveying medium; a flow path between said inlet and outlet means; component detecting means for identifying the presence and/or amount of one or more components ofthe exhalation; flow assisting means; signal processing and power control means wherein the output of the monitor provides an indication of the condition of the animal. 32. An animal condition monitor according to claim 31 which includes an inlet for animal exhalation and any conveying medium; a flow path from the inlet which comprises sensing means for monitoring and indicating flow ofthe animal exhalation and optionally the conveying medium, component detecting means for identifying the presence and/or amount of one or more components of the exhalation of the animal and flow assisting means; signal processing and power control means responsive to the output from the sensing and detecting means, and a power source; wherein the output of the monitor provides an indication ofthe condition of an animal.
33. An animal condition monitor according to claim 31 or claim 32 which further includes sample collection means for the collection and temporary storage ofthe sample. 34. An animal condition monitor according to claim 33 which includes sample collection means according to any one of claims 1 to 30. 


35. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 34 wherein the sample collection means are open to or in communication with the flow path ofthe animal condition monitor.
36. An animal condition monitor according to claim 32 which further includes a housing in communication with and open to said flow path, adapted for collection ofthe exhalation and other medium.
37. An animal condition monitor according to claim 32 wherein the housing further includes a resilient, collapsible container open to the flow path and positioned within the housing. 38. An animal condition monitor according to claim 37 wherein the resilient, collapsible container is disposable.
39. An animal monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 35 wherein the flow assisting means are provided instead of or in addition to the sample introduction and/or the sample exhaustion means ofthe sample collection. 40. An animal monitor according to claim 39 wherein the flow assisting means are positioned within the flow path.
41. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 40 wherein the flow assisting means ensures transfer of the exhalation and conveying medium from the inlet, through the flow path and into the housing. 42. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 41 which further comprises means for displacing animal exhalation and conveying medium from the housing.
43. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 41 which further comprises an exhaust path and exhaustion means for transfening the exhalation and conveying medium from the monitoring apparatus.
44. An animal condition monitor according to claim 32 wherein the detecting means are placed within the exhaust path.
45. An animal monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 44 which further comprises flow sensing means. 46. An animal condition monitor according to claim 45 wherein the flow sensing means are positioned within the flow path. 


47. An animal condition monitor according to claim 45 or claim 46 wherein the output from the flow sensing means is fed to the signal processing and powεr control means.
48. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 47 wherein actuation of the flow assisting means is effected in response to the detection of flow of exhalation in the flow path ofthe apparatus.
49. An animal condition monitor according to claim 48 wherein actuation ofthe flow assisting means is effected in response to the detection of flow of exhalation by the flow sensing means.
50. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 49 wherein actuation ofthe component detecting means is effected in response to the detection of flow of exhalation.
51. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 50 wherein operation ofthe apparatus is activated by the flow of animal exhalation.
52. An animal condition monitor according to claim 51 wherein activation is effected through the flow detecting means.
53. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 52 which further includes temperature monitoring and control means.
54. An animal condition monitor according to claim 53 wherein the temperature monitoring and control means are selected from a water jacket and electrical heating means. 55. An animal condition momtor according to any one of claims 31 to 54 which further includes humidity monitoring and control means.
56. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 55 which further includes dilution means for including or introducing a known quantity of a calibration gas into the sample. 57. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 56 characterised in that it is adapted to maintain the temperature and humidity of the sample within a predetermined range.
58. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 57 wherein the component detecting means are electrochemical detectors. 59. An animal condition monitor according to claim 58 wherein the electrochemical detectors are adapted to operate under ambient conditions. 


60. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 59 wherein the exhalation comprises emanations arising from the lungs or milk of an animal.
61. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 60 wherein exhalation does not include emanations from the rumen. 62. An animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 1 to 61 which further includes purging means.
63. An animal foodstuffs container which includes an animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 62.
64. An animal milking apparatus which includes an animal condition monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 62.
65. A method of monitoring animal exhalation comprising the steps of isolating said animal exhalation; contacting a component detecting means with the exhalation; monitoring the response ofthe component detecting means thereby producing a signal indicative ofthe condition ofthe animal. 66. A method according to claim 65 which comprises the steps of isolating animal exhalation; monitoring the temperature, humidity, pressure and velocity of the isolated animal exhalation; admixing with the exhalation, if required, a known quantity of the conveying and/or calibration medium and heating or cooling the sample or sample mixture to maintain the temperature and humidity within a specified range; passing over the component detecting means a mixture of a calibration and purging medium, the composition, temperature, humidity, pressure and velocity of which are within specified values; recording the response ofthe component detecting means to the calibration and purging medium mixture and determining a baseline response therefrom; passing over the component detecting means the treated sample, the temperature, pressure, humidity and velocity of which is within the same specified values as that ofthe calibration and purging mixture; recording the response ofthe component detecting means to the sample mixture; comparing the baseline response with the sample response thereby providing an indication of the condition of an animal; and passing a purging gas over the component detecting means at a reduced pressure until the response of the component detecting means conesponds to the aforementioned baseline response.
67. A method according to either of claims 65 or 66 wherein the component detecting 


means are electrochemical detectors.
68. A method according to any one of claims 65 to 67 wherein the sample and calibration and purging mixture are passed over the component detecting means for the same period of time. 69. A method according to any one of claims 65 to 68 wherein a proportion of the sample or sample mixture is diverted from the apparatus to an alternative analytical apparatus.
70. A method according to claim 69 wherein the alternative analytical apparatus is one or both of apparatus selected from a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer. 71. A method according to any one of claims 65 to 69 wherein the animal condition is a metabolic condition.
72. A method according to claim 71 wherein the metabolic condition is oestrus, ketosis or mastitis.
73. Use of a monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 64 in a method of monitoring the metabolic condition of an animal.
74. Use of a monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 64 in a method of diagnosis ofthe condition of an animal.
75. Use of a monitor according to claim 73 or claim 74 wherein the condition is selected from the group comprising oestrus, ketosis and mastitis. 76. Use of a monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 64 or a method according to claims 65 to 72 in detecting pathogens in milk.
77. Use of a monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 64 or a method according to claims 65 to 72 in screening animals for pathogens.
78. Use of a monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 64 or a method according to claims 65 to 72 in detecting antibodies in samples of breath, milk and mucus.
79. Use of a method according to any one of claims 65 to 72 in a method of diagnosis of animal condition.
80. Use of a method according to any one of claims 65 to 72 for monitoring the metabolic condition of an animal. 81. Use according to claim 79 or claim 80 wherein the animal condition is selected from the group comprising oestrus, ketosis and mastitis. 


82. Use of the output from a monitor according to any one of claims 31 to 64 and a method according to any one of claims 65 to 72 for use in a method of diagnosis of animal condition.
83. Use ofthe output according to claim 82 for monitoring the metabolic condition of an animal.
84. Apparatus for treatment of an animal exhalation sample prior to analysis comprising inlet and outlet means, a flow path between the inlet and outlet means and means for conditioning the sample.
85. Apparatus according to claim 84 wherein the means for conditioning the sample include temperature sensing means and means for controlling the temperature of the sample.
86. Apparatus according to claim 84 or claim 85 wherein the means for controlling the temperature is selected from an electrical heating element and a thermostatically controlled water jacket or equivalent. 87. Apparatus according to any one of claims 84 to 86 wherein the temperamre sensing means is placed within the flow path ofthe apparatus.
88. Apparatus according to any one of claims 84 to 87 wherein the conditioning means further includes humidity sensing means and means for controlling the humidity of the sample. 89. Apparams according to any one of claims 84 to 88 wherein the conditioning means further includes dilution means.
90. Apparatus according to any one of claims 84 to 89 wherein the conditioning means further comprise pressure sensing means.
91. Apparams according to claim 90 wherein the conditioning means further comprise pressure control means.
92. A method for treating an exhalation sample prior to its analysis comprising the steps of collecting said sample, determining its state and conditioning said sample accordingly.
93. A method according to claim 92 wherein conditioning the sample includes controlling each or a combination of the temperature, humidity pressure and extent of dilution thereof.
94. A method of sampling animal exhalation comprising the steps of collecting a 


sample of animal exhalation and storing it for subsequent analysis.
95. A method according to claim 94 wherein the collection ofthe sample is in response to the detection of flow of animal exhalation by the flow sensing means.
96. A method according to claim 94 or claim 95 wherein the collection of the sample is in response to the detection of non-rumen exhalations by the flow sensing means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
