<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002009264</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT FOR STARTING A SINGLE PHASE INDUCTION MOTOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02P116	H02P144	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02P1	H02P1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electronic circuit for starting a single phase induction motor, of the type containing a rotor and a stator with at least one running coil (B1) and one starting coil (B2), for operating jointly with an alternating current source (F), comprising: a trigger electronic switch; a trigger circuit (TR) of said trigger electronic switch; and a blocking circuit (BL) for controlling the trigger pulses of the trigger electronic switch, said blocking circuit (BL) sustaining its blocking state while there is voltage bing induced to the coils of the motor (M) by rotation of the rotor, maintaining said blocking state for a certain time after said induced voltage has been substantially reduced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRASIL COMPRESSORES SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHWARZ MARCOS GUILHERME
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE COMPRESSORES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHWARZ, MARCOS, GUILHERME
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARZ MARCOS GUILHERME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARZ, MARCOS, GUILHERME
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
"ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT FOR STARTING A SINGLE PHASE INDUCTION MOTOR" Field of the InventionThe present invention refers to an electronic circuit for starting a single phase induction motor, more specifically for starting induction motors having electronic circuits with a starting electronic switch. Background of the Invention Single phase induction motors are widely used, due to their simplicity, strength and high performance. They are used in household appliances, such as refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, hermetic compressors, washing machines, pumps, fans, as well as in some industrial applications. These single phase induction motors are normally provided with a cage type rotor and a coiled stator having two windings, one being for the running coil and the other for the starting coil. During normal operation, the running coil is supplied with an alternating voltage and the starting coil is temporarily supplied at the beginning of the operation, creating a turning magnetic field in the air gap of the stator, a necessary condition to accelerate the rotor and promote starting. This turning magnetic field may be obtained by supplying the starting coil with a current that is time-displaced in relation to the current flowing in the running coil, preferably at an angle close to 90 degrees . This time displacement between the currents flowing in both coils is achieved by constructive characteristics of the coils, or by installing an external impedance in series with one of the. coils, but typically in series with the starting coil. Typically, the value of the current flowing in the starting coil during the 

starting operation of the motor is high, being necessary to use a switch to interrupt this current after the time required for promoting acceleration of the motor has elapsed. In motors in which high efficiency is required, said starting coil is not completely disconnected upon completion of the starting period. A capacitor, namely a running capacitor, is kept in series with said starting coil, providing enough current to increase the maximum torque of the motor and the efficiency thereof .For a motor having such configuration, employing a permanent impedance in series with the starting coil during the normal operation of the motor, some starting devices of the PTC or electronic types are known, as described in US Patent No. 5,051,681. The known prior art starting circuits using a PTC as a starting device have some inconveniences, such as high energy consumption, as described in Brazilian document
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An electronic circuit for starting a single phase induction motor, of the type containing a rotor and a stator with at least one running coil (Bl) and one starting coil (B2), for operating jointly with an alternating current source (F) , comprising: a trigger electronic switch; a trigger circuit (TR) of said trigger electronic switch; and a blocking circuit (BL) for controlling the trigger pulses of the trigger electronic switch, characterized in that the blocking circuit (BL) sustains its blocking state while there is voltage being induced to the coils of the motor (M) by rotation of the rotor, maintaining said blocking state for a certain time after said induced voltage has been substantially reduced.
2. The electronic circuit according to claim 1, characterized in that the blocking circuit (BL) includes electronic switch elements that are kept in a situation of blocking the trigger pulses of the trigger electronic switch, by means of a timer of said blocking circuit (BL) .
3. The electronic circuit according to claim 2, characterized in that the electronic switch elements are kept in a blocking situation by voltage saturation.
4. The electronic circuit, according to claim 3, characterized in that the electronic switch elements are transistors (Ql, Q2) .
5. The electronic circuit according to claim 4, characterized in that the timer is a charge element.
6. The electronic circuit according to claim 5, characterized in that the timer is supplied by the trigger circuit (TR) .
7. The electronic circuit according to claim 6, characterized in that the starting electronic switch 


is a triac (S) having a first anode (Al) connected to a terminal of the alternating current source, a second anode (A2) connected to the starting coil (B2) of the motor (M) and to a terminal of a running capacitor (Cp) connected in series with the starting coil (B2), and a trigger terminal (G) connected to the trigger circuit (TR) .
8. The electronic circuit according to claim 7 , characterized in that the trigger circuit (TR) comprises a first capacitor (Cl) having one of its terminals connected to the second anode (A2) of the triac (S) , another terminal connected to a terminal of a first resistor (Rl) , the other terminal of said first resistor (Rl) being connected to the anode of a first Zener diode (Zl) , whose cathode is connected to the cathode of a second Zener diode (Z2), the anode of said second Zener diode (Z2) being connected to the trigger terminal (G) of the triac (S) .
9. The electronic circuit according to claim 8, characterized in that the trigger terminal (G) of triac (S) is connected to a first terminal of a second capacitor (C2) of the starting circuit (TR) , with the second terminal thereof being connected to the first anode (Al) of the triac (S) . 10. The electronic circuit according to claim 9, characterized in that the first and second Zener diodes (Zl, Z2) have a Zener voltage that is high enough to avoid current conduction across said Zener diodes (Zl, Z2) when the blocking circuit (BL) is in its blocking state.
11. The electronic circuit according to claim 10, characterized in that the Zener voltage of the first and second Zener diodes (Zl, Z2) is higher than 5 volts . 12. The electronic circuit according to claim 11, 


characterized in that the blocking circuit (BL) is formed by a complete rectifier bridge, having: a first input terminal connected to a common point connecting the anode of the first Zener diode (Zl) and the first capacitor (Cl) ; a second input terminal connected to the first anode (Al) of the triac (S) ; a positive output terminal connected to a terminal of a second resistor (R2) , to a terminal of a third capacitor (C3), to the emitter of a first transistor (Ql) , to a terminal of a fifth capacitor (C5) , and to the anode of a third rectifier diode (D3); a negative output terminal connected to the other terminal of the second resistor (R2), to the anode of a first rectifier diode (Dl) , to the terminal of a fourth capacitor (C4) , to the terminal of a third resistor (R3) and to the emitter of a second transistor (Q2), the cathode of the first rectifier diode (Dl) being connected to the other terminal of the third capacitor (C3) and to the anode of a second rectifier diode (D2), the cathode of said second rectifier diode (D2) being connected to the other terminal of the fourth capacitor (C4) , to the other terminal of the third resistor (R3) , to a terminal of a fourth resistor (R4) , and to the collector of the first transistor (Ql) , the other terminal of the fourth resistor (R4) being connected to the base of the second transistor (Q2), the base of the first transistor (Ql) being connected to the other terminal of the fifth capacitor (C5) and to a terminal of a fifth resistor (R5) , the other terminal of said fifth resistor R5 being connected to the collector of the second transistor (Q2) and to the cathode of a fourth rectifier diode (D4) , the anode of said fourth rectifier diode (D4) being connected to the cathode of the third rectifier diode (D3) . 13. The electronic circuit according to claim 12, 



characterized in that the first transistor (Ql) is of the PNP type and the second transistor (Q2) is of the NPN type.
14. The electronic circuit, according to claim 12, characterized in that the timer is defined by the fourth capacitor (C4) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
