<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002009284</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDUCTIVE PROXIMITY SENSOR AND RELATED METHODS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K1794	H03K1795	H03K19173	H03K19173	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K17	H03K17	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is disclosed an improved proximity sensor (100a - 100e), and a method of using same. A number of problems are identified in known sensors, e.g. ease of programmability, cost, operating power, operating voltage and accuracy. The invention therefore provides an inductive proximity sensor or switch (100a - 100e) comprising an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) (10), and a plurality of external components. The ASIC (10) is implemented in CMOS technology, and has an oscillator, a switch point of the sensor/switch (100a - 100E) being predetermined by a selection of a bias voltage to a potential node of the oscillator.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARDIE DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL CONTROL SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HARDIE, DAVID
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HONEYWELL CONTROL SYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARDIE DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARDIE, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INDUCTIVE PROXIMITY SENSOR AND RELATED METHODSFIELD OF INVENTIONThis invention relates to an improved proximity sensor and to methods relates to the use of same. The invention particularly, though not exclusively, relates to a programmable inductive proximity switch ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit) employing CMOS (Complementary MOS - Metal Oxide Semiconductor) technology.BACKGROUND TO INVENTIONA number of programmable proximity switches have been previously proposed. Particularly, programming of a proximity switch, and then final trimming thereof has been proposed in the art, eg. in: US 5,408,132 (Sorin Fericern, et al) ; US 4,713,602 (UEDA) ; and commercially available products from XICOR, INC of the USA which provide for remote trimming after construction. Also proposed has been an inductive proximity switch with a temperature dependent set point as in US 5,119,004 (HOEDIMAYR et al) . The content of the aforementioned prior art documents are incorporated herein by reference . Known proximity switches suffer from a number of disadvantages, and it is an object of at least one embodiment of the present invention to obviate or at least mitigate one or more of these advantages .It is amongst objects of a first aspect of the present invention to provide an ASIC for use in a proximity sensor which provides one or more of : ease of programmability; relatively low cost (for example by a factor of 4-5 less than bi-polar technology) ; low power for a smaller area; operation at a relatively high voltage compared with 

 normal CMOS operating voltages ,- an accurate indication of the rate of change of a velocity of a target.It is a further object of at least one embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention to provide and ASIC for a proximity sensor, the ASIC being implemented in CMOS technology and capable of operating at around at least 30Volts or higher.It is amongst objects of various embodiments of a second aspect of the present invention to provide an ASIC for a proximity sensor which: is implemented on CMOS technology; and wherein a gain/amplitude on a detection head is adjusted by modifying a bias voltage into an oscillator at a potential node. This in contradistinction to prior art devices wherein a set point has been set by the use of a plurality of series or parallel resistors which adjusted the gain/amplitude on the detection head.It is a further object of at least one embodiment of a second aspect of the present invention to set a switch point of an ASIC for use in a proximity
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1 . An inductive proximity sensor having at least one Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor ( CMOS ) component .
2. A sensor as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inductive proximity sensor comprises an inductive proximity switch.
3. A sensor as claimed in either of claims 1 or 2 , wherein the inductive proximity sensor includes a plurality of CMOS components.
4. A sensor as claimed in either of claims 2 or 3 , wherein the inductive proximity sensor comprises a proximity switch having a digital output .
5. A sensor as claimed in either of claims 2 or 3 , wherein an output of the inductive proximity sensor is analogue .
6. A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the CMOS component (s) are selected from one or more of: transistors, resistors, capacitors, fusible links, polyfuses .
7. A sensor as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the CMOS component (s) is/are made at least partly from silicon .
8. A method of manufacturing an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) for use in or as an inductive proximity sensor, the method including the step of forming one or more components of the ASIC by Complementary Metal Oxide Semi-conductor (CMOS) methodology.
An inductive proximity switch having an oscillator, a 


 switch point of the inductive proximity switch being predetermined by selection of a bias voltage to a potential node of the oscillator.
10. A switch as claimed in claim 9, wherein the selection of the bias voltage adjusts a gain or amplitude on the detection head.
11. A switch as claimed in either of claims 9 or 10, wherein the oscillator comprises at least part of an
Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) forming at least part of the inductive proximity switch.
12. A method of setting a switch point of an inductive proximity switch by selecting a bias voltage to a potential node of an oscillator of the inductive proximity switch.
13. An inductive proximity sensor including an oscillator and means for substantially maintaining an output voltage from the oscillator, the maintenance means comprising temperature compensation means.
14. A sensor as claimed in claim 13 wherein, the inductive proximity sensor comprises an inductive proximity switch.
15. A sensor as claimed in either of claims 13 or 14, wherein the temperature compensation means acts to maintain the output voltage if and when a temperature of the oscillator varies, in use.
16. A sensor as claimed in any of claims 13 to 15, wherein the temperature compensation means provide a temperature compensation signal which may be applied to a node of the oscillator.
17. A sensor as claimed in any of claims 13 to 16, wherein 


 the temperature compensation means comprises a temperature compensation circuit.
18. A sensor as claimed in claim 17, wherein the inductive proximity sensor provides a bandgap reference block circuit which acts to provide a bandgap reference block circuit voltage which is substantially constant with temperature, and which produces a variation signal indicative of any change applied to the temperature compensation circuit and so to the oscillator.
19. A method of maintaining an output voltage from an oscillator of an inductive proximity sensor comprising the steps of: providing temperature compensation means; establishing a temperature compensation signal from the temperature compensation means; maintaining the output voltage by means of the temperature compensation signal.
20. An inductive proximity sensor including an oscillator and wherein, in use, a bias voltage of the oscillator is selected by means of a plurality of successive approximation steps .
21. A sensor as claimed in claim 20, wherein the inductive proximity sensor comprises an inductive proximity switch.
22. A sensor as claimed in either of claims 20 or 21, wherein the inductive proximity sensor includes an n-bit convertor which suitably changes a voltage applied to a control node of the oscillator.
23. A sensor as claimed in any of claims 20 to 22, wherein the inductive proximity sensor includes an analogue-to- digital (a-to-d) converter. 

24. A method of selecting a bias voltage of an oscillator of an inductive proximity sensor including the steps of carrying out a plurality of successive approximation steps.
25. An inductive proximity sensor wherein an output functionality of the inductive proximity sensor is programmed or selected by application of a predetermined voltage to a power supply input of the inductive proximity sensor.
26. A sensor as claimed in claim 25, wherein the inductive proximity sensor comprises an inductive proximity switch.
27. A sensor as claimed in either of claims 25 or 26, wherein the application of the predetermined voltage causes one or more fuses to fuse (blow) .
28. A sensor as claimed in any of claims 25 to 27, wherein the predetermined voltage is applied to code signal processing means which produce a code signal which is applied to a plurality of fuses so as to fuse (blow) one or more of the fuses thereby setting a functionality of the inductive proximity sensor.
29. A sensor as claimed in claim 28, wherein the functionality is selected from: sink open, source open, sink closed, source closed.
30. A method of programming or selecting a functionality of an inductive proximity sensor including the step of: applying a predetermined voltage to a power supply input of the inductive proximity sensor.
31. An ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit) for use in an inductive proximity sensor or switch according to any of the preceding claims . 

32. An apparatus including an inductive proximity sensor or switch according to any of the preceding claims .
33. An inductive proximity switch as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings .
34. A method of manufacturing an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings .
35. An inductive proximity switch as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings .
36. A method of setting a switch point of an inductive proximity switch as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings .
37. A method of maintaining an output voltage from an oscillator of an inductive proximity sensor as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
38. A method of selecting a bias voltage of an oscillator of an inductive proximity sensor as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings .
39. A method of programming or selecting a functionality of an inductive proximity sensor.
40. An Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings .
41. An apparatus as hereinbefore described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
