<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2004038974</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MEASURING SAMPLE ARRIVAL RATES ON AN ASYNCHRONOUS TRANSPORT NETWORK
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1226	H04L1226	H04L1256	H04L1256	H04L2906	H04L2906	H04L2908	H04L2908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of providing improved accuracy of the calculation of the long-term average arrival rate (AAR) of an ATM packet stream is disclosed. Using this method, accurate synchronization of a receiver clock to a network clock is achieved. The invention measures the variable time interval, T, required to complete the arrival of a known and fixed number of data packets, C. Using a predetermined and relatively large number of data packets, a time interval measurement is accurately measured to very precise values. Because the time interval measurement is triggered precisely by the arrival of the first data packet to the complete arrival of the last data packet in the session, there is no quantization error with respect to the first and last data packet. AAR is then calculated as (C*S)/T, where S is the number of samples per data packet.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYCOM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POLYCOM, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINES PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINES, PHILIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RILEY, STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYSTEM AMD METHOD FOR MEASURING SAMPLE ARRIVAL RATES ON AN ASYNCHRONOUS TRANSPORT NETWORKCROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION[0001] This application claims the benefit of Provisional Patent Application, Serial No. 60/229,367, filed August 30, 2000, entitled "Improved Method Of Measuring Sample Arrival Rate For An Asynchronous Transport," which is incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention[0002] The invention relates generally to the synchronization of data transmissions over Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) networks, and specifically to a system and method for measuring long-term sample arrival rates in such networks .Description of the Related Art[0003] Standard analog faxes and modems are designed for use over analog telephone lines. However, these lines are expensive to use on a per-channel basis. Therefore, it is common in the industry to use Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) based services for these transmissions, such as Symmetric Digital Subscriber Lines (SDSL) , in order to minimize the per channel cost of communication. ATM based services utilize sophisticated modulation schemes to pack data onto copper telephone wires. As a result, a number of analog signals can be combined with digital data for transmission over a single existing copper telephone line.[0004] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a typical ATM network. Both digital and analog data may be transmitted by a synchronous network platform such as a Public 

Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) 110. The PSTN 110 includes a network clock 112. The PSTN 110 communicates with a communications hub 120. The communications hub 120 includes a hub codec 122 and a multiplexer/packetizer 124. Digital and analog data are sent from the PSTN 110 to the communications hub 120 where the analog signals are digitized by the hub codec 122. The rate of digitization, or sampling rate, is determined by the network clock 112. The digitized analog signals then pass through the multiplexer/packetizer 124, where the data is encapsulated into packets and sent over the network as a constant bit rate stream using an Asynchronous Transport Service 130, such as SDSL.[0005] FIG. 2 is a block diagram of the receiving side of the ATM network. The data packets are sent over the asynchronous transport service 130 and are received by an Integrated Access Device (IAD) 200. The IAD 200 ultimately separates the digital data from the analog data and sends it on to end user services, such as digital devices 210 or a*nalog devices 220. Examples
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method for measuring long-term arrival rates of data samples on an asynchronous transport network, the method comprising the steps of: counting a known and predetermined number of data samples in a session; measuring a time interval between the arrival of a - first data sample and the arrival of a last data sample in said session; and calculating a long-term average arrival rate of said data samples by dividing said known and predetermined number of data samples by said measured time interval of said session.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the data samples are contained within a plurality of data packets.
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein said session is a session with the largest number of said data samples in a set of sessions. 

4. A method for synchronizing a first clock rate of a network clock to a second clock rate of a receiver clock on an asynchronous transport network, the method comprising the steps of: counting a known and predetermined number of data samples in a session; measuring a time interval between the arrival of a first data sample and the arrival of a last data sample in said session; 
"
 calculating a long-term average arrival rate of said data samples by dividing said known and predetermined number of data samples by said measured time interval of said session; counting clock pulses output from said receiver clock to determine a value for said second clock rate; calculating a clock rate error variable, said variable being equal to the difference between said calculated long-term average arrival rate and said second clock rate of said receiver clock; and adjusting said second clock rate of said receiver clock by an amount equal to said clock rate error variable.
5. The method of Claim 4 wherein the data samples are contained within a plurality of data packets.
6. The method of Claim 4 wherein said session is a session with the largest number of said data samples in a set of sessions.
7. The method of Claim 4 wherein said long-term average arrival rate is an average rate of a number of different sessions. 

8. The method of Claim 4 wherein said long-term average arrival rate is a time-weighted average of previous sessions.
9. The method of Claim 4 wherein the step of adjusting said second clock rate, having a frequency R, comprises dividing down said frequency R of said second clock rate by a factor Z, such that said adjusted second clock rate is R/Z.
10. A system for measuring long-term arrival rates of data samples on an asynchronous transport network, the system comprising: means for counting a known and predetermined number of data samples in a session; means for measuring a time interval between the arrival of a first data sample and the arrival of a last data sample in said session; and means for calculating a long-term average arrival rate of said data samples by dividing said known and predetermined number of data samples by said measured time interval of said session.
11. The system of Claim 10 wherein the data samples are contained within a plurality of data packets.
12. The system of Claim 10 wherein said session is a session with the largest number of said data samples in a set of sessions. 

13. A system for synchronizing a first clock rate of a network clock to a second, clock rate of a receiver clock on an asynchronous transport network, the system comprising: means for counting a known and predetermined number of data samples in a session; means for measuring a time interval between the arrival of a first data sample and the arrival of a last data sample in said session; - means for calculating a long-term average arrival rate of said data samples by dividing said known and predetermined number of data samples by said measured time interval of said session; means for counting clock pulses output from said receiver clock to determine a value for said second clock rate; means for calculating a clock rate error variable, said variable being equal to the difference between said calculated long-term average arrival rate and said second clock rate of said receiver clock; and means for adjusting said second clock rate of said receiver clock by an amount equal to said clock rate error variable.
14. The system of Claim 13 wherein the data samples are contained within a plurality of data packets.
15. The system of Claim 13 wherein said session is a session with the largest number of said data samples in a set of sessions.
16. The system of Claim 13 wherein said long-term average arrival rate is an a e'- "p " _ - - : "
■
 .. . '_ --" different sessions. 


17. The system of Claim 13 wherein said long-term average arrival rate is a time-weighted average of previous sessions.
18. The system of Claim 13 wherein the step of adjusting said second clock rate, having a frequency R, comprises dividing down said frequency R of said second clock rate by a factor Z, such that said adjusted second clock rate is R/Z.
19. A machine-readable medium having embodied thereon a program, said program being executable by an electronic device to perform method steps for measuring and calculating long-term arrival rates of data samples on an asynchronous transport network, the method steps comprising: counting a known and predetermined number of data samples in a session; measuring a time interval between the arrival of a first data sample and the arrival of a last data sample in said session; and calculating a long-term average arrival rate of said data samples by dividing said known and predetermined number of data samples by said measured time interval of said session.
20. The machine-readable medium of Claim 19 wherein the data samples are contained within a plurality of data packets .
21. The machine-readable medium of Claim 19 wherein said session is a session with the largest number of said data samples in a set of sessions. 

22. A machine-readable medium having embodied thereon a program, said program being executable by an electronic device to perform method steps for synchronizing a first clock rate of a network clock to a second clock rate of a receiver clock on an asynchronous transport network, the method steps comprising: counting a known and predetermined number of data samples in a session; measuring a time interval between the arrival of a first data sample and the arrival of a last data sample in said session; calculating a long-term average arrival rate of said data samples by dividing said known and predetermined number of data samples by said measured time interval of said session; counting clock pulses output from said receiver clock to determine a value for said second clock rate; calculating a clock rate error variable, said variable being equal to the difference between said calculated long-term average arrival rate and said second clock rate of said receiver clock; and adjusting said second clock rate of said receiver clock by an amount equal to said clock rate error variable.
23. The machine-readable medium of Claim 22 wherein the data samples are contained within a plurality of data packets . 24. The machine-readable medium of Claim 22 wherein said session is a session with the largest number of said data samples in a set of sessions. 

25. The machine-readable medium of Claim 22 wherein said long-term average arrival rate is an average rate of a number of different sessions.
26. The machine-readable medium of Claim 22 wherein said long-term average arrival rate is a time-weighted average of previous sessions.
27. The machine-readable medium of Claim 22 wherein the step of adjusting said second clock rate, having a frequency R, comprises dividing down said frequency R of said second clock rate by a factor Z, such that said adjusted second clock rate is R/Z. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
