<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2000066034</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTRAVASCULAR HINGE STENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F290	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The hinge stent (5) is a balloon expandable or self-expandable intravascular endo-prosthesis used for treatment of vascular injury. The hinge stent (5) is formed of a single stent section (20) or of multiple stent sections joined together. Each stent section (20) has a node (15), and strut (10) structure extending throughout in order to uncouple expansion forces of the stent (5) to hold a blood vessel outward from crush forces that resist the formation of an oval shape during a crush deformation. Each node (15) includes a hinge (23) which is joined via a transition region to a strut (15). The hinge (23) can bend in the direction of a uniformly curved surface of the stent (5) but not in the radial direction. The strut (10) can bend in the radial direction but not in the uniformly curved surface of the stent (5). The widths, lengths, and radial dimensions of the hinges (23), and struts (10) provide a balloon expandable hinge stent (5) that is non-crushable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DRASLER WILLIAM J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIELEN JOSEPH M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DRASLER, WILLIAM, J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THIELEN, JOSEPH, M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRASLER WILLIAM J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIELEN JOSEPH M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRASLER, WILLIAM, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIELEN, JOSEPH, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Intravascular Hinge StentBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of InventionThe present invention relates to an expandable endoprosthesis that is placed within a tubular member ofthe human body to treat a region that is pathologically affected by supporting it or holding the tubular member outwards. More specifically the invention relates to an intravascular endoprosthesis placed within a blood vessel of the body generally at the site of a vessel lesion in order to provide a more widely open lumen and enhance patency of the vessel. The present invention further relates to a stent that can be used in blood vessels and tubular vessels ofthe body that have become stenotic or blocked by tissue or other material and require reestablishment of a lumen and maintenance of the lumen. Description of Prior ArtStents used to internally support tubular vessels of the body can generally be categorized into two groups, those that are mechanically expanded by an external device such as a balloon dilitation catheter, and those that are self-expandable. Advantages ofthe balloon expandable stents lies in part in the ability of these stents to be delivered accurately to the site of a stenotic lesion. The location ofthe stent prior to deployment or expansion can be visualized under flouroscopy and deployment ofthe stent is generally made by inflation of a dilitation balloon which expands the stent radially into contact with the inner surface ofthe vessel wall. After the dilitation balloon has been deflated and the dilitation catheter removed, the stent is left in place to 

balance radial forces applied by the vessel wall and ensure that the vessel lumen is maintained in a widely patent conformation.Some difficulties associated with balloon expandable stents can be related to their lack of flexibility and their inability to withstand external forces that can lead to irreversible crushing of the stent. Several stents exhibit a structure that will not easily bend around tortuous pathways found in the human vasculature to reach the site of the lesion in their nondeployed state. Other stents have a structure that is made more flexible but are not appropriately capable of supporting or balancing the radial forces applied by the vessel acting to compress the stent. A stent with a low radial balancing force characteristics may be expected to undergo an irreversible crushing action if exposed to an externally applied force. Arteries ofthe neck and leg region can sometimes be exposed to such external forces resulting in permanent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Various modifications can be made to the present invention without departing from the apparent scope hereof. WE CLAIM:
1. An expandable stent deliverable to the site of a lesion within a tubular vessel ofthe body in a nondeployed state with a smaller nondeployed diameter and capable of undergoing an expansion deformation to a deployed state with a larger deployed diameter and be implanted within the tubular vessel in order to hold the wall of the tubular vessel outward, said expandable stent comprising;
A. a first stent section, said first stent section being comprised entirely of nodes and struts with each of said struts extending between two of said nodes, said first stent section being formed of a plurality of repeat units, each of said plurality of repeat units being joined together to form said stent section,
B. each of said nodes having one or more hinges, said hinges providing for movement of said struts within a uniform surface of said stent section,
C. each of said hinges having a hinge width, a hinge length, and a hinge radial dimension which do not allow said hinges to bend in a radial direction due to a crush deformation and which allow said hinges to bend in a uniform surface of said expandable stent due to the expansion deformation and provide said expandable stent in the deployed state with an expansion force against the tubular vessel wall,
D. each of said struts having a strut width, a strut length, and a strut radial dimension which do not allow said struts to bend in the uniform surface of said expandable stent, and which allow said hinge to bend substantially elastically in the radial direction due to crush deformation and provide said expandable stent in a deployed state with a crush elastic bending force, whereby said expandable stent providing an uncoupling ofthe expansion force of said hinge from the elastic bending force of said strut such that these forces can be varied independently from one another.
2. An expandable stent deliverable to the site of a lesion within a tubular vessel ofthe body in a nondeployed state with a smaller nondeployed diameter and capable of undergoing an expansion deformation to a deployed state with a larger deployed diameter and be implanted within the tubular vessel in order to hold the wall ofthe tubular vessel outward, said expandable stent comprising; 


 A. a first stent section, said first stent section being comprised entirely of nodes and struts with each of said struts extending between two of said nodes, each of said nodes having one or more hinges and at least two transition regions,
B. said nodes and struts forming a continuous configuration extending continuously throughout said first stent section, said first stent section being deliverable as said expandable stent,
C. each of said hinges having a hinge width, a hinge length, and a hinge radial dimension which do not allow said hinges to bend in a radial direction due to a crush deformation and which allow said hinges to bend in a uniform surface of said expandable stent due to the expansion deformation, said hinges providing movement for said struts within the uniform surface of said expandable stent, and provide said expandable stent in the deployed state with an expansion force against the tubular vessel wall,
D. each of said struts having a strut width, a strut length, and a strut radial dimension which do not allow said struts to bend in the uniform surface of said expandable stent, and which allow said struts to bend elastically in the radial direction due to crush deformation and provide said expandable stent in a deployed state with a crush elastic bending force, whereby said expandable stent provides an uncoupling ofthe expansion force of said hinge from the elastic bending force of said strut such that these forces can be varied independently from one another.
3. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said hinge length, said hinge width, and said hinge radial dimension provide each of said hinges with a plastic deformation during the expansion deformation from a nondeployed state to a deployed state.
4. The expandable stent of claim 3 wherein said hinges undergo plastic deformation during expansion deformation and said struts undergo elastic deformation during crush deformation to provide said stent with being balloon-expandable and non-crushable.
5. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said hinge length, said hinge width, and said hinge radial dimension provide said hinges with an elastic deformation during the expansion deformation from a nondeployed state to a deployed state, said stent being self-expandable, said 


stent having an expansion deformation force controlled by said hinges and a crush deformation force controlled independently by said struts.
6. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said first stent section has a first stent section body having three or more struts per node.
7. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said first stent section is comprised of a series of struts and nodes forming a helical structure extending continuously throughout said first stent section.
8. The expandable stent of claim 7 wherein said helical structure is comprised of helical repeat units with one or more connecting nodes, each of said helical repeat units being joined to another of said helical repeat units located adjacently by one or more hinged interconnectors joined between connecting nodes of said repeat units.
9. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said hinge width, said hinge length, and said hinge radial dimension are modified near the ends of said expandable stent in comparison to the mid- length of said expandable stent to provide a tapered flexibility to said expandable stent.
10. The expandable stent of claim 1 further comprising a second stent section, said first stent section being joined to said second stent section by one or more hinged interconnectors, said hinged interconnectors having at least one strut (and two hinges) and being joined to a connecting node of said first stent section and a connecting node of said second stent section.
11. The expandable stent of claim 1 further comprising a second stent section, said first stent section being joined to said second stent section by one or more connecting elements, said connecting elements being comprised of a straight or curved element.
12. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said strut radial dimension is less than said hinge radial dimension to provide elastic bending of said strut in a radial direction during a crush deformation. 

13. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said hinge radial dimension is greater than said strut radial dimension to prohibit bending of said hinge in a radial direction due to a crush deformation.
14. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said hinge width is less than said strut width to allow bending of said hinge due to expansion deformation in a uniform surface of said expandable stent.
15. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said strut width is greater than said hinge width to prohibit bending of said strut in a uniform surface of said expandable stent.
16. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said strut length can be increased to increase flexibility of said stent to form an oval surface of said expandable stent due to crush deformation.
17. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said hinge length can be lengthened to provide less drop-off of expansion force and shortened to focus the deformation to a smaller hinge length.
18. The expandable stent of claim 17 wherein said hinge length is shortened to provide more plastic deformation to the hinge during an expansion deformation.
19. The expandable stent of claim 17 wherein said hinge length is shortened to provide a greater elastic expansion force outward against the vessel wall.
20. The expandable stent of claim 17 wherein said strut length, strut width, and strut radial dimension provide said struts with a smaller crush elastic force during a crush deformation than the expansion deformation force provided by said hinge length, hinge width, and hinge radial dimension, thereby allowing said expandable stent to undergo a crush deformation without affecting the expansion deformation of said expandable stent.
21. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein at least one of said nodes comprises a barb.
22. The expandable stent of claim 21 wherein said barb is held in a nonextended conformation during delivery and is allowed to extend to its fullest extent upon expansion of said expandable stent to a specific deployment angle. 


 57
23. The expandable stent of claim 21 wherein said barb is formed contiguously with said node.
24. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said stent is formed from an elastic metal with a high elastic modulus.
25. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said stent is formed from a metal that undergoes a plastic deformation during an expansion deformation.
26. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said stent is formed from a metal taken from the list including: Nitinol, stainless steel, titanium, tantalum, gold, platinum, and metal alloys.
27. The expandable stent of claim 1 wherein said stent is attachable to an intravascular graft to hold the intravascular graft outwards against the blood vessel wall, to reduce leakage of blood between a native blood lumen and the intravascular graft, or to prevent migration ofthe intravascular graft within the blood vessel.
28. An expandable stent deliverable to the site of a lesion within a tubular vessel in a nondeployed state with a smaller nondeployed diameter and capable of undergoing an expansion deformation to a deployed state with a larger deployed diameter, said expandable stent comprising;
A. a stent section, said stent section being comprised entirely of hinges and struts with each of said struts extending between two of said hinges, said hinges providing movement for said strut within a uniform surface of said stent section, said stent section being formed of a plurality of repeat units, each of said plurality of repeat units being joined together to form said stent section,
B. each of said hinges having a hinge width, a hinge length, and a hinge radial dimension which do not allow said hinges to bend in a radial direction due to a crush deformation and which allow said hinges to bend in a uniform surface of said stent section due to the expansion deformation,
C. each of said struts having a strut width, a strut length, and a strut radial dimension which do not allow said struts to bend in the uniform surface of said stent section, and which allow said struts to bend substantially elastically in the radial direction due to crush deformation, 


 whereby said expandable stent provides an uncoupling of the expansion force of said hinges from the elastic bending force of said struts such that these forces can be varied independently from one another.
29. An expandable stent deliverable to the site of a lesion within a tubular vessel in a nondeployed state with a smaller nondeployed diameter and capable of undergoing an expansion deformation to a deployed state with a larger deployed diameter and be implanted within the tubular vessel in order to hold the wall of the tubular vessel outward, said expandable stent comprising;
A. a stent section, said stent section being comprised entirely of hinges and struts with each of said struts extending between two of said hinges, said hinges providing for a movement of said struts within a uniformly curved surface of said stent section,
B. said hinges and struts forming a continuous configuration extending continuously throughout the axial length of said stent section, said stent section being deliverable as said expandable stent,
C. said hinges having a hinge width, a hinge length, and a hinge radial dimension which do not allow said hinges to bend in a radial direction due to a crush deformation and which allow said hinges to bend within in a uniform surface of said stent section due to the expansion deformation,
D. said strut having a strut width, a strut length, and a strut radial dimension which do not allow said struts to bend within the uniform surface of said stent section, and which allow said struts to bend elastically in the radial direction due to crush deformation.
30. An expandable stent deliverable to the site of a lesion within a tubular vessel in a nondeployed state with a smaller nondeployed diameter and capable of undergoing an expansion deformation to a deployed state with a larger deployed diameter and be implanted within the tubular vessel, said expandable stent comprising; hinges and struts with each of said struts extending between two of said hinges, and said hinges providing for a movement of said struts within a uniformly curved surface of said stent section, said hinges and struts forming a continuous configuration extending continuously throughout the axial length of said expandable stent, 


 said hinges having a hinge width, a hinge length, and a hinge radial dimension which do not allow said hinges to bend in a radial direction due to a crush deformation and which allow said hinges to bend within in a uniform surface of said expandable stent due to the expansion deformation, said struts having a strut width, a strut length, and a strut radial dimension which do not allow said struts to bend within the uniform surface of said stent section, and which allow said hinge to bend in the radial direction due to crush deformation.
31. An expandable stent deliverable to the site of a lesion within a tubular vessel in a nondeployed state with a smaller nondeployed diameter and capable of undergoing an expansion deformation to a deployed state with a larger deployed diameter and be implanted within the tubular vessel, said expandable stent comprising; hinges and struts with each of said struts extending between two of said hinges, and said hinges providing for a movement of said struts within a uniformly curved surface of said stent section, said hinges and struts forming a plurality of repeat units being joined together to form said expandable stent, said hinges having a hinge width, a hinge length, and a hinge radial dimension which do not allow said hinges to bend in a radial direction due to a crush deformation and which allow said hinges to bend within in a uniform surface of said expandable stent due to the expansion deformation, said struts having a strut width, a strut length, and a strut radial dimension which do not allow said struts to bend within the uniform surface of said stent section, and which allow said hinge to bend in the radial direction due to crush deformation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
