<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651015</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fiber-reinforced thermoplastic molding compositions using a modified thermoplastic polyurethane.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4500	B29C4500	B29K10512	C08G1800	C08G1842	C08G6300	C08G63183	C08G63685	C08J504	C08J504	C08K700	C08K714	C08L6700	C08L6700	C08L6702	C08L7500	C08L7500	C08L7504	C08L7506	C08L10100	C08L10100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29K	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08J	C08J	C08K	C08K	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C45	B29C45	B29K105	C08G18	C08G18	C08G63	C08G63	C08G63	C08J5	C08J5	C08K7	C08K7	C08L67	C08L67	C08L67	C08L75	C08L75	C08L75	C08L75	C08L101	C08L101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Thermoplastic molding compositions and 
articles comprise immiscible thermoplastic polymer 

components and reinforcing fibers. The immiscible 
thermoplastic polymer components and the fibers are 

blended together under high shear conditions. The 
molding composition generally contains at least two 

phases and has an extremely smooth and fiber-free 
surface. Generally, other very good physical 

properties are obtained such as high heat distortion 
temperatures, high tensile modulus, high flex modulus, 

and the like are also very good. A desired blend of 
thermoplastic components is thermoplastic polyurethane 

and modified polyethylene terephthalate with glass 
fibers. The molded polyethylene terephthalate 

copolyester blended with an immiscible thermoplastic 
polymer, preferably modified polyurethane, and glass 

fibers produces thermoplastic molding compositions and 
articles having surprisingly superior impact strength. 

In addition, if the thermoplastic polyurethane is 
modified by an aromatic polyester polyol, and blended 

with a modified polyethylene terephthalate, no fibers 
are necessary to produce co
mpositions having greatly 
improved processability. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GOODRICH CO B F
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE B.F. GOODRICH COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLYCHECK EDMOND GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSENG HSIUNGTO SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOLYCHECK, EDMOND GEORGE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSENG, HSIUNGTO SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to thermoplastic 
molding compositions and more particularly to a blend of 
generally immiscible thermoplastic matrix polymers including 
a copolyester, which can be readily combined with reinforcing 
fibers under moderate to high shear to provide a 
molding composition useful for molding parts substantially 
free from shrinkage and having very smooth substantially 
fiber free surfaces and markedly improved impact strength. Thermoplastic polymers combined with glass reinforcing 
fibers have been used in the past to produce molding 
compositions capable of being molded under heat and 
pressure to form plastic molded parts. Blends of thermoplastic 
polymers were often utilized in an effort to overcome 
deficiencies in physical properties of one or both 
thermoplastic polymers. The blends related to compatible 
or miscible polymers wherein the polymers were mutually 
soluble or one polymer was soluble in the other. If the 
two desired polymers were not miscible, then a third solubilizing 
polymer was added to provide solubilizing characteristics 
to the two desired polymers and impart compatibility 
to the overall polymeric mixture. In the past, in order to obtain a smooth surface 
on molded plastic parts, a two-component injection molding 
process has been utilized wherein a second polymeric composition 
was injected and molded over a first fiber-reinforced 
polymer to achieve a smooth surface lamina. The 
two-component molding process, however, is difficult to 
control and operate in that the two separate molding compositions 
require controlled extruded ratios of the respective 
polymers, and the like.  U.S. Patent 4,179,479 to Russell P. Carter, Jr. 
relates to novel thermoplastic polyurethane materials 
containing a processing aid. More particularly, the patent 
relates to a thermoplastic polyurethane composition comprising: 
(A) from 40 to 100 percent by weight of a thermoplastic 
polyurethane, (B) from 0 to 60 percent by weight of 
a thermoplastic polymer selected from the group consisting 
of thermoplastic polycarbonates, thermoplastic 
polyoxymethylenes, thermoplastic acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene 
graft copolymers, thermoplastic polybutylene 
terephthalates, thermoplastic polyethylene terephthalates, 
and mixtures thereof and (C) from 0.5 to 10 percent by 
weight based on the amount of (A) and (B), of a processing 
aid which is an acrylic polymer having a number average 
molecular weight of from 500,000 to 1,500,000. U.S. Patent No. 4,277,577 to Burg, et al.,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermoplastic molding composition having improved 
processability, comprising: 

   a fiber-reinforced blend containing a thermoplastic copolyester with a 
modified polyurethane component wherein, the modified polyurethane component 

is a polyurethane modified by an aromatic polyester. Wherein the amount of said 
thermoplastic copolyester is from about 10 percent to about 90 percent by weight 

and wherein the amount of said modified polyurethane component is from about 
90 percent to about 10 percent by weight based upon the total weight of said 

thermoplastic copolyester and said modified polyurethane component, and wherein 
the amount of said fibers is from about 5 percent to about 60 percent by weight 

based upon the total weight of said thermoplastic copolyester, said modified 
polyurethane component and said fibers. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 1 wherein 
said at least one other glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid of said copolyester are an 

alkane diol or a polyether glycol and/or an aromatic dicarboxylic acid. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 1 wherein 
said at least one other glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid of said copolyester is 

diethylene glycol and/or isophthalic acid. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 3 wherein 
said isophthalic acid is present in an amount of from about 2-5% of the total 

weight of acid in the copolyester and said diethylene glycol is present in an 
amount of from about 1-4% of the total weight of glycol in the copolyester. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 1, 
wherein said fibers are glass fibers. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 5, 
wherein said thermoplastic copolyester has a viscosity at said high shear at a 

processing temperature which is different than said modified polyurethane 
 

component and wherein the viscosity ratio of said high viscosity component to 
said relatively low viscosity component is from about 1.5 to about 200 during 

molding. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 1, 
wherein said aromatic polyester is polyethylene terephthalate. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 1, 
wherein said modified polyurethane is modified from about 2 to about 20 mole 

percent of an aromatic polyester. 
A thermoplastic molded article formed from the composition 
claimed in Claim 1. 
A process for molding a thermoplastic molded article, comprising 
the steps of: 


a) blending under high shear reinforcing fibers with from about 10 
percent to about 90 percent by weight of a thermoplastic copolyester and from 

about 90 percent to about 10 percent by weight of a modified polyurethane 
component based upon the total weight of said thermoplastic copolyester and said 

polyurethane component, wherein said modified polyurethane component is 
modified by an aromatic polyester, the amount of said fibers in said blend being 

from about 5 percent to about 60 percent by weight based upon the total weight 
of said thermoplastic copolyester, said polyurethane component and said fibers, 

and 
b) forming an article having a smooth surface layer essentially free of 
said fibers; wherei said copolyester is formed by the reaction of ethylene glycol, 

terephthalic acid and at least one other glycol an/or dicarboxylic acid. 
The process according to Claim 10, wherein said high shear is a 
shear rate of at least 100 reciprocal seconds. 
A process according to Claim 10, wherein said thermoplastic 
copolyester and said polyurethane component have a different viscosity in the 

presence of said high shear at a processing temperature, and wherein the viscosity 
ratio of said high viscosity component to said relatively low viscosity component 

is from about 5 to about 50. 
The process according to Claim 10, wherein said at least one other 
glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid of said copolyester are an alkane diol or a 

polyether glycol and/or a aromatic dicarboxylic acid. 
The process according to Claim 10, wherein said at least one other 
glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid of said copolyester is diethylene glycol and/or 

isophthalic acid. 
A thermoplastic molding composition, comprising: 
   a fiber-reinforced blend containing a thermoplastic copolyester with at 

least one immiscible thermoplastic polymer component, said blend containing an 
effective amount of said fibers to improve physical properties thereof and being 

prepared in the presence of at least moderate shear, said thermoplastic copolyester 
formed by the reaction of ethylene glycol, terephthalic acid and at least one other 

glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid, and said immiscible thermoplastic polymer 
component being selected from thermoplastic polyurethane, polyester-ether 

polymers block styrenic copolymers, polyether block amide, or ethylene propylene 
diene, said blend having a smooth surface essentially free of fibers when m
olded 
at high shear. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 15, 
wherein said at least one other glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid of said copolyester 

are an alkane diol for a polyether glycol and/or an aromatic dicarboxylic acid. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 15, 
wherein said at least one other glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid of said copolyester 

is diethylene glycol and/or isophthalic acid. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 15, 
wherein the immiscible thermoplastic polymer is polyurethane. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 15, 
wherein the amount of said thermoplastic copolyester is from about 10 percent to 

about 90 percent by weight and wherein the amount of said at least one 
immiscible thermoplastic polymer component is from about 90 percent to about 

10 percent by weight based upon the total weight of said thermoplastic 
copolyester and said at least one immiscible thermoplastic polymer component, 

and wherein the amount of said fibers is from about 5 percent to about 60 percent 
by weight based upon the total weight of said thermoplastic copolyester, said at 

least one immiscible thermoplastic polymer component and said fibers. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 15, 
wherein said fibers are glass fibers. 
A thermoplastic molding composition according to Claim 15, 
wherein said thermoplastic copolyester has a viscosity at said high shear at a 

processing temperature which is different than said at least one immiscible 
thermoplastic polymer component is from about 1.5 to about 200 during molding. 
A thermoplastic molded article, formed using the composition of 
Claim 15. 
A process for molding a thermoplastic molded article, comprising 
the steps of: 


a) blending under high shear reinforcing fibers with from about 10 
percent to about 90 percent by weight of thermoplastic copolyester and from 

about 90 percent to about 10 percent by weight of at least one immiscible 
thermoplastic polymer component based upon the total weight of said 

thermoplastic copolyester and said immiscible thermoplastic polymer component, 
said immiscible thermoplastic polymer component being polyurethane, polyester-ether 

polymers block styrenic copolymer, polyether block amide or ethylene 
propylene diene, the amount of said fibers in said blend being from about 5 

percent to about 60 percent by weight based upon the total weight of said 
thermoplastic copolyester, said immiscible thermoplastic polymer component and 

said fibers, and 
b) forming an article having a smooth surface layer essentially free of 
said fibers; wherein said copolyester is formed by the reaction of ethylene glycol, 

terephthalic acid and at least one other glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid. 
The process according to Claim 23, wherein said high shear is a 
shear rate of at least 100 reciprocal seconds. 
A process according to Claim 23, wherein said immiscible 
thermoplastic polymer component is polyurethane and wherein said fibers are 

glass fibers. 
A process according to Claim 23, wherein said thermoplastic 
copolyester and said immiscible thermoplastic polymer component have a 

different viscosity in the presence of said high sear at a processing temperature, 
and wherein the viscosity ratio of said high viscosity component to said relatively 

low viscosity component is from about 5 to about 50. 
The process according to Claim 25, wherein said at least one other 
glycol and/or dicarboxylic acid of said copolyester are an alkane diol or a 

polyether glycol and/or a aromatic dicarboxylic acid. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
