<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618135</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Machine for closing drums with a lid and a lever-operated closing ring or the like.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B728	B65B728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B7	B65B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Machine for closing drums with a lid and a lever-operated 
closing ring, or the like, which comprises means 

(8) for moving the drums along an advancement direction (4) 
and means (10a,10b) for supporting a lever-operated closing 

ring (6) in open position around a lid (7) which rests on 
the upper edge of one of the drums (3) on which the 

movement means (8) act. Along the advancement direction (4) 
there is a closing station (11) comprising means for 

stopping one of the drums (3) in the closing station (11) 
and means (25a,25b) for locking the closing ring. The 

station (11) also includes closing means (16) which can 
engage, when actuated, the lever (6a) of the closing ring 

(6) to move it from the open position to the closed 
position, in which the closing ring (6) engages around the 

lid and around the upper edge of the drum (3). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FAIM ITALIA SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
F.A.I.M. ITALIA S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODESCHINI VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TODESCHINI, VITTORIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a machine for closing 
drums with a lid and a lever-operated closing ring or the 
like. Drums are known which have a substantially cylindrical 
body open at its top flat surface and have, at this open 
flat surface, a flanged edge on which the edge of a lid 
rests, with the possible interposition of a sealing gasket. 
These drums are generally closed by using a lever-operated 
ring having a circular body with a substantially C-shaped 
radial cross-section, so as to engage below the flanged 
edge of the drum and above the edge of the lid. These 
closing rings have a discontinuity along their 
circumferential extension, and at this discontinuity the 
two portions of the ring are mutually superimposed and can 
slide inside one another. The end of a lever is also 
pivoted to one of these portions at this discontinuity, 
said lever being connected to the other portion by means of 
a link or of a pair of links, one end of which is pivoted 
to an intermediate portion of the lever while the opposite 
end is pivoted to the other portion of the ring. In open 
position, the lever is orientated along a direction 
substantially radial with respect to the ring, and its 
oscillation toward the ring portion to which it is pivoted 
is allowed only in one direction, due to the link or pair 
of links connecting it to the other portion, and causes the 
circumferential sliding of this portion along the other 
portion and consequently a reduction in the total diameter 
of the ring which closes the ring around the upper edge of  
 
the drum, rigidly coupling the lid thereto. Drums which use a lever-operated closing ring are 
currently closed manually in onerous working conditions for 
the operators, who must keep the pace of modern filling 
lines in order to avoid excessively penalizing the 
productivity of these facilities. The problem of fatigue combines with the problem of 
safety, since manual closing of the levers can cause 
accidental injuries to the operators. The aim of the present invention is to solve the 
problems described above by providing a machine which can 
automatically close drums with a lid and a lever-operated 
closing ring, or the like. Another object of the present invention is to provide 
a machine which can close drums at a working rate which 
allows to fully exploit the productivity of modern filling 
machines. Another object of the invention is to provide a 
machine highly reliable in operation. A further object of the invention is to provide a 
machine which can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Machine for closing drums with a lid and a lever-operated 
closing ring or the like, comprising: means (8,9) 

for moving the drums (3) along an advancement direction 
(4); means (10a,10b) for supporting a closing ring (6) in 

an open position around a lid (7) which rests on the upper 
edge of one of the drums (3); a closing station (11) 

comprising means (12) for stopping one of said drums (3) in 
said closing station (11); means (25a,25b) for locking said 

closing ring (6); and closing means (16) which can engage, 
when actuated, the lever (6a) of said closing ring (6) to 

move it from the open position to the closed position, in 
which said closing ring (6) engages around said lid (7) and 

around the upper edge of said drum (3). 
Machine according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said closing means comprise a presser element (16) which 

can move, when actuated, along a substantially vertical 
direction from an inactive position, in which said presser 

element (16) is spaced upward from the lid (7) which rests 
on the upper edge of the drum (3), to an active position, 

in which said presser element (16) acts with a preset 
pressure on said lid (7) in the direction of the underlying 

drum (3). 
Machine according to claims 1 and 2, characterized 
in that said closing means comprise an arm (20) which is 

pivoted, with one of its ends, to said presser element (16) 
about an axis substantially parallel to, and spaced from, 

the axis of said drum (3) located in said closing station 
(11), said arm (20) protruding with its other end laterally 

 
beyond the space occupied by said closing ring (6) and 

being able to oscillate, when actuated, about its pivoting 
axis with respect to said presser element (16) to act, with 

one of its portions, on the lever (6a) of said closing ring 
(6) to move it from the open position to the closed 

position. 
Machine according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said stopping means (12) 

comprise two oppositely arranged abutments (13a,13b) which 
can move, when actuated, transversely to said advancement 

direction (4) to engage against two portions of the lateral 
surface of the drum (3). 
Machine according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said locking means comprise 

at least one pair of presser elements (25a,25b) which are 

arranged laterally to said closing ring (6) and can engage, 
when actuated, two portions of said closing ring (6) 

mutually spaced around the axis of the closing ring (6), 
said pair of presser elements (25a,25b) acting on said 

closing ring (6) with forces directed toward the axis of 
said closing ring (6) and with mutually opposite components 

to lock the rotation and translatory motion of said closing 
ring (6) in its plane of arrangement. 
Machine according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises means (27) for 

arranging the closing lever (6a) of said closing ring (6) 
in a position suitable to be engaged by said arm (20) of 

the closing means (16), said positioning means (27) being 
controllably disengageable from said closing lever (6a) 

when said arm (20) is actuated. 
Machine according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said positioning means (27) 

comprise a rod which is arranged substantially transversely 
to said advancement direction (4) and can move, when 

actuated, along its longitudinal axis from an inactive 
position, in which it does not interfere with the lever 

(6a) of said closing ring (6), to an active position, in 
which it retains said lever (6a) of the closing ring (6) at 

said arm (20) of the closing means (16). 
Machine according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said closing means (16), said 

means (10a,10b) for supporting the closing ring (6) and 
said means (25a,25b) for locking the closing ring (6) can 

be adjusted along a substantially vertical direction 
according to the height of the drum (3). 
Machine according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said means (8) for moving the 

drums are constituted by a conveyor belt. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
