<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653864</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Predictive collision avoidance method and apparatus for wireless communications
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1228	H04L12413	H04L1228	H04L12407	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is disclosed for reducing collision of message packets 
sent by a station in a wireless communication medium used by at least two 

stations for communication. The method includes permitting access to the 
medium by each station requiring use of the medium immediately if the 

medium has been inactive longer than one predetermined delay amount of 
time and imposing a length of delay in permitting access to the medium by 

each of the stations if the medium is in use. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTLEY LEE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTLEY, LEE F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for
increasing throughput on a wireless local area network (LAN) by reducing
the likelihood of collision between simultaneous transmissions from
different stations on the network.In the computing industry local area networks for the transfer of
information or data between a plurality of data processing units are
quite common. A typical local area network comprises a number of devices
which I will call stations which are interconnected by a cable. The
stations can include computers, printers and other devices. With the
advent of new types of computers such as the laptops, notebooks and
personal digital assistants (PDA) a need has developed for the
implementation of a system that is more flexible than a cable connected
local area network. Accordingly, Radio Frequency (RF) and infrared (IR)
communication systems have been developed to permit portable and other
data processing devices to communicate with each other. As will be
recognized a local area network formed by a variety of devices coupled by
infrared or RF may be extremely flexible in structure in that a number of
stations may enter or leave the system without notice. New stations may
connect to the LAN simply by being within range of the other stations.
In these types of wireless local area networks no base controller is
required. The communications are typically peer-to-peer. Accordingly, it
is more than likely that two or more stations will try to initiate
communications simultaneously with each other with the resulting
collision of transmissions and garbling of any data within them. This
results from the fact that only a single medium is used for the
transmission in the case of RF only a single band in the case of infrared
a single wavelength likewise.Accordingly, it is desirable for some form of collision avoidance
apparatus or methods to be applied to reduce the likelihood of collisions
between the transmissions of different stations. In the case of the
wired local are network transmitting stations may be equipped with
circuitry to detect whether a collision has occurred. In the case of a
wireless system it is currently impossible for stations transmitting to
detect whether a collision has occurred and therefor it is important that
a method of avoiding a collision be instituted to reduce the likelihood 
of collisions and therefor maximize the throughput of any communications
medium and network used.U.S. Patent 4,661,902 issued April 28, 1987 discloses a wired local
area network with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of reducing collision of message packets sent by a station
in a wireless communication network used by a least two stations for

communication over a medium, the method 
characterised in
 comprising:

permitting access to the medium by each station requiring use of the
medium immediately if the medium has been inactive longer than one

predetermined delay amount of time;
and imposing a length of delay in permitting access to the medium by
each of the stations if the medium is in use.
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the length of delay imposed
on the stations is established by imposing random periods of waiting for

the stations wherein the random periods are comprised of multiples of a
selected unit of time which is greater than the carrier sense time of the

medium between stations; and

   wherein the carrier sense time of the medium is the time period
required for a signal sent by one station to reach and be detected by

another station.
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the random periods of
waiting are determined at the respective stations independently of each

other.
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein each the random period of
waiting is selected by a host associated with each station.
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein each the random period of
waiting is selected by the station in response to a transmit command from

its associated host.
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the random waiting initially
imposed at each station is stepped units of time towards a preselected

value whereupon transmission will be enabled at the first station
reaching the predetermined value.
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the stepping is halted
during times of channel activity. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein stations newly requiring
access to the communication medium select random periods of waiting for

use in accessing the communications medium.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 5 wherein the predetermined delay
amount of time is at least equal to the communications network interface

spacing time period.
Apparatus for controlling communication in a wireless communication
station to reduce the chance of collision of message packets sent by the

station with messages sent by other stations using a common communication
medium, the apparatus comprising: control means responsive to a request to

transmit at the station, the control means at the station 
characterised in

comprising:

means for immediately transmitting a message on the medium if the
medium has been inactive for longer than a predetermined delay

amount of time, and
means for imposing a delay in transmission of messages if the medium
is in use.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the means for imposing a
delay includes means for imposing a random period of waiting.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein the random period is
comprised of a multiple of a selected unit of time which is greater than

the time for a signal sent by one station to reach and be detected by
another.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12 comprising:

means for detecting medium use;
means responsive to the detection of medium activity; and
logic means enabling transmission on the medium if no activity is
detected within a predetermined length of time; and
means responsive to medium activity to delay transmission, wherein
the means for delay includes collision avoidance counter means

adapted for storage of a random number;  
the counter means being enabled in response to the medium detecting
means detecting termination of medium activity to step toward a

predetermined value whereupon transmission will be enabled.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein the counter is stopped
when the medium detecting means detects channel activity as the counter

is stepping and is reenabled to resume counting from the count previously
reached when medium activity ceases.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 comprising latch means to latch
the controller in transmission enable mode until transmission of a

desired message is complete.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 comprising reset means responsive
to discontinuance of a request to transmit for resetting the latch means

to disabled transmission.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein the means for transmitting
messages without delay comprises a timer responsive detection of medium

activity comprised of a counter which begins counting when no medium

activity is detected to a value indicating expiry of the predetermined
delay time for the purpose of enabling transmission.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
