<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624074</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRODE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B5145	A61B5145	A61B51473	A61B51486	A61B1000	A61B1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B10	A61B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and electrode assemblies for using or installing an electrode (especially enzyme electrode) in vivo, in which a protecting medium is introduced at the installation site to suppress adverse effects on the electrode's output. The medium is preferably an isotonic solution (e.g. saline) and/or a buffer solution and/or an anti-coagulant, and may be of increased viscosity (e.g. a gel or hydrogel), and may be coated on the electrode assembly. The preferred electrode assembly is a needle within a trocar cannula, preferably with the needle tip set back to form a recess to contain gelled medium which can then be fed with liquid medium. The assembly can be made as a sterilised, sealed pack bearing calibration and/or other data relevant to its use, especially in machine-readable form.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MANCHESTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE VICTORIA UNIVERSITY OF MANCHESTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRUMP PAUL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VADGAMA PANKAJ MADGANLAL THE S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRUMP, PAUL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VADGAMA, PANKAJ, MADGANLAL 4 THE SIDINGS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Electrode.This invention relates to improvements relating to monitoring systems, and more particularly to improvements relating to systems for monitoring various body parameters, and. especially tissue parameters, in vivo by use of electrodes- It is known to use electrodes as part of systems for monitoring a variety of parameters in biological conditions or in biological products or materials, especially as sensors. An especially useful form of electrode for such purposes is in the monitoring of glucose in body fluids, for example in blood or tissue, and to do this either with samples taken from a subject and studied in vitro or by use of the electrode sensor in vivo.However, though such electrodes work well in vitro there is a major problem in in vivo use which arises from the time required for the stabilisation of the electrode — i.e. the time required for the signals from the electrode, when placed in vivo, to reach a condition in which the signals cease changing even though the environment around the electrode is not changing. This time delay can be as much as several hours, which effectively prevents use under conditions requiring rapid deployment. Also, in the case of electrodes measuring glucose or other components involving an oxidation/reduction process, there can be a considerable depression of the signal response under in vivo conditions, so that there is poor correlation between the signals and measurements of the same amounts or concentrations of analytes under in vivo and in vitro conditions.It can be seen that such effects are not satisfactory for accurate use in vivo and can restrict severely the usefulness of such electrodes under in vivo conditions despite their otherwise valuable properties when used under in vitro conditions.There is, therefore, a considerable need for some form of the electrodes or method of use or which can overcome these disadvantages and allow reliable and convenient use in vivo. The reason for this "read-out" depression of the signal from the electrode is not known, but we believe it arises from some barrier or interference to its activity which is set up when the 

electrode is put directly into contact with compact biological tissues when it is introduced into a bodily environment.We have now found that these disadvantages can be overcome by introducing a liquid medium into the site in vivo at which the ' electrode is to be used, so that the liquid medium introduced can produce an compatible environment for the electrode. This may be as a prelude to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A method for using or installing an electrode in place in vivo which comprises the step of providing, at the site of introduction of the said electrode, a protecting medium which, without injuring the biological environment, suppresses the adverse depressive effect on the electrode's output induced by the hostile biological environment when it has not been modified by the protecting medium. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the protecting medium is then modified or rep-laced by an aqueous surrounding medium which allows the electrode to become exposed to the bodily biochemical changes of the surrounding environment which is to be monitored. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the protecting medium or aqueous surrounding medium which allows the electrode to become exposed to the bodily biochemical changes of the surrounding environment which is to be monitored, is one or more of the following:- (a) an isotonic solution, subs antially isotonic with the in vivo medium to be monitored; (b) a buffer solution, compatible with the in vivo medium to be monitored, to avoid large pH changes which in turn may affect the electrode signal size; and/or (c) an anti-coagulant, which serves to reduce the chances of coagulation over the surface of the electrode or any part of its structure (e.g. over its membrane) .
4. A method as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the isotonic solution
(a) is an aqueous saline (sodium chloride) solution, optionally containing one or more additives.
5. A method as claimed in Claim 3 wherein the buffer solution
(b) is based on phosphates and is aimed at producing or maintaining a pH of about 7.0 to 7.8.
6. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the protecting medium or aqueous surrounding medium is an isotonic buffer solution.
7. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 6 wherein the 


 protecting medium or aqueous surrounding medium contains one or more components which dissolve oxygen and so can serve as reservoirs for oxygen to prevent oxygen starvation and/or the oxygen and/or co-factors necessary for the functioning of an oxidase-based enzyme electrode.
8. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the protecting medium or aqueous surrounding medium contains an "active" component in a "slow-release" or other form (for example a liposome enclosing the relevant active ingredient or ingredients) which can reduce re-absorption by the circulation.
9. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 8 wherein the protecting medium or aqueous surrounding medium contains contains a material which can raise the viscosity of the liquid, either by simply increasing the viscosity or by forming a gel or hydroge.l.
10. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 9 wherein the protecting medium or aqueous surrounding medium is used to coat the surface of the electrodes (i.e. the active electrode surface itself, or any membrane surface around it, enclosing or surrounding it), preferably in an adherent manner.
11. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 10 wherein there is used a combination of a hydrophilic gel and a supply of liquid medium (e.g. isotonic solution) to the gel layer, which assists in maintaining liquid in a layer around the electrode. 12. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 11 wherein the electrode is a metal electrode (e.g. silver or platinum), a membrane-covered e.lectrode, an oxidase-based enzyme electrodes, a de-hydrogenase-based enzyme electrode or an oxygen electrodes. 13. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 12 wherein the medium is introduced into the site in which the electrode is to be used but before the electrode is inserted in place, for example by injection or infusion.
14. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 13 wherein the e.lectrode and the medium are inserted together so that the electrode surface is not exposed to deleterious materials, for example air or oxygen. 


15. A method as claimed in Claim 14 which comprises insertion of a trocar cannula followed by the protective medium and then the electrode.
16. A method as claimed in Claim 14 which comprises using a pair of needles (especially a concentric pair of needles), of which one needle (preferably the central one of a concentric pair) is an e.lectrode and the other is adapted to provide a supply of the protecting medium around the e-lectrode as it is inserted.
17. A method as claimed in Claim 14 which comprises using an electrode which is coated with a protecting medium which is in a form which is sufficiently stable and durable mechanically to remain in place to protect the electrode surface during the stage of its introduction into the in vivo site and thereafter either be dissipated or displaced by the bodily fluids to be monitored.
18. A method as claimed in Claim 14 which comprises using a cannula containing the protecting medium and introducing this until its exit tip is at the desired site for the electrode and then introducing the electrode through the cannula and the protecting medium therein so that it reaches the desired site for use.
19. A method as claimed in any of Claims 17 or 18 wherein the protecting medium may be in the form of a viscous fluid or a gel, or the like, and especially a h drophilic gel, preferably of sufficient viscosity or strength to be able to remain in place during the critical stage of introduction in the subject.
20. A method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 19 wherein the electrode used has the protecting medium on the electrode surface as a membrane or impregnated in a membrane. 21. An e.lectrode assembly comprising a protecting medium as defined in any of Claims 1 to 20 on the electrode surface as a membrane or impregnated in a membrane. 22. An electrode assembly as claimed in Claim 21 comprising a needle with a recessed tip, within which the electrode is located within the tip but set back from the open tip of the needle, and the protecting medium is fed to the recess in the tip. 


23. An electrode assembly as claimed in Claim 21 or 22 wherein the recess at the tip of the needle contains a gel or hydrogel.
24. An electrode assembly as claimed in Claim 23 wherein the gel or hydrogel is impregnated with the appropriate liquid, medium before the needle/electrode is inserted into the tissue which it is desired to monitor.
25. An electrode assembly as claimed in Claim 23 or 24 wherein provision is made for a supply of the protection medium (liquid) to be fed in, intermittently or continuously, as may be found necessary or desirable to maintain the electrode in good working condition and stable.
26. An electrode assembly as claimed in any of Claims 21 to 25 in which the e.lectrode, preferably first made in a form which is clean and stable, is packed in a protecting medium as described in any of the preceding claims and sealed in a sterilised package, optionally with the marking of the package with details requisite for its use.
27. An electrode assembly as claimed in any of Claims 21 to 26 in which the electrode is calibrated, and preferably data of this calibration is put upon the package, for example in coded form.
28. An electrode assembly as claimed in Claim 27 in which the calibration data is on the package in a machine-readable form, for example a bar code or a magnetically recorded format, so that the user can, by means of a conventional "reading" device, "read" the encoded data into the user equipment so that the associated ins rumentation equipment can assimilate the data and so allow automatically make any adjustments which may be required to ensure that the read-out can be accurate can be made, automatically or otherwise, without the need for further correction before it can be fit for being recorded.
29. A method for using or installing an electrode in place in vivo, substantially as described.
30. An e.lectrode assembly useful for a method as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 20 and 29, substantially as described. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
