<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629765</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A window sill support assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E06B170	E06B170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E06B1	E06B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A window sill support assembly (for positioning along the bottom 
edge of a window frame receiving aperture), comprises an external sill 

(1) member for supporting a bottom edge of a window frame (13), and 
an internal sill locating member (2) which is readily securable to the 

external sill member (3). The internal sill locating member is provided 
with an elongate formation (10). An internal sill member (17) may be 

readily located in a predetermined, for instance horizontal, position 
by cooperation of an edge of the internal sill member (17) with said 

elongate formation (10). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FITTON ERNEST WILLIAM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FITTON, ERNEST WILLIAM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITTON ERNEST WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FITTON, ERNEST WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a window sill support assembly, 
and to a window sill support member, particularly, but not exclusively, 
for supporting an internal window sill of a conservatory or like 
structure. In the installation of a window frame within an aperture in a 
wall, for instance a cavity wall, the lower edge of the window frame 
is supported upon part of an external sill member which is itself 
cemented along the top of the external wall. Such external sill 
members may be, for instance, plastics or aluminium extrusions. If it 
is desired to install an internal sill this must be butted up against 
the internal edge of the external sill member and fixed in position 
using adhesive packing. Additional packing will also generally be 
required between the internal sill and the upper edge of the internal 
wall upon which it is supported. However, it is a relatively difficult job, requiring a skilled 
worker, to ensure that the internal sill is correctly mated to the 
external sill member at the desired level along its whole length. 
Furthermore, it can be difficult to ensure that the internal sill 
remains in the correct position whilst the adhesive packing is inserted 
and whilst it is drying. In addition, should it be necessary to replace 
an existing sill the presence of the packing adds to the difficulty 
both of removing the existing sill and fitting a new sill. It is an object of the present invention to obviate or mitigate 
the above disadvantages. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is 
provided a window sill support assembly for positioning along the 
bottom edge of a window frame receiving aperture, comprising an 
external sill member for supporting a bottom edge of a window frame, 
and an internal sill locating member which is readily securable to the 
external sill member, the internal sill locating member being provided 
with an elongate formation whereby an internal sill member may be 
readily located in a predetermined position relative to the external 
sill by cooperation of an edge of the internal sill member with said 
elongate formation. Thus installation of an internal sill is a much simplified process  
 
having regard to the prior art mentioned above. If an internal sill 
is to be fitted, the internal sill locating member is first fitted to the 
external sill member and then an edge of the internal sill is 
accurately positioned with respect to elongate formation channel. No 
further means is required to correctly locate the internal sill. For
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A window sill support assembly for positioning along the bottom 
edge of a window frame receiving aperture, comprising an external sill 

member for supporting a bottom edge of a window frame, and an 
internal sill locating member which is readily securable to the 

external sill member, the internal sill locating member being provided 
with an elongate formation whereby an internal sill member may be 

readily located in a predetermined position relative to the external 
sill by cooperation of an edge of the internal sill member with said 

elongate formation. 
A window sill support member according to claim 1, wherein the 
elongate formation is an elongate wall against which an upper or 

lower surface of the internal sill may be located. 
A window sill support member according to claim 1, wherein said 
elongate formation is an elongate channel whereby the internal sill 

member may be located in said predetermined position by insertion of 
an edge of the internal sill member into said channel. 
A window sill support member according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the external sill member is an extrusion. 
A window sill support assembly according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the internal sill locating member is an extrusion. 
A window sill support assembly according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the internal sill locating member is securable to the external 

sill using adhesive. 
A window sill support member according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the internal sill locating member may be screwed or bolted to 

the external sill member. 
A window sill support assembly according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the internal sill locating member has resilient formations for 

 
engaging the external sill member. 
A window sill support assembly according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the external sill member defines a protruding lip and the 

internal sill locating member is provided with a hook portion for 
engaging said lip. 
A window sill support assembly according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the internal sill locating member is provided with a 

substantially horizontal lip extending from an upper portion thereof 
for engaging an upper portion of the external sill member. 
A window sill support assembly according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the internal sill locating member is provided with a 

substantially horizontal lip extending from a lower portion thereof for 
engaging a lower portion of the external sill member. 
A window sill support assembly according to any preceding claim, 
wherein the external sill member is provided with an elongate slot 

and the internal sill locating member is provided with resilient 
formations for engaging said slot. 
An internal window sill locating member for locating an internal 
window sill in a predetermined position relative to an external sill 

member, said external sill member in use defining a bottom edge of a 
window frame, wherein said sill locating member is elongate and 

readily securable to the external sill member, and defines an elongate 
formation for cooperation with an edge of the internal sill so as to 

enable accurate location of the internal sill in said predetermined 
position. 
An internal window sill locating member according to claim 13, 
wherein said elongate formation is an elongate wall against which an 

upper or a lower surface of the internal sill may be located. 
An internal window sill locating member according to claim 13, 
wherein said elongate formation is an elongate channel whereby the 

 
internal sill member may be secured to the sill locating member by 

insertion of an edge of the internal sill member into said channel. 
An internal window sill locating member according to any one of 
claims 13 to 15, wherein the sill locating member is an extrusion. 
A window sill support member according to claim 11 or claim 12, 
wherein the sill support member is securable to the external sill 

member using adhesive. 
An internal window sill locating member according to any one of 
claims 13 to 17, wherein the sill locating member may be screwed or 

bolted to the external sill member. 
An internal window sill locating member according to any one of 
claims 13 to 18, wherein the sill locating member is provided with 

engagement formations for engaging the external sill member. 
An internal window sill locating member according to claim 19, 

wherein said engagement formations are resilient. 
An internal window sill locating member according to claim 19 or 
claim 20, wherein said engagement formations comprise an elongate 

hook formation. 
An internal window sill locating member according to claim 19 or 
claim 20, wherein said engagement formations comprise a substantially 

horizontal lip extending from an upper portion of the sill locating 
member for engaging an upper portion of the external sill member. 
An internal window sill locating member according to any one 
of claims 19 to 22, wherein said engagement formations comprise a 

substantially horizontal lip extending from a lower portion of the sill 
locating member for engaging a lower portion of the external sill 

member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
