<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Chargeability-relating member comprising carix allene compound
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G9087	G03G9113	G03G9097	G03G1509	G03G1508	G03G1509	G03G9087	G03G1508	G03G9113	G03G9097	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G9	G03G9	G03G9	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G9	G03G15	G03G9	G03G9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a chargeability - 
relating member used in a machine for developing an 

electrostatic latent image formed on an electrostatic-latent - 
image-supporting member, comprising a carix allene compound 

expressed by the following general formula [I], a colorant, and a 

resin material: 

wherein R₁ and R₂ each represent a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group 
having a carbon number of 1 to 5, or - (CH₂) mCOOR₃ (in which R₃ 

represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group; and m 
represents an integer of 1 to 3); n represents an integer of 0 to 

7]. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINOLTA CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINOLTA CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANNO MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI MAKOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ANNO, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOBAYASHI, MAKOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a new toner for
developing electrostatic latent images in electro-photography,
electrostatic recording and electrostatic printing, and to a
charge-giving member contributive to charge-giving to the toner
in an image-forming process.The development of an electrostatic latent image is
carried out by causing a negatively or positively
triboelectrically charged toner to be electrostatically adsorbed
onto an electrostatic latent image formed on a photosensitive
member. Then, the toner image is transferred onto a transfer
paper and fixed.Such a toner for developing a latent image is first of
all required to have a reasonable amount of charge in order to
provide a clear copy image which is free of fogs or the like.
Further, it is required that the toner be not liable to change with
time in its charge level, nor be it subject to such changes as
noticeable charge decrease and solidification, due to
environmental changes including, for example, temperature
changes. As the charge decreases from the initial set value to an
unreasonably low level, toner-scattering will increase, resulting 
in troubles, such as ground fogging, toner-scattering to white
paper ground, and toner stains in a developing unit and associated
surfaces.In order to meet the foregoing requirements, a charge
controlling agent is usually added during the process of toner
making. Recently, with the advance of color copy, the
development of white or light yellow charge controlling agents
having good color reproducibility has been required.At present, negative charge controlling agents, in
colorless, white and light yellow, which impart a negative
charge, are commercially available, but almost all of these
agents are compounds containing a metal element, more
particularly a heavy metal, for example, chromium-containing
complexes or salts. Therefore, from the standpoint of safety,
metal-free negative charge controlling agents which contain no
heavy metal have been desired.Whilst, recently there has been a demand for size
reduction with respect to a developing machine in order to
encourage the size reduction, price reduction and/or multi-color
in copying machines. Further, from the standpoint of
maintenance-free requirements, a unit of the developing machine
is demanded. Because of these needs, a so-called single-component
developing system has been paid attention to, which
system is such that a thin toner layer is formed on a developing
sleeve and the layer is brought into contact with a
photosensitive member for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The use of calixarene of the general formula [I]


wherein R
1
 and R
2
 each represent a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group
having a carbon number of 1 to 5, or - (CH
2
) mCOOR
3
 (in which R
3

represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group; and m
represents an integer of 1 to 3); n represents an integer of 1 to 7,

as a charge enhancing material, together with a resin, in an
electrophotographic method for developing an electrostatic

latent image, by incorporating said calixarene in a toner,
carrier and/or charge giving member used in a machine for

developing the electrostatic latent image. 
A toner for a use as claimed in claim 1
for developing an electrostatic latent image formed on

an electrostatic-latent-image-supporting member, the toner
comprising the calixarene compound of the general formula [I]
,
a colorant and a resin.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the toner has a mean particle size of from 2 to 20 µm.
A toner as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein the calixarene compound is dispersed in the resin

material.
A toner as claimed in claim 4,
wherein the content of the calixarene compound is 0.1 to 20 parts

by weight relative to 100 parts by weight of the resin material,
and wherein the compound is in the form of particles having a size of not more than 5

µm.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the calixarene compound is adhered to surface of the

toner.
A toner as claimed in claim 6,
wherein the content of the calixarene compound is 0.001 to 10

parts by weight to 100 parts by weight of the resin
material, and wherein the compound is in the form of particles having a size of not

more than 1 µm.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the toner contains one calixarene compound having a

specific n value in the general formula [I].
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the toner contains a mixture of at least two kinds of

calixarene compounds which are different in n value in the
general formula [I]
.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the resin material is a homopolymer or copolymer resin

which is synthesized from styrene monomers, (metha)acrylic
monomers and/or (metha)acrylate monomers, or a polyester resin. 
A toner as claimed in claim 10,
wherein the resin has a number-average molecular weight (Mn) of

1000 ≤ Mn ≤ 7000, and a ratio of weight-average molecular
weight (Mw) to number-average molecular weight (Mw/Mn) of 40

≤ Mw/Mn ≤ 70.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the resin material has a glass transition temperature of

55 to 70°C. and a softening point of 80 to 150°C.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the toner further contains an offset inhibitor.
A toner as claimed in claim 13,
wherein the offset inhibitor is a polyolefin wax having a number-average

molecular weight (Mn) of 1,000 to 20,000 and a
softening point (Tm) of 80 to 150°C.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
comprising colored resin-particles containing the calixarene

compound, the colorant and the resin material and, in
admixture therewith, a cleaning auxiliary containing a metallic

soap and/or fine resin-particles selected from the group
consisting of fluorine, styrene, styrene-(metha)acrylic,

benzoguanamine, melamine, and epoxy resins.
A toner as claimed in claim 2,
wherein the toner further contains inorganic fine particles

selected from the group consisting of silica, aluminum oxide,
titanium oxide, and magnesium fluoride. 
A toner as claimed in claim 2
wherein the toner further contains magnetic fine particles.
A toner as claimed in claim 2, wherein the resin
material is a

polyester resin.
A toner as claimed in claim 18
wherein the polyester resin is a resin composed principally of a

linear urethane-modified polyester (C) obtained by treating a
linear polyester resin (A) with di-isocyanate (B).
A toner as claimed in claim 19
wherein the linear polyester resin (A) has a number-average

molecular weight of 1,000-2,000 and an acid value of not more
than 5.
A toner as claimed in claim 18
wherein the polyester resin has a number-average molecular

weight (Mn) of 1,000 ≤ Mn ≤ 7,000, and a ratio of weight-average
molecular weight (Mw) to number-average molecular weight (Mn)

of 40 ≤ Mw/Mn ≤ 70.
A toner as claimed in claim 18
wherein the polyester resin is a linear polyester resin having a

glass transition temperature of 55 to 70°C. and a softening point
of 80 to 150°C.
A toner as claimed in claim 18
wherein the polyester resin is a linear polyester resin having a 

glass transition temperature of 55 to 80°C. and a softening point
of 80 to 150°C which contains 5 to 20 wt% of gel components.
A toner as claimed in claim 18
wherein the polyester resin is a vinyl-modified polyester resin

obtained by graft-polymerizing or block-polymerizing an
unsaturated polyester component composed of an aliphatic

unsaturated dibasic acid and a polyvalent alcohol with a vinyl
monomer component which contains a vinyl monomer and an

amino group-containing vinyl monomer.
A toner as claimed in claim 18
wherein the colorant is contained at an amount of 1 to 10 parts

by weight relative to 100 parts by weight of the resin for the
toner.
A charge-giving member for a use as claimed in claim 1,

the charge-giving member in use
being in contact with a toner for electrophotography to give

electrical charges to the toner or to give auxiliarily electrical
charges to the toner, and containing a calixarene compound of the

general formula [I].
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the charge-giving member contains one calixarene

compound having a specific value for n in the general formula [1].
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the charge-giving member contains at least two kinds of

calixarene compounds having different n values in the general
formula [I]
. 
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the surface of the charge-giving member is covered with

a resin layer containing the calixarene compound.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the calixarene compound is in the form of particles having a diameter of not

more than 10 µm.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the calixarene compound is contained at an amount of

0.01 to 20 parts by weight relative to 100 parts by weight of the
resin used in the resin layer.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the calixarene compound is contained in the interior of

the charge-giving member.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the charge-giving member is a toner-layer-thickness

levelling member.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 33
wherein the toner-layer-thickness levelling member has a

surface roughness of 0.5 to 10 µm in terms of 10-point average
roughness Rz.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the charge-giving member is a toner transferring

member.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 35
wherein the toner transferring member has a surface roughness

of 0.5 to 10 µm in terms of 10-point average roughness Rz. 
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 26
wherein the charge-giving member is a carrier.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 37
wherein the carrier is a binder type carrier produced by admixing

magnetic particles with a resin, then kneading and pulverizing
the mixture and the calixarene compound being contained in an

amount of 0.1 to 10 parts by weight to 100 parts by
weight of the resin.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 37
wherein the carrier is a resin coated carrier which comprises a

carrier core containing a magnetic particle and a resin layer
containing the calixarene compound, the core being covered by

the resin layer, and the calixarene compound being contained in
an amount of 0.001 to 10 parts by weight to 100 parts

by weight of the carrier core.
A charge-giving member as claimed in claim 39
wherein the resin-coated carrier comprises the calixarene

compound affixed to the surface of the resin layer, and the calixarene
compound being contained in an amount of 0.001 to 10 parts by

weight to 100 parts by weight of the carrier core.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
