<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625894</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AQUEOUS GEL WOUND DRESSING AND PACKAGE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F200	A61F200	A61F1300	A61F1300	A61L2600	A61L2600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F13	A61F13	A61L26	A61L26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a water-based natural or synthetic hydrocolloidal polymeric gel for dressing wounds or for implantation beneath the skin of a patient that maintains the wound in a moist condition. A gel-forming hydrocolloid polymer in dry particulate form (26), a source of water (28) or an aqueous solution, and optionally drugs and cross-linkers are used in the wound dressing. The liquid and dry solid components are initially separate and are typically contained in separate compartments of a sealed package or pouch (10), but are mixed together within the package after bond (20) is ruptured prior to use. The pouch is formed from flexible sheet material, like paper and plastic (12-16), and sealed at the edges (18). The admixture is sufficiently fluid in consistency to allow it to be poured or spread into the wound. It begins to solidify to form a self-supporting, solid but flexible, dressing structure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LECTEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LECTEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECTEC CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LECTEC CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AQUEOUS GEL WOUND DRESSING AND PACKAGEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe healing of wounds, such as wounds resulting from injury, surgical wounds or dεcubitus ulcers, is greatly dependent upon the dressing used. Conventional bandages often do not provide optimum results. In the case of a decubitus ulcer, treatment should include the removal of necrotic tissue and the establishment of an environment that enhances wound healing. Special pressure-relieving or reducing measures should also be taken. A moist dressing is often beneficial. Some of the advantages of a moist wound dressing are the rehydration of dehydrated tissue; increased angio- genesis, sis, i.e., proliferation of new blood vessels; minimized bacterial growth; physical protection; and the maintenance of the proper pH for stimulating the release of oxygen and for allowing proteolytic enzymes to work more efficiently.In the past, starches in granular form have been applied to wounds and dextrans have been applied as beads or as a paste. Calcium alginates have also been applied to wounds in powdered or granular form. These prior products have certain disadvantages. Powder or granules cannot be applied evenly. Consequently, they do not absorb tissue moisture evenly, causing nonho o- geneous hydration or swelling of the dry granules. Pastes must be spread onto the tissue. Generally speaking, granular absorbent dressings are difficult to remove completely from the wound bed. Dressing changes typically require irrigation of the wound bed to remove the gel granules. The pressure required to spread the paste can be painful or further traumatize the tissue. In addition, an even application is not always easy to achieve because the product retains its plastic 

 -Δ-character. If made part of a cloth bandage, the dressing may not have intimate contact with the tissue. In the case of a powder, sterility may be difficult to maintain because air containing airborne pathogens will enter the package, replacing and contaminating the powdered product as it is poured from the container. The present invention provides a sterile wound dressing and package which permits the dressing to be prepared from two shelf-stable components and which is initially fluid to facilitate application to the wound but which, after being applied, forms a stable, elastic gel in situ to protect the wound ana maintain a moist environment at the tissue surface. The invention also provides a dressing that is shelf stable yet is easily and quickly prepared and applied by health care workers
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHftT IS CIASMSP IS:
1. A method of preparing a wound dressing comprising, providing a dry water soluble or water swellable natural or synthetic hydrocolloid polymer in particulate form sealed within a package in a dry sterile condition, maintaining the hydrocolloid in a dry state within the package, before use hydrating the hydrocolloid by admixing water therewith within the sealed package to provide a fluid dispersion which can be poured from the package or spread onto a surface while the dispersion is in a fluid state so that a lower surface of said fluid dispersion conforms to the surface to which it is applied, and allowing the dispersion to solidify after being applied to provide a solid but flexible hydrated gel dressing for keeping the wound in a moist condition, for absorbing exudate from the wound and for cushioning the wound.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the hydrocolloid is sealed in a compartment of the package, water is sealed in a companion compartment, a manually rupturable barrier is provided between said compartments, said barrier is ruptured and said water and said hydrocolloid are then mixed together.
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein the hydrocolloid polymer comprises at least one of the following: guar gum or one of its derivatives, galactomannan, glucomannan, xanthan gum, locust bean gum and a gin.
TITUTESHEET 


 -31-
4. The method of Claim 1 wherein a cross-linking agent is present to enhance gelling of the hydrocolloid, said cross-linking agent comprises at least one of the following: boric acid, borax, an organic titanate, galactose, mannose, lactose, an oligosaccharide containing a monomer selected from galactose or mannose and a source of water soluble cations of calcium, magnesium or aluminum. 5. A packaged water soluble or water swellable dressing for wounds comprising, a package containing a quantity of a dry natural or synthetic hydrocolloid polymer in particulate form, a source of water separate from the dry hydrocolloid, said water being available for mixing with the dry hydrocolloid polymer, said package having a barrier to keep the hydrocolloid polymer dry, the barrier being rupturable for permitting admixing said water with the dry, hydrocolloid polymer contained in the package to thereby form a liquid dispersion of the hydrocolloid that can be poured or spread onto the wound and which thereafter solidifies while in contact with the wound to form a solid pliable gel in contact with the wound to serve as a barrier for the wound, to act as a cushion, to provide moisture for the wound and to absorb exudate from the wound. 6. The wound dressing of Claim 5 wherein the hydro¬ colloid comprises at least one of the following: guar gum, galactomannan, gluσomannan, xanthan gum, locust bean gum, algin and the cogeners thereof. 


 -32-
7. The wound dressing of Claim 5 wherein a cross- linking agent is present to enhance gelling of the hydrocolloid.
8. The packaged dressing of claim 5 wherein the package is a flexible pouch having a first and a second compartment, the first compartment contains the dry hydrocolloid polymer, and the second compartment contains water, and a rupturable barrier is provided for preventing communication between the compartments which upon being ruptured permits communication between the compartments to allow mixing of the contents within the flexible package.
9. The method of Claim 1 wherein the polymer is sterilized while within the package by exposing the polymer to a sterilizing agency.
10. The method of Claim 1 wherein the water and the polymer are both sterilized while within the package, the water being sterilized by exposing the package to a first sterilizing agency and the polymer is sterilized by exposing the package to a second sterilizing agency.
11. The method of Claim 10 wherein the second sterilizing agency is a gas and the package has a porous portion to permit entry of the gaseous sterilizing agency.
12. The package of Claim 5 wherein the barrier is a seal having a rupturable section which when rup¬ tured provides communication between the compart- ments so as to allow mixing of the water in one compartment with the dry hydrocolloid in the other compartment. 


13. The package of Claim 5 wherein the container is a pouch formed from flexible sheet material and the pouch is manipulated by hand to cause the water and the hydrocolloid to mix within the pouch to form a dispersion therein while maintaining the sterility of the dispersion, and the sterile dispersion is dispensed from the pouch as a fluid onto a wound after the pouch is opened.
14. The package of Claim 5 wherein the package contains a medicament.
15. The package of Claim 14 wherein the medicament is at least one of the following: a medication, a disinfectant, a wound healing enhancer, a vitamin, a blood coagulant, an antibiotic, and a source of oxygen.
16. A biomedical composition for application to a human or animal body comprising, a major amount of water; a minor amount of a
.
 natural or synthetic hydrocolloid gel forming polymer comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of guar gum, cationic guar, hydroxy propyl guar, anionic guar, galactomannan, glucomannan, and the cogeners thereof; a minor amount of a cross-linking agent comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of borax, boric acid, a source of borate ions, an organic titanate, galactose, mannose, lactose, an oligosaccharide containing a monomer selected from galactose or mannose, a source of water soluble cations of calcium, magnesium or aluminum, and the cogeners thereof; 


 said composition comprising a self-supporting solid elastic body.
17. The dressing of Claim 16 wherein the polymer is present in the amount of about 3% to 15% by weight and the cross-linking agent is present in the amount of from about 0.1% to about 5.0% by weight.
18. The dressing of Claim 16 wherein the polymer com¬ prises guar gum in an amount of from about 8% to 15% by weight and the Gross-linking agent comprises boric acid in the amount of from about 0.1% to about l.o% by weight.
19. The package of Claim 5 wherein the barrier comprises a pressure-rupturable seal of relatively low bond strength between the superimposed walls of said package, said seal extending from one side of the package to the other to divide the package into two separate compartments, and the low bond strength of the seal being suited for being forced open by applying manual pressure at ambient temperature to the exterior of the package by pressing on the liquid-containing portion of the package to increase the hydrostatic pressure in the liquid-containing portion and thereby force the liquid through the rupturable seal into the dry constituents contained in the second compartment.
20. The package of Claim 5 wherein the package includes a pour spout and a portion of the pour spout can be removed to allow the contents of the package to be expelled through the pour spout by applying manual pressure to the walls of the package.
21. The package of Claim 5 wherein the package is a pouch formed from a pair of superimposed sheets of flexible material and the pouch has edges that 


 -35- are sealed together at their periphery to provide a permanent peripheral seal extending around the package for remaining intact after the barrier is ruptured. 22. The package of Claim 8 wherein the barrier is a rupturable heat seal formed by pressing walls of the package together at a selected temperature, pressure and time to form a bond between the walls that can be ruptured by manual pressure applied to the package at ambient temperature.
23. The package of Claim 8 wherein the package has a gas permeable portion comprising a flexible sheet formed from fibers of polytetrafluoroethylene.
2 . The package of Claim 5 wherein the container is formed from a plastic resinous film that is perme¬ able to ionizing radiation whereby water contained in the package can be sterilized by exposing the water to ionizing radiation after the water is placed in the package. 25. The package of Claim 5 wherein the package is formed from at least two different materials for permitting the introduction of different steril¬ izing agencies into different portions of the package where said different materials are located. 26. The package of Claim 5 wherein the flexible plastic film has an ionomer coating on an inside surface thereof and said barrier is a heat seal wherein said ionomer coating is present within said heat seal to define a rupturable bond in said barrier. 27. The packaged wound dressing of Claim 5 or 16 including a medicament comprising at least one of the following: a coagulant, an astringent comprising alum, witch hazel, neomycin sulfate, bacitracin, polymyxin-B sulfate, oxytetracycline 


 hydrcchloride, gramacidin, providone iodine, ozone, hydrogen peroxide, collagenase, streptokinase, streptodornase, spermadine, putrescine, cadaverine, cystamine, histadine, polyalkyleneoxide diamine, platelet-derived growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor, L-arginine, nitric oxide, quadrol, muraayl dipeptide, hyaluronic acid, hyaluronic acid fragment for promoting the healing of pathogenic wounds, an analgesic, a narcotic selected from morphine, heroin and fentanyl for the treatment of pain, lidocaine, procaine and epinephrine. 23. The method of Claim 1 wherein a biologically active agent is provided and said biologically active agent is admixed with the hydrated hydrocalloid so as to be contained in the wound dressing. 29. The composition of Claim 16 wherein the self- supporting solid elastic body contains a biologically active agent and said body is a formed body that is molded into an implantable delivery device of a selected shape for being implanted under the skin of a patient through an incision in the skin. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
