<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611144</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Voltage generating circuit, and common electrode drive circuit, signal line drive circuit and gray-scale voltage generating circuit for display devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N310	H04N312	G09G336	G09G336	G09G320	G09G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N3	H04N3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A drive circuit (50) for a display device supplying 
a plurality of gray-scale voltages (v
1
-v
7
) to the display device, 
based on externally supplied digital video signal data, 

includes: a plurality of gray-scale power supplies (V
1
-V
7
), a 
plurality of drive power supplies (V
DD
, V
OND
), a unit for 
forming a first part of the plurality of gray-scale 

voltages using the gray-scale voltage power supplies, and a 
unit for forming a second part of the plurality of gray-scale 

voltages using the drive power supplies. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a voltage
generating (output) circuit used as a drive source of a
device for directly or indirectly driving a capacitive
load; a common electrode drive circuit of a display
device provided with the voltage generating circuit,
for driving a common electrode in a display device; and
a signal line drive circuit and a gray-scale (gradation)
voltage generating circuit of a display device
provided with the voltage generating circuit, for
driving the signal lines in a display device.An active matrix liquid crystal display
device of Figure 48 represents an example of the
above-mentioned display device. This liquid crystal
display device includes liquid crystal which is a
display medium between two substrates 100 and 101
facing each other. Pixel electrodes 103 (P(i, j)) are
arranged in a matrix on the liquid crystal side of the
substrate 100, and signal lines (data lines or source
lines) 104 (S(1), S(2), ..., S(i), ..., S(N)) and
scanning lines (gate lines) 105 (G(1), G(2), ...,
G(j), ..., G(M)) are provided at the periphery of each
pixel electrode 103 so as to cross each other. A thin
film transistor (TFT) 102 (T(i, j)) is provided as a
switching element in the vicinity of each crossing
portion of the signal lines 104 and the scanning
lines 105. The TFT 102 is connected to the signal
line 104, the scanning line 105, and the pixel electrode
103 so as to drive the pixel electrode 103. A common electrode 101a is provided on the
liquid crystal side of the other substrate 101. A
capacitance of the liquid crystal contributing to a
display is formed between the common electrode 101a and
the pixel electrodes 103.A source driver (signal line drive
circuit) 200 is connected to the signal lines 104, and
a gate driver 300 is connected to the scanning
lines 105. The source driver 200 supplies a voltage to
the signal lines 104; in the example shown in
Figure 48, a digital source driver to which a video
signal is applied in a digital form is used. The
source driver 200 and the gate driver 300 are provided
with an output signal from a control circuit 600. The
control circuit 600 supplies a control signal POL to a
gray-scale voltage generating circuit 400 and a common
electrode drive circuit 500. The gray-scale voltage
generating circuit 400 outputs gray-scale voltages v0,
v1, v2, and v3 to the source driver 200, and the common
electrode drive circuit 500 outputs a common electrode
voltage vcom to the common electrode 101a.Hereinafter, the gray-scale voltage generating
circuit 400 and the common
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An A.C. voltage generating circuit comprising:

a first D.C. power supply (Y; OP
y
) for outputting a first predetermined voltage
(V
y
) and a second D.C. power supply (Z; OP
z
) for outputting a second predetermined
voltage (V
z
) having a different level from the first predetermined voltage;
means, which comprise switching means (SW
y
,SW
Z
,FET
y
,FET
z
) for alternately
selecting the output voltages supplied from the two D.C. power supplies to output the

selected voltage, for outputting an A.C. voltage (V
s
) based on the output selected by the
switching means; and
first and second wirings electrically connecting a respective one of the first and
second power supplies to the switching means;
the voltage generating circuit being 
characterised in that
 it further comprises first
capacitor means (C
y
) electrically connected between the first wiring and ground or a
third power supply, and second capacitor means (C
z
) electrically connected between the
second wiring and ground or said third power supply.
An A.C. voltage generating circuit according to claim 1, wherein two kinds of
control voltages at predetermined electric potentials are respectively input to the two

D.C. power supplies, one of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a
sum of the two kinds of control voltages, and the other of the two D.C. power supplies

outputs a voltage equal to a difference between the two kinds of control voltages.
A common electrode drive circuit for a display device in which pixel electrodes
are provided on one of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched

therebetween and a common electrode provided on the other substrate, wherein each
pixel constitutes capacitance between the common electrode and the pixel electrodes,

said drive circuit being for driving the common electrode, the common electrode drive
circuit comprising an A.C. voltage generating circuit as defined in claim 1. 
A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 3, further comprising third
and fourth capacitor means electrically connected between the A.C. output of said

common electrode drive circuit and a fourth power supply, each of said third and fourth
capacitor means being connected to said A.C. output via respective switching means,

wherein each of said third and fourth capacitor means is connected to the A.C. output
dependent upon whether the other of said third and fourth capacitor means is

disconnected from said A.C. output or each of said third and fourth capacitor means is
independently connected to the A.C. output wiring.
A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 3, wherein the first and
second wirings are connected to each other with a fifth capacitor means therebetween.
A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 3, wherein two kinds of
control voltages at predetermined electric potentials are respectively input to the two

D.C. power supplies, one of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a
sum of the two kinds of control voltages, and the other of the two D.C. power supplies

outputs a voltage equal to a difference between the two kinds of control voltages.
A source driver for a display device in which pixel electrodes and signal lines
are provided on
e of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched
therebetween, said driver being for supplying a signal to the pixel electrodes through the

signal lines, the source driver comprising at least two voltage supply sources for
supplying a voltage to the signal lines, each voltage supply source comprising an A.C.

voltage generating circuit as defined in claim 1.
A source driver according to claim 7, further comprising third and fourth
capacitor means electrically connected between the A.C. output of each said voltage

supply and a fourth power supply, each of said third and fourth capacitor means being
connected to said A.C. output via respective switching means, wherein each of said

third and fourth capacitor means is connected to the A.C. output dependent upon
whether the other of said third and fourth capacitor means is disconnected from said 

A.C. output or each of said third and fourth capacitor means is independently connected
to the A.C. output.
A source driver according to claim 7, wherein the first and second wirings are
connected to each other with a fifth capacitor means therebetween.
A source driver according to claim 7, wherein two kinds of control voltages at
predetermined electric potentials are respectively input to the two D.C. power supplies,

one of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a sum of the two kinds of
control voltages, and the other of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to

a difference between the two kinds of control voltages.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
