<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0800424</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRA-LOW PARTICLE SEMICONDUCTOR CLEANER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B310	B08B704	G11B2350	H01L21306	H01L2102	H01L21027	B08B704	G11B2350	B08B310	H01L21304	H01L2100	H01L2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	G11B	H01L	H01L	H01L	B08B	G11B	B08B	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B3	B08B7	G11B23	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	B08B7	G11B23	B08B3	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method (400) for cleaning a semiconductor wafer. The method includes immersing (420) a wafer in a liquid comprising water. The wafer has a front face, a back face, and an edge. The method also includes providing a substantially particle free environment adjacent to the front face and the back face as the liquid is being removed. A step of introducing a carrier gas comprising a cleaning enhancement substance during the providing step (450) also is included. The cleaning enhancement substance dopes the liquid which is attached to the front face and the back face to cause a concentration gradient of the cleaning enhancement substance in the attached liquid to accelerate fluid flow of the attached liquid off of the wafer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of semiconductor integrated
circuits. The invention is illustrated in an example with regard to a semiconductor
integrated circuit cleaning technique, including a method and apparatus, but it will be
recognized that the invention has a wider range of applicability. Merely by way of
example, the invention can also be applied to the manufacture of raw wafers, lead
frames, medical devices, disks and heads, flat panel displays, microelectronic masks, and
other applications requiring high purity wet processing such as steps of rinsing, cleaning,
drying, and the like.Industry utilizes or has proposed various techniques to rinse and dry a
semiconductor wafer. An example of a conventional technique used to rinse a wafer is a
cascade rinse. The cascade rinse utilizes a cascade rinser which includes inner and outer
chambers, each separated by a partition. Rinse water flows from a water source into the
inner chamber. The rinse water from the inner chamber cascades into the outer chamber.
An in-process wafer such as an etched wafer is typically rinsed in the cascade rinser by
dipping the etched wafer into the rinse water of the inner chamber. This process is often
used to neutralize and remove acid from the etched wafer.A limitation with the cascade rinser is that "dirty water" often exists in the
first chamber. The dirty water typically includes residual acid as well as "particles"
which often attach to the wafer. These particles often cause defects in the integrated
circuit, thereby reducing the number of good dies on a typical wafer. Another limitation
with the cascade rinser is wafers from the cascade rinser must still undergo a drying
operation. A subsequent drying operation often introduces more particles onto the 
integrated circuit. More particles on the integrated circuit typically further decrease the
number of good dies on the wafer. Accordingly, the cascade rinse often cannot clean or
remove particles from the wafer.Another technique often used to rinse wafers is the "quick dump" method.
The quick dump method relies upon the rapid deployment of water from the rinse tank to
remove water and impurities from the semiconductor wafer. A limitation with this
method is its inability to actually clean or remove particles from the wafer. In fact, the
rapid deployment of water from the tank often transfers more particles onto the wafer.
In addition, the wafers from the quick dump tank must still undergo a drying operation,
further increasing the number of particles on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of cleaning a semiconductor wafer comprising:

immersing (420) a wafer in a liquid comprising water,
said wafer including a front face, a back face, and an

edge;
providing (450) a substantially particle free
environment adjacent to said front face and said back face

as said wafer and liquid are separated; and
introducing (450) a cleaning enhancement substance,
said cleaning enhancement substance doping said liquid

which is attached to said front face and said back face to
cause a concentration gradient of said cleaning enhancement

substance in said attached liquid to accelerate fluid flow
of said attached liquid off of said wafer, 
characterized in
that
 the cleaning enhancement substance is introduced
during the providing step (450) while the wafer and liquid

are being separated; and 
in that
 said cleaning enhancement
substance is mixed with a gas, said gas being selected from

a group consisting of air, inert gas, nitrogen and argon.
The method of claim 1, further comprising introducing
(460) a drying source adjacent to said wafer, said drying

source removing said liquid attached to said edge.
The method of claim 1, wherein said providing step
(450) leaves a thin boundary layer of said liquid attached

to said front face and said back face.
The method of claim 3, wherein said boundary layer is
about 1,000 Å and less.
The method of claim 3, wherein said boundary layer is
about 100 Å and less.
The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning
enhancement substance is selected from a group consisting

of a surfactant, isopropyl alcohol, di-acetone alcohol,
helium, carbon dioxide, ammonia, and 1-methoxy-2-propanol.
The method of claim 1, wherein said liquid during said
introducing step (450) removes particles off said front

face and said back face. 
The method of claim 7, wherein said particles are each
substantially less than about 0.2 microns in diameter.
The method of claim 1, wherein said liquid is
substantially free from particles greater than about 0.2

microns in diameter and less.
The method of claim 1, wherein said wafer is at an
angle from a vertical position.
The method of claim 10, wherein said angle is less
than about 15 degrees.
The method of claim 1, wherein said wafer is
substantially free from oxidation before said immersing

step.
The method of claim 1, wherein said wafer is a
recently etched wafer.
The method of claim 1, wherein said wafer is
substantially stationary during said providing and

introducing steps, said substantially stationary wafer is
substantially free from mechanical movement.
The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning
enhancement substance is a trace amount of polar organic

compound ranging in concentration from about 1,000 ppm and
less.
The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning
enhancement substance is a trace amount of polar organic

compound ranging in concentration from about 500 ppm and
less.
The method of claim 1, wherein said liquid is removed
at a rate of about 5.0 mm/sec. or less as measured from

said front surface.
The method of claim 1, wherein said liquid is removed
at a rate between about 0.25 mm/sec. and 5.0 mm/sec. as

measured from said front surface.
The method of claim 1, wherein said liquid is removed
at a rate between about 0.5 mm/sec. and 2.5 mm/sec. as

measured from said front surface. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein said carrier
gas is at a temperature ranging from about 75°C to about

175°C.
A method for cleaning and drying objects having
surfaces, said method comprising:


immersing (420) an object in a liquid comprising
water, said object including a face; and
providing (450) a substantially particle free
environment adjacent to said face; and
introducing (450) a cleaning enhancement substance,
said cleaning enhancement substance doping said
 liquid
which is attached to said face to cause a concentration

gradient of said cleaning enhancement substance in said
attached liquid to accelerate fluid flow of said attached

liquid off of said object, 
characterized in that
 the
introducing step comprises introducing a carrier gas

comprising the cleaning enhancement substance and mixing
said carrier gas with said substantially particle free

environment.
The method of claim 21, wherein said object is
selected from a group consisting of a flat panel display,

a disk drive, a disk, a semiconductor wafer, a patterned
semiconductor wafer, and a masked semiconductor wafer.
A method for processing a microelectronic substrate
comprising:


etching a microelectronic substrate by providing the
microelectronic substrate within a liquid comprising an

etchant to remove at least a portion of a surface of said
microelectronic substrate, said microelectronic substrate

including a front face, a back face and an edge;
providing (450) a substantially particle free
environment adjacent to said front face and said back face;

and
introducing (450) a cleaning enhancement substance,
said cleaning enhancement substance doping said liquid that

is removed during the providing step which is attached to
said front face and said back face to cause a concentration 

gradient of said cleaning enhancement substance in said
attached liquid to accelerate fluid flow of said attached

liquid off of said microelectronic substrate, 
characterized
in that
 said substantially particle free environment is
provided as said microelectronic substrate and liquid

within which said microelectronic substrate has been
previously provided are separated; and 
in that
 said
cleaning enhancement substance is introduced during said

providing step.
The method of claim 23, wherein the liquid that is
removed during the providing step comprises water.
The method of claim 24, further comprising the steps
of removing the microelectronic substrate from the liquid

comprising etchant and subsequently immersing the
microelectronic substrate into the liquid comprising water.
The method of claim 24, further comprising the steps
of removing the liquid comprising etchant from about the

microelectronic substrate and subsequently immersing the
microelectronic substrate into the liquid comprising water.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
