<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650075</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automatic ultrasonic localization of targets implanted in a portion of the anatomy.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B506	A61B506	A61B800	A61B800	A61B808	A61B808	A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1900	A61B1900	A61N510	A61N510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B8	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	A61N5	A61N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a coordinate system defined by a coordinate space digitizer, the 
location of an implanted symmetric object may automatically be determined 

based on differences between the characteristic acoustic impedances of at 
least a portion of an implanted object and one or more materials surrounding 

that object. An A-mode ultrasound transducer may be attached to a 
coordinate space digitizer or pointing device such that an attached computer 

tracks the position and orientation of the ultrasound transducer. The 
reflected radio-frequency (rf) ultrasound signals may automatically be 

analyzed along with the transducer position and orientation corresponding to 
each received rf signal to detect the position of the implanted object. The 

time delay between received ultrasound echoes is used to compute the depth 
of the object from the transducer. This allows for an accurate determination 

of the three-dimensional coordinates of the implanted object. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN GEORGE S LEWIS JUDITH T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN, GEORGE S. LEWIS, JUDITH T.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLOWAY ROBERT L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS JUDITH T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLOWAY, ROBERT L. JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEWIS, JUDITH T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to locating a position of a object 
implanted in a portion of the anatomy, the object having at least a portion 
which is in a vicinity of a material having a different acoustic impedance than 
an acoustic impedance of that portion of the object. More particularly, the 
present invention relates to the localization of implanted targets using 
amplitude-mode (A-mode) ultrasound techniques and a coordinate space 
digitizer. Extendable to other applications, the automatic implanted target 
localization approach may be used to locate small fluid-filled polymer 
cylinders implanted in human skull, which are preferably flush with the 
surface of the skull, beneath the scalp and subcutaneous fat. These 
permanently-implanted cylinders are intended to serve as fiducial markers for 
the registration of tomographic image volumes with physical space in 
neurosurgical cases, as well as for tracking a patient over time.  Tomographic imaging modalities, such as computer tomography (CT), 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography 
(PET), produce a three-dimensional image volume as a set of three-dimensional 
"slices". These image volumes contain the information necessary 
for surgical or radiotherapeutic planning. Such information may include the 
three-dimensional distances between sites of interest such as tumors, the 
location of blood vessels which must be avoided, and lesion margin 
delineation often superior to that discernible by visual tissue inspection. However, these three-dimensional volumes are at an arbitrary 
orientation to each other as well as to the physical patient anatomy. As a 
result, correlating and comparing the same location in the images is difficult. 
Also, the surgeon is unable to accurately correlate the detailed image 
information with the physical anatomy during surgery as a guidance tool. The correlation of multiple three-dimensional volumes or spaces is 
referred to as space registration. Space registration establishes a one-to-one 
mapping between points in the image sets or between points in one or more 
image sets and physical space. The transformation between coordinate 
systems is calculated based on the location of a set of at least three common 
landmarks, or fiducial markers, in each representation. The actual fiducial 
point is the geometric center of the fiducial marker. The accuracy of the 
mapping between coordinate systems depends on the accuracy with which the 
coordinates of the fiducial markers' centers are known in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for automatically locating a position of a first object, 
comprising steps of: 

   attaching a transducer to a coordinate space digitizer having a defined 
coordinate system; 

   pulsing said transducer while translating it along a surface of interest 
near said first object; 

   receiving echoes from said pulsed transducer arising from a difference 
in an acoustic impedance of a first portion of the first object and an acoustic 

impedance of a material located near said first portion of the first object; 
and 

   determining a position in said defined coordinate system of said first 
object in response to said received echoes and a position and orientation of 

said transducer. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said first object is a fiducial 
marker. 
A method according to Claim 2, wherein said fiducial marker is 
implanted in a bone. 
A method according to Claim 3, wherein said bone is a skull of a 
patient and said surface of interest is a scalp of said patient. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said material located near 
said first portion of the first object is a second object having an acoustic 

impedance different from the acoustic impedance of the first portion of the 
first object. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said material located near 
said first portion of the first object is a second portion of the first object 

having an acoustic impedance different from the acoustic impedance of the 
first portion of the first object. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said pulsing and receiving 
steps are repeated for a plurality of positions and orientations of said 

transducer and said determining step determines a position of said first object 
in response to said plurality of receiving steps and said plurality of positions 

and orientations of said transducer. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said determining step further 
comprises steps of: 

   determining a time delay between said received echoes; and 
   determining a physical depth of said first object from said transducer. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said method is used for 
registering physical space with image volumes. 
A method according to Claim 9, wherein said method is used in 
interactive, image-guided surgery or in fractionated radiotherapy. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said transducer is an 
ultrasound transducer. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said determining step 
determines a position of said first object in response to said received echoes, 

a correspondence between a time delay between received echoes and a 
physical depth between said first object and said transducer, and a position 

and orientation of said transducer. 
A method according to Claim 1, further comprising a step of 
determining a position of said first object in response to said received echoes 

and a corresponding position and orientation of said transducer which 
corresponds to a position of said transducer during said pulsing step. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said determining step 
comprises steps of: 

   extracting a windowed surface echo signal from said received echoes; 
   calculating a standard deviation of said extracted windowed surface 

echo signal; 
   calculating a weighted centroid of positions of said transducer;

 
   locating a time delay of said windowed surface echo signal nearest the 

weighted centroid; 
   calculating a depth of a center of the first object in response to a 

depth of an interface in which said first object is located and a height of said 
first object; and 

   calculating coordinates in said coordinate system of the center of the 
first object in response to said calculated depth and said time delay. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said receiving step receives 
echoes from said pulsed transducer arising from differences in acoustic 

impedances of said first portion and different portions within said first object. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said acoustic impedance of 
said first portion of said object is lower than said acoustic impedance of said 

material located near said first portion of said first object. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein said first object is a 
symmetric object. 
A method according to Claim 17, wherein said first object is cylindrical 
in shape. 
A method for automatic amplitude-mode ultrasound location of an 
implanted fiducial marker, comprising steps of: 

   attaching an ultrasound transducer to a coordinate space digitizer 
having a defined coordinate system; 

   pulsing said ultrasound transducer while translating it along a surface 
of interest near said implanted fiducial marker; 

   receiving echoes from said pulsed ultrasound transducer arising from a 
difference in an acoustic impedance of a first portion of the implanted 

fiducial marker and an acoustic impedance of a material located near said 
first portion of the implanted fiducial marker; and 

   determining a position in said defined coordinate system of said 
implanted fiducial marker in response to said received echoes and a position 

and orientation of said ultrasound transducer. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said fiducial marker is 
implanted in a bone. 
A method according to Claim 20, wherein said bone is a skull of a 
patient and said surface of interest is a scalp of said patient. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said material located near 
said first portion of the implanted fiducial marker is a material in which said 

implanted fiducial marker is implanted. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said material located near 
said first portion of the implanted fiducial marker is an object separate from 

said implanted fiducial marker having an acoustic impedance different from 
the acoustic impedance of the first portion of the implanted fiducial marker. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said material located near 
said first portion of the implanted fiducial marker is a second portion of the 

implanted fiducial marker having an acoustic impedance different from the 
acoustic impedance of the first portion of the implanted fiducial marker. 
A method according to Claim 24, wherein the second portion of the 
implanted fiducial marker is a cap of said implanted fiducial marker. 
A method according to Claim 25, wherein the acoustic impedance of 
the cap is higher than the acoustic impedance of the first portion of the 

implanted fiducial marker. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said pulsing and receiving 
steps are repeated for a plurality of positions and orientations of said 

transducer and said determining step determines a position of said implanted 
fiducial marker in response to said plurality of receiving steps and said 

plurality of positions and orientations of said transducer. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said determining step 
further comprises steps of: 

   determining a time delay between said received echoes; and 
   determining a physical depth of said implanted fiducial marker from 

said transducer. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said method is used for 
registering physical space with image volumes. 
A method according to Claim 29, wherein said method is used in 
interactive, image-guided surgery or in fractionated radiotherapy. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said determining step 
determines a position of said implanted fiducial marker in response to said 

received echoes, a correspondence between a time delay between received 
echoes and a physical depth between said implanted fiducial marker and said 

transducer, and a position and orientation of said ultrasound transducer. 
A method according to Claim 19, further comprising a step of 
determining a position of said implanted fiducial marker in response to said 

received echoes and a corresponding position and orientation of said 
transducer which corresponds to a position of said ultrasound transducer 

during said pulsing step. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said determining step 
comprises steps of: 

   extracting a windowed surface echo signal from said received echoes; 
   calculating a standard deviation of said extracted windowed surface 

echo signal; 
   calculating a weighted centroid of positions of said ultrasound 

transducer; 
   locating a time delay of said windowed surface echo signal nearest the 

weighted centroid; 
   calculating a depth of a center of the implanted fiducial marker in 

response to a depth of an interface in which said implanted fiducial marker is 
located and a height of said implanted fiducial marker; and 

   calculating coordinates in said coordinate system of the center of the 
implanted fiducial marker in response to said calculated depth and said time 

delay. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said receiving step receives 
echoes from said pulsed ultrasound transducer arising from differences in 

acoustic impedances of said first portion and different portions within said 
implanted fiducial marker. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said acoustic impedance of 
said first portion of said implanted fiducial marker is lower than said acoustic 

impedance of said material located near said implanted fiducial marker. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said implanted fiducial 
marker is a symmetric object. 
A method according to Claim 36, wherein said implanted fiducial 
marker is cylindrical in shape. 
A method according to Claim 19, wherein said coordinate space 
digitizer includes a pointing device. 
A system for locating a position of a first object, comprising: 
   a coordinate space digitizer having a defined coordinate system; 

   an ultrasound transducer connected with said coordinate space 
digitizer; 

   a pulser pulsing said ultrasound transducer while translating it along a 
surface of interest located near said first object; 

   a receiver receiving echoes from said pulsed ultrasound transducer 
arising from a difference in an acoustic impedance of a first portion of the 

first object and an acoustic impedance of a material located near said first 
portion of the first object; and 

   means for determining a position in said defined coordinate system of 
said first object in response to said received echoes and a position and 

orientation of said ultrasound transducer. 
A system according to Claim 39, wherein said first object is an 
implanted fiducial marker. 
A system according to Claim 40, wherein said material is a second 
object in which said implanted fiducial marker is implanted. 
A system according to Claim 40, said implanted fiducial marker having 
a housing, said housing containing a cavity, said cavity comprising: 

   said first portion; and 
   a second portion of the implanted fiducial marker, said second portion 

including said material located near said first portion. 
A system according to Claim 42, wherein said second portion is a cap 
of the implanted fiducial marker. 
A fiducial marker assembly comprising an imaging marker assembly 
having a housing, said housing containing a cavity, said cavity comprising: 

   a first portion including a first material having a first acoustic 
impedance; and 

   a second portion including a second material having a second acoustic 
impedance which is different than said first acoustic impedance. 
A fiducial marker assembly according to Claim 44, wherein said 
second portion comprises a cap of said imaging marker assembly. 
A fiducial marker assembly according to Claim 45, wherein said cap is 
a glass marker cap. 
A fiducial marker assembly according to Claim 44, wherein said 
second portion comprises a layer near an end of said fiducial marker. 
A fiducial marker assembly according to Claim 47, wherein said 
second acoustic impedance is higher than said first acoustic impedance. 
A fiducial marker assembly according to Claim 44, wherein said 
fiducial marker is a permanent implantable fiducial marker. 
A fiducial marker assembly according to Claim 44, wherein said 
fiducial marker assembly is for use in an ultrasound detection technique. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
