<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620775</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTARY CUTTING DIE ASSEMBLY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D726	B26D726	B26F138	B26F144	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	B26F	B26F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D7	B26D7	B26F1	B26F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotary cutting die assembly (10) comprised of a mandrel (12) adapted to be rotatably mounted in a rotary die cutting press, and a cylindrical cutting sleeve (14) and drive gear (16) slip fit over the mandrel (12), provide apparatus for replacing the cutting edge (36), (38) of a rotary cutting die at a reduced cost for materials, manufacturing and shipping than that associated with conventional rotary cutting die replacement.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSEMANN RICHARD R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROSEMANN, RICHARD R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSEMANN RICHARD R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSEMANN, RICHARD R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ROTARY CUTTING DIE ASSEMBLYThis application is a continuation-in-part of Application Serial No. 07/611,075, filed on November 9, 1990, and now abandoned. Background of the Invention (1) Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a rotary cutting die assembly that is comprised of separable component parts. In particular, the invention pertains to a rotary cutting die assembly comprised of a mandrel having a cutting cylinder and drive gear slip fit thereon. The drive gear is connected in driving engagement with the sleeve and both move relative to the mandrel during cut¬ ting operations performed by the assembly. The cutting cylinder is defor able on the mandrel while performing the cutting operations of the assembly and is replaceable when worn. The rotary cutting die assembly of the pre¬ sent invention enables reductions in material costs, heat treatment costs, and shipping costs from those costs associated with manufacturing and distributing conven¬ tional rotary cutting dies. 

 (2) Description of the Related ArtPrior art rotary cutting die presses commonly employ a rotating cutting die and a rotating anvil roll mounted parallel to the cutting die on the press. Mating gears connected with the cutting die and the anvil roll cause the die and roll to rotate in synchronism with each other. The cutting die and anvil roll rotate against each other as stock material or a web of stock is passed through the press between the rotating die and anvil. A pressure assist roll or a load carrying truck or tractor assembly is often employed to exert a downward force on the die and cause it to bear against the anvil roll. As the material passes between the rotating die and anvil, a cutting configuration formed on the exterior surface of the cutting die cuts sections of material from the web. The shape of the sections of material cut from the web correspond to the configuration of the cutting edges of the die.Self adhesive labels or pressure sensitive labels and other similar articles are commonly provided in rolls of such labels. The rolls are made up of a plurality of self stick labels attached to a continuous length of backing material. The self stick labels are readily removed from the rolls of backing material by merely peeling the labels from the material.Rotary production of pressure sensitive labels is accomplished by passing a web of pressure sensitive label stock comprising the label material, a layer of pressure sensitive adhesive, and a backing layer to which the adhesive holds the label
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is Claimed is:
1. A rotary cutting die assembly for performing cutting operations of a rotary die cutting press, the assembly comprising: a mandrel having an exterior surface and means for mounting the mandrel on a rotary die cutting press; a hollow cylindrical sleeve having an exterior surface and an interior surface, the sleeve having at least one cutting edge on the exterior surface, the sleeve being received on the mandrel for movement of the sleeve relative to the mandrel; and a drive gear received on the mandrel for movement of the drive gear relative to the mandrel, the drive gear being connected in a driving engagement with the cylind¬ rical sleeve to cause the sleeve to move relative to the mandrel in response to the drive gear moving relative to the mandrel.
2. The die assembly of Claim 1, wherein: the sleeve has opposite first and second ends, and the drive gear is received on the mandrel adjacent to the sleeve and engaging in driving engagement with one of the first and second ends of the sleeve.
3. The die assembly of Claim 2, wherein: a radial slot is provided on a side of the drive gear adjacent to the sleeve; and an axial pin is provided on said one of the first and second ends of the sleeve, the pin extends into the slot on the drive gear thereby connecting the drive gear in driving engagement with the sleeve.
4. The die assembly of Claim 3, wherein: the pin is received in the slot for radial move¬ ment of the pin in the slot.
5. The die assembly of Claim 1, wherein: the cylindrical sleeve and the drive gear are mounted on the mandrel for free rotation of the sleeve and the drive gear relative to the mandrel, and the 


 sleeve and the drive gear are connected in driving en¬ gagement preventing relative rotation between the sleeve and the drive gear on the mandrel.
6. The die assembly of Claim 1, wherein: the mandrel has a cylindrical exterior surface with a first cross section diameter; the sleeve has a cylindrical interior surface with a second cross section diameter larger than the first cross section diameter, and a difference between the first cross section diameter of the mandrel and the second cross section diameter of the sleeve interior surface enables the sleeve to deform on the mandrel to an oblong cross section of the sleeve interior surface in response to the sleeve being compressed between a pres¬ sure assist roll and an anvil roll of a rotary die cut¬ ting press.
7. A rotary cutting die assembly for performing cutting operations of a rotary die cutting press, the assembly comprising: a mandrel having an exterior surface and means for mounting the mandrel on a rotary die cutting press ad¬ jacent to an anvil roll of the press; a hollow cylindrical sleeve having an exterior surface and an interior surface, the sleeve being received on the mandrel for movement of the sleeve rela- tive to the mandrel, the sleeve having at least one cut¬ ting edge on the exterior surface and having a pair of bearer rolls on the exterior surface at opposite ends of the sleeve, the bearer rolls being pressed between forces exerted by the anvil roll and forces exerted by a force applying means of the press during cutting operations performed with the rotary cutting die assembly by a ro¬ tary die cutting press; and, a drive gear received on the mandrel for movement of the drive gear relative to the mandrel, the drive gear 


 being connected in a driving engagement with the cylin¬ drical sleeve.
8. The die assembly of Claim 7, wherein: the drive gear has a side adjacent to one of the opposite ends of the cylindrical sleeve, a slot is pro¬ vided on the side of the drive gear, and a pin projects from one of the opposite ends of the sleeve and engages in the slot, thereby connecting the drive gear in driving engagement with the cylindrical sleeve and preventing relative rotation between the drive gear and sleeve on the mandrel.
9. The die assembly of Claim 8, wherein: the slot extends radially on the side of the drive gear and the pin extends axially into the slot, the slot thereby enabling the pin to move radially relative to the drive gear while preventing the pin from rotating rela¬ tive to the drive gear.
10. The die assembly of Claim 7, wherein: the mandrel has a cylindrical exterior surface with a first cross section diameter; and the sleeve has a cylindrical interior surface with a second cross section diameter larger than the first cross section diameter, and a difference between the first cross section diameter of the mandrel exterior surface and the second cross section diameter of the sleeve interior surface enables the sleeve to deform on the mandrel to an oblong cross section of the sleeve interior surface in response to the sleeve being com¬ pressed between a pressure assist roll and an anvil roll of a rotary die cutting press.
11. A rotary cutting die assembly for performing cutting operation of a rotary die cutting press, the
•assembly comprising: a mandrel having a cylindrical exterior surface and having means for mounting the mandrel on a rotary die 


 cutting press, the cylindrical exterior surface of the mandrel having a first cross section diameter; a hollow sleeve having a cylindrical exterior surface and a cylindrical interior surface, the sleeve having at least one cutting edge on the cylindrical ex¬ terior surface, the cylindrical interior surface of the sleeve having a second cross section diameter larger than the first cross section diameter, and the sleeve being received over the mandrel exterior surface; and a difference between the first cross section diameter of the mandrel exterior surface and the second cross section diameter of the sleeve interior surface enabling the sleeve to deform on the mandrel to an oblong cross section of the sleeve in response to the sleeve being compressed between a pressure assist roll and an anvil roll of a rotary die cutting press.
12. The die assembly of Claim 11, wherein: a drive gear is received on the mandrel and means are provided between the drive gear and the sleeve for connecting the drive gear and the sleeve.
13. The die assembly of Claim 12, wherein: the sleeve is received over the mandrel exterior surface for rotation of the sleeve on the mandrel, the drive gear is received on the mandrel for rotation of the drive gear on the mandrel, and the means for connecting the drive gear and the sleeve prevents rotation of the drive gear relative to the sleeve.
14. The die assembly of Claim 12, wherein: the cylindrical sleeve and the drive gear are received on the mandrel for free rotation of both the sleeve and the drive gear relative to the mandrel, and the means for connecting the drive gear and the sleeve causes the drive gear and sleeve to rotate in synchro¬ nism.
15. The die assembly of Claim 12, wherein: 


 the cylindrical sleeve has axially opposite ends and the drive gear is received on the mandrel adjacent one of the opposite ends of the sleeve, a side of the drive gear adjacent the sleeve has a slot thereon and the one end of the sleeve has a projection that engages in the slot, thereby providing the means for connecting the drive gear and the sleeve.
16. The die assembly of Claim 15, wherein: the slot extends radially on the side of the drive gear and the projection engages in the slot for radially reciprocating movement of the projection in the slot.
17. The die assembly of Claim 15, wherein: the engagement of the projection in the slot enables the sleeve to deform on the mandrel to an oblong cross section of the sleeve while enabling the sleeve and the drive gear to rotate in synchronism.
18. The die assembly of Claim 15, wherein: the drive gear is a unitary gear with the slot formed therein and the cylindrical sleeve is a unitary sleeve with the projection formed thereon. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
