<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655255</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Side inlet bubble trap apparatus and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M136	A61M136	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for trapping bubbles in blood flowing 
in a circuit, such as an extracorporeal circuit, includes 

a housing (32) which defines a substantially vertical chamber (68). 
Blood is introduced into the chamber through a delivery 

port (66) in a direction transverse to a longitudinal axis of 
the chamber. A deflector (70) is positioned in the chamber 

adjacent to and spaced apart from the delivery port. The 
deflector deflects at least a portion of the blood into 

the chamber above the deflector. Thereafter, the blood 
is removed from the chamber out an exit port (50) of the 

chamber. The deflection and redirection of blood within 
the chamber provides an opportunity for bubbles in the 

blood to separate from the blood in the chamber and also 
helps prevent the stagnation of blood in the chamber 

which can lead to clotting and separation of blood. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COBE LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COBE LABORATORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUGGER JAMES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUGGER, JAMES M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to bubble trapping apparatus 
and methods for the treatment of a liquid. More 
particularly this invention relates to new and improved 
bubble trap apparatus and methods that aid in the removal 
of bubbles from blood and in the prevention of the 
formation of bubbles in the blood during its extracorporeal 
treatment. Extracorporeal blood treatment involves removing 
blood from a patient, treating the blood external to the 
patient and returning the treated blood to the patient. 
Occasionally, bubbles form in the blood during 
extracorporeal blood treatment as a result of leakage of 
air into the blood at the point blood is withdrawn from the 
patient for extracorporeal treatment and as a result of 
leakage of air at points of connection in the 
extracorporeal treatment system. Bubbles also form as a 
result of turbulence of the blood flowing in the  
 
extracorporeal treatment system and coalescence of gases 
in the blood during treatment, among other causes. Care 
must be taken to remove bubbles from the blood prior to 
returning the blood to the patient and, to the extent 
possible, prevent formation of bubbles in the blood 
during treatment. Blood returned to the patient which 
contains bubbles creates a risk of serious health 
consequences to the patient. Sometimes bubbles in blood flowing through 
extracorporeal treatment systems are optically or 
sonically detectable and many such systems incorporate 
equipment capable of detecting these bubbles. When 
bubbles are detected, the flow of blood returning to the 
patient is usually halted to prevent return of the 
detected bubbles to the patient. However, it is 
preferable that such bubbles be collected and removed 
from the blood so that blood treatment can continue 
uninterrupted. Most extracorporeal treatment systems incorporate 
chambers for removal of bubbles from blood undergoing 
treatment. These chambers, often referred to as bubble 
traps, provide an opportunity for bubbles in the blood to 
separate from the blood while the blood is in the 
chamber. Bubbles in the blood rise to the surface of the 
blood in the chamber. Bubbles in the blood may also 
separate from the blood as the blood is delivered to the 
chamber, when the blood is delivered dropwise or in a 
stream over the surface of the blood already present in  
 
the chamber. The gas from the bubbles which collects 
above the level of blood is mechanically removed from the 
chamber, or is allowed to remain in the chamber until 
extracorporeal treatment is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for trapping bubbles in a liquid 
flowing in a circuit, said apparatus comprising: 

   a housing (32) having first and second housing ends 
(34,48) and defining an elongated chamber (68) extending 

along an axis between said two ends (34,48), preferably 
said axis being the longitudinal axis of said housing (32) 

or chamber (68); 
   delivery means (64) for introducing said liquid into 

the chamber (68); and 
   an exit port (50) formed in the housing (32) to allow 

said liquid to exit the chamber (68); characterised in that 
   said delivery means (64) introduces said liquid into 

the chamber (68) at a position intermediate said two 
housing ends (34,48); and further comprising 

   a deflector (70) positioned in the chamber (68) 
adjacent to and spaced apart from the position at which the 

delivery means (64) introduces said liquid into the 
chamber, the deflector (70) being arranged to deflect at 

least a portion of the said liquid introduced into the 
chamber (68) in the direction of the first housing end 

(34). 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said 
deflector (70) is arranged to deflect at least a portion of 

said liquid introduced into the chamber (68) in the 
 

direction of the second housing end (48). 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, further 
comprising: 

   a first subchamber (81,92) of the chamber (68), 
defined at its first extreme by the first housing end (34) 

and at its second extreme by the deflector (70), for mixing 
the deflected liquid and collecting bubbles which have 

separated from the liquid; and 
   a second subchamber (82,83;94) of the chamber (68), 

defined at its first extreme by the deflector (70) and at 
its second extreme by the second housing end (48), through 

which said liquid flows before removal through the exit 
port (50). 
Apparatus according to claim 3 further 
comprising: 

   a collar (54) formed in the housing (32) and 
surrounding the exit port (50); and 

   a filter (56) having a rim (58), said filter (56) 
being positioned in the second subchamber (82,83) with the 

filter rim (58) abutting the collar (54), to filter said 
liquid in the second subchamber (82,83) before its removal 

through the exit port (50). 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims further comprising: 

   a neck (78) formed in the housing (32) at a point 
intermediate the deflector (70) and the second housing end 

(48), to cause liquid in said chamber (68) to mix in the 
 

chamber (81,82) on the second housing end (48) side of the 
deflector (70). 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4 
wherein the deflector (70) has a deflector tip (72) and the 

apparatus further comprises: 
   a neck (78) formed in the housing at a point 

intermediate the deflector tip (72) and the second housing 
end (48). 
Apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, when 
either claim is dependent on claim 3 or 4, wherein said 

second subchamber further comprises: 
   a first sub-subchamber (81) defined at its first 

extreme by the deflector (70) and at its second extreme by 
said housing neck (78), through which said liquid flows; 

and 
   a second sub-subchamber (82) defined at its first 

extreme by the housing neck (78) and at its second extreme 
by the second housing end (48), through which said liquid 

flows before removal through the exit port (50). 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims further comprising: 

   a first aperture (42) formed in the housing (32), 
preferably at the first housing end (34), for removing 

bubbles from the chamber (68). 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims further comprising: 

   a second aperture (43) formed in the housing (32), 
 

preferably at the first housing end (34), for adding fluid 
and materials to the liquid in the chamber (68). 
Apparatus according to claim 9, further 
comprising: 

   an angled portion (90) of the housing (32) 
intermediate the first housing end (34) and the deflector 

(70), to help prevent splattering of the liquid in the 
chamber (68) when fluid or materials are added through the 

second aperture (43). 
Apparatus according to claim 9 further 
comprising: 

   an angled portion (90) formed in the housing (32) 
near the first housing end (34) and the second aperture 

(43) to help prevent fluid and materials added to the 
liquid from splattering upon contact with the liquid in the 

chamber (68). 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims wherein said delivery means (64) is arranged to 

introduce said liquid into said chamber (68) in a flow 
direction substantially transverse to said axis of the 

chamber (68). 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims wherein the delivery means comprises: 

   an inlet tube (64) extending into the chamber (68) at 
a point intermediate the first and second housing ends 

(34,48) in a direction substantially transverse to said 
axis of the chamber (68). 
Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the 
inlet tube (64) and/or said deflector are/is formed 

integrally with said housing (32). 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein said deflector (70) is substantially wedge-shaped. 
A method of removing bubbles from a liquid 
flowing through a bubble trap apparatus, said apparatus 

including a housing (32) having a chamber (68) extending 
substantially along a vertical axis between two ends of 

said chamber (68), preferably said axis being the 
longitudinal axis of said housing, said method comprising 

the steps of: 
   introducing said liquid into the chamber (68); 

   allowing bubbles in the liquid to separate from the 
liquid in the pool; 

   collecting the separated bubbles; and 
   remov
ing the liquid from the chamber after the 
bubbles have been separated therefrom; characterised in 

that 
   said liquid is introduced into the chamber 

substantially transversely to said axis of the chamber 
(68), at a position intermediate the housing ends (34,48); 

and by the further step of 
   deflecting at least a portion of the liquid 

introduced into the chamber in a direction above the 
position where the liquid is introduced into the chamber 

 
(68), to form a pool of said liquid in the chamber (68). 
A method according to claim 16 further 
comprising the step of: 

   maintaining an upper surface of the liquid within the 
chamber (68) above the position where the liquid is 

introduced into the chamber (68). 
A method of removing bubbles from blood in an 
extracorporeal blood treatment circuit, comprising a method 

according to claim 16 or 17. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
