<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640904</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Curvature correction circuit for a voltage reference
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05F110	G05F330	G05F308	G05F146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05F	G05F	G05F	G05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05F1	G05F3	G05F3	G05F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A correction circuit (12) for providing an error correction 
voltage for a voltage reference (11). The voltage reference 

(11) provides a reference voltage within a predetermined 
temperature range. The voltage reference prior to correction 

has a peak magnitude at a temperature T
0
 within the 
predetermined temperature range. A first circuit (13) 

generates a correction current. Zero current is provided by the 
first circuit (13) at T
0
. A second circuit (14) receives the 
correction current and provides an output current that is uni-directional 

or of the same sense above and below T
0
. Means 
responsive to the output current of the second circuit (14) 

generates a voltage that is combined to the reference voltage 
above and below T
0
. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BYNUM BYRON G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARRETT ROBERT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIGOTT JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BYNUM, BYRON G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARRETT, ROBERT B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIGOTT, JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates, in general, to voltage references,
and more particularly to correction circuits to reduce error of
a voltage reference.Voltage references provide an accurate and stable voltage
over a wide temperature. It is well known that a bandgap
reference is easily integrated on existing semiconductor
processes and provides an accurate reference voltage that is
extremely stable over temperature. The bandgap reference
provides a low temperature coefficient (TC) reference voltage
by adding two voltages with opposite temperature coefficients,
thus canceling the temperature dependence. The resultant
voltage produced by the bandgap reference is approximately the
bandgap voltage of the semiconductor material. In the case of
a silicon semiconductor, the bandgap reference voltage
produced is approximately 1.205 volts. The temperature
dependence term canceled is generally a first order term or
linear term.Smaller second and third order temperature dependent
terms affect the bandgap reference output voltage, although
the largest term (linear term) of the temperature dependent
terms is canceled. These remaining temperature dependent
terms produce an output voltage that graphically looks like an
inverted parabola. The peak of the inverted parabola is a point
of zero temperature dependence (zero slope) and is typically
centered at a center of a temperature range in which the
bandgap reference is used. For example, assume the bandgap
reference is used over a temperature range of -40 degrees
centigrade to 100 degrees centigrade. The zero temperature
coefficient point or peak of the inverted parabola is centered 
at approximately 30 degrees centigrade. Temperatures above
and below 30 degrees centigrade will produce an output voltage
less than the approximately 1.205 volts produced at 30 degrees
centigrade.Maximum deviations in output voltage of the bandgap
reference due to temperature dependencies are small. From the
example described above an output voltage deviation of
approximately 8 millivolts over the temperature range (-40 to
100 degrees centigrade) can be expected. This small voltage
error makes further correction of the bandgap reference
extremely difficult. The problem resides in generating a small
voltage with an appropriate temperature coefficient centered
at the center point of the bandgap reference. Most attempts at
compensation start with large voltages or currents that must
be reduced or translated appropriately to generate the small
correction voltage. Error produced during translation is
inv
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A voltage reference circuit (12) for providing a reference voltage
within a predetermined temperature range, the voltage reference circuit (12)

comprising a reference circuit (11) for providing an output voltage, said
output voltage being a maximum at a predetermined temperature within the

predetermined temperature range, the voltage reference circuit (12)
characterised by;


a first circuit (13) for providing a correction current, said correction
current having an approximately linear temperature coefficient over the

predetermined temperature range and wherein the magnitude of said
correction current being a minimum at said predetermined temperature,

wherein said first circuit comprises:

a differential transistor pair (31, 32) responsive to a differential
input voltage; and
a current mirror circuit (33, 34) coupled to said differential
transistor pair for providing said correction current;
a second circuit (14) responsive to said correction current for providing
an output current, said output current being uni-directional over said

predetermined temperature range, wherein said second circuit comprises:

a first transistor (49) having a control electrode for receiving a
bias voltage, a first electrode coupled to an output of said second circuit

for providing said output current, and a second electrode coupled to an
input of said second circuit for receiving said correction current;
a second transistor (47) having a control electrode and a first
electrode coupled to said input of said second circuit, and a second

electrode coupled to a terminal of a first power supply; and
a third transistor (48) having a control electrode coupled to said
input of said second circuit, a first electrode coupled to said output of 

said second circuit, and a second electrode coupled to said terminal of
said first power supply; and
means (28) responsive to said second circuit for producing a correction
voltage over said predetermined temperature range, said correction voltage

being added to said output voltage of said reference circuit (11) to generate
the reference voltage.
A voltage reference circuit as recited in claim 1 wherein said
correction current provided by said first circuit (13) is approximately zero at

the predetermined temperature.
A voltage reference circuit as recited in claim 1 or 2 wherein the
reference circuit (11) is a bandgap voltage reference circuit.
A voltage reference circuit (12) as recited in claim 3 wherein said
first (13) and second (14) circuits are biased by said bandgap voltage

reference circuit.
A voltage reference circuit as recited in claim 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein
said first circuit (13) has an output for providing said correction current, said

differential transistor pair comprising:

a fourth transistor (31) of a first conductivity type including a
control electrode, a first electrode coupled to said output of said first

circuit (13) , and a second electrode;
a fifth transistor (32) of said first conductivity type including a
control electrode, a first electrode, and a second electrode coupled to

said second electrode of said fourth transistor (31), said differential
input voltage being applied across said control electrodes of said fourth

(31) and fifth (32) transistors;

wherein said current mirror circuit comprises: 

a sixth transistor (34) of a second conductivity type including a
control electrode and a first electrode coupled to said first electrode of

said fifth transistor (32), and a second electrode coupled to said
terminal of said first power supply; and
a seventh transistor (33) of said second conductivity type
including a control electrode coupled to said first electrode of said sixth

transistor (34), a first electrode coupled to said output of said first
circuit (13), and a second electrode coupled to said terminal of said first

power supply;

and wherein said first circuit further comprises:

a current source (36) for biasing said fourth (31) and fifth (32)
transistors, said current source (36) having a terminal coupled to a

terminal of a second power supply, and a second terminal coupled to
said second electrode of said fourth transistor (31).
A circuit as recited in claim 5 further including:

a first resistor (37) coupled between said terminal of said second power
supply and said control electrode of said fifth transistor (32);
a second resistor (38) coupled between said control electrode of said
fourth transistor (31) and said control electrode of said fifth transistor (32);
a third resistor (39) coupled between said control electrode of said
fourth transistor (31) and said terminal of said first power supply, said first

(37), second (38), and third (39) resistors forming a resistor divider for
generating said differential input voltage;
an eighth transistor (51) of said second conductivity type including a
control electrode and a first electrode coupled to said control electrode of said

first transistor (49), and a second electrode;
a fourth resistor (52) coupled between said first terminal of said second
power supply and said control electrode of said first transistor (49); and 
a fifth resistor (53) coupled between said second electrode of said eighth
transistor (51) and said terminal of said first power supply, said eighth

transistor (51), fourth resistor (52), and fifth resistor (53) generating said bias
voltage.
A circuit as recited in claim 6 wherein said fifth transistor (32) has a
conductive area some multiple of a conductive area of said fourth transistor

(31).
A circuit as recited in claim 6 or 7 wherein said second resistor (38)
is made trimmable to adjust said output current of said second circuit (14)

with respect to temperature.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
