<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645004</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ACTIVE ACOUSTICAL CONTROLLED ENCLOSURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01K1100	G01K1116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01K	G01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01K11	G01K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for using active algorithmically controlled sensing (1a, 1b) means and speaker means (2a, 2b) for controlling noise from a distributed noise source (5) within an enclosure (6) with a multiple input, multiple output controller (7).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOISE CANCELLATION TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOISE CANCELLATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSSMAN WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSSMAN, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AC IVE ACOUSTICAL CONTROLLED ENCLOSUREThis invention relates to providing an enclosure around a distributed noise source and employing acoustical control means to maximize transmission loss within the enclosure.BACKGROUNDBuilding a high transmission loss enclosure around a distributed noise source is a common method of reducing the sound radiation from the source. As is also well- known, typical enclosures perform well only at high frequencies, or, are thick and heavy if they perform well at low frequencies. The use of an active, acoustically controlled enclosure to perform the same function has been suggested. The suggestion is that good noise reduction could be achieved by placing acoustic sources in a "box" around the noise source with a sensing microphone in the box, or at an opening. This approach is not optimal in that it cannot address the effects of the "control" sound field on the structural radiation of the "box". This term is often described as control spillover. An example of this occurs when active reduction of the sound field in the box causes an unanticipated excitation of radiating structural modes of the box.Additionally boxes using only "passive" means such as padding or layering have been used without much success.Accordingly, it is an object of the current invention to improve upon current implementations of active, acoustically controlled enclosures by addressing both structural radiation as well as direct source radiation from openings in the "box".This is accomplished through proper placement of the error sensors as well as the type of control system used.An additional object of the present invention is to allow for openings (i.e. for air flow) in the box while still allowing active control. This is accomplished by designing the openings of the box to have a high acoustical impedance at the 

disturbance frequencies. This will allow active control, and air flow into the box, and allow for smaller loudspeakers to be used.These and other objects of the invention will become apparent when reference is had to the accompanying drawings in whichFig. 1 depicts a distributed noise source with an enclosure with an opening. Fig. 2 is a variant of the enclosure of Fig. 1 using a MIMO (multiple input, multiple output) controller. Fig. 3 is a distributed noise source surrounded by an enclosure. Fig. 4 is a perspective view of the engine compartment of a personal watercraft.Fig. 5 is a plot of the Spectrum of sound pressure level (SPL) inside (upper plot) and outside (lower plot) a mockup of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of controlling noise around a distributed radiating noise source, said method including providing an enclosure around said noise source, providing first speaker means within said enclosure adapted to produce counter noise so as to attenuate the radiated noise from said source, sensing said radiating noise, and actively generating a first counter noise so as to attenuate said radiating noise.
2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said step of sensing said radiating noise further includes detecting efficient structural radial modes and, wherein said step of actively generating a first counter noise in said enclosure includes excitation of radiating structural modes of the box.
3. A method as in claim 1 and including the steps of sensing the noise emitted from an aperture in said enclosure, providing second speaker means within said enclosure adjacent said aperture adapted to produce counter noise so as to attenuate the direct source noise emanating from said aperture, and generating a second counter noise so as to attenuate said direct source noise emanating from said aperture.
4. A method as in claim 3 including providing an aperture in said enclosure with a high acoustical impedance at the disturbance frequencies of said noise.
5. A method of actively controlling noise from source contained by an enclosure which produces frequencies having structural modes to control sensing far-field noise external of the enclosure, 


 measuring efficiently radiating modes, and actively producing counter noise so as to attenuate said noise.
6. A method as in claim 5 and including sensing the acoustic modes within the enclosure which effectively couple to the enclosure's structure and are radiated by said enclosure into the far-field, and actively controlling said acoustic modes.
7. A system for actively acoustically attenuating noise radiating from a source within an enclosure with or without at least one opening therein, said system comprising first sensing means adapted to sense far-field noise external of said enclosure, speaker means within said enclosure positioned so as to be able to actively attenuate said noise, controller means adapted to produce counter noise in response to said sensed noise and cause said speaker means to actively counter said noise.
8. A system as in claim 7 wherein said enclosure has no apertures therein and said sensing means is located external of said enclosure to sense the sound radiated from the enclosure structure.
9. A system as in claim 7 wherein said enclosure has no apertures therein and said sensing means is located within said enclosure and including filter means associated with said sensing means and adapted to focus the control effort of said speaker means on that portion of the noise that radiates into the far-field. 


10. A system as in claim 7 wherein said enclosure has an aperture therein and including a second sensing means located adjacent said aperture and adapted to sense noise at said aperture, second speaker means located within said enclosure and adapted to actively control the sound field exiting said aperture.
11. A system as in claim 10 wherein said first sensing means is located external of said enclosure to sense the sound radiated from the enclosure structure.
12. A system as in claim 11 wherein said sensing means is located within said enclosure and which includes a filter means operatively associated with said sensing means and said speaker means so as to focus the active control effort of said speaker means on that portion of the noise that radiates into the far-field.
13. A system as in claim 12 wherein said sensing means are microphones.
14. A system as in claim 11 wherein said sensing means are PVDF sensors.
15. A system as in claim 7 wherein said aperture is designed to have a high acoustic impedance in frequency range of control.
16. A system as in claim 7 wherein said enclosure has no apertures and said controller means utilizes a multiple input, multiple output algorithm control and there are at least two first sensing means.
17. A system as in claim 16 wherein said sensing means are located external of said enclosure and are microphones. 


18. A system as in claim 16 wherein said sensors are located on the external surface of said enclosure and are PVDF sensors.
19. A system as in claim 16 wherein said sensors are adapted to be located within said enclosure and including filter means associated with said sensing means and adapted to focus the control effort of said speaker means on that portion of the noise that radiates into the far-field.
20. A system as in claim 7 wherein said enclosure has at least one aperture and including a second sensing means located adjacent said aperture and adapted to sense noise at said aperture, second speaker means located within said enclosure and positioned to actively control the sound field exiting said aperture and wherein said controller means includes means adapted to use a multiple input, multiple output algorithm and there are at least two first speaker means and two first sensing means adapted to be controlled by said means.
21. A system as in claim 20 wherein said controller means additionally includes means adapted to use a single input, single output means adapted to control said second sensing means and said second speaker means.
22. A system as in claim 21 and including a synch signal means adapted to deliver a synch signal from said noisy source to each as said controller means.
23. A system as in claim 7 and including a synch signal means adapted to deliver a synch signal from said noise source to said controller means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
