<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0579374</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Scroll compressor with liquid injection
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04C2700	F04C2904	F04C1802	F04C1802	F04C2904	F04C2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04C	F04C	F04C	F04C	F04C	F04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04C27	F04C29	F04C18	F04C18	F04C29	F04C27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor (10) for use in a 
conventional refrigerating circuit and having liquid refrigerant 

compressor cooling provided by the injection of liquid refrigerant 
into an intermediate biasing chamber (60) and/or specifically 

located bleed holes (54,56). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COPELAND CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COPELAND CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAILLAT JEAN-LUC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAILLAT, JEAN-LUC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to scroll type compressors and more specifically to a 
scroll type compressor having provision for the injection of liquid refrigerant at an intermediate 
stage of the compression cycle to thereby reduce overheating. Scroll compressors are known to be extremely efficient, reliable and quiet in 
applications for the compression of refrigerant. However, like all compressors, they are 
subject to overheating during certain high load situations. In the normal refrigeration cycle, vapor is drawn into a compressor where it is 
compressed to a higher pressure. The compressed vapor is cooled and condensed in a 
condenser into a high pressure liquid which is then expanded, typically through an expansion 
valve, to a lower pressure and caused to evaporate in an evaporator to thereby draw in heat 
and thus provide the desired cooling effect. The expanded, relatively low pressure vapor 
exiting the evaporator is once again drawn into the compressor and the cycle starts anew. 
The action of compressing the vapor imparts work onto the vapor and results in a significant 
increase in the vapor temperature. While a substantial portion of this heat is subsequently 
rejected to the atmosphere during the condensation process, a portion of the heat is 
transferred to the compressor components. Depending upon the specific refrigerant vapor 
compressed and on the pressure conditions of operation, this heat transfer can cause the 
temperature of the compressor components to rise to levels which may cause the compressor 
to overheat, resulting in degradation of the compressor performance and lubrication and 
possible damage to the compressor. In order to overcome overheating problems, various methods have been developed 
for injecting gaseous or liquid refrigerant under pressure into the suction inlet of a compressor 
where it expands and cools the inlet vapor and the compression chamber. Two such systems 
are disclosed and described in detail in US-A-5,076,067 and  
 
4,974,427 the disclosures of which are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference. 
However, injecting refrigerant into the Wet port of the compressor suffers the disadvantage 
that it reduces the compressor efficiency by reducing the net amount of refrigerant drawn into 
the compressor on the suction side of the refrigeration circuit in order to minimize this 
reduction in efficiency, systems have been developed using thermostats or other thermal 
transducer circuits incorporating valve means to limit the injection of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor (10,10') 

for use in a conventional refrigerating circuit and having 
liquid refrigerant compressor cooling, comprising: 


(a) first and second scroll members (24,26,24',26') 
each having an end plate (37,39) on one face of which is 

disposed a scroll wrap (38,40), said scroll members being 
mounted so that said wraps are intermeshing with respect to 

one another so that, when one of said scroll members is 
moved in an orbital path with respect to the other of said 

scroll members, said wraps define moving fluid compression 
chambers which progress from a relatively large size at 

suction pressure to a relatively small size at discharge 
pressure; 
(b) a fluid biasing chamber (60,60') disposed in 
sealing relationship with the opposite face of one of said 

end plates (39); and 
(c) first passage means (54,56,54',56') through 
said one end plate (39) for placing said biasing chamber 

(60,60') in fluid communication with the fluid in one of 
said compression chambers at a point therein where the 

fluid being compressed is at a pressure intermediate said 
suction and discharge pressures, whereby said fluid at said 

intermediate pressure acts to bias the one scroll member 
(26,24') having said one end plate (39) against the other 

scroll member (24,26') to enhance sealing therebetween; 
 
   characterised in that the compressor further 

comprises:
 
   (d) a second passage means (112,112') for placing 

said biasing chamber (60,60') in fluid communication with 
liquid refrigerant in said circuit when said compressor 

requires cooling. 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in claim 1, wherein said one of said scroll members is an 

orbiting scroll member (24').  
 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in claim 1, wherein said one of said scroll members is a 

non-orbiting scroll member (26). 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said second 

passage means (112,112') includes restriction means 
(110,110') for limiting the amount of refrigerant 

communicated to said compressor. 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in claim 4, wherein said restriction means comprises a 

capillary tube (110,110'). 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in claim 4 or claim 5 , wherein said restriction means 

(110, 110') permits the flow of liquid refrigerant to said 
compressor only when the pressure in said biasing chamber 

(60,60') is at a level that indicates the compressor needs 
cooling. 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said second 

passage means (112,112') has a shut-off valve (114,114') 
for blocking the flow of refrigerant to said compressor 

when desired. 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in claim 7, wherein said shut-off valve (114,114') closes 

when said compressor is de-energizing and opens when said 
compressor is energizing. 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as claimed 
in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said second 

passage means (112) comprises insulation means (82) to 
prevent said liquid refrigerant being communicated to said 

biasing chamber (60) from being heated excessively by the 
surrounding environment of said compressor.  

 
A scroll-type refrigerant compressor as 
claimed in claim 9, wherein said insulation means is an 

assembly comprising: an injection tube (86) having a 
first end in fluid communication with said biasing chamber 

(60) and a second end in fluid communication with said 
refrigerating circuit, and a sleeve member (72) having 

said injection tube (86) disposed therein with a gap (82) 
between said sleeve member and said injector tube to 

insulate the latter from the heat of said compressor. 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
any one of the preceeding claims, wherein said first 

passage means (54,56,54',56') comprises a pair of bleed 
holes formed through said end plate (39) of one of said 

scroll members (26,24'). 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 11, wherein said second passage means is located at 

a midpoint between said pair of bleed holes. 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 11, wherein said pair of bleed holes (54,56,54',56') 

are located symmetrically, that is, on parallel lines 
which are tangent to the generating circle of said scroll 

wrap. 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 11, wherein said pair of bleed holes (55,56,55',56') 

are located non-symmetrically, that is said holes are 
located on non-parallel lines tangent to the generating 

circle of said scroll wrap. 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 13 or 14, wherein said pair of bleed holes are 

formed in said end plate (39) of said non-orbiting scroll 
member (26). 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 13 or 14, wherein said pair of bleed holes are 

formed in said end plate of said orbiting scroll member 
(24').  

 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 16, wherein said first of said pair of bleed holes 

is located adjacent the outer surface of said scroll wrap 
and said second hole is located adjacent said inner 

surface of said scroll wrap. 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 17, wherein said second bleed hole is located 

slightly further from the suction inlet of said compressor 
than if said bleed holes were located symmetrically. 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 1, wherein said first passage means (54,56) 

comprises a bleed hole formed through the end plate (39) 
of said non-orbiting scroll member (26). 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 19, wherein said second passage means is 

substantially aligned circumferentially and radially with 
said bleed hole. 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 1, wherein said first passage means (54',56') 

comprises a bleed hole formed through the end plate of 
said orbiting scroll member (24'). 
The scroll-type refrigerant compressor of 
claim 21, wherein said second passage means is 

substantially aligned circumferentially and radially with 
said bleed hole. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
