<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613005</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Assays employing dyed microorganism labels.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33533	G01N33533	G01N33558	G01N33558	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present article relates to test articles and assays for the 
detection of analytes in biological fluids. More particularly, to a test 

article comprising: a support matrix, and a labelling complex 
impregnated within the support matrix, wherein the labelling complex 

comprises a dyed microorganism having a specific labelling binding 
substance on its cell surface. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUIDEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUIDEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRONOVOST ALLAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWLEY GERALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRONOVOST ALLAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROWLEY GERALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to test 
articles and assays for the detection of analytes in 
biological fluid samples. More particularly, the present 
invention relates to test articles and assays which employ 
dyed microorganisms as visual labels to detect the suspected 
analytes. The use of chromogenic and fluorescent dyes as 
"labels" in biological assay procedures is known. Typical 
assay protocols call for direct or indirect binding of a dye 
label to an analyte or analyte analog in a biological sample, 
where the presence or absence of the dye at a particular stage 
of the assay can be determined visually and related to the 
amount of analyte initially present in the sample. A wide 
variety of specific assay protocols exist. Of particular interest to the present invention, 
certain assays utilize naturally colored or dyed particles as 
a label, where the particles are bound to an antibody or other 
specific binding substance. Suggested particles include dyed 
latex beads, dye imbibed liposomes, erythrocytes, metal sols, 
and the like. The colored particle in such complexes can 
serve as a visible marker, where separation, capture, or 
aggregation of the particles is mediated through binding of 
the antibody or other specific binding substance. The amount 
of label thus segregated in a particular assay step is related 
to the amount of analyte initially present in the sample. A variety of methods for preparing such antibody-particle 
compositions have been proposed. Such methods 
generally rely on producing a colored particle, typically by 
dying a latex bead, a liposome, or the like, and subsequently 
attaching the colored particle to the antibody, typically by 
passive adsorption or by covalent binding.  While generally useful, methods for preparing such 
antibody-particle compositions can be relatively complex, 
usually requiring multi-stage operations including preparation 
of the particle, coloring of the particle, attachment of the 
particle to the antibody, and blocking of the particle for use 
in immunoassays. Some particles, such as liposomes, are 
relatively unstable and do not provide uniform characteristics 
following storage or during use in some samples. Moreover, a 
loss of antibody binding capacity can often result from the 
particle attachment. Sometimes these particles are not 
compatible with the antibodies selected for a particular 
application. Often times the antibodies are bound to the 
particle inefficiently and without regard to orientation for 
maximal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A test article comprising: a support matrix, and 
a labelling complex impregnated within the support matrix, 

wherein the labelling complex comprises a dyed 
microorganism having a specific labelling binding substance 

on its cell surface. 
A test article as in Claim 1, wherein the dyed 
microorganism has a natural cell surface receptor which 

provides the specific labelling binding substance. 
A test article as in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the 
labelling complex is lyophilized within the support matrix. 
A test article comprising: a support matrix 
defining a flow path; a sample receiving zone located along 

said flow path and having an analyte binding substance 
specific for an analyte impregnated therein, wherein an 

analyte/binding substance conjugate is formed by 
application of the analyte to the sample receiving zone; a 

labelling zone located along said flow path downstream from 
said sample receiving zone and having a labelling complex 

impregnated therein, wherein said labelling complex 
comprises a dyed microorganism having a labelling binding 

substance specific for said conjugate on its cell surface; 
and a capture zone located along said flow path downstream 

from said labelling zone and having a capture binding 
substance specific for said analyte immobilized therein. 
A test article as in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the microorganism is dyed Staphylococcus 

aureus and the labelling binding substance is protein A. 
A test article as in Claim 5 when dependent on 
Claim 4, wherein the capture binding substance within the 

capture zone is an antibody or antibody fragment specific 
for the analyte and lacking an Fc so that it will not bind 

protein A. 
A test article as in Claim 4, wherein the analyte 
binding substance within the sample receiving zone is an 

IgG antibody specific for the analyte. 
A test article as in Claim 5, wherein the antibody 
is anti-hCG. 
A test article as in any one of Claims 4 to 8, 
wherein the analyte binding substance is lyophilized within 

the sample receiving zone. 
A test article as in any one of Claims 4 to 9 
wherein the labelling complex is lyophilized within the 

labelling zone. 
A test article as in any one of Claims 4 to 10, 
wherein the capture binding substance is dried but not 

lyophilized within the capture zone. 
A test article as in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the labelling binding substance is an 

immunoglobulin, which immunoglobulin is bound directly to 
the cell surface. 
A test article as in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the support matrix is a fabric composed of 

a polyester, an acrylonitrile copolymer, rayon, glass 
fiber, cellulose, and blends thereof. 
A test article as in Claim 13, wherein the fabric 
has been treated with a blocking agent to render the fabric 

non-bibulous. 
A test article as in any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the support matrix is a solid matrix which 

conducts non-bibulous flow of a liquid sample. 
A test article as in any one of Claims 1 to 13 
wherein the support matrix is a solid matter which conducts 

bibulous flow of a liquid sample. 
A method for preparing a test article, said method 
comprising impregnating a labelling complex within a 

support matrix, wherein the labelling complex comprises a 
dyed microorganism having a specific labelling binding 

substance on its cell surface. 
A method as in Claim 17, wherein the labelling 
complex is lyophilized within the support matrix. 
A method as in Claim 17 or 18, wherein the dyed 
microorganism is Staphylococcusaureus and the specific 

labelling binding substance is protein A. 
A method as in Claim 17, 18 or 19, wherein the 
specific labelling binding substance is an immunoglobulin, 

which immunoglobulin is bound directly to the cell surface. 
A method as in any one of Claims 17 to 20, wherein 
support matrix is a fabric composed of a polyester, an 

acrylonitrile copolymer, rayon, glass fiber, cellulose, and 
blends thereof. 
A method as in Claim 21, wherein the fabric has 
been treated with a blocking agent to render the fabric 

non-bibulous. 
A method as in any one of Claims 17 to 22, wherein 
the support matrix is a solid matrix which conducts non-bibulous 

flow of a liquid sample. 
A method as in any one of Claims 17 to 21, wherein 
the support matrix is a solid matrix which conducts 

bibulous flow of a liquid sample. 
An improved lateral flow assay of the type wherein 
binding between a labelling complex and a capture bind 

substance within a capture zone is mediated by the presence 
of an analyte in a sample flowing through said capture 

zone, wherein the improvement comprises use of a labelling 
complex consisting essentially of a dyed microorganism 

having a specific labelling binding substance on its cell 
surface wherein binding between the labelling complex and 

the capture binding substance is effected directly or 
indirectly through the cell surface labelling binding 

substance. 
An assay as in Claim 25, wherein sample flow 
through the capture zone results in binding an analyte-labelling 

complex conjugate to the capture substance, 
whereby label accumulates in the capture zone in proportion 

to the amount of analyte in the sample. 
An assay as in Claim 25, wherein sample flow 
through the capture zone results in binding of analyte to 

the capture binding substance, whereby labelling complex 
previously bound within the capture zone is competitively 

displaced resulting in depletion of label in proportion to 
the amount of analyte in the sample. 
An assay as in Claim 25, 26 or 27, wherein the dyed 
microorganisms have a natural cell surface receptor which 

provides the specific labelling binding substance. 
An assay as in any one of Claims 25 to 28, wherein 
the specific labelling binding substance is an 

immunoglobulin, wherein said immunoglobulin is directly 
attached to the cell surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
