<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618784</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURGICAL INSTRUMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1704	A61B1704	A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B173201	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1812	A61B1812	A61B1814	A61B1814	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved surgical tool of the type comprising a handle (2) having a movable tool-operating handle member (10) and a tool head (6) having a first and second tissue engaging members movable between open and closed positions coupled to the movable handle member (10). The improved tool is characterised by an inner shaft (100) secured to a stationary part of the handle (2), and a hollow outer shaft (104) disposed in telescoping relation to the inner shaft (100), with the tool head (6) being secured to the inner shaft (100) and the outer shaft (104) being movable axially relative to the inner shaft (100) by manipulation of the movable tool-operating member (10) to cause opening and closing of the tissue engaging members.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVASIVE DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INNOVASIVE DEVICES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART RICKEY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICHOLSON JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICE JOHN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINTERS RICHARD M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HART, RICKEY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NICHOLSON, JAMES, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICE, JOHN, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINTERS, RICHARD, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SURGICAL INSTRUMENTINTRODUCTIONThis invention relates to surgical instruments and more particularly to instruments for use in endoscopic surgical procedures, including but not limited to laparoscopy.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONHuman and animal surgery freguently requires the grasping, manipulating or cutting of tissue or other organic living matter at some distance from the surgeon's hands. In such cases endoscopic surgical methods are commonly employed that make it possible for skillful and precise surgery to be conducted despite the fact that the surgical site is a substantial number of inches from the point of initial incision in the person or animal being operated on. Endoscopic surgical procedures encompass both arthroscopic and laparoscopic surgery techniques. In endoscopic surgery, small incisions are made in the exterior surface of the person or animal being operated on, and the work being performed is observed by the operating surgeon by means of a an optical device known as an endoscope which is inserted into the person or animal through a small incision. Endoscopic surgical 

 techniques are displacing conventional open surgical techniques for many procedures, and hence there is a need for improved instruments for conducting such procedures.A wide variety of surgical instruments have been devised for use in arthroscopic and laparoscopic surgical procedures, including instruments such as graspers, forceps and scissors for use in grasping, cutting or otherwise remotely manipulating bodily tissue and other matter during surgery.A typical instrument employed in endoscopic surgery has a pair of articulated jaws, and a handle mechanism comprising two members, one movable with respect to the other, which can conveniently be manipulated so as to cause the jaws to open and close. Serrations, blades, cutting edges, or other features (depending upon the use for which the tool is intended) enable the jaws to perform various surgical functions, such as grasping or cutting. The articulated jaws are located at the distal end of a relatively long extension of the handle mechanism. The length of the extension is determined by the depth of the surgical site, while its cross-sectional dimensions are established by the maximum permissible incision size.Many ingenious linkages have been devised for converting the surgeon's manual efforts at the handle end of the instrument into opening and closing of the tool's jaws. Most commonly, the surgical tool comprises a stationary handle member rigidly joined to a hollow
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A surgical instrument comprising: a handle assembly, said handle assembly having at least a first handle member and a trigger member pivotally mounted to said first handle member, said trigger member being movable on its pivot between first and second positions; an elongate rod; means for securing said rod to said handle assembly so that said rod forms an extension thereof; a tool head attached to said rod, said tool head comprising first and second cooperating tool members movable relative to one another between a first open position and a second closed position, said first and second tool members normally being in said first open position; a hollow tube coaxially and slidably surrounding said rod, said tube having a first proximal end slidably received in said handle assembly and a second distal end that extends to said tool head and is movable axially into and out of overlapping relation with said first and second operating tool members; and force transmitting means connecting said hollow tube and said trigger member for causing said hollow tube to shift axially relative to said rod between (1) a first retracted position when said trigger member is in its said first position and (2) a second extended position when said trigger member is in its said second 


 position, said first and second tool members being in said first open position and said distal end of said hollow tube being in a non-biasing position relative to said tool head when said hollow tube is in its first retracted position, said distal end of said hollow tube being disposed to move said first and second tool members into said second closed position when said hollow tube is moved to its said second extended position.
2. A surgical instrument according to claim 1 wherein said means for securing said rod to said handle assembly is adapted to release said rod from said handle assembly.
3. A surgical instrument according to claim 1 wherein said rod and said tool head are electrically conductive.
4. A surgical instrument according to claim 3 further including an electrically conductive terminal member connected to said rod for use in electrifying said rod and said tool head.
5. A surgical instrument according to claim 2 wherein said means for securing said rod to said handle assembly comprises an electrically conductive terminal member.
6. A surgical instrument according to claim 5 wherein said terminal member extends through
'
 a hole in said 


 handle assembly and comprises a first inner portion connected to said rod and a second outer portion projecting outside of said handle assembly.
7. A surgical instrument according to claim 6 wherein said terminal member is locked to said rod by a spring-biased connection.
8. A surgical instrument according to claim 6 further comprising spring means urging said terminal member into locking connection with said rod.
9. A surgical instrument according to claim 2 wherein said means for securing said rod to said handle assembly comprises a conductive terminal member having a key-shaped aperture characterized by a first relatively small diameter portion and a second relatively large diameter portion communicating with said first relatively small diameter portion, and the proximal end of said rod has (a) a relatively large diameter head section sized to fit in said relatively large diameter portion of said aperture but oversized with respect to said relatively small diameter portion of said aperture, and (b) a circumferential groove having a diameter smaller than said relatively small diameter portion of said aperture, said terminal member and said rod being positioned in said handle assembly so that said groove is positioned in alignment with said small diameter portion of said aperture, whereby said head section of said rod is captivated against axial movement relative to said handle assembly. 


 10. A surgical instrument according to claim 1 wherein said force-transmitting means comprises a tube housing disposed within said handle assembly for reciprocal axial movement lengthwise of the axis of said rod, said tube housing having a proximal end and a distal end with said proximal end of said hollow tube being fixed to the distal end of said tube housing, said tube housing having means engaged by said trigger member for causing said tube housing and said hollow tube to move axially relative to said rod when said trigger member is moved from one to the other of its said first and second positions.
11. A surgical instrument according to claim 10 wherein said trigger member has a birfurcated end that makes a pivotal engagement with said tube housing.
12. A surgical instrument according to claim 11 wherein said handle assembly comprises first and second opposite side members secured to one another, said first and second side members defining a chamber in which said tube housing is slidably disposed.
13. A surgical instrument according to claim 12 wherein said first and second side members are shaped so as to define a hole, and said means for securing said rod to said handle assembly comprises a member that projects outwardly of said handle assembly through said hole. 


 14. A surgical instrument according to claim 1 wherein said tool head is a scissors head, and said first and second tool members are scissors blades.
15. A surgical instrument according to claim 1 wherein said tool head is removable from said rod.
16. A surgical instrument according to claim 15 wherein said tool head is removably attached to said rod by a tongue and groove connection.
17. A surgical instrument according to claim 16 wherein said tongue and groove connection is surrounded by said hollow tube when said hollow tube is in its first retracted position.
18. A surgical instrument according to claim 1 further including means for rotating said rod and said tool head relative to said handle assembly.
19. A surgical instrument comprising: a handle assembly, said handle assembly including first and second manually graspable members pivotally mounted to one another so that said second member is movable on its pivot between first and second positions relative to said first member; an elongate rod secured to said handle assembly so as to form an extension thereof; a tool head attached to said rod, said tool head comprising first and second cooperating tool members movable relative to one another between first and 


 second tool member positions, said first and second tool members normally being in said first tool member position; a hollow tube coaxially and slidably surrounding said rod, said tube having a first proximal end slidably received in said handle assembly and a second distal end that is disposed so as to be movable into overlapping relation with said tool head; and force transmitting means carried by said handle assembly and connecting said hollow tube and said second manually graspable member for causing said hollow tube to shift axially relative to said rod between (1) a first retracted position when said second manually graspable member is in its said first position and (2) a second extended position when said second manually graspable member is in its said second position, said first and second tool members being in said first open position and said distal end of said hollow tube being in a non-biasing position relative to said first and second tool members when said hollow tube is in its first retracted position, said distal end of said hollow tube being disposed to engage and bias said first and second tool members into said second tool member position when said hollow tube is moved to its said second extended position.
20. A surgical instrument comprising a handle assembly, a tool head, and drive means connecting said handle assembly and said tool head; said handle assembly comprising a handle and a trigger member pivotally mounted to said handle; 


 said tool head comprising first and second cooperating tool members movable between a first open position wherein they are spaced from one another and a s second closed position wherein they are proximate to or engaged with one another; and said drive means confirming an elongate rod, a hollow tube surrounding said rod, means for securing one end of said rod to said handle assembly, means for securing said tool head to the opposite end of said rod, housing means for slidably supporting said tube for sliding axial movement relative to said rod, and means connecting said housing means and said trigger member whereby manipulation of said trigger member will cause said tube to move axially relative to said rod between a first position wherein said tube is retracted from said tool and said first and second tool members are in said first open position and a second position wherein said tube is engaged with said first and second tool members and holds them in said second closed position.
21. A surgical instrument according to claim 20 wherein said tool head and said drive means form a discrete subassembly that is removably secured to said handle assembly.
22. A surgical instrument according to claim 21 wherein said discrete subassembly is releasably locked to said handle assembly by a spring-biased locking member. 


 23. A surgical instrument according to claim 22 wherein said locking member is releasably engaged with said rod.
24. A surgical instrument according to claim 22 wherein said locking member is an electrical terminal element.
25. A surgical instrument according to claim 21 wherein said discrete subassembly comprises a second tube that surrounds said first tube but is immovable relative to said handle assembly.
26. A surgical instrument according to claim 21 further including tool rotating means for rotating said rod and tool head relative to said handle assembly and said tube.
27. A surgical instrument according to claim 26 wherein said tool rotating means comprises a second trigger member pivotally attached to said handle assembly, and means coupling said rod and second trigger member for causing rotation of said rod and tool head when said second trigger member is moved about its pivot.
28. A surgical instrument according to claim 20 having a first housing releasably secured to said handle assembly, and a second housing slidably mounted in said first housing, said tube being secured to and movable with said second housing, and said rod extending 


 through said second housing and secured to said first housing.
29. A surgical instrument according to claim 28 further including a second tube surrounding and concealing movement of said first-mentioned tube, said second tube being secured to said first housing.
30. A surgical instrument according to claim 28 wherein said first housing extends within said handle assembly.
31. A surgical instrument comprising a handle and trigger assembly and an operating tool assembly separably connected to said handle and trigger assembly, said handle and trigger assembly comprising a handle housing having a chamber therein and a trigger member pivotally mounted to said handle housing, said operating tool assembly comprising at one end thereof a tool head with tissue-engaging members and at the opposite end thereof a tubular housing that extends into said chamber and is releasably connected to said handle housing, said operating tool assembly further including a mechanism for moving said tissue-engaging members toward and away from one another, said mechanism including movable means in said tubular housing engaged and movable by said trigger member for causing said mechanism to move said tissue-engaging members toward and away from one another in response to pivotal movement of said trigger member. 


 32. A surgical instrument according to claim 31 wherein said operating tool assembly comprises a rod having one end extending into said tubular housing, means securing said one end of said rod to said handle housing, and a hollow shaft having one end extending into said tubular housing in coaxial and telescoping relation with said rod, and said movable means is coupled to said hollow shaft, whereby pivotal movement of said trigger member relative to said handle housing will cause said shaft to shift axially according to the direction of pivotal movement of said trigger member.
33. A surgical instrument according to claim 33 wherein said tool head comprises a pair of tissue-engaging members that are normally disposed in diverging relation to one another, and spring means biasing said tissue-engaging members so as to resist movement thereof toward one another, and further wherein said shaft has a forward end that embraces and forces said tissue-engaging members toward one another when said shaft is moved forward relative to said rod by movement of said trigger member.
34. A surgical instrument according to claim 33 wherein said tissue-engaging members are scissors blades adapted to provide a cutting action when they are moved toward one another by movement of said shaft.
35. A surgical instrument comprising a handle and trigger assembly and an operating tool assembly separably connected to said handle and trigger 


 assembly, said handle and trigger assembly comprising a handle housing having a chamber therein and a trigger member pivotally mounted to said handle housing, said operating tool assembly comprising at one end thereof a tool head with tissue-engaging members and at the opposite end thereof a tubular housing that extends into said chamber and is releasably connected to said handle housing, said operating tool assembly further including a mechanism for moving said tissue-engaging members toward and away from one another, said mechanism including movable means in said tubular housing engaged and movable by said trigger member for causing said mechanism to move said tissue-engaging members toward and away from one another in response to pivotal movement of said trigger member.
36. A surgical instrument according to claim 35 wherein said handle and trigger assembly comprises locking means engaged with said operating tool assembly for releasably locking said tubular housing to said handle housing.
37. A surgical instrument according to claim 36 wherein said operating tool assembly comprises a rod having one end extending through said tubular housing, a hollow housing slidably surrounding said rod, said hollow housing being slidably disposed within said tubular housing, a hollow shaft disposed in coaxial and telescoping relation with said rod, said shaft being affixed to said hollow housing so as to be movable therewith relative to said tubular housing, means 


securing said rod to tubular housing, locking means releasably securing one end of said rod to said handle housing, and means on said hollow housing for making a pivotal connection with said trigger member, whereby pivotal movement of said trigger member relative to said handle housing will cause said hollow housing and said shaft to shift axially according to the direction of pivotal movement of said trigger member.
38. A surgical instrument according to claim 37 wherein said locking means is a spring biased member mounted to said handle housing.
39. A surgical instrument according to claim 37 wherein said rod and said tool head are electrically conductive, and said locking means comprises an electrical terminal pin engaged with said rod.
40. A surgical instrument according to claim 37 further including a helical gear affixed to said rod, and auxiliary trigger means pivotally mounted to said handle housing having gear teeth engaged with said helical gear so that pivotal movement of said auxiliary trigger means will cause rotation of said rod and said tool head.
41. A surgical instrument according to claim 40 wherein said tool head is affixed to another end of said rod, and telescoping movement of said tube causes closing and opening of said tissue-engaging members. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
