<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636594</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ceramic matrix composite material and method of producing thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C04B3580	C04B3564	C04B35573	C04B3580	C04B35565	C04B3564	C04B35565	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	C04B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A ceramic matrix composite material comprising a matrix 
containing silicon carbide as the primary component and 

silicon nitride as the secondary component is disclosed. The 
silicon nitride includes not more than 1% by weight of iron 

and reinforcements mixed and dispersed. The ceramic matrix 
composite material is manufactured, for example, by forming a 

matrix containing reaction sintered silicon carbide as the 
primary component and nitriding the free metal silicon 

produced in the sintering process so that the free metal 
silicon will be converted to fine silicon nitride particles. 

Said metal silicon used for reaction sintering already 
contains iron. These processes enable the containing of a 

comparatively large amount of reinforcements, as well as the 
improvement of heat resistance of the sintered compact and the 

suppression of the deterioration of reinforcements. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a ceramic matrix 
composite material, the matrix of which primarily consists of 
silicon carbide, and a manufacturing method thereof. Since silicon carbide (SiC) sinters are hard and resist 
abrasion, heat, oxidation, and alkaline well, many attempts 
have been made to apply the materials to slide members, 
turbine blades, reaction tubes, or sensor boxes used under 
severe conditions. However, ceramic materials consisting of silicon carbide 
sinters are brittle; they are typically destroyed 
catastrophically under a tensile stress. It is strongly 
sought to increase the toughness and reliability of these 
materials in order to improve the reliability of SiC ceramic 
parts. Much research is being carried out on ceramic matrix 
composite materials where SiC ceramics are used as matrices in 
which continuous fibres, short fibres or whiskers of ceramics 
are compounded and dispersed. An example of a conventional method of producing a 
ceramic matrix composite material is described herein. Short  
 
fibres or whiskers of ceramics are mixed with SiC powder to be 
used as a matrix, or a preformed compact made of continuous 
ceramic fibres is filled with SiC powder to create a compact 
including reinforcements. As is the usual way to manufacture 
sintered masses, either normal sintering, gas pressurized 
sintering, hot pressing, or hot isostatic pressing is used to 
sinter the shaped compact including reinforcements. Among 
these sintering methods, hot pressing and hot isostatic 
pressing are commonly used because normal sintering and gas 
pressurized sintering fail to provide dense sinter when a lot 
of reinforcement is added. Sintering by hot pressing and hot isostatic pressing, 
however, has the degradation problem with reinforcements at 
high temperature and high pressure. Moreover, in the hot 
pressing method, part's shapes are to be simple. Meanwhile, attempts are being made to use reaction 
sintered SiC as a matrix for ceramic based composite material. 
In reaction sintering, the dimension change due to sintering 
occurring less, a dense compact can be manufactured at a 
comparatively low temperature and low pressure which enables a 
large amount of reinforcement to be compounded in. On the 
other hand, conventional reaction sintering cannot fully 
prevent free metal (metal silicon) from remaining in the 
matrix. Sections occupied by free metals work in the same way 
as pores do at high temperature. The ceramic based composite 
material using a matrix of reaction sintered
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A ceramic matrix composite material, comprising: 

a matrix having silicon carbide as the primary component and silicon nitride as 
the secondary component, said silicon nitride phase containing 0.05 to 1.0% by weight 

of iron; and 
reinforcements compounded and dispersed in said matrix. 
A ceramic matrix composite material according to claim 1, wherein said primary 
component of said matrix is reaction sintered silicon carbide. 
A ceramic matrix composite material according to claim 1, wherein said silicon 
nitride in said matrix is composed of particles. 
A ceramic matrix composite material according to claim 3, wherein the average 
diameter of said silicon nitride particles in said matrix is not more than 1.0 µm. 
A ceramic matrix composite material according to claim 3, wherein the average 
diameter of said silicon nitride particles in said matrix is not more than 0.5 µm. 
A ceramic matrix composite material according to claim 1, wherein said 
reinforcements contain at least one element selected from the group consisting of 

continuous fibres, short fibres, whiskers, particles and platelets. 
A ceramic matrix composite material according to claim 1, wherein from 20 to 
75% by volume of said reinforcements are compounded and dispersed in said 

composite material.  
 
A method of producing a ceramic matrix composite material, comprising: 

a step of manufacturing a mixed compact including a starting material for 
reaction sintered silicon carbide and reinforcements, wherein the starting material 

contains carbon; 
a step of manufacturing a composite reaction sinter with a matrix composed of 
reaction sintered silicon carbide by applying a heat treatment to said mixed compact 

containing said reinforcements in the atmosphere including metal silicon containing 
iron so that the silicon nitride in the ceramic matrix composite material which is finally 

obtained contains an iron in the range of 0.05 to 1% by weight; and 
a step of nitriding the free metal silicon contained in said composite reaction 
sinter to be converted into silicon nitride by applying heat treatment to said composite 

reaction sinter in atmosphere including nitrogen. 
The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein starting material for reaction 
sintered silicon carbide contains carbon powder and silicon carbide as the primary 

components. 
The method as claimed in claim 9, further comprising a heat treatment step on 
said composite reaction sinter prior to nitriding in reduced pressure to vaporise a part of 

said free metal silicon remaining in said composite reaction sinter. 
The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said starting material for reaction 
sintered silicon carbide contains carbon powder and filler. 
The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said reinforcements are dispersed in 
said composite material in an amount of 20 to 75% by volume. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
