<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634625</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Media detector with simplified structure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1126	B65H714	G01B1126	B65H714	G01B1100	G07D900	G01B1100	G07D900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	B65H	G01B	B65H	G01B	G07D	G01B	G07D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	B65H7	G01B11	B65H7	G01B11	G07D9	G01B11	G07D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A media detector detects flat media (1) 
travelling on a transport path formed by a pair of 

media guides (2,3). Light emitted from a light-emitting 
element (5a,5b) enters the first media guide 

(2), is reflected within the first media guide, 
crosses the media transport path between the media 

guides, is reflected within the second media guide 
(3), and exits from the second media guide to a 

light-sensing element (6a,6b), which converts the 
light to an electrical signal. The light-emitting 

and light-sensing elements can be mounted, together 
with their associated electronics, on a single printed 

circuit board (11) disposed adjacent to the two media 
guides (2,3), so that no interconnecting cables are 

necessary. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OKI ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OKI ELECTRIC INDUSTRY COMPANY, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTO MASAO C O OKI ELECTRIC IN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOTO, MASAO, C/O OKI ELECTRIC IND. CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a media detector for use in
an automatic teller machine, vending machine, scanner,
copier, or other machine that must handle money, paper,
plastic cards, or similar flat media.Such a machine typically has a pair of flat media
guides separated by a small gap, forming a path through
which media are transported by rollers. To monitor the
passage of media on this transport path, the machine has a
media detector comprising, for example, a light-emitting
diode mounted above the upper media guide and a photodiode
mounted below the lower media guide. The optic axes of
these diodes are aligned with each other and with holes in
the media guides, so that normally a beam of light emitted
by the light-emitting diode illuminates the photodiode. The
presence of media in the path is detected when this beam is
interrupted. If necessary, a row of two or more such pairs
of diodes can be positioned across the transport path to
detect the size, shape, or orientation of the media. The
diodes are connected via cables to amplifier and detector
circuitry on a separate printed circuit board.A problem with this scheme is that additional structure
is needed to support the diodes above and below the media 
guides. This structure, and the above-mentioned interconnecting cables,
tend to get in the way during maintenance. The cables moreover require
connectors, which take up space and pose a reliability problem in that the
cables may become accidentally loosened or detached. Furthermore, the
complexity of the mounting and cabling adds to the cost of the detector.
When more than one pair of diodes is employed, all these problems are
multiplied.European Patent Application EP-A-0504997 places a light-emitting
diode and phototransistor on the same side of the media transport
path, and provides a light-reflecting element, specifically a prism, on the
opposite side to reflect light emitted by the light-emitting diode back to the
phototransistor. By adding a third element (the prism), this scheme
compounds the problems noted above.European Patent Application EP-A-0143188 uses optical
fibres and light transmission cables to carry light from a light source to a
position below the media transport path, receive the light at a position
above the transport path, and carry the received light to an image sensor.
This arrangement avoids the reliability problems of electrical connectors,
but additional structure is still needed to support the optical fibres and
cables, so the problems of extra space, extra cost, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A media detector for detecting the presence of media (1)
travelling in a transport path formed as a gap between a first media guide

(2) and a second media guide (3) which are positioned opposite and
parallel to each other, having a light-emitting element (5a) for emitting light,

a first light guide (7a) with an entry port (4a) receiving said light, for guiding
said light to a point on one side of said transport path and directing said

light across said transport path, a second light guide (9a) with an exit port
(12a), f
or receiving said light at an opposite point on the other side of said
transport path and guiding the light to said exit port (12a), and a light-sensing

element (6a) for receiving the light from said exit port (12a) and
converting the light to an electrical signal indicating the presence or absence of said

media, characterised in that:-

said first media guide (2) is formed as a plate backed by ribs;
at least one of the ribs of said first media guide (2) functions
as said first light guide (7a);
said first light guide (7a) has a first reflector (8a) for reflecting
said light across said transport path, said first light guide (7a) guiding said

light from said entry port (4a) to said first reflector (8a);
said second media guide (3) is formed as a plate backed by
ribs;
at least one of the ribs of said second media guide (3)
functions as said second light guide (9a);
said second light guide (9a) has a second reflector (10a) for
receiving and reflecting the light reflected across said transport path from

said first reflector (8a), said second light guide (9a) guiding said light from
said second reflector (10a) to said exit port (12a); and
said first reflector and said second reflector are positioned
facing each other across said transport path.
The detector of claim 1, wherein said entry port (4a) has a flat
surface.
The detector of claim 1, wherein said entry port (4a) has a
concave surface for capturing the light emitted from said light-emitting

element (5a).
The detector of claim 1, wherein said entry port (4a) has
width and height dimensions at least equal to corresponding dimensions of

said light-emitting element (5a).
The detector of claim 1, wherein said exit port (12a) has a
flat surface.
The detector of claim 1, wherein said exit port (12a) has a
convex surface for concentrating said light onto said light-sensing element

(6a).
The detector of claim 1, wherein said exit port (12a) has
width and height dimensions at least equal to corresponding dimensions of

said light-sensing element (6a).
The detector of claim 1, comprising a printed circuit board
(11) on which said light-emitting element (5a) and said light-sensing

element (6a) are mounted, said printed circuit board (11) having electronic
circuitry to which said light-emitting element (5a) and said light-sensing

element (6a) are coupled by printed wiring traces.
The detector of claim 1, comprising a plurality of light-emitting
elements (5a, 5b) and a like plurality of light-sensing elements (6a,6b),

wherein:

said first media guide (2) has ribs forming a like plurality of
first light guides (7a, 7b) with respective entry ports (4a, 4b) and first

reflectors (8a, 8b), said entry ports (4a, 4b) facing respective light-emitting
elements (5a, 5b) for entry of light therefrom; and
said second media guide (3) has ribs forming a like plurality
of second light guides (9a, 9b) with respective exit ports (12a, 12b) and 

second reflectors (IOa, IOb), said second reflectors (IOa, IOb) facing
respective first reflectors (8a, 8b) in said first media guide (2), and said exit

ports (12a, 12b) facing respective light-sensing elements (6a, 6b) for exit of
light thereto.
The detector of claim 9 wherein said plurality of first
reflectors (8a, 8b) are disposed in a straight line perpendicular to a

direction of travel of said media (1) in said transport path.
The detector of claim 1, comprising a single light-emitting
element (5) and a plurality of light-sensing elements (6a, 6b), wherein:


said first light guide (7) has a plurality of first reflectors (13, 8)
for reflecting said light across said transport path; and
said second media guide (3) has ribs forming a like plurality
of second light guides (9a, 9b) with respective exit ports (12a, 12b) and

second reflectors (lOa, lOb), said second reflectors (lOa, lOb) being
disposed to receive light reflected from respective first reflectors (13, 8),

and said exit ports (12a, 12b) facing respective light-sensing elements (6a,
6b) for exit of light thereto.
The detector of claim 11, wherein at least one of said first
reflectors (13) comprises a V-shaped notch formed at an intermediate

position in said first light guide (7), for reflecting part of the light guided in
said first light guide (7).
The detector of claim 11, wherein said first light guide (7)
extends in a straight line perpendicular to a direction of travel of said media

(1) in said transport path.
The detector of claim 13, wherein said second reflectors
(10a,10b) are disposed at regular intervals in a straight line parallel to said

first light guide (7).
A method of detecting media transported in a transport path
formed by a first media guide (2) formed as a plate backed by ribs and a

second media guide (3) also formed as a plate backed by ribs, said first 
media guide and said second media guide being positioned opposite and

parallel to each other, comprising the steps of:

emitting light from a light-emitting element (5a) into a first rib
of said first media guide (2), said first rib functioning as a first light guide;
reflecting said light within said first light guide (7a) so as to
direct said light across said transport path within a second light guide (9a)

formed by a second rib of said second media guide (3), so that said light
travels along said second light guide (9a) and exits from said second light

guide (9a); and
receiving the light that exits from said second light guide (9a)
with a light-sensing element (6a), thereby converting said light to an

electrical signal indicating the presence or absence of said media.
The method of claim 15, wherein said second media guide
(3) has ribs forming a plurality of second light guides (9a,9b), and said light

is reflected at a plurality of points within said first light guide (7a), crosses
said transport path at a like plurality of points, is reflected within said

second light guides (9a,9b) at a corresponding plurality of points, and exits
from said second light guides (9a,9b) to a corresponding plurality of light-sensing

elements (6a,6b).
The method of claim 16, wherein said light is emitted from a
corresponding plurality of light-emitting elements (5a, 5b).
The method of claim 16, wherein said light is emitted from a
single light-emitting element (5).
The method of claim 18, comprising the step of partially
reflecting said light by at least one intermediate reflector (13) in said first

light guide (7).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
