<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610665</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pixel control circuitry for spatial light modulator
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1010	G02B2608	H04N574	H04B1022	H04B10105	H04B1010	H04N574	H04B1022	G09G334	G02B2608	G09G334	H04B10105	G09G320	G09G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	G02B	H04N	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04N	H04B	G09G	G02B	G09G	H04B	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	G02B26	H04N5	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04N5	H04B10	G09G3	G02B26	G09G3	H04B10	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spatial light modulator (10) having reduced control 
circuitry as compared to existing devices. Sets of pixel 

elements (11) share a memory cell (12), such that each memory 
cell (12) has the same fanout as other memory cells (12). Each 

pixel element (11) in a set is switched to an on or off state via 
a reset line (13) that is separate from that of the other pixel 

elements (11) in that set. Frame data is loaded in split bit-frames 
during a set time period, such that each split bit-frame 

contains only the data for pixel elements (11) on one reset line 
(13). Thus, the same memory cell (12) can be used to deliver 

data to all pixel elements (11) in its fanout because only one 
pixel element (11) in the fanout is switched at a time. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to spatial light modulators, 
especially those known as deformable mirror devices, and 
more particularly to circuitry for controlling the on and 
off states of individual pixel elements. Spatial light modulators (SLMs) consist of an array 
of electronically addressable pixel elements and related 
control circuitry. A typical application is for image 
display, where light from each pixel is magnified and 
projected to a display screen by an optical system. The 
type of modulation depends on how the modulator is 
combined with an optical system. A frequently used type of SLM is the deformable 
mirror device, in which each pixel element is a tiny 
micro-mechanical mirror, capable of separate movement in 
response to an electrical input. Incident light may be 
modulated in direction, phase, or amplitude for 
reflection from each pixel. For many applications, the SLM is binary in the 
sense that each pixel element may have either of two 
states. The element may be off, which means that it 
delivers no light. Or, the element may be on, which 
means that it delivers light at a maximum intensity. To 
achieve a viewer perception of intermediate levels of 
light, various pulse width modulation techniques may be 
used. In general, pulse width modulation produces an 
integrated brightness by switching each pixel on or off 
for a period that corresponds to a binary number, during 
each frame. Pulse width modulation uses various schemes 
for loading the SLM, such as "bit-frame" loading, in 
which one bit per pixel for an entire frame is loaded at 
one time. Each pixel element has a memory cell. The 
entire array of memory cells is loaded with one bit per 
cell, then all pixel elements are set to correspond to 
that bit-frame of data. During the display time of the 
current bit-frame, data for the next bit-frame is loaded.  
 
Thus, for example, for 8-bit pixel brightness 
quantization, the SLM is loaded eight times per frame, 
one pixel per frame at a time. In one such method, the 
most significant bit is displayed for 1/2 of a frame 
period, the second most significant bit for 1/4 frame 
period, etc., with the least significant bit (LSB) 
representing a display time of 1/2n frame period, for n-bit 
brightness quantization. A problem with existing pixel loading techniques is 
that they require at least one memory cell per pixel 
element. As the number of pixels per frame increases, 
the memory requirements for the SLM device results in 
increased costs and reduced manufacturing yields. A need

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spatial light modulator, comprising: 

an array of pixel elements, each of which may be 
individually set or reset to either of two states 

depending on a value of a data signal delivered to that 
pixel element, from an associated memory cell; 
a number of memory cells, each in data communication 
with a set of pixel elements of said array, for storing a 

data value representing an on or off state of a pixel 
element of said set, and for delivering a signal 

representing said data value to the pixel elements of its 
set; and 
a number of reset lines, connected to said pixel 
elements such that a different reset line is in 

communication with each pixel element of a set of pixel 
elements. 
The spatial light modulator of Claim 1, wherein 
each set of pixel elements comprises four pixel elements. 
The spatial light modulator of Claim 1 or Claim 
2, wherein said pixel elements are micro-mechanical 

mirror elements. 
The spatial light modulator of any preceding 
Claim, wherein said pixel elements have conductive 

mirrors and said reset lines are connected directly to 
said mirrors. 
The spatial light modulator of any preceding 
Claim, wherein said pixel elements have conductive 

torsion hinges and said reset lines are connected via 
said hinges. 
The spatial light modulator of Claim 5, wherein 
said hinges are aligned in horizontal rows. 
The spatial light modulator of Claim 5, wherein 
said hinges are aligned in diagonal lines. 
The spatial light modulator of any preceding 
Claim, wherein each of said pixel elements has a pair of 

address electrodes for delivering said data signal, and 
further comprising a resistive element between the 

address electrodes of a pixel element and the memory cell  
 

associated with that pixel element, for isolating said 
pixel element in the event of a pixel element fault. 
The spatial light modulator of any of Claims 1-7, 
wherein each of said pixel elements has a pair of 

address electrodes made from a highly resistive material 
for isolating said pixel element in the event of a pixel 

element fault. 
The spatial light modulator of Claim 8, wherein 
said spatial light modulator is fabricated above an 

integrated circuit array of said memory cells. 
A method of pulse-width modulating frames of 
multi-bit frame data used by a spatial light modulator, 

having an array of pixel elements, comprising the steps 
of: 


dividing the time to display each frame of data into 
equal time units; 
dividing a frame of data into split bit-frames, each 
split bit-frame containing data for pixel elements 

connected to an associated reset line; 
delivering data representing said split bit-frame of 
data to said memory cells, wherein each memory cell 

receives a data bit representing an on or off state of 
only one of its pixel elements; 
loading said pixel elements, by using each memory 
cell to apply a data signal representing the data bit 

received by that memory cell to its associated pixel 
elements; 
switching said pixel elements, by using a reset 
signal to change the state of all pixel elements 

connected to said reset line; 
repeating the above delivering, loading, and 
switching steps for each split bit-frame of data within a 

data frame. 
The method of Claim 11, further comprising 
coinciding the first loading step with the beginning of a 

frame time period. 
The method of Claim 11 or Claim 12, further 
comprising providing the pixel elements connected to each 

reset line receive at least one split bit-frame  
 

containing a higher valued bit before receiving a split 
bit-frame containing the least significant bit. 
The method of any of Claims 11-13, further 
comprising performing said dividing step such that each 

time slice represents the display time for a least 
significant bit of data of each data value. 
The method of any of Claims 11-14, further 
comprising repeating loading steps such that each 

pixel element of a set is loaded during a continuous 
series of initial time slices. 
The method of any of Claims 11-15, further 
comprising performing said loading step so that the data 

for any one pixel element in each set begins and ends in 
the same position relative to each frame. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
