<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656045</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
UNLEADED MMT FUEL COMPOSITION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10L100	C10L106	C10L110	C10L110	C10L112	C10L114	C10L118	C10L1182	C10L1185	C10L119	C10L122	C10L126	C10L130	C10L1000	C10L1002	C10L1018	F02M2500	F02M2510	F02M2514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	C10L	F02M	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L1	C10L10	C10L10	C10L10	F02M25	F02M25	F02M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Unleaded fuel compositions comprised of a cyclomatic manganese tricarbonyl compound (CMT), preferably methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT), and means to reduce the formation of heavy manganese oxides during combustion such that resultant exhaust emissions are environmentally acceptable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORR WILLIAM C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORR, WILLIAM C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORR WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORR, WILLIAM C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 UNLEADED MMT FUEL COMPOSITIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to novel unleaded fuel compositions for spark ignition internal combustion engines. More particularly, it relates to organomanganese and unleaded fuel combinations, and a mechanical and/or chemical means capable of reducing the formation of heavy manganese oxides (e.g. Mn304) during combustion, such that resultant hydrocarbon emissions can meet minimal legal environmental standards.Description of the Prior ArtThe incorporation of various organo-metallic compounds as antiknock agents in fuels for high compression, spark ignited, internal combustion engines has been practiced for some time. The common organo-metallic compound used for this purpose has been tetraethyl lead (TEL) . Generally, these organo-metallic compounds have served well as antiknock agents. However, certain environmental hazards have been associated with the alkyl lead components of these compounds. This circumstance has precipitated a series of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) mandates which has essentially phased out leaded gasolines.Many alternatives to tetraethyl lead compounds have been proposed and/or used. For example, organomanganese compounds such as cyclomatic manganese tricarbonyls (CMT) , particularly methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl 

(MMT) , were once accepted alternatives to TEL. However, these compounds produced another set of environmental problems. Namely, their use steadily increased the amount of unoxidized and/or partially oxidized hydrocarbon emissions. Fuels containing such organomanganese compounds gradually cause substantially higher levels of hazardous hydrocarbon emissions than are permitted under law. Further, industry experience shows that organomanganese concentrations greater than 1/16 gram Mn/per gallon (0.0165212 grams/liter) are directly responsible for catalytic converter plugging. Accordingly, U.S. federal law bans the use of manganese (i.e. MMT) in all unleaded gasolines absent an EPA ยง 211(f) (4) Waiver. Thus far every attempt to obtain such a waiver has failed. It is well known in the art that many types of oxygenated components can be included with unleaded bases as a means of improving antiknock properties and/or reducing the carbon monoxide emissions of a fuel. These oxygenated components include lower molecular weight alcohols, various ethers, esters, oxides, phenols, ketones and the like. Several of these components have also been used as neat motor fuels in their
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A method for controlling the hazardous combustion emissions of spark-ignited internal combustion engines and exhaust systems, designed for nonleaded fuels, said method comprising: mixing a nonleaded gasoline base comprised of hydrocarbons with: a cyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl antiknock compound having a manganese concentration from about 0.000264 to about 0.2642 grams of manganese per liter of fuel composition; and an oxygenate additive or mechanical means, and combination thereof, increasing combustion burning velocity or reducing combustion temperatures, and combination thereof, whereby formation of hazardous emission causing oxides of manganese is controlled; and supplying to and combusting said fuel in said engine; and emitting resultant combustion emissions from said engine such that hydrocarbon emissions meet legal requirements.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein said oxygenate additive includes methyl oxy radicals. 3. The method of Claim 1, wherein said oxygenate additive increases the fuel-air ratio of said combusted composition. 


 4. The method of Claim 1, wherein said oxygenate additive increases the vapor volume of the fuel during combustion.
5. The method of Claim 1, wherein said oxygenate additive comprises carbonic acid dimethyl ester.
6. The method of Claim 1, wherein the oxygenate additive comprises methyl tertiary butyl ether.
7. The method of Claim 1, wherein said oxygenate additive comprises ethyl tertiary butyl ether. 8. The method of Claim 1, wherein said oxygenate additive comprises an oxygenate selected from the group consisting of carbon monoxide, methylene di methyl ether, carbonic acid dimethyl ester, methyl tertiary butyl ether, ethyl tertiary butyl ether, methyl tertiary amyl ether, dimethyl ether, and diisopropyl ether, and mixture thereof.
9. The method of Claim 1, wherein said exhaust system is a regulated emission control exhaust system designed for unleaded fuel usage.
10. The method of Claim 1, further comprising employing a co-solvent or group of co-solvents to modify boiling temperatures whereby hydrocarbons boiling at temperatures higher than gasoline may be incorporated into said composition.
11. The method of Claim 1, further comprising employing a co-solvent or group of co-solvents to modify said composition's boiling temperature whereby the composition's end boiling point may be reduced. 


 12. The method of Claim 1, wherein said oxygenate additive includes hydroxyl radicals. 

13. A method for controlling the hazardous combustion emissions of spark-ignited internal combustion engine and exhaust system, designed for nonleaded fuels, said method comprising: mixing a nonleaded gasoline base comprised of hydrocarbons with: a cyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl antiknock compound having a manganese concentration from about 0.000264 to about 0.2642 grams of manganese per liter of fuel composition; and an oxygenate additive or mechanical means, and combination thereof, increasing combustion burning velocity or reducing combustion temperatures, and combination thereof, whereby formation of hazardous hydrocarbon emissions is controlled; and means modifying boiling temperatures whereby driveability is improved, or the composition's end boiling point is reduced, or hydrocarbons boiling above gasoline temperatures are incorporated into the mixture, and combination thereof; and supplying to and combusting said mixture in an engine; and emitting resultant combustion emissions from said engine through an exhaust system such that hydrocarbon emissions meet minimal legal requirements. 


 14. The method of Claim 13, further comprising increasing the fuel-air ratio of the combusted composition.
15. The method of Claim 13, further comprising increasing the vapor volume of the fuel during combustion. 16. The method of Claim 13, wherein said means modifying boiling temperatures employs an alcohol selected from the group consisting of C4-C12 azeotrope forming alcohols, and mixtures thereof. 


17. A method for controlling the hazardous hydrocarbon combustion emissions from spark-ignited internal combustion engine designed for nonleaded fuel, said method comprising: mixing a nonleaded gasoline base comprised of hydrocarbons with: a cyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl antiknock compound having a manganese concentration from about 0.000264 to about 0.2642 grams of manganese per liter of fuel composition; and an oxygenate additive means employing an oxygenate selected from the group consisting of carbon monoxide, methylene di methyl ether, carbonic acid dimethyl ester, methyl tertiary butyl ether, ethyl tertiary butyl ether, methyl tertiary amyl ether, and mixture thereof, whereby hazardous hydrocarbon combustion emissions are controlled; and combusting resultant fuel in an engine; and emitting engine's combustion emissions through exhaust system whereby hydrocarbon emissions meet minimal legal requirements. 


 18. A fuel composition for controlling the hazardous combustion emissions of spark-ignited internal combustion engines and exhaust systems, designed for nonleaded fuels, said composition comprising: a nonleaded gasoline base comprised of hydrocarbons; and a cyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl antiknock compound having a manganese concentration from about 0.000264 to about 0.2642 grams of manganese per liter of fuel composition; and an oxygenate additive or mechanical means, including combination thereof, for increasing combustion burning velocity, or reducing combustion temperatures, including combination thereof, whereby formation of hazardous hydrocarbon emissions is reduced, such that resultant emissions can meet minimal legal requirements.
19. The composition of Claim 18, further comprising a co-solvent, or group of co-solvents, or higher boiling point hydrocarbon, or groups of hydrocarbons, and mixtures thereof, for modifying the boiling temperature of said composition whereby driveability is improved. 

20. A fuel composition for controlling hazardous hydrocarbon combustion emissions from a spark-ignited internal combustion engine, said composition comprising: a nonleaded gasoline base comprised of hydrocarbons; a cyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl antiknock compound having a manganese concentration from about 0.000264 to about 0.2642 grams of manganese per liter of the fuel composition; and means employing carbonic acid dimethyl ester whereby hydrocarbons emissions meet minimal legal requirements.
21. The fuel composition of Claim 20, wherein said engine is designed for unleaded gasoline usage. 

22. A fuel composition for controlling hazardous hydrocarbon combustion emissions from spark-ignited internal combustion engine, said composition comprising: a nonleaded gasoline base comprised of hydrocarbons; a cyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl antiknock compound having a manganese concentration from about 0.000264 to about 0.2642 grams of manganese per liter of the fuel composition; and means employing methyl tertiary butyl ether whereby hydrocarbons emissions meet minimal legal requirements. 

23. A fuel composition for controlling hazardous hydrocarbon combustion emissions from spark-ignited internal combustion engines and exhaust systems, designed for nonleaded fuel usage, said composition comprising: a nonleaded gasoline base comprised of hydrocarbons; a cyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl antiknock compound having a manganese concentration from about 0.000264 to about 0.2642 grams of manganese per liter of the fuel composition; and an oxygenate additive means employing an oxygenate selected from the group consisting of carbon monoxide, methylene di methyl ether, carbonic acid dimethyl ester, methyl tertiary butyl ether, ethyl tertiary butyl ether, methyl tertiary amyl ether, and mixture thereof; whereby resultant composition's combustion emissions meet minimal legal requirements. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
