<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIGITAL DEMODULATOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03D300	H03D300	H03D304	H03K900	H03K906	H03K908	H03M166	H03M186	H04L2714	H04L2714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03D	H03D	H03D	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03M	H03M	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03D3	H03D3	H03D3	H03K9	H03K9	H03K9	H03M1	H03M1	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital demodulator for frequency modulated, pulse-width modulated and other temporally modulated signals uses a sign detector (14) to determine zero-crossings of the modulated signal. The periods between zero-crossings are determined by at least one gate circuit (16, 18) and at least one counter (22, 24) which counts clock pulses from a high-speed clock (20) gated by the gate circuit in response to zero-crossings. The period information is converted to a demodulated signal by a numerical processor (12), or a signal processor (12') or a digital-to-analog converter (12'').
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NUMA TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NUMA TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CREGO CHARLES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDSTROM MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTER ROBERT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CREGO CHARLES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEDSTROM MARK D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTER ROBERT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DIGITAL DEMODULATORCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION This application is a continuation-in-part application Serial No. 07/900,367, filed June 18, 1992 whi is a continuation-in-part of application Serial N 07/794,150, filed November 20, 1991.FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a method and apparatus f detecting and demodulating signals with temporally modulat features, and particularly to frequency modulated signals.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In Frequency Modulation (FM) , a sinusoidal carri signal of constant amplitude and frequency is modulated an input signal of a lower frequency and of varyi amplitude. FM thereby produces an output signal that constant in amplitude, varying in frequency in accordan with the input signal, and within a specified frequency ran called the deviation bandwidth. In particular, t instantaneous amplitude of the input signal is linear transformed into a change dω in the instantaneous frequen ω(t) of the carrier frequency ωc. To recover the inp modulating signal from the output modulation signa frequency demodulation must be performed using an demodulator.FM demodulators are well known, and consist of devic such as ratio detectors, Foster Seeley discriminators, phas locked loop detectors, pulse-counting detectors, a quadrature or coincidence detectors. All of the demodulators — whether implemented as analog or digit 

 apparatus — pass data to post-processing stages, and ultimately to an output amplifier.For example, the Heathkit AJ-1510 Digital FM Tuner employs a digital discrimination technique for demodulating a frequency modulated signal. The discriminator is of the pulse position modulation type, is inductorless and diodeless, and contains two integrated circuits: a retriggerable monostable multivibrator, and an operational amplifier. An input signal at the retriggerable monostable multivibrator causes it to change states for a fixed period of time, as determined by an RC network to provide a sequence of pulses of constant width and amplitude that are generated at about one-half of the IF rate. Each pulse represents a zero-crossing event. Signal information is represented as deviations in the frequency of the zero-crossing pulses from a constant IF frequency.In a pulse integration type of FM demodulator, the frequency modulated signals typically are amplified and "hard-limited" to produce square waves which have zero- crossings spaced in the same manner as the zero-crossings of the FM signals. The square waves are then converted into a sequence of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A digital demodulator for efficient demodulation oftemporally modulated signals, the demodulator comprising: a zero-crossing event detector, responsive to a temporally modulated signal, that serves to detect zero- crossing events of said temporally modulated signal, and thereby provide zero-crossing event information; a period measurer, connected to said zero-crossing detector, that serves to receive said zero-crossing event information and measure the period between said zero-crossing events, thereby providing a sequence of period measurement values; and a signal processor, connected to said period measurer, that serves to convert said sequence of period measurement values into a demodulated signal.
2. The digital demodulator of claim 1, wherein said period measurer measures the period between said zero-crossing events at a resolution corresponding to a clock rate of generally at least 8 times the Nyquist rate of a maximum encountered frequency of said temporally modulated signal.
3. The digital demodulator of claim 1 wherein said signal processor includes: a digital-to-analog converter that receives said sequence of period measurement values and provides said demodulated signal.
4. The digital demodulator of claim 1 wherein said signal processor includes: 


 a conversion element that receives and transforms s sequence of period measurement values into a transfor digital data stream with a higher signal-to-noise ratio t said sequence of period measurement values; and a digital-to-analog converter that receives s transformed digital data stream and provides said demodula signal.
5. The digital demodulator of claim l wherein said sig processor includes: a digital-to-analog converter that receives s sequence of period measurement values and provides an anal version of said demodulated signal; and an analog filter that receives said analog version said demodulated signal and removes noise from said anal version of said demodulated signal to provide a demodula signal with a higher signal-to-noise ratio than said anal version of said demodulated signal.
6. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated signa the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide sequence of period values; and transforming said sequence of period values to provi a demodulated signal.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of transformi includes the steps of: filtering said sequence of period values to provide sequence of filtered values; and converting said sequence of filtered values into analog signal.
8. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of transform includes the steps of: 


 converting said sequence of period values into an analog signal; and filtering said analog signal to provide a demodulated signal with a higher signal-to-noise ratio than said analog signal.
9. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of transforming includes the step of: for each period value that exceeds a maximum period value, replacing said period value with said maximum period value, and for each period value that does not exceed a minimum period value, replacing said period value with said minimum period value.
10. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated signal, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of an intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide a sequence of period values; obtaining a sequence of reciprocal values by computing the reciprocal of each period value in said sequence of period values; scaling and weighting each reciprocal value of said sequence of reciprocal values to provide a sequence of scaled and weighted reciprocal values; filtering said sequence of scaled and weighted reciprocal values to provide a sequence of filtered values; and converting said sequence of filtered values into an analog signal.
11. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated signal, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of an intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide a sequence of period values; 


 obtaining a sequence of reciprocal values by comput the reciprocal of each period value in said sequence period values; scaling and weighting said sequence of reciprocal val to provide a sequence of scaled and weighted recipro values; averaging the scaled and weighted reciprocal val within a sliding window to provide a sequence of win averaged values; executing a Von Hann window function upon the seque of window averaged values to provide a sequence of Von H values; filtering said sequence of Von Hann values to prov a sequence of filtered values; and converting said sequence of filtered values into analog signal.
12. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated sign the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide sequence of period values; obtaining a sequence of reciprocal values by comput the reciprocal of each period value in said sequence period values; scaling and weighting said sequence of reciprocal val to provide a sequence of scaled and weighted recipro values; averaging the scaled and weighted reciprocal val within a sliding window to provide a sequence of win averaged values; executing a Hamming window function upon the seque of window averaged values to provide a sequence of Hamm values; filtering said sequence of Hamming values to provid sequence of filtered values; and 


 converting said sequence of filtered values into an analog signal.
13. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated signal, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of an intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide a sequence of period values; squaring and scaling each period value of said sequence of period values to provide a sequence of squared and scaled values; scaling and weighting said sequence of period values to provide a sequence of scaled and weighted values; augmenting said sequence of scaled and weighted values by adding a squared and scaled value to each corresponding scaled and weighted value to provide an sequence of augmented values; filtering said sequence of augmented values to provide a sequence of filtered values; and converting said sequence of filtered values into an analog signal.
14. The method of claim 10, 11, 12, or 13 further including the step of: after the step of measuring the periods between zero-crossings, for each period value that exceeds a maximum period value, replacing said period value with said maximum period value, and for each period value that does not exceed a minimum period value, replacing said period value with said minimum period value.
15. A digital demodulator for efficient demodulation of temporally modulated signals, the demodulator comprising: a zero-crossing event detector, responsive to a temporally modulated signal, that serves to detect zero- 



crossing events of said temporally modulated signal, thereby provide zero-crossing event information; a period measurer, connected to said zero-cross detector, that serves to receive said zero-crossing ev information and measure the period between said zero-cross events, thereby providing a sequence of period measurem values; and a numerical processor, connected to said per measurer, that serves to convert said sequence of per measurement values into a demodulated signal with a h signal-to-noise ratio.
16. The digital demodulator of claim 15 wherein s numerical processor includes: a digital data stream generator that receives converts said sequence of period measurement values int digital data stream representative of said demodula signal; and an digital-to-analog converter that receives s digital data stream and provides said demodulated signal
17. The digital demodulator of claim 15 wherein s numerical processor converts said sequence of per measurement values into said demodulated signal in real ti
18. The digital demodulator of claim 15 wherein said ze crossing detector provides zero-crossing event informat as a sequence of square waves with zero-crossi commensurate with the zero-crossings of said tempora modulated signal.
19. The digital demodulator of claim of claim 15 wher said period measurer includes: a clock; a counter; and 


 a clock pulse gate, connected to said clock, said counter, and said zero-crossing detector, that permits clock pulses to propagate from said clock to said counter in response to zero-crossing event information provided by said zero-crossing detector.
20. The digital demodulator of claim 19 further including: a second clock pulse gate, connected to said clock and said zero-crossing detector; and a second counter, connected to said second clock pulse gate.
21. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated signal, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of an intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide a sequence of period values; and numerically processing said sequence of period values to provide a demodulated signal.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of numerically processing includes the steps of: weighting and scaling said sequence of period values to provide a sequence of weighted and scaled values; filtering said sequence of weighted and scaled values to provide a sequence of filtered values; and converting said sequence of filtered values into an analog signal.
23. The method of claim 22 further including the step of: after the step of weighting and scaling, and prior to the step of filtering, averaging the weighted and scaled values within a sliding window to provide a sequence of averaged values to be filtered. 


24. The method of claim 23 wherein the sliding win includes two values and is advanced two values at a time
25. The method of claim 22 further including the step o after the step of weighting and scaling, and prior the step of filtering, executing a Hamming window funct upon the sequence of weighted and scaled values to prov a sequence of values to be filtered.
26. The method of claim 22 further including the step o after the step of weighting and scaling, and prior the step of filtering, executing a Von Hann window funct upon the sequence of weighted and scaled values to prov a sequence of values to be filtered.
27. The method of claim 22 further including the steps after the step of weighting and scaling, averaging weighted and scaled values within a sliding window to prov a sequence of averaged values; and prior to the step of filtering, executing a Hamm window function upon the sequence of weighted and sca values to provide a sequence of values to be filtered.
28. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of numerica processing includes the steps of: weighting and scaling said sequence of period values provide a sequence of weighted and scaled values; averaging the weighted and scaled values within sliding window to provide a sequence of window avera values; executing a Von Hann window function upon the seque of window averaged values to provide a sequence of Von H values; filtering said sequence of Von Hann values to prov a sequence of filtered values; and 


 converting said sequence of filtered values into an analog signal.
29. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of numerically processing includes the steps of: weighting and scaling said sequence of period values to provide a sequence of weighted and scaled values; averaging the weighted and scaled values within a sliding window to provide a sequence of window averaged values; executing a Hamming window function upon the sequence of window averaged values to provide a sequence of Von Hann values; filtering said sequence of Hamming values to provide a sequence of filtered values; and converting said sequence of filtered values into an analog signal.
30. A digital demodulator for efficient demodulation of temporally modulated signals, the demodulator comprising: a zero-crossing event detector, responsive to a temporally modulated signal, that serves to detect zero- crossing events of said temporally modulated signal, and thereby provide zero-crossing event information; and a period measurer, connected to said zero-crossing detector, that serves to receive said zero-crossing event information andmeasure the period between said zero-crossing events, thereby providing a sequence of period measurement values that represents a demodulated signal.
31. The digital demodulator of claim 30, further including: a digital-to-analog converter that receives said sequence of period measurement values and provides an analog form of said demodulated signal. 


32. The digital demodulator of claim 30 wherein said zer crossing detector provides zero-crossing event informati as a sequence of square waves with zero-crossin commensurate with the zero-crossings of said temporal modulated signal.
33. The digital demodulator of claim of claim 30 where said period measurer includes: a clock; a counter; and a clock pulse gate, connected to said clock, sa counter, and said zero-crossing detector, that permits clo pulses to propagate from said clock to said counter response to zero-crossing event information provided by sa zero-crossing detector.
34. The digital demodulator of claim 33 further includin a second clock pulse gate, connected to said clock a said zero-crossing detector; and a second counter, connected to said second clock pul gate.
35. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated signa the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide sequence of period values that represents a demodulat signal. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 25 March 1993 (25.03.93) ; original claims 1 and 13 amended; remaining claims unchanged (2 pages)]
1. A digital demodulator for efficient demodulation of temporally modulated signals, the demodulator comprising: a zero-crossing event detector, responsive to a temporally modulated signal, that serves to detect zero- crossing events of said temporally modulated signal, and thereby provide zero-crossing event information; a period measurer, connected to said zero-crossing detector, that serves to receive said zero-crossing event information and measure the period between said zero-crossing events, thereby providing a sequence of period measurement values ; and a signal processor, connected to said period measurer, that serves to convert said sequence of period measurement values into a demodulated signal.
2. The digital demodulator of claim 1, wherein said period measurer measures the period between said zero-crossing events at a resolution corresponding to a clock rate of generally at least 8 times the Nyquist rate of a maximum encountered frequency of said temporally modulated signal.
3. The digital demodulator of claim 1 wherein said signal processor includes: a digital-to-analog converter that receives said sequence of period measurement values and provides said demodulated signal.
4. The digital demodulator of claim 1 wherein said signal processor includes: 


 converting said sequence of filtered values into a analog signal.
13. A method for demodulating a temporally modulated signal the method comprising the steps of: measuring the period between zero-crossings of a intermediate signal of a modulated signal to provide sequence of period values; squaring and scaling each period value of said sequenc of period values to provide a sequence of squared and scale values; scaling and weighting said sequence of period values t provide a sequence of scaled and weighted values; augmenting said sequence of scaled and weighted value by adding a squared and scaled value to each correspondin scaled and weighted value to provide a sequence of augmente values; filtering said sequence of augmented values to provid a sequence of filtered values; and converting said sequence of filtered values into a analog signal.
14. The method of claim 10, 11, 12, or 13 further includin the step of: after the step of measuring the periods betwee zero-crossings, for each period value that exceeds a maximu period value, replacing said period value with said maximu period value, and for each period value that does not excee a minimum period value, replacing said period value with sai minimum period value.
15. A digital demodulator for efficient demodulation o temporally modulated signals, the demodulator comprising: a zero-crossing event detector, responsive to temporally modulated signal, that serves to detect zero 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
