<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644804</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND TOOL FOR PRODUCING PALLETS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D500	B21D500	B21D501	B21D501	B21D1100	B21D1120	B65D1922	B65D1928	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D5	B21D5	B21D5	B21D5	B21D11	B21D11	B65D19	B65D19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention refers to a process for the manufacturing of pallets from different and profiled metal strip members given a certain shape, a tool for carrying out the forming of the profiled metal strip members to be assembled to pallets and forming one part of the necessary tool-equipment. The process is characterized in that several profiled first strip members of determined lengths are supplied by conveyors from a store to a set of adjoining forming stations where one forming of the strip members takes place by locking the members against dolly means to be formed to the desired shape by hydraulic means, the forming tools being removed in front of the formed strip members so that these will be exposed and by a device removed from the forming stations to an assembly line, other kind of metal strip members, being formed in a complementary way compared to the first formed strip members, are laid partly overlapping and in different levels onto the first strip members and are attached to these for making the finished pallet or pallet support, whereupon a possible mounting of a load-carrying plane can occur.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SETTERBERG SVEN ERIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SETTERBERG, SVEN-ERIK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SETTERBERG SVEN-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SETTERBERG, SVEN-ERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Method and Tool for Producing Pallets.The present invention refers to a process for the manufacturing of pallets from different and profiled metal strip members given a certain shape, a tool for carrying out the forming of the profiled metal strip members to be assembled to pallets and forming one part of the necessary tool-equipment.To use load carriers or pallets to carry goods is an well establi shed technique. In many cases the pallets are made of just wood, but pallets made of steel or of a combination of wood and steel exists. An ordinary pallet must comply with certain strength requirements and must also be liftable by fork-lifting means. One problem involved in using pallets made only or partially of wood is its disposition to absorb water. This means that the weight of the pallet may be increased up to twice the dry weight of the pallet. Another problem is the disposition of wood to lodge microorganisms and/or vermin. This often involve an expensive sanitation of pallets being carried between different parts of the world.The main object of the present invention is to obtain a technique for a rational manufacturing of light-weight, high quality steel pallets and which pallets can withstand a certain deforming and correcting influ¬ ence, i.e. the life time of the pallets will be essentially longer than what is the case for e.g. ordinary pallets made of just wood.Another object of the present invention is to obtain a rational assembling of the bent metal strip members to a pallet.Yet another object of the present invention is to obtain a technique allowing a very easy adjustment of an assembling line, all the way from profiling, cutting, forming and welding of the strip members wherein pallets of different dimensions rapidly can be manufactured.These objects stated above are according to the present invention obtained by giving the process, the tool and the pallet the character¬ izing clauses stated in the claims.By having several first profiled strip members with certain lengths carried by conveyors from a store to a set of forming stations arranged side by side where a forming of the strip members is carried out by 

locking them against dolly means, several identical members can be handled och formed at the same time. Thus the members are locked against dolly means and are formed by hydraulic activated bending tools to a desired shape, whereupon the tools are removed from the front of the formed strip members to expose these enabeling a robot to carry the strip members from the forming stations
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for manufacturing of pallets by profiled metal strip members given a desired shape, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that several profiled first strip members of determined lengths are supplied by conveyors from a store to a set of adjoining forming stations where one forming of the strip members takes place by locking the members against dolly means to be formed to the desired shape by hydraulic means, the forming tools being removed in front of the formed strip members so that these will be exposed and by a device removed from the forming stations to an assembly line, other kind of metal strip members, being formed in a complementary way compared to the first formed strip members are laid partly overlapping and in different levels onto the first strip members and are attached to these for making the finished pallet or pallet support, whereupon a possible mounting of a loadcarrying plane can occur.
2. A process according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the forming of the strip members takes place by bending.
3. A process according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the bending/forming takes place against a resilient support.
4. A process according to any of the preceeding claims, c h a r a c ¬ t e ri z e d i n that metal strip members cut to exact lengths initially are brought from a profiling line or from a store to a horisontal feeding table, from which the strip members one by one are fed by a vertically acting conveyor to magnetic belt conveyors vertically arranged above eachother which in turn bring the strip members to another pivotable magnetic belt conveyor, from which the strip members, after pivoting from an initial position to a delivering position in connection to the forming stations, arranged in different levels above eachother, are brought into the forming stations; the other conveyor is pivotally moved away to allow the introduction of a complete set of forming means in turn carrying out the forming operations.
5. A process according to any of the preceeding claims, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d i n that prior to welding, welding equipment with several 


spotweld means being movable in three planes, and the mutual positions of the forming means are controlled by a programmable central control unit.
6. A process according to claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the settings in the central control unit change for the manufacturing of different types of pallets or pallet supports, as the distance between the forming tools and the type of forming tools to be used, whereupon the welding equipment is controlled according to the set type of manufacturing.
7. A tool for the bending of profiled metal strip members to be assembled to a pallet and which tool forms a part of a set of tools needed for performing the process according to claim 1, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i z e d i n; a first stationary anvil head (14) with a width corresponding to the width of the lower connecting web in a U-bending to be performed in the strip member (3); a second bendning head (17) comprising of two halves being movable away from eachother and which, in the bending position, are designed to allow an overbending of the strip member (3), i. e. a bending exceeding 90°, and which halves are intended to be moved against the anvil head for clamping one strip member between the anvil head and the bending head, and which halves have shoulders perpendicularly bounding pitched surfaces, whereupon hydraulic actuated locking and pressing means attached in the stationary anvil head with correspondingly shaped pitched surfaces moves in against a spring action and locks the two halves of the second bending head to the first stationary anvil head during an simultanous pressing of the two halves away from each other; a first couple of hydraulic actuated roll-bending means to act onto both sides of the clamped strip member for bendning each of the shanks of the strip member more than 90° against the other bending head; and a second hydraulic actuated roll-bending means having two rolls for bendning the shanks of the strip members to a plane essentially coincident with the load-carrying plane of the complete pallet. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
