<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624234</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUID OUTLET SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G1200	A61G1200	F16L500	F16L500	F16L3700	F16L3760	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G12	A61G12	F16L5	F16L5	F16L37	F16L37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLIED HEALTHCARE PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOHN GABRIEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTRATER ELDON P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVOLOPOULOS GREGORY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOHN GABRIEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTRATER ELDON P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVOLOPOULOS GREGORY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLUID OUTLET SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a fluid outlet system for use in situations requiring ease of modification to meet changing needs, both in terms of the types of fluids supplied and the locations at which such fluids are supplied. More particularly, the present invention relates to a system for providing medical fluids, such as oxygen, medical air and vacuum, in hospital settings where it is often desirable to change the types of fluids supplied and the locations at which such fluids are supplied.Attempts have been made to provide fluid outlet systems with the requisite adaptability necessary for modern hospital administration. These attempts are described in a number of issued patents including the following:U.S. Patent No. 4,905,433 discloses a hospital headwall system having raceways divided into compartments some of which can be used for carrying medical gas pipes. Detachable covers provide access to the various compartments while enclosing the raceways.U.S. Patent No. 4,646,211 discloses a service outlet wall system having a fluid service outlet which is movable along a linear rail so as to permit placement of the service outlet at different positions along the rail. 

In the /211 system, the service outlet has to be connected to a flexible hose maintained behind the service outlet wall.U.S. Patent No. 4,498,693 discloses a rail system with passageways for conducting fluid therethrough. Couplings provide access to the passageways and also provide means for connecting the passageways together.U.S. Patent No. 4,305,430 discloses a module with passageways for conducting fluids therethrough. "Vιr-shaped grooves along the surface of the module indicate the location of the different passageways. A user taps into the desired passageway by drilling rearwardly into the module at a location indicated by a particular groove.The prior art systems have many disadvantages. In particular, changing the configuration of any of the prior art systems, i.e., adding or removing a gas service, would require the services of maintenance personnel.Additionally, each prior art system has a gas coupler or other gas supply means which extends horizontally several inches beyond the surface to which the system is installed. In a hospital room, this poses a potential breakage problem as beds are raised or as equipment is wheeled around.In systems in which fluid is provided via a manifold arrangement configured with DISS (Diameter Indexed Safety System) check valves, the flow to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of providing a plurality of gases in a medical environment, comprising the steps of supplying at least two of said gases at each of a plurality of locations and accessing one of said gases at at least one of said locations.
2. A method of providing a plurality of fluids, comprising the steps of: supplying at least two of said plurality of fluids at a plurality of locations; selecting one of said fluids at at least one of said plurality of locations; and inhibiting access to the non-selected fluids at at least one of said plurality of locations.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein all of said plurality of fluids are supplied to all of said plurality of locations.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein said plurality of fluids supplied can be selected from a plurality of combinations of fluids.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the inhibiting step is accomplished by means of a blank fascia assembly.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the selecting step is accomplished by means of an active fascia assembly. 

7. The method of claim 6, wherein the blank fascia and active fascia assemblies are readily positioned at any of said locations and are readily removable therefrom.
8. A method of providing a plurality of different fluids, said method comprising the steps of: supplying said plurality of fluids at a plurality of locations; accessing a first one of said fluids at a first one of said locations; and inhibiting access to a second one of said locations.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of: accessing said first fluid at said second location; and inhibiting access to said first location.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said plurality of fluids include oxygen, medical air and vacuum.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein said step of supplying said fluids includes the step of supplying said fluids to a plurality of valves, said plurality of valves including a valve for each of said plurality of fluids at each of said plurality of locations.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of accessing said first fluid at said first location includes the step of positioning a fluid-specific active fascia 


assembly over the valves at said first location, and wherein said step of inhibiting access to said second location includes the step of positioning a blank fascia assembly over the valves at said second location.
13. A fluid outlet system, comprising: supplying means for supplying a plurality of different fluids at a plurality of locations; accessing means for accessing a first one of said fluids at a first one of said locations; and access inhibiting means for inhibiting access to a second one of said locations.
14. The fluid outlet system of claim 13, wherein said supplying means comprises: a housing; a plurality of valves located within said housing, said plurality of valves including a valve for each of said plurality of fluids at each of said plurality of locations; and a multifluid distribution system for supplying said plurality of fluids to said plurality of valves.
15. The fluid outlet system of claim 14, wherein said accessing means includes a first fluid-specific active fascia assembly for opening the valves for said first fluid and for covering the valves for the fluids other than said first fluid.
16. The fluid outlet system of claim 15, further comprising a second fluid-specific active fascia assembly 


for opening the valves for a second one of said plurality of fluids, and for covering the valves for the fluids other than said second fluid.
17. The fluid outlet system of claim 16, wherein said first and second active fascia assemblies each includes means for preventing said active fascia assemblies from being connected to valves other than said valves located within said housing.
18. The fluid outlet system of claim 16, wherein said first and second active fascia assemblies are each releasably connectable to said housing at each of said plurality of locations.
19. The fluid outlet system of claim 18, wherein said access inhibiting means includes a plurality of blank fascia assemblies which are each releasably connectable to said housing at each of said plurality of locations.
20. The fluid outlet system of claim 19, wherein the dimensions of said blank fascia assemblies are approximately equal to the dimensions of said active fascia assemblies.
21. The fluid outlet system of claim 20, wherein said active and blank fascia assemblies are connected to said housing by rotatable threaded rods and non-rotatable nuts, said rods being connected to said active and blank fascia assemblies, said nuts being fixed to said housing. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 15 July 1993 (15.07.93) original claims 1-21 replaced by amended claims 1-19 (5 pages)]
1. A method of providing a plurality of gases in a medical environment, comprising the steps of supplying at least two of said gases at each of a plurality of locations and accessing one of said gases at at least one of said locations.
2. A method of providing a plurality of fluids, comprising the steps of: supplying at least two of said plurality of fluids at each of a plurality of locations; selecting one of said fluids at at least one of said plurality of locations; inhibiting access to the non-selected fluids at at least one of said plurality of locations; and wherein the selecting step is accomplished by means of an active fascia assembly which includes a face plate, and wherein the inhibiting step is accomplished by said face place of said active fascia assembly and by means of a blank fascia assembly, and wherein said blank fascia assembly includes a face plate.
3. A method of providing a plurality of fluids, comprising the steps of: supplying at least two of said plurality of fluids at each of a plurality of locations; selecting one of said fluids at at least one of said plurality of locations; inhibiting access to the non-selected fluids at at least one of said plurality of locations; and wherein all of said plurality of fluids are supplied to all of said plurality of locations 


 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said plurality of fluids supplied can be selected from a plurality of combinations of fluids.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the blank fascia and active fascia assemblies are readily positioned at any of said locations and are readily removable therefrom.
6. A method of providing a plurality of different fluids, said method comprising the steps of: supplying said plurality of fluids at each of a plurality of locations; accessing a first one of said fluids at a first one of said locations; and inhibiting access to a second one of said locations.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the steps of: accessing said first fluid at said second location; and inhibiting access to said first location.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said plurality of fluids include oxygen, medical air and vacuum.
9. A method of providing a plurality of different fluids, said method comprising the steps of: supplying said plurality of fluids at a plurality of locations; accessing a first one of said fluids at a first one of said locations; 


 inhibiting access to a second one of said locations; accessing said first fluid at said second location; inhibiting access to said first location; and wherein said step of supplying said fluids includes the step of supplying said fluids to a plurality of valves, said plurality of valves including a valve for each of said plurality of fluids at each of said plurality of locations.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said step of accessing said first fluid at said first location includes the step of positioning a fluid-specific active fascia assembly over the valves at said first location, and wherein said step of inhibiting access to said second location includes the step of positioning a blank fascia assembly over the valves at said second location, and wherein said blank fascia assembly includes a face plate for covering the valves at said second location.
11. A fluid outlet system, comprising: supplying means for supplying a plurality of different fluids at each of a plurality of locations; accessing means for accessing a first one of said fluids at a first one of said locations; and access inhibiting means for inhibiting access to a second one of said locations.
12. The fluid outlet system of claim 11, wherein said supplying means comprises: a housing; 


 a plurality of valves located within said housing, said plurality of vavles including a valve for each of said plurality of fluids at each of said plurality of locations; and a multifluid distribution system for supplying said plurality of fluids to said plurality of valves.
13. The fluid outet system of claim 12, wherein said accessing means includes a first fluid-specific active fascia assembly for opening the valves for said first fluid and for covering the valves for the fluids other than said first fluid, and wherein said first fluid-specific active fascia assembly includes a face plate for covering the valves for the fluids other than said first fluid.
14. The fluid outlet system of claim 13, further comprising a second fluid-specific active fascia assembly for opening the valves for a second one of said plurality of fluids and for covering the valves for the fluids other than said second fluid, and wherein said second fluid-specific active fascia assembly includes a face plate for covering the valves for the fluids other than said second fluid.
15. The fluid outlet system of claim 14, wherein said first and second active fascia assemblies each includes means for preventing said active fascia assemblies from being connected to valves other than said valves located within said housing. 


 16. The fluid outlet system of claim 14, wherein said first and second active fascia assemblies are each releasably connectable to said housing at each of said plurality of locations.
17. The fluid outlet system of claim 16, wherein said access inhibiting means includes a plurality of blank fascia assemblies which are each releasably connectable to said housing at each of said plurality of locations.
18. The fluid outlet system of claim 17, wherein the dimensions of said blank fascia assemblies are approximately equal to the dimensions of said active fascia assemblies.
19. The fluid outlet system of claim 18, wherein said active and blank fascia assemblies are connected to said housing by rotatable threaded rods and non-rotatable nuts, said rods being connected to said active and blank fascia assemblies, said nuts being fixed to said housing. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
The cited Szohatzky reference fails to disclose or suggest the step of "supplying at least two . . . gases at each of a plurality of locations," as specifically recited in claim 1. Szohatzky discloses a system for supplying a plurality of gases, such as oxygen and anesthetics. But Szohatzky fails to suggest supplying any one of the gases at more than one location. "[Sϋupplying at least two . . . gases at each of a plurality of locations" is an important feature of the invention recited in claims 1 and 2. Szohatzky fails to disclose or suggest this feature.
According to claim 3, "all of said . . . fluids are supplied to all of said . . . locations" (claim 3, last paragraph). Szohatzky clearly fails to disclose or suggest this specific feature of the claimed invention. Therefore, claim 3 is believed to be allowed over Szohatzky.
Claim 9 requires a "plurality of valves including a valve for each of said plurality of fluids at each of said plurality of locations". Szohatzky discloses no more than one valve for each supplied fluid.
Cranage discloses a system for supplying a plurality of gases, such as oxygen and vacuum. But Cranage fails to suggest supplying any one of the gases at more than one location. Accordingly, the claims are believed to be allowable over Cranage. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
