<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648364</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TONE GENERATING CIRCUIT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B06B102	B06B102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B06B	B06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B06B1	B06B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tone generating circuit for delivering power to a speaker modulates a fourth harmonic audio square wave signal by its fundamental to produce a modulated audio signal within a selected frequency range. The tone generating circuit may be incorporated in a power delivering circuit that supplies a pulse width modulated audio signal to a speaker in one mode of operation, a fourth harmonic modulated audio signal in a second mode of operation, and a square wave audio signal in a third mode of operation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FEDERAL SIGNAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FEDERAL SIGNAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADER JOSEPH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARDZALA ROBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BADER, JOSEPH, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARDZALA, ROBERT, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TONE GENERATING CIRCUITFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the electronic generation of audio frequency signals and in particular to an electronic circuit that provides high efficiency in operation using novel waveforms for the reproduction of audible tones within selected frequencies. The circuit may be implemented in an electronic siren amplifier which is used in an early warning or detection system.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION An electronic siren produces audio frequency signals which vary or sweep within a desired frequency range. The electronic siren typically includes an input signal source, an amplifier circuit and a loudspeaker. The ability of the amplifier circuit to adjust power output in these arrangements is desirable to mimic the reproduction of a mechanical siren. However, the physical limitations of the loudspeaker and other circuit elements prevent the application of signals of low frequency and long durations which are beyond the safe operating region of power versus the frequency of the electronic loudspeaker, as loud speakers are damaged with excessive power levels below the cut off frequencies of the horn or driver of the electronic loudspeaker. 

 Known electronic sound systems typically produce a sine wave input signal that is passed to the amplifier circuit and thereafter to the loudspeaker. Conventional electronic reproduction of siren tones, however, results in inefficiencies when using sine wave input and resultant output signals. Inasmuch as the amplifier circuit in these arrangements is comprised of active devices which operate in the active region, large quantities of energy are dissipated therein during operation. The use of such arrangements is therefore undesirable, particularly when the preferred or only available power is supplied to the unit with a fixed capacity power source, such as a battery.Accordingly, conventional electronic sirens employ the use of a square wave input signal to improve the efficiency of the unit. In these arrangements, the active devices in the amplifier circuit operate as switches in the saturation region. In order to vary output power of an electronic siren that receives a square wave input signal, the voltage supplying the active devices must be varied. Because of the difficulty in efficiently varying supply voltage, such square wave amplifiers are usually operated at a fixed voltage (and therefore power which changes only as a function of the impedance of the horn/driver combination) output.Both the sine wave and square
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A tone generating circuit for delivering power to a speaker comprising: a first circuit for generating a first square wave audio signal having a first frequency at four times the desired frequency; a second circuit for generating a second square wave signal having a second frequency one fourth the first frequency; a modulator circuit coupled with said first circuit and said second circuit for modulating the second signal by the first circuit and for producing a modulated audio signal; and an amplifier circuit coupled with the modulator circuit for receiving the modulated audio signal and for providing an output signal to the speaker.
2. The tone generating circuit of claim 1 wherein said second circuit is coupled with said first circuit, said second circuit including divider circuit means for receiving the first square wave signal from the first circuit and for providing the second square wave audio signal.
3. The tone generating circuit of claim 1 wherein the second frequency is less than one-third the
-3dB upper frequency limit of the speaker. 


 4. The tone generating circuit of claim 1 wherein the first frequency is less than four times the -3dB point of the upper frequency limit of the speaker.
5. Apparatus for generating a siren tone comprising voltage controlled oscillator means for supplying a variable frequency signal; divider circuit means coupled with said voltage controlled oscillator means for receiving the variable frequency signal, for dividing the variable frequency signal by a factor of four, and for supplying an audio signal; modulation means coupled with said voltage controlled oscillator means and said divider circuit means for amplitude modulating the audio signal with the variable frequency signal and for providing a modulated audio signal; and output circuit means for receiving the modulated audio signal and for providing an output siren tone.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the variable frequency signal is a square wave.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the audio signal is a square wave. 


 8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said output circuit means comprises: amplifier circuit means coupled with said modulation means for receiving the modulated audio signal and for providing an output signal; and a speaker cone coupled with said amplifier circuit means for receiving the output signal and for providing the siren tone.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said voltage controlled oscillator means continuously varies between a selected frequency range.
10. A power delivering circuit operable in various modes for increasing audio output in a loud speaker comprising square wave signal generating means for providing a square wave audio input signal; a first circuit for receiving the square wave signal and for providing an amplitude modulated audio signal in a first frequency range; a second circuit for receiving the square wave input signal and for providing a square wave audio signal in a second frequency range; selector circuit means for coupled with said first circuit and said second circuit for passing the modulated output signal in a first mode of operation and 



for passing the square wave output signal in a second mode of operation; and an output circuit coupled with said selector circuit means for receiving the modulated output signal in the first mode and the square wave output signal in the second mode and for providing an output signal.
11. The power delivering circuit of claim 10 further including: a third circuit for receiving the square wave input signal and for providing a control signal in a selected frequency range, said selector circuit means coupled with said third circuit for passing a pulse with modulated signal to said output circuit in response to said control signal in a third mode of operation.
12. The power delivering circuit of claim 10 further comprising frequency sensing means coupled with said square wave generating means and said third circuit for receiving said square wave audio input signal from said square wave generating means and for providing a frequency sensing signal to said third circuit corresponding to the frequency of the audio input signal.
13. The power delivering circuit of claim 11 wherein said frequency sensing means is coupled with said 


first circuit for enabling said first circuit in the first mode of operation.
14. The power delivering circuit of claim 11 wherein said frequency sensing means is coupled with said second circuit for enabling said second circuit in the second mode of operation.
15. A speaker system for generating acoustic messages for the purpose of alerting listeners to a condition that requires their response, the system comprising: a source of an input signal comprising a fundamental frequency and a plurality of discrete harmonic frequencies and a predetermined distribution of power among the fundamental and harmonic frequencies; a pre-amplifier responsive to the input signal having at least first and second modes; the first mode of the pre-amplifier providing an output signal that redistributes the power of the input signal among the fundamental and harmonic frequencies in order to generate a desired acoustic effect; the second mode of the pre-amplifier providing an output signal that substantially maintains the predetermined distribution of power among the fundamental and harmonic frequencies; 


 a circuit for detecting one or more of the frequencies of the input signal and enabling the pre¬ amplifier in either the first or second mode, depending on the value of one or more of the frequencies detected by the circuit; and an amplifier for receiving the output signal from the pre-amplifier and providing an amplified output signal to a speaker.
16. A speaker system as set forth in claim 15 wherein the first mode of the pre-amplifier includes: a circuit for generating an intermediate signal having a fundamental frequency that is a multiple of the fundamental frequency of the input signal; and a modulator receiving the input signal and the intermediate signal for modulating the input and intermediate signals in order to redistribute the power among the fundamental and harmonic frequencies of the input signal.
17. A speaker system as set forth in claim 16 wherein the second mode of the pre-amplifier includes a circuit for passing the input signal to the output signal substantially unchanged.
18. A speaker system as set forth in claim 16 wherein the second mode of the pre-amplifier includes a 


pulse-width modulation circuit responsive to the input signal for generating the output signal.
19. A speaker system as set forth in claim 16 wherein the pre-amplifier includes a third mode and the circuit for detecting one or more of the frequencies of the input signal enables the pre-amplifier in one of the first, second or third modes, depending on the value of one or more of the frequencies detected by the circuit, where the second mode includes a pulse-width modulation circuit responsive to the input signal for generating the output signal and the third mode includes a circuit for passing the input signal to the output signal substantially unchanged.
20. A speaker system as set forth in claim 17 wherein the input signal is a square wave signal.
21. A speaker system as set forth in claim 18 wherein the intermediate signal is four (4) times the input signal.
22. A speaker system as set forth in claim 17 wherein the redistributed power of the input signal is substantially added to the third and fifth harmonic frequencies at the expense of the fundamental frequency and the other harmonic frequencies. 


 23. A speaker system as set forth in claim 19 wherein the pre-amplifier operates in each of the first, second and third modes over respective first, second and third ranges of values of the fundamental frequency of the input signal such that each of the ranges of values is discrete from the others.
24. A speaker system as set forth in claim 23 wherein the first range of values of the fundamental frequency is less than the second range of values, which in turn is less than the third range of values. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
