<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613495</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSGENIC NON-HUMAN ANIMALS LACKING PRION PROTEINS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4800	C12N1585	A61K4800	A61K3900	C07K1446	C07K14435	A61K3900	C12N1585	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	C12N	A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	A61K	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K48	C12N15	A61K48	A61K39	C07K14	C07K14	A61K39	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to transgenic mammals and birds that are not susceptible to spongiform encephalopathies (i.e., scrapie-like or prion diseases), due to absence of endogenous functional prion protein ("PrP"). More particularly, this invention relates to DNA targeting molecules that specifically disrupt PrP genes by homologous recombination in transfected animal cells, to cultured cells transformed with such DNA targeting molecules, and to animals derived from those transformed cells and the transgenic progeny of such animals.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to transgenic non-human mammals
and birds ("animals") that are not susceptible to
spongiform encephalopathies (i.e., scrapie-like or
prion diseases), due to absence of endogenous prion
protein ("PrP"). More particularly, this invention
relates to targeting molecules that are capable of
disrupting PrP genes, PrP genes that are disrupted by
such targeting molecules and thus incapable of
expressing functional prion protein, to cultured cells
transformed to have such disrupted genes, to non-human mammals
and birds derived from those transformed cells and to
the transgenic progeny of such animals.Prions are infectious pathogens that cause
spongiform encephalopathies in humans and animals.
Prions are distinct from bacteria, viruses and viroids.
The predominant hypothesis at present is that no
nucleic acid component is necessary for infectivity of
prion protein.Kuru, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease ("CJD") and
Gerstmann-Str채ussler-Scheinker syndrome ("GSS") are
fatal human neurodegenerative diseases caused by
prions. Scrapie of sheep and goats is the most well-studied 
prion disease. Bovine spongiform
encephalopathy ("BSE" or "mad cow disease") is a prion
disease that currently threatens the beef industry in
Great Britain. Transmissible mink encephalopathy and
chronic wasting disease of deer and elk are also
thought to be prion diseases. The pathological
characteristics of prion diseases include neuronal
vacuolation, astrocytic gliosis, and amyloid plaques
with filaments composed of prion protein.A major step in the study of prions and the
diseases that they cause was the discovery and
purification of a protein designated prion protein
("PrP") (Bolton et al., Science 218, pp. 1309-11
(1982); Prusiner et al., Biochemistry 21, pp. 6942-50
(1982); McKinley et al., Cell 35, pp. 57-62 (1983)).
Complete prion protein-encoding genes have since been
cloned, sequenced and expressed in transgenic animals.
PrPC is encoded by a single-copy host gene (Basler
et al., Cell 46, pp. 417-28 (1986)) and is normally
found at the outer surface of neurons. A leading
hypothesis is that prion diseases result from
conversion of PrPC into a modified form called PrPSc.The actual biological or physiological
function of PrPC is not known. Suggestions that it is
identical with acetylcholine receptor inducing activity
("ARIA") remain to be confirmed (Harris et al., Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88, pp. 7664-68 (1991)). The PrP
gene, however, is found in all mammals so far examined,
i.e., hamster (Basler et al., Cell 46, pp.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : AT, BE, CH, DE, DK, ES, FR, GB, GR, IE, IT, LI, LU, MC, NL, SE
A DNA molecule selected from the group consisting of:

(a) a targeting molecule capable of specifically disrupting prion protein
gene sequences in mammalian or avian cells, wherein said gene is

incapable of expressing functional prion protein;
(b) plasmid pRVPrP3, the construction of which is depicted in Figures 1 to
5; and
(c) the 4.8 kb ClaI-SacII fragment of the plasmid.
A non-human mammalian or avian cell comprising the targeting molecule of
claim 1.
A transgenic non-human mammal or bird comprising the cell of claim 2.
The transgenic non-human mammal or bird of claim 3 which is rendered non-susceptible
to prion protein diseases by lack of prion protein.
The transgenic non-human mammal or bird of claim. 3 or 4, wherein one or
more of the prion protein-encoding genes in its germ or somatic cells has been

disrupted by a targeting molecule, wherein said disrupted gene(s) is incapable
of expressing functional prion protein.
The transgenic non-human mammal of any one of claims 3 to 5 belonging to a
genus selected
 from the group consisting of:

(a) Mus;
(b) Rattus;
(c) Mesocricetus;
(d) Oryctolagus;
(e) Sus;
(f) Ovis; and
(g) Bos.
Use of the DNA molecule of claim 1 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical
composition for treating or preventing spongiform encephalopathies.
The use of claim 7, wherein said spongiform encephalopathy is Kuru,
Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, Gerstmann-Str채ussler-Scheinker syndrome,

scrapie, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, chronic wasting disease or
transmissible mink encephalopathy.
Claims for the following Contracting State : ES
A DNA molecule selected from the group consisting of:

(a) a targeting molecule capable of specifically disrupting prion protein
gene sequences in mammalian or avian cells, wherein said gene is

incapable of expressing functional prion protein;
(b) plasmid pRVPrP3, the construction of which is depicted in Figures 1 to
5; and
(c) the 4.8 kb ClaI-SacII fragment of the plasmid.
A non-human mammalian or avian cell comprising the targeting molecule of
claim 1.
A transgenic non-human mammal or bird comprising the cell of claim 2.
The transgenic non-human mammal or bird of claim 3 which is rendered non-susceptible
to prion protein diseases by lack of prion protein.
The transgenic non-human mammal or bird of claim 3 or 4, wherein one or
more of the prion protein-encoding genes in its germ or somatic cells has been

disrupted by a targeting molecule, wherein said disrupted gene(s) is incapable
of expressing functional prion protein.
The transgenic non-human mammal of any one of claims 3 to 5 belonging to a
genus selected from the group consisting of:


(a) Mus;
(b) Rattus;
(c) Mesocricetus;
(d) Oryctolagus;
(e) Sus;
(f) Ovis; and
(g) Bos.
Use of the DNA molecule of claim 1 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical
composition for treating or preventing spongiform encephalopathies.
The use of claim 7, wherein said spongiform encephalopathy is Kuru,
Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, Gerstmann-Str채ussler-Scheinker syndrome,

scrapie, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, chronic wasting disease or
transmissible mink encephalopathy.
A method for the production of a DNA molecule comprising the step of
constructing:


(h) a targeting molecule capable of specifically disrupting prion protein
gene sequences in mammalian or avian cells, wherein said gene is

incapable of expressing functional prion protein; or
(i) plasmid pRVPrP3, the construction of which is depicted in Figures 1 to
5; or
(j) the 4.8 kb ClaI-SacII fragment of the plasmid.
A method for the production of a non-human mammalian or avian cell
comprising transfecting the targeting molecule of claim 9 into said non-human

mammalian or avian cell.
A method for the production of a transgenic non-human mammal or bird
comprising using the cell of claim 10 to produce a non-human mammal or bird.
The method of claim 11, wherein said non-human mammal or bird is rendered
non-susceptible to prion protein diseases by lack of prion protein.
The method of claim 11 or 12, wherein in said transgenic non-human mammal
or bird one or more of the prion protein-encoding genes in its germ or somatic

cells has been disrupted by a targeting molecule, wherein said disrupted
gene(s) is incapable of expressing functional prion protein.
The method of any one of claims 11 to 13 wherein said transgenic non-human
mammal belongs to a genus selected from the group consisting of:


(k) Mus;
(I) Rattus; 
(m) Mesocricetus;
(n) Oryctolagus;
(o) Sus;
(p) Ovis; and
(q) Bos.
Process for the manufacture of an agent for treating or preventing spongiform
encephalopathies, 
characterised in
 the use, as an essential constituent of said
agent, of the DNA molecule of claim 9.
The process of claim 15, wherein said spongiform encephalopathy is Kuru,
Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease, Gerstmann-Str채ussler-Scheinker syndrome,

scrapie, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, chronic wasting disease or
transmissible mink encephalopathy.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
