<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642044</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Line terminal particularly signal transmitting, connector assembly.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B638	G02B638	H01R1352	H01R1352	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	H01R13	H01R13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The conductor assembly for optical or electrical conductor or fluid line 
terminals, according to the invention, comprises a socket and a plug, each 

having a cavity for receiving conductor terminals. Socket and plug are 
mutually displaceable to engage them, whereby to engage the respective 

conductors and allow signals to be transmitted between them or to engage 
the respective fluid line terminals to allow fluid to flow through them, or 

to disengage them, whereby to disengage said conductors or said fluid line 
terminals. Each of them is provided with a cover for screening the 

respective conductor terminals from the environment, when closed, and 
baring them when open, and with elastic means urging the cover to its 

closed position. Opening means are provided for bringing said covers to 
their open positions when socket and plug are engaged, said elastic means 

bringing said covers back to their closed position when said socket and 
plug are disengaged. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISRAEL STATE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STATE OF ISRAEL MINISTRY OF DEFENCE RAPHAEL ARMAMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DON-YEHIYA YEHUDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DON-YEHIYA, YEHUDA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to line terminal connector assemblies, more 
particularly signal transmitter connector assemblies, specifically to an 
assembly for permitting the transmission of optical or electrical signals 
between the terminals of two transmission lines or between a generator 
and a transmission line, or between a transmission line and a receiver. 
Such signal transmitter connector assemblies of the invention may 
further be provided with additional connections, such as for feeding a gas 
therethrough. Further, the connector assemblies of this invention may 
serve to connect fluid, e.g. gas, lines, in the absence of optical or 
electrical terminals. Connector assemblies for electrical or optical conductors are conventional 
in the art. In the case of optical fibers the problem arises of protecting 
them against contamination from dirt, dust and the like, which may cause 
an alteration in the transmission of optical signals. Another problem 
which arises is how to protect the eye of the user against accidental 
damage from radiation, e.g. laser radiation, issuing from the terminals of 
conductors and emitters. Electrical conductors are less sensitive to 
contamination, but they should desirably be protected against it, 
especially in applications in which a perfect electrical contact is 
important.  USP 4,640,575 discloses a combination dust cover and radiation shield 
which normally covers and can be forced into close engagement with a 
terminal from which radiation, e.g. laser radiation, is emitted, and can be 
detached therefrom and deformed to allow insertion of another terminal. 
Such a device, however, requires manual operation, is unreliable because 
it is based on the elastic memory of the flap, and is structurally awkward 
and adapted to be applied only to a socket type terminal. It is therefore of 
very limited applicability and efficiency. DE 3307289 discloses a connection for optical fibers in which both 
terminals are closed by a transparent plate, both plates being elastically 
mounted to facilitate their coming into contact. This device actually 
provides no protection against dirt, because such dirt will accumulate on 
the transparent plates and interfere with the transmission of optical 
signals. Their presence, further, may interfere with a good optical 
engagement of the terminals. OLS 2734522 discloses a connection for optical fibers in which one 
terminal is protected by a flexible membrane, which is cut along radial 
lines, so that the terminal itself may penetrate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1 - Connector assembly for optical or electrical conductor or fluid line 
terminals, characterized in that it comprises: 


a - a socket member, having a cavity defined therein for receiving first 
terminals; 
b - a plug member, having a cavity defined therein for receiving second 
terminals; 
c - said socket and said plug members being mutually displaceable 
mutually to engage them, whereby to bring said first and second 

terminals into an engaged or connected positioned relationship, or 
mutually to disengage them, whereby to bring said first and second 

terminals into a disengaged or disconnected, spaced positioned 
relationship; 
d - first cover means in said socket member, having a closed and an open 
position and screening, when in said closed position, said first terminals 

from the environment and baring said first terminals when in said open 
position; 
e - second cover means in said plug member, having a closed and an open 
position and screening, when in said closed position, said second 

terminals from the environment and baring said second terminals when 
in said open position; 
f - elastic means for urging said first and second cover means to their 
respective closed positions when said socket and said plug members are 

not in their engaged positioned relationship; 
g - first opening means in fixed positioned relationship with respect to 
said socket member for bringing said second cover means to its open 

position when said socket and said plug members are mutually displaced 
to bring them to their engaged positioned relationship; and 
h - second opening means in fixed positioned relationship with respect to 
said plug member for bringing said first cover means to its open position 

when said plug and said socket members are mutually displaced to bring 
them to their engaged positioned relationship; 
i - said elastic means being effective to return said first and second 
cover means to their closed positions when said socket and plug 

members are mutually displaced mutually to bring them to their 
disengaged positioned relationship. 
2 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, further comprising guide 
means in fixed positioned relationship to said socket and said plug 

members for guiding the same in their mutual displacements. 
3 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, wherein said first and 
second opening means are so positioned with respect to each other that 

one of them becomes operative to open one of said cover means before the 

other one of them becomes so operative. 
4 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, wherein the first opening 
means is defined in a base rigidly connected with the socket member and 

the second opening means is defined in a handle rigidly connected with 
the plug member. 
5 - Connector assembly according to claim 3, wherein the guide means for 
guiding the socket and plug members in their mutual displacements 

comprise a groove and a rib slidable therein, one of said groove and rib 
being defined in a base rigidly connected with the socket member and the 

other one of said groove and rib being defined in a base rigidly connected 
with the plug member. 
6 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, wherein the first and second 
cover means are pivoted to the plug and socket member respectively and 

are swingable from the closed to the open position thereof, and vice versa. 
7 - Connector assembly according to claim 6, wherein the elastic means 
are first and second tension springs attached to said first and second 

cover respectively so as to exert thereon a moment of rotation. 
8 - Connector assembly according to claim 7, wherein the first opening 
means comprise at least one first surface in fixed positioned relationship 

to the socket member and at least one second surface in fixed positioned 
relationship to the first cover, said surfaces coming into engagement when 

the plug and socket member are displaced mutually to engage them, and 
said surfaces being so positioned that said first surface exerts a pressure 

on said second surface, when they come into engagement, which produces 
a moment on said first cover having the opposite direction to the moment 

exerted thereon by the first tension spring. 
9 - Connector assembly according to claim 7, wherein the second opening 
means comprise at least one third surface on the plug member and at 

 
least one fourth surface on the second cover, said surfaces coming into 

engagement when said plug and socket member are displaced mutually to 
engage them, and said surfaces being so positioned that said first surface 

exerts a pressure on said second surface, when they come into 
engagement, which produces a moment on said second cover having the 

opposite direction to the moment exerted thereon by said second tension 
spring. 
10 - Connector assembly according to claim 8, wherein the first surface of 
the first opening means is a shoulder on a base rigid to the socket member 

transverse to the mutual displacement of the plug and socket members. 
11 - Connector assembly according to claim 9, wherein the third surface of 
the fourth opening means is a shoulder defined by a projection on a 

handle rigid to the plug member, said shoulder being transverse to the 
mutual displacement of the plug and socket members. 
12 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, wherein said plug and 
socket members have seats defined therein for receiving the second and 

first cover, respectively, when the same are in their open positions. 
13 - Connector assembly according to claim 6, wherein the first and 
second cover means are so pivoted to the plug and socket member 

respectively as to swing in opposite directions when they both swing from 
the closed to the open position thereof, and vice versa. 
14 - Connector assembly according to claim 7, wherein the first and 
second cover means are swingable plates and the tension springs are so 

connected to said cover means and to the plug and socket members, 
respectively, that their axes lie approximately in the central planes of said 

plates when said covers are in their open positions. 
15 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, wherein the plug member 
has a terminal portion so dimensioned as to fit, at least in part, within the 

cavity defined in the socket member when the plug and in the socket 
members are mutually engaged. 
16 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, wherein the terminals are 
optical or electrical terminals, and their engaged positioned relationship 

is such that signals may be transmitted therebetween.. 
17 - Connector assembly according to claim 1, wherein the terminals are 
mutually engageable fluid ports provided in the plug and socket members, 

said ports being so positioned as to come into mutual engagement when 
the plug and socket members are engaged. 
18 - Connector assembly according to claim 16, wherein mutually 
engageable fluid terminals are additionally provided in the plug and 

socket members. 
19 - Connector assembly according to claim 17, wherein the fluid ports are 
defined in a male element and in a female element respectively, one of 

 
said elements being attached to the plug member and the other to the 

socket member, a gasket seal being provided between said elements. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
