<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614045</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for feeding air-gas-mixtures at various flow rates to a premix burner.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23D1400	F23D1436	F23D1446	F23D1460	F23N102	F23N102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23D	F23D	F23D	F23D	F23N	F23N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23D14	F23D14	F23D14	F23D14	F23N1	F23N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and device for feeding air/gas mixtures at 
varying flow rates to a premixed burner (2). 

The air and fuel gas flows are supplied separately into 
a tubular body (3) respectively from a blower (5) and a 

conduit (6) connected to the gas distribution network. The 
air flow rate is controlled by diverting an aliquot thereof 

toward a bypass conduit (15) of the burner (2). 
This control, a shutter (17) 
slidable in a distribution chamber (10) and interposed 

between the blower (5) and the tubular body (3), allows the 
thermal power delivered by the burner (2) to be controlled 

in a simple and effective way. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIT LA PRECISA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIT LA PRECISA S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCANFERLA GIORGIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCANFERLA, GIORGIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for feeding 
air/gas mixtures at varying flow rates to a so-called fully 
premixed burner in a heating apparatus which includes a 
circuit for disposing of the flue gas downstream from the 
burner, the method comprising the steps of:
 
   conveying an air flow into a tubular body by means 
of a blower;
 
   conveying a separate flow of a fuel gas into said 
tubular body through a respective supply conduit;
 
   controlling the rate of said gas flow by 
throttling said conduit;
 
   mixing said air and gas flows together through a 
mixing path formed in said tubular body, and delivering the 
resultant mixture to the burner over a supply conduit. More particularly, the invention concerns a method 
for feeding air/gas mixtures to premix burners employed in 
heating apparatus for civil applications, such as flash 
boilers or water heaters. The invention is also directed to 
a device for implementing the method. The term "blower" will be used throughout the 
description here below and the appended claims to indicate 
any air supply arrangement -- including a centrifugal fan -- 
of the type wherein, for each change in the delivery flow 
rate there corresponds an oppositely directed change in the 
air delivery pressure. In the field of heating apparatus for civil 
applications, a well-recognized demand is, on the one side, 
that their thermal power should be controllable in a 
flexible manner, and on the other side, that their burners  
 
be made ever more compact in size and efficient 
combustion-wise. Of the above demands, the former is of paramount 
importance in this case, as a controlled delivery of thermal 
power according to the user's own requirements should be 
ensured as fully as possible. To fill this basic demand, so-called "blast" 
burners have been mainly employed in this field wherein the 
combustion air is partly premixed with the fuel gas 
downstream from the burner gas delivery nozzles (primary 
air), and partly supplied downstream from the burner to 
complete the combustion (secondary air). Blast burners, while providing for the desired 
control of thermal power, do require to be operated with 
considerable excess air over the stoichiometric amount in 
order to ensure as complete a gas combustion as possible. The use of excess air involves, however, a twofold 
drawback: on the one side, it is in practice impossible to 
reduce the burner size due to the low flame density that 
this would bring about, and on the other side, objectionable 
gases, specifically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for feeding air/gas mixtures at 
varying flow rates to a so-called fully premixed burner (2) 

in a heating apparatus which includes a circuit (40) for 
disposing of the flue gas downstream from the burner (2), 

the method comprising the steps of: 
   conveying an air flow into a tubular body (3) by 

means of a blower (5); 
   conveying a separate flow of a fuel gas into said 

tubular body (3) through a supply conduit (6) in fluid 
communication with said body (3); 

   controlling the rate of said gas flow by 
throttling said conduit (6); 

   mixing said air and gas flows together through a 
mixing path (4) formed in said tubular body (3), and 

delivering the resultant mixture to the burner (2) over a 
respective supply conduit (9), 

characterized in that the air flow rate conveyed into said 
tubular body (3) is controlled by diverting an aliquot of 

said flow toward a bypass conduit (15) of the burner (2), 
said conduit (15) causing, upon air being flowed 

therethrough, a head loss which is substantially equivalent 
to that produced by the combination of the tubular body (3), 

the burner supply conduit (9), the burner (2), and said 
circuit (40) 
A method according to Claim 1, characterized in 
that said air flow is diverted by means of a first shutter 

(17) being slidable in a guided manner within an air 
distribution chamber (10) in fluid communication with said 

bypass conduit (15), said chamber (10) being interposed 
between said blower (5) and said tubular body (3) 
A method according to Claim 2, characterized in 
that said shutter (17) can be positioned in an adjustable 

 
manner within said chamber (10) according to the demand for 

thermal power placed on the burner (2). 
A method according to Claim 2, characterized in 
that said gas flow is controlled simultaneously as said air 

flow by throttling said gas supply conduit (6) by means of a 
second shutter (34) arranged to perform traversing movements 

along with said first shutter (17) whereby it is driven 
toward and away from said conduit (6). 
A method according to Claim 4, characterized in 
that said gas flow is controlled, using said second shutter 

(34), simultaneously as the air/gas ratio of the mixture 
being supplied to said burner (2). 
A device for feeding air/gas mixtures at 
varying flow rates to a so-called fully premixed burner (2), 

being of a type which comprises a tubular body (3) having an 
air/gas mixing path (4) defined therein which is in fluid 

communication with an air delivery blower (5) and a fuel gas 
supply conduit (6), said tubular body (3) having an outlet 

opening (12) facing a burner (2) supply conduit (9), and 
being characterized in that it further comprises, located 

upstream of said mixing path (4), an air distribution 
chamber (10) provided with an air inlet opening (7) in fluid 

communication with said blower (5), and opposed air outlet 
passageway (13,14) facing said mixing path (4) and a burner 

(2) bypass conduit (15), respectively, first valve means 
(16) being provided in said chamber (10) to selectively 

divert predetermined air flow rates toward said tubular body 
(3) and said bypass conduit (15), respectively. 
A device according to Claim 6, characterized in 
that said air distribution chamber (10) is substantially a 

scroll pattern. 
A device according to Claim 6, characterized in 
that said air distribution chamber (10) and said tubular 

 
body (3) are releasably associable with each other at 

predetermined positions. 
A device according to Claim 6, characterized in 
that said chamber (10) comprises two shell halves (10a,10b) 

releasably associated with each other. 
A device according to Claim 6, characterized 
in that said valve means (16) comprise a shutter (17) 

slidable in a guided manner within said chamber (10) where 
it can be positioned adjustably between opposed positions to 

respectively open and close each of said air outlet 
passageways (13,14). 
A device according to Claim 10, characterized 
in that said shutter (17) includes respective motive means 

(19) for its adjustable positioning within said chamber 
(10). 
A device according to Claim 11, characterized 
in that said motive means (19) are driven by a thermostat 

(37). 
A device according to Claim 6, cnaracterized 
in that it comprises second valve means (27) for throttling 

said gas supply conduit (6), being linked operatively to 
said first valve means (16). 
A device according to Claims 10 and 13, 
characterized in that said second valve means (27) comprise 

a second shutter (34) arranged to perform traversing 
movements along with said first shutter (17) whereby it is 

driven, against respective spring means (35), toward and 
away from said gas supply conduit (6). 
A device according to Claim 14, characterized 
in that said second shutter (34) is substantially cone-like 

in shape. 
A device according to Claim 14, characterized 
in that said second shutter (34) has a profile shape such 

that, upon said gas supply conduit (6) being throttled, 
 

air/gas ratii will be set which vary with the position 
setting of said first shutter (17). 
A device according to Claim 13, characterized 
in that said second valve means (27) for throttling said gas 

supply conduit (6) lie at least partially in said mixing 
path (4). 
A heating apparatus of a type incorporating a 
burner (2) of the so-called fully premixed type. 

characterized in that it comprises an air/gas mixture 
feeding device according to any of Claims 6-17. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
