<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0498845</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WEIGHT DETERMINING APPARATUS UTILIZING ACOUSTIC WAVE ELAPSED TIME MEASUREMENT AND COMPUTEUR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G1908	G01G1908	G01G900	G01G900	G01G1912	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	G01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G19	G01G19	G01G9	G01G9	G01G19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONIC FORCE LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONIC FORCE, L.L.C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PASSARELLI FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PASSARELLI, FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The field of this invention relates to weight 
determining devices and more particularly to a weight 
determining device which does not require the use of any 
separate weighing device in order to ascertain the weight of a 
given structure. The invention relates to a method of determining 
the weight of a structure, to a weight determining 
apparatus, and to a combination of a weight determining 
apparatus with a truck. The subject matter of this invention will be discussed 
in conjunction with motor vehicles and more particularly in 
conjunction with trucks. However, it is to be understood that 
it is within the scope of this invention that the weight could 
be utilized in environments other than motor operated vehicles 
and actually within any environment where it is desired to 
determine the weight of an object without the using of any 
separate scale mechanism. Trash trucks are designed to move from house to house, 
or business to business, and collect accumulated trash which 
has been placed in an appropriate collecting container to be 
picked up by the individuals operating the trash trucks. 
Trash trucks are normally required by municipalities, which 
generally is a city or a county, to restrict its weight to no 
greater than a certain value. Since the individuals operating 
the trash truck are constantly picking up additional weight, 
it is merely guesswork by the operators of the trash truck as  
 
to how much weight has actually been accumulated. This 
guesswork frequently results in the truck being overweight. 
Most municipalities are quite diligent in determining which 
trucks are overweight and if they are overweight a fine is 
assessed. Generally, these fines are based on the amount of 
pounds that the truck is overweight. It is not at all 
uncommon for an overweight truck to receive a fine of several 
thousand dollars. A business which operates a plurality of trash trucks 
may have to pay fines of several thousand dollars in a given 
month. These fines are actually totally unnecessary and if 
there was some convenient and quick way the trash truck 
operator could discover the weight of the truck, the trash 
truck operator could then stop adding additional trash when 
the truck weight was at its maximum and then proceed to the 
dumping facility for the trash so that the truck could be 
emptied. The truck could then be operated back to its place 
where the truck stopped picking up the trash and the truck 
could then continue on its route. Previously, it has been known to incorporate some
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of determining the weight of a structure 
comprising the steps of:
 
   mounting a transmitting acoustical transducer and a 

receiving acoustical transducer in a spaced apart manner on a 
load bearing member of said structure;
 
   emitting an acoustic wave from said transmitting 

acoustical transducer within said load bearing member;
 
   picking up said acoustic wave by said receiving 

acoustic transducer;
 
   determining the elapsed time of transmission of said 

acoustic wave from said transmitting acoustical transducer to 
said receiving acoustical transducer;
 
   comparing said elapsed time to a graphical 

representation where said graphical representation has been 
previously calculated in view of known weights of said 

structure and ascertained elapsed times with therebeing a 
different point on said graph for each particular lapsed time 

and weight; and
 
   arriving at and displaying a weight for said 

structure. 
The method as defined in Claim 1 wherein the step 
of determining, comparing and arriving at are accomplished by 

computer.  
 
The method of claim 2 comprising the steps of:
 
   transmitting an acoustical wave through a load bearing 

member of said structure for a plurality of known different 
weights with there being a separate said wave for each said 

weight;
 
   receiving each said acou
stical wave with said 
receiving occurring some known spaced distance from the point 

of said transmitting;
 
   measuring the elapsed time between said transmitting 

and receiving for each said weight;
 
   programming said computer with said elapsed times and 

said weights producing a weight versus time curve within said 
computer;
 
   changing the weight of said structure producing a 

current weight;
 
   transmitting an acoustical wave through said load 

bearing member of said structure;
 
   receiving said acoustical wave for said current weight 

maintaining said spaced distance between the point of 
transmitting and the point of receiving;
 
   measuring the elapsed time between said transmitting 

and receiving for said current weight;
 
   inputting said elapsed time for said current weight 

into said computer;
 
   comparing said elapsed time to said curve within said 

computer arriving at a known value for said current weight; 
and
 
   displaying said value.  

 
A weight determining apparatus comprising:
 
   means for transmitting and means for receiving an acoustic wave within 

a load bearing member of a 
structure to be weighed;
 
   means for calculating the elapsed time between the 

initiating of the transmitting of the wave to the receiving of 
the wave;
 
   means for comparing the elapsed time to previously 

ascertained elapsed times for said structure where the weight 
was known for each said previously ascertained elapsed time;
 
   means for arriving at a current weight for said 

structure and displaying the value of said current weight. 
The weight determining apparatus as defined in 
Claim 4 wherein:
 
   said means for arriving at comprising a computer. 
The weight determining apparatus as defined in 
Claim 4 wherein:
 
   both said means for transmitting and said means for 

receiving being fixedly mounted on a load bearing member of 
said structure in a known distance spaced apart arrangement.  

 
A combination of a weight determining apparatus 
with a truck, said truck being for 

the purpose of carrying a load, said load being increasable, 
said truck having at least one load carrying axle, the weight 

determining apparatus mounted in conjunction with said truck, 
said weight determining apparatus comprising:
 
   acoustic wave transmitting means mounted on said axle, 

said acoustic wave transmitting means for emitting an acoustic 
wave into said axle;
 
   acoustic wave receiving means mounted on said axle, 

said acoustic wave receiving means being spaced from said 
acoustic wave transmitting means, said acoustic wave receiving 

means for picking up said acoustic wave; and
 
   computer means mounted within said truck, said 

computer means to measure the elapsed time between the 
transmitting and receiving of said acoustic wave and compare 

such to known elapsed times versus weight values to thereby 
ascertain the current weight of said truck upon said axle. 
The combination as defined in Claim 7 wherein:
 
   both said acoustic wave transmitting means and said 

acoustic wave receiving means being fixedly mounted on said 
axle. 
The combination as defined in Claim 8 wherein:
 
   said acoustic wave receiving means being located a 

known spaced distance from said acoustic wave transmitting 
means.  

 
The combination as defined in Claim 9 wherein:
 
   a display, said display being connected to said 

computer means, said display being activatable by said 
computer means to display indicia representing the value of 

said current weight. 
The combination as defined in Claim 7 wherein:
 
   said acoustic wave transmitting means including a 

plurality of separate transmitting transducers. 
The combination as defined in Claim 11 wherein:
 
   said acoustic wave receiving means comprising a 

plurality of receiving transducers. 
The combination as defined in Claim 12 wherein:
 
   number of said receiving transducers being equal to 

the number of said transmitting transducers. 
The combination as defined in Claim 13 wherein:
 
   only a single said transmitting transducer and a 

single said receiving transducer being activated at any given 
instant, there being a particular receiving transducer to be 

activated for a particular said transmitting transducer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
