<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617885</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A construction for automatically milking animals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01J500	A01J5017	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01J	A01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01J5	A01J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A construction for automatically milking animals, 
such as cows, comprises a milking box and a milking robot 

with teat cups. The construction is of such a design that of 
the four teat cups at least two are simultaneously couplable 

to two teats. To that end, the milking robot includes a 
plurality of carriers, each of which is designed for carrying 

one or two teat cups. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INDUSTRIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INDUSTRIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a construction 
for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a 
milking box and a milking robot with teat cups. The teat cups 
can be connected to the teats of an animal. Such a construction 
is known from EP-A-0 448 132. Therein a robotarm construction 
is described with two teat cups which are individually 
connected to the teats one after another, while the 
remaining teat cups are applied from a different direction. 
In order to improve the efficiency as much as possible, the 
connection of the teat cups to the teats must be effected 
without delay. According to the invention, the construction, 
of the type as described in the preamble, is therefore 
characterized in that out of a set of four teat cups a 
simultaneous coupling of either two or four teat cups with 
the corresponding either two or four teats of an animal to be 
milked is obtainable by means of a plurality of carriers, 
with each carrier being suitable for carrying at least one of 
said teat cups. Thus, the period of time required for connecting 
the teat cups to the teats can be significantly 
reduced. In accordance with another embodiment, 
a carrier can be pivotal about a mainly 
horizontal shaft which extends in the lengthwise direction of 
the milking box. The carrier may be accommodated on a supporting 
element which is movable in two different directions 
and is pivotal about this shaft, which extends approximately 
horizontally in the lengthwise direction of the milking box. 
In accordance with a further embodiment, the 
construction, of the type as described in the opening paragraph, 
is provided with a spring at or near that end of 
carrier that is remote from the teat cup or teat cups a 
which compensates for the weight of the 
teat cup or teat cups. This construction is more in particular 
advantageous when it is used with the above said carrier 
which is pivotal about a mainly horizontal shaft extending in  
 
the lengthwise direction of the milking box. In accordance with yet a further embodiment, 
the construction, of the type as described in the 
opening paragraph, has a detection 
device, such as a laser, which is connected to 
one of the carriers, with the aid of which detection device 
the position of the teats of an animal can be determined. 
When the carrier to which this detection device is attached 
has been moved in such a manner that the teat cup or teat 
cups carried thereby are located under the udder of the 
animal, then the detection device is approximately
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A construction for automatically milking animals, 
such as cows, comprising a milking box (1) and a milking 

robot (7) with teat cups (16, 17, 34 - 37), characterized in 
that out of a set of four teat cups (16, 17, 34 - 37) a 

simultaneous coupling of either two or four teat cups (16, 
17, 34 - 37) with the corresponding either two or four teats 

of an animal to be milked is obtainable by means of a plurality 
of carriers (13), with each carrier being suitable for 

carrying at least one of said teat cups. 
A construction as claimed in claim 1, characterized 
in that each of the carriers (13) is suitable for 

carrying one teat cup (34 - 37), whilst two carriers (13) can 
be moved to under the animal from one side of the animal. 
A construction as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterized 
in that a carrier (13) is pivotal from a rest position 

about a shaft (12) which extends along the exterior side 
of and near a side wall of the milking box (1) to an operating 

position under the udder of an animal. 
A construction as claimed in claim 3, characterized 
in that a carrier (13) is pivotal about a mainly 

vertical shaft (12). 
A construction as claimed in claim 3 or 4, characterized 
in that a carrier (13) being capable of being moved 

in two different directions, is disposed on a supporting 
element (11) which is pivotal about a mainly vertical shaft 

(12). 
A construction as claimed in claim 5, characterized 
in that the supporting element (11) is movable in height, for 

example by means of a parallelogram construction (10), 
disposed at the exterior side of a side wall of the milking 

box (1). 
A construction as claimed in claim 3, characterized 
in that a carrier (13) is pivotal about a mainly horizontal  

 
shaft (38) which extends in the lengthwise direction of the 

milking box (1). 
A construction as claimed in claim 3 or 7, characterized 
in that a carrier (13) being capable of movement in 

two different directions, is disposed on a supporting element 
(11) which is pivotal about a mainly horizontal shaft (38) 

extending in the lengthwise direction of the milking box (1). 
A construction as claimed in claim 7 or 8, characterized 
in that at that end of a carrier (13) that is remote 

from the teat cup or teat cups a spring is provided which 
compensates for the weight of the teat cup or teat cups. 
A construction as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that a detection device (18), 

such as a laser, is present, which is connected to one of the 
carriers (13), it being possible to detect the position of 

the teats of an animal with the aid of this detection device 
(18). 
A construction as claimed in claim 10, characterized 
in that, when the carrier (13) to which the detection 

device (18) is connected has been adjusted to the working 
position and, if necessary, has been moved in such a manner 

that the teat cup or teat cups carried by it is/are in a 
position under the udder of the animal, the detection device 

(18) is located in an approximately central position under 
the animal at the front side of the udder. 
A construction as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that at least that end of a 

carrier (13) where it supports one or more teat cups (16, 17, 
34 - 37) is of a tubular construction. 
A construction as claimed in claim 12, characterized 
in that a teat cup (16, 17, 34 - 37) is connected via 

a flexible connecting element (19), such as a cord or cable, 
to a relevant carrier (13) in such a manner that, during 

milking, it is freely movable and said teat cup being pulled 
up against the end of this carrier (13), after milking. 
A construction as claimed in claim 13, characterized 
in that the flexible connecting element (19) can be 

drawn through the tubular portion of the carrier (13). 
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 12 - 15,  
 

characterized in that, at its side, a teat cup (16, 17, 
34 - 37) is provided with a bulging portion (20) which can be 

pulled with the aid of a flexible connecting element (19) in 
a correspondingly shaped recess (22) in the end of a carrier 

(13). 
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 12 - 18, 
characterized in that, at or near the end of a tubular 

carrier (13), a through-connection element (21) for one or 
more milk (23) and/or pulsation (24) tubes is accommodated 

inside the carrier (13). 
A construction as claimed in claim 16, characterized 
in that the through-connection element (21) is 

provided with a pierced recess, whilst a teat cup (16, 17, 34 - 37) 
can be pulled into this recess against the carrier (13) 

with the aid of a flexible connecting element (19) passed 
through the through-bore in a recess (22). 
A construction as claimed in claim 16 or 17, 
characterized in that the section of the milk (23) and/or 

pulsation (24) tube between a teat cup (16, 17, 34 - 37) and 
the through-connection element (21) extends in the shape of a 

loop. 
A construction as claimed in claim 18, characterized 
in that one or more tubes (23, 24) are accommodated 

in a tubular carrier (13) in such a manner that they partly 
extend at the upper side of the tubular carrier (13) to over 

the tubular carrier (13) in the shape of an arc. 
A construction as claimed in claim 18 or 19, 
characterized in that the section of the milk (23) and/or 

pulsation (24) tube between a teat cup (16, 17, 34 - 37) and 
the through-connection element (21) is connected to the 

through-connection element (21) from the teat cup (16, 17, 34 - 37) 
through a slotted aperture (27) in the bottom side of 

the tubular portion of the carrier by passing it through this 
tubular portion of the carrier (13) and through a slotted 

aperture (28) in the upper side of the tubular portion of the 
carrier (13). 
A construction as claimed in any one of claims 16 - 20, 
characterized in that the through-connection element 

(21) is suitable for the milk (23) and/or pulsation (24) tube  
 

of two teat cups, whilst the through-connection element (21) 
is provided with two recesses (22) into which the two teat 

cups, which are provided with a bulging portion (20), can be 
pulled. 
A construction as claimed in claim 21, characterized 
in that, in the tightened state, the two teat cups 

are disposed at the end of a carrier (13) substantially in 
contact with each other. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
