<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625865</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of manufacturing a radiant electric heater
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B374	H05B368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radiant electric heater having an electric heating 
element (1) in the form of an elongate electrically 

conductive strip supported on edge and partially embedded 
in a layer of microporous thermal and electrical 

insulation material (11; 11A, 11B) in a support dish (10) 
is manufactured by placing an elongate electrically 

conductive strip on edge in a groove (8) in a press tool 
(6), such that a portion of the strip protrudes from the 

groove, the groove being formed of a pattern 
corresponding to that required for a heating element (1) 

in the heater. A predetermined quantity of powdery 
microporous thermal and electrical insulation material is 

arranged between the press tool (6) and a support dish 
(10) of the heater, and the insulation material is 

compressed into the support dish with the press tool, the 
material being compacted to form a layer (11; 11A, 11B) 

of a desired density and simultaneously compacted against 
the portion of the strip protruding from the groove, to 

secure the strip on edge in partial embedment in the 
layer of the insulation material. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAYBARAH ALI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS, JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAYBARAH, ALI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of manufacturing a 
radiant electric heater and more particularly the invention 
relates to a method of manufacturing a radiant heater, for 
example for a glass ceramic smooth top cooker, the heater 
having a heating element comprising an elongate 
electrically conductive strip supported on edge in a layer 
of microporous thermal and electrical insulation material 
in a support dish. The term 'microporous' is used herein to identify porous or 
cellular materials in which the ultimate size of the cells 
or voids is less than the mean free path of an air molecule 
at NTP, i.e. of the order of 100 nanometres or smaller. A 
material which is microporous in this sense will exhibit 
very low transfer of heat by air conduction (that is 
collisions between air molecules). Such microporous 
materials include aerogel, which is a gel in which the 
liquid phase has been replaced by a gaseous phase in such 
a way as to avoid the shrinkage which would occur if the 
gel were dried directly from a liquid. A substantially 
identical structure can be obtained by controlled 
precipitation from solution, the temperature and pH being 
controlled during precipitation to obtain an open lattice 
precipitate. Other equivalent open lattice structures 
include pyrogenic (fumed) and electro-thermal types in 
which the average ultimate particle size is less than 100  
 
nanometres. Any of these materials, based for example on 
silica, alumina or other metal oxides, may be used to 
prepare a composition which is microporous as defined 
above. Such microporous thermal insulation materials are 
well known in the art to which this invention relates. It is therefore an object of the present invention to 
provide a method of manufacturing a radiant electric heater 
in which the strip is more securely mounted in the layer. According to the present invention there is provided a 
method of manufacturing a radiant electric heater having an 
electric heating element in the form of an elongate 
electrically conductive strip supported on edge and 
partially embedded in a layer of microporous thermal and 
electrical insulation material in a support dish, 
comprising the steps of:  
 
placing an elongate electrically conductive strip on edge 
in a groove in a press tool, such that a portion of the 
strip protrudes from the groove, the groove being formed of 
a pattern corresponding to that required for a heating 
element in the heater; disposing a predetermined quantity of powdery microporous 
thermal and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a radiant electric heater 
having an electric heating element (1) in the form of 

an elongate electrically conductive strip supported on 
edge and partially embedded in a layer of microporous 

thermal and electrical insulation material (11; 11A, 
11B) in a support dish (10), characterised by the steps 

of: 

placing an elongate electrically conductive strip on 
edge in a groove (8) in a press tool (6), such that a 

portion of the strip protrudes from the groove, the 
groove being formed of a pattern corresponding to that 

required for a heating element (1) in the heater; 
disposing a predetermined quantity of powdery 
microporous thermal and electrical insulation material 

between the press tool (6) and a support dish (10) of 
the heater; and 
compressing the insulation material into the support 
dish with the press tool, the material being compacted 

to form a layer (11; 11A, 11B) of a desired density and 
simultaneously compacted against the portion of the 

strip protruding from the groove, to secure the strip 
on edge in partial embedment in the layer of the 

insulation material. 
A method according to claim 1, characterised in that 

the groove (8) in the press tool (6) is provided of a 
depth corresponding to that proportion of height of the 

strip required to be unembedded in the layer (11; 11A, 
11B) of compacted insulation material. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that the electrically conductive strip is of corrugated 

form along its length. 
A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, characterised in 
that the portion of the strip protruding from the 

groove (8) and which is subsequently embedded in the 
insulation material is profiled, shaped or configured 

to enhance securement of the strip in the insulation 
material. 
A method according to claim 4, characterised in that 
the portion of the strip protruding from the groove (8) 

is provided with a plurality of spaced-apart holes (17, 
18, 26) therein along the length of the strip. 
A method according to claim 4, characterised in that 
the portion of the strip protruding from the groove (8) 

incorporates a plurality of edgewise-entering slots or 
slits (15, 16, 24, 25).  

 
A method according to claim 6, characterised in that 
material of the strip between at least some of the 

slots or slits (15, 16, 24, 25) is twisted, or is bent 
sideways. 
A method according to claim 7, characterised in that 
the strip material between some of the slots or slits 

(15, 16, 24, 25) is bent sideways to one side, while 
the strip material between others of the slots or slits 

(15, 16, 24, 25) is bent sideways to the opposite side. 
A method according to claim 4, characterised in that 
the portion of the strip protruding from the groove (8) 

comprises or includes spaced-apart tabs (19, 20, 21, 
22, 23) integral with the strip. 
A method according to claim 9, characterised in that at 
least some of the tabs (19, 20, 21, 22, 23) incorporate 

holes and/or edgewise-entering slits or slots. 
A method according to claim 9 or 10, characterised in 
that at least some of the tabs, or portions thereof, 

are twisted, or are bent sideways. 
A method according to claim 11, characterised in that 
one or more of the tabs, or the portions thereof, are 

bent to one side and one or more others are bent to the 
opposite side.  

 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the electrically conductive strip 

comprises a metal or a metal alloy, such as an iron-chromium-aluminium 
alloy. 
A method according to any preceding claim and including 
the step of disposing a predetermined quantity of an 

additional microporous insulation material between the 
said powdery microporous insulation material and the 

support dish (10). 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 13 and 
including a preliminary step of disposing a 

predetermined quantity of an additional microporous 
insulation material between an additional press tool 

and the support dish (10), the additional insulation 
material being compressed into the support dish by 

means of the additional press tool. 
A method according to claim 15, characterised in that 
the additional insulation material is compressed, in 

the preliminary step, to a density below its desired 
final density, the final density being attained during 

the subsequent compression step involving the 
electrically conductive strip with its associated 

insulation material.  
 
A method according to claim 14, 15 or 16, characterised 
in that the additional insulation material is based on 

silica and the insulation material adjacent the heating 
element (1) is based on alumina. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the insulation material adjacent 

the heating element (1) is based on alumina. 
A method according to any of claims 1 to 13, 
characterised in that the insulation material is based 

on silica. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
