<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624075</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR IMPLANTING A PATELLAR PROSTHESIS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1714	A61B1715	A61B1716	A61B1716	A61F238	A61F238	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for preparing a patella (P) for receiving a patellar implant (124) and for implanting a prosthesis therein. An elongated passageway is drilled completely through formed in the patella (P) which is then reamed to form a cavity of a size and configuration to receive the patellar prosthesis (124) using a cannulated reamer telescoped over a guide rod positioned in the elongated passageway. Centering means may be provided for supporting the guide rod. During implantation of the prosthesis, excess marrow fat, blood and debris (177) may escape through the passageway outlet (176). The second opening (176) acts as a vent to allow optimal cement (175) pressurization and fixation (osseointegrating) and sound patellar prosthesis (124) fixation to the reamed cavity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIKHAIL MICHAEL W E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIKHAIL, W.E.MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKHAIL W E MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIKHAIL, W.E.MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR IMPLANTING A PATELLAR PROSTHESISCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION This application is a continuation-in-part of my co-pending U.S. application, Serial No. 07/652,882, filed February 8, 1991.BACKGROUND ART The present invention is directed to a method for implanting a patellar prosthesis in a human patella.In total knee replacement surgery, a prosthesis is provided in which one component is fastened to the distal end of the femur which has been resectioned and another component is fastened to the proximal end of the tibia which has been resectioned so that the two components will act together in permitting the leg to bend and straighten out. In performing such surgery, the patella is not normally replaced but rather is resected such the interior crown portion facing the condyles is cut and reamed to form a cavity in which a patellar prothesis is implanted. The patellar prosthesis has a crown facing inwardly to engage the patellar or trochlear groove of the femoral component.Heretofore, in preparing a patella for an implant, it was necessary to engage the patella with a clamp having a circular cross- sectional configuration and, using the interior surface of the clamp as a guide, ream a cavity in the patella of sufficient size to receive the patellar implant intended to be used. Depending upon a number of factors including the size of the patient, the patellar implant could be one of a number of different sizes. As a result of this, it was 

necessary to have available a number of clamps each having a different diameter for guiding various size reamers. Typical prior art methods of forming a cavity for implanting a patellar prosthesis are shown and described in the following publications, which are incorporated herein by reference: Brochures entitled "The AMK TotalKnee System Design Rationale and Surgical Procedure" (page 25), DePuy, Division of Boehringer Mannheim Corporation, Warsaw, Indiana, and "WHITESIDE ORTHOLOC a Modular KNEE SYSTEM", copyright 1989 by Dow Corning right, Arlington, Tennessee. Copies of such references are herewith enclosed.There has recently been introduced a new design of patellar prosthesis having a tapered surface on the side away from the crown. One such prosthesis is the subject matter of U.S. Patent application Serial No. 07/508,088, filed October 18, 1990, by the applicant herein. The present method for implanting a patellar prosthesis is well-suited for implanting patellar prostheses of the type disclosed in such patent application; however, it should be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method of preparing a patella having an articular surface with an apex for a patellar prosthesis implant comprising:
(a) forming an elongated passageway in said patella from said articular surface to an outlet at the opposite side of said patella;
(b) positioning elongated guide means in said passageway;
(c) reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis while using said guide means as a guide to determine the position of said cavity.
2. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes the step to providing a cannulated reamer having a cannulation extending along the path of reaming and positioning said reamer such that said elongated guide means extends through said cannulation.
3. The method according to claim 1 further including the step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means positioned said passageway outlet.
4. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes providing reaming means having stop means limiting the depth of said reaming and engaging said articular surface with said stop means. 


 . e met o accor ng to c a m , w ere n sa ream ng is performed in two steps including:
(a) reaming a first pilot cavity having a size smaller than the cavity intended for the patellar prosthesis; and, (b) reaming a second cavity to a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis.
6. A method of implanting a patellar prosthesis in a human patella having an articular surface with an apex lying generally on a central axis comprising:
(a) providing a patellar prosthesis having a body portion including an upper dome and a lower stem on the opposite side of said body portion from said dome;
(b) drilling a passageway through said patella generally along said central axis from a first opening on the articular surface side of said patella to a second opening on the opposite side of said patella;
(c) positioning elongated guide means in said passageway; (d) reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis while using said guide means as a guide to determine the position of said cavity;
(e) placing bone cement in said cavity;
(f) placing said patellar prosthesis in said cavity and applying axial pressure thereto to urge said patellar prosthesis into bonded relationship with said patella and permitting morrow fat, blood and debris to flow out of said second opening.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes the step to providing a cannulated reamer having a cannulation extending along the path of reaming and positioning said reamer such that said elongated guide means extends through said cannulation. 


 . e met o accor ng to c a m , urt er nc u ng e step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means positioned adjacent said second opening and retaining it in said centering means during said reaming step.
9. The method according to claim 6, wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes providing reaming means having stop means limiting the depth of said reaming and engaging said articular surface with said stop means.
10. The method according to claim 6, wherein said patellar prosthesis has a tapering surface opposite said upper dome which tapers upwardly toward said upper dome as it extends radially outwardly from said stem and permitting said bone cement to flow upwardly and outwardly along said tapering surface during the step of applying axial pressure.
1 1 . A method of implanting a patellar prosthesis in a human patella having a first side with an articular surface and central apex and a second side generally opposite said first side comprising:
(a) providing a patellar prosthesis having a body portion including an upper dome and a lower stem on the opposite side of said body portion from said dome;
(b) drilling a passageway extending through said patella from said first side in the vicinity of said central apex to said second side, said passageway forming an outlet at said second side;
(c) providing elongated guide means in said passageway;
(d) providing a reamer having a head, cutting means depending from said head and a central cannulation extending through said cutting means and said head, said cannulation having a size to fit over said elongated guide means;
(e) positioning said reamer over said elongated guide means and reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and
M 


con gurat on to rece ve sa pate ar pros es s w e us ng sa gu e means as a guide to determine the position of said cavity;
(f) placing bone cement in said cavity; and
(g) placing said patellar prosthesis in said cavity and applying pressure to said upper dome to urge said patellar prosthesis further into said cavity and squeeze said bone cement into bonding relationship with said patella and permitting excess marrow fat, blood and debris to flow out of said passageway outlet.
12. The method according to claim 1 1 , further including the step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means positioned adjacent said passageway outlet and retaining it in said centering means during said reaming step.
13. The method according to claim 1 1 , further including the step of engaging said articular surface with stop means when said cavity has been reamed to the desired size.
14. The method according to claim 1 1 , wherein said reaming is performed in two steps including:
(a) reaming a first pilot cavity having a size smaller than the cavity intended for the patellar prosthesis; and,
(b) reaming a second cavity to a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis.
15. The method according to claim 11 , wherein said patellar prosthesis has a tapering surface opposite said upper dome which tapers upwardly toward said upper dome as it extends radially outwardly from said stem and permitting said bone cement to flow upwardly and outwardly along said tapering surface during the step of applying pressure to said upper dome. 


 . surface with an apex and an opposite side for a patellar prosthesis implant comprising:
(a) engaging said patella with a clamp having an enlarged opening through which access to a central portion of said articular surface may be had;
(b) forming an elongated passageway extending through said patella from said articular surface to an outlet at said opposite side; (c) positioning elongated guide means in said passageway;
(d) positioning over said elongated guide means a cannulated reamer having a cannulation with the elongated guide means extending through said cannulation, said cannulated reamer extending through said clamp enlarged opening;
(e) reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis while using said guide means as a guide to determine the position of said cavity.
17. The method according to claim 16, further including the step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means positioned adjacent said passageway outlet and retaining it in said centering means during said reaming step.
18. The method according to claim 16, further including the step of engaging said articular surface with stop means when said cavity has been reamed to the desired size.
19. The method according to claim 16, wherein said reaming is performed in two steps including:
(a) reaming a first pilot cavity having a size smaller than the cavity intended for the patellar prosthesis; and,
(b) reaming a second cavity to a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis. 


 5
AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 27 May 1993 (27.05.93); original claims 1,2 and 6 cancelled; original claims 3-5,7 -11,13-16,18 and 19 amended; new claims 20 - 24 added; other claims unchanged (6 pages)]
10
CLAIMS:
1. CANCEL.
2. CANCEL.
3. The method according to claim 20, further including the 15 step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means positioned in said passageway outlet.
4. The method according to claim 20, wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes providing reaming means having stop
20 means limiting the depth of said reaming and engaging said articular surface with said stop means.
5. The method according to claim 20, wherein said reaming is performed in two steps including:
25 (a) reaming a first pilot cavity having a size smaller than said cavity; and thereafter,
(b) reaming said cavity.
CANCEL.
30
7. The method according to claim 22, wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes the step of providing a cannulated reamer having a cannulation extending along the path of reaming and positioning said reamer such that said elongated guide means extends
35 through said cannulation.
8. The method according to claim 22, further including the step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means 


centering means during said reaming step.
9. The method according to claim 22, wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes providing reaming means having stop means limiting the depth of said reaming and engaging said articular surface with said stop means.
10. The method according to claim 22, wherein said patellar prosthesis has a tapering surface opposite said upper dome which tapers upwardly toward said upper dome as it extends radially outwardly from said stem and permitting said bone cement to flow upwardly and outwardly along said tapering surface during the step of applying pressure.
1 1 . A method of implanting a patellar prosthesis in a human patella having a first side with an articular surface and central apex and a second side generally opposite said first side comprising:
(a) providing a patellar prosthesis having a body portion including an upper side with a dome and a lower side with a stem extending therefrom;
(b) drilling a passageway extending through said patella from said first side in the vicinity of said central apex to said second side for permitting drainage of debris, said passageway forming an outlet at said second side;
(c) providing elongated guide means in said passageway;
(d) providing a reamer having a head, cutting means depending from said head and a central cannulation extending through said cutting means and said head, said cannulation having a size to fit over said elongated guide means;
(e) positioning said reamer over said elongated guide means and reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and 


means as a guide;
(f) placing bone cement in said cavity; and
(g) placing said patellar prosthesis in said cavity and applying pressure to said dome to urge said patellar prosthesis further into said cavity and squeeze said bone cement into bonding relationship with said patella and permitting excess marrow fat, blood and debris to flow out of said passageway outlet.
12. The method according to claim 1 1 , further including the step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means positioned adjacent said passageway outlet and retaining it in said centering means during said reaming step.
13. The method according to claim 1 1 , further including the step of engaging said articular surface with stop means when said cavity has been reamed to a size to receive said patellar prosthesis.
14. The method according to claim 1 1 , wherein said reaming step includes reaming a first pilot cavity having a size smaller than said cavity.
15. The method according to claim 1 1 , wherein said patellar prosthesis has a tapering surface opposite said upper dome which tapers upwardly toward said upper dome as it extends radially outwardly from said stem and permitting said bone cement to flow upwardly and outwardly along said tapering surface during the step of applying pressure to said dome.
16. A method of preparing a patella having an articular surface with an apex and an opposite side for a patellar prosthesis implant comprising: 


enlarged opening through which access to a central portion of said articular surface may be had;
(b) forming an elongated passageway extending through said patella from said articular surface to an outlet at said opposite side for permitting drainage of debris;
(c) positioning elongated guide means in said passageway;
(d) positioning over said elongated guide means a cannulated reamer having a cannulation with the elongated guide means extending through said cannulation, said cannulated reamer extending through said clamp enlarged opening;
(e) reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis while using said guide means as a guide.
17. The method according to claim 16, further including the step of engaging said elongated guide means in centering means positioned adjacent said passageway outlet and retaining it in said centering means during said reaming step.
18. The method according to claim 16, further including the step of engaging said articular surface with stop means.
19. The method according to claim 16, wherein said reaming step includes reaming a first pilot cavity having a size smaller than said cavity.
20. A method of preparing a patella to receive a patellar prosthesis implant, said patella having a first side with an articular surface and an opposite side opposing said articular surface, comprising: 


 passageway n from said first side to an outlet at said opposite side for permitting drainage of debris;
(b) positioning elongated guide means in said passageway;
(c) reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis while using said guide means as a guide.
21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the step of reaming said cavity includes the step of providing a cannulated reamer having a cannulation and positioning said reamer such that said elongated guide means extends through said cannulation.
22. A method of implanting a patellar prosthesis in a human patella having a first side with an articular surface and an opposite side opposing said articular surface, comprising:
(a) providing a patellar prosthesis having a body portion including an upper side with a dome and a lower side with a stem extending therefrom;
(b) drilling a passageway through said patella from a first opening on said first side to a second opening on said opposite side for permitting drainage of debris;
(c) positioning elongated guide means in said passageway;
(d) reaming a cavity in said patella having a size and configuration to receive said patellar prosthesis while using said guide means as a guide;
(e) placing bone cement in said cavity; (f) placing said patellar prosthesis in said cavity and applying pressure thereto to urge said patellar prosthesis into bonded relationship with said patella and permitting marrow fat, blood and debris to flow out of said second opening. 


prosthesis, said patella having a first side with an articular surface and an opposite side opposing said articular surface, wherein a cavity is formed in said patella inwardly from said articular surface for receipt of said patellar prosthesis the improvement comprising forming a passageway communicating with said cavity and extending through said patella to an outlet at said opposite side for permitting drainage of debris.
2 '■ In a method of implanting a patellar prosthesis in a human patella having a first side with an articular surface and an opposite side opposing said articular surface wherein a cavity is formed in said patella inwardly from said articular surface, and a patellar prosthesis having a body portion including an upper side with a dome and a lower side with a stem extending therefrom is secured in said cavity, the improvement comprising forming a passageway communicating with said cavity and extending through said patella to an outlet at said opposite side and placing said patellar prothesis in said cavity and applying pressure thereto to urge said patellar prosthesis into bonded relationship with said patella and permitting marrow fat, blood and debris to flow out of said outlet. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
The claims of the above-identified International Application, as amended, variously disclose a method for preparing a patella to receive a patellar prosthesis including the step of forming a passageway in the patellar from a first side to a second opposed side, thereby forming an outlet for permitting the drainage of debris. The art of record does not disclose or suggest forming a passageway extending completely through a human patella to provide an outlet through which debris may flow. The references do not disclose or suggest the utilization of any such outlet during the step of applying pressure to the patellar prosthesis in the prepared cavity.
The Dow Corning Wright reference does not disclose the step of reaming a cavity using a cannulated reamer with a guide means extending through the cannulation or a plurality of apertures. Dow Corning Wright discloses what may be termed a conventional method of preparing a patella for receiving a patellar prosthesis implant. Under the procedure disclosed in Dow Corning Wright, the internal bore of the patellar clamp is utilized for guiding the reamer- This requires a number of different sizes of clamps, each one corresponding to the size of the reamer to be used. Under the present invention, if a clamp is used to hold the patella it is not necessary that the clamp be of any particular size as the clamp plays no part whatsoever in guiding the reamer.
The reference to Perrett et al. is not related to performing a surgical procedure on a patella or any other part of a knee, but rather is directed 


toward utilizing a cannulated reamer with guide means extending through the cannulation in order to provide an accurate cavity for anchoring a compression screw for joining opposed portions of a broken femur or other bone. The Lewis, Jr. reference does not provide a passageway through which debris can escape, but rather provides ports through which the cleaning liquid containing ultrasonic energy is directed to the site of a wound to be cleaned.
Viewing the references in the light most favorable, it is acknowledged that Perrett et al. teaches the use of a cannulated reamer with a guide means extending through the cannulation to form a cavity in a bone. It does not, however, suggest forming a passageway completely through any bone structure to provide an outlet for debris. In view of the total absence in the prior art of any suggestion of forming a passageway completely through the bone as part of a method of forming a cavity in a bone using a cannulated reamer with guide means extending through the cannulation, it is believed that all claims in the present application are novel and having inventive step over the references of record. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
