<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616225</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electro-optic probe.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R1067	G01R1067	G01R107	G01R1900	G01R1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R1	G01R1	G01R1	G01R19	G01R19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrooptic probe for measuring voltage of an 
object without contact with the object. The electrooptic 

probe according to the present invention comprises an 
electro-optic material (11) having refractive index to light 

varied in accordance with an electric field, a conductive 
reflecting film (12) for reflecting an incident beam 

transmitting through the electro-optic material, fixed to 
an end face of the electro-optic material facing to the 

object to be measured, a transparent electrode (15) fixed on 
the other end face of the electro-optic material, and a 

high permittivity film (14) fixed on an end face of the 
reflecting film facing to the object to be measured. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI HIRONORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKAMORI KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI HIRONORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKAMORI KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an electrooptic 
probe (E-O probe) which is applied to a voltage 
measurement apparatus which measures the voltage of an 
object to be measured without contact by detecting 
electric field strength generated by the object. Techniques disclosed in "Japanese Patent Laid-Open 
No. 63-308572" have been known in the above-described 
field. In this reference, an E-O probe in which a metal 
reflecting film is formed on a measuring surface of an 
electro-optic material of which the refractive index is 
varied by a change of the electric field is disclosed. Referring to Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, the measurement of 
the electric field strength by such an E-O probe will be 
explained. Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 show a perspective view and 
a side view, respectively. As shown in these drawings, 
the conventional E-O probe 100 comprises an electro-optic 
material 101, a reflecting film 102 which is a thin metal 
film fixed to an end face of the electro-optic material 
101 facing to an electrode to be measured 110, and a 
transparent electrode 103 fixed to the other end face of 
the electro-optic material 101. The transparent  
 
electrode 103 is set at ground voltage level, or at the 
fixed voltage level. In a case of the thin electro-optic 
material 101, the E-O probe is used with the upper part of 
the transparent electrode 103 fixed by a transparent 
support 104. In the conventional E-O probe, there were problems 
that the voltage of the electrode to be measured could not 
be measured at high sensitivity and that since the cut-off 
frequency fT against the voltage signal was 
comparatively high, the voltage signal at low frequency 
could not be measured. An electrooptic probe according to the present 
invention comprises an electro-optic material having 
refractive index to light varied in accordance with an 
electric field, a conductive reflecting film for 
reflecting an incident light beam transmitting through 
the electro-optic material, fixed to an end face of the 
electro-optic material facing to the object to be 
measured, a transparent electrode fixed on the other end 
face of the electro-optic material, and a high 
permittivity film fixed on an end face of the reflecting 
film facing to the object to be measured. According to the E-O probe of the present invention, 
if the thickness of the high permittivity film fixed to 
the metal reflecting film is thin, the metal reflecting  
 
film and the object to be measured are sufficiently close 
to each other, whereby the capacitance of the high
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrooptic probe measuring voltage of an 
object to be measured comprising: 

   an electro-optic material having refractive index to 
light varied in accordance with an electric field; 

   a conductive reflecting film for reflecting an 
incident light beam transmitting through said electro-optic 

material, fixed to an end face of said electro-optic 
material facing to said object to be measured; 

   a transparent electrode fixed on the other end face 
of said electro-optic material; and 

   a high permittivity film fixed on an end face of said 
reflecting film facing to said object to be measured. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said electro-optic material comprises LiTaO₃. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said electro-optic material comprises GaAs. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said electro-optic material comprises ZnTe. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said electro-optic material comprises BSO. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said electro-optic material comprises CdTe. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said high permittivity film is an insulator. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
 

wherein said high relative permittivity film comprises 
resilient material. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 8, 
wherein said resilient material is a rubber. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said high permittivity film is easily deformed 

along with an external shape of said object to be measured 
when pressed to said object to be measured. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 10, 
wherein said high permittivity film comprises polymeric 

material. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 11, 
wherein said polymeric material is a natural rubber. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 11, 
wherein said polymeric material is a synthetic rubber. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 11, 
wherein said polymeric material is an agar. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 11, 
wherein said polymeric material is a gelatin. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 10, 
wherein said high permittivity film comprises a resilient 

capsule, and solution having the high permittivity sealed 
in said capsule. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 16, 
wherein said solution having the high permittivity sealed 

in said capsule is pure water. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 16, 
wherein said solution having the high permittivity sealed 

in said capsule is ethanol. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 16, 
wherein said solution having the high permittivity sealed 

in said capsule is glycerine. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said reflecting film is a metal film. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 20, 
wherein said reflecting film comprises aluminum. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 20, 
wherein said reflecting film comprises silver. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 20, 
wherein said reflecting film comprises gold. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 20, 
wherein said reflecting film comprises cooper. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein the size of said reflecting film is less than or 

equal to the size of said object to be measured. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein a transparent support is fixed to said 

transparent electrode. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
wherein said incident light beam is a continuous laser 

beam. 
An electrooptic probe according to Claim 1, 
 

wherein said incident light beam is a pulsed laser 
beam. 
An electro-optic probe for measuring the voltage 
of an object comprising: 

   an electro-optic material having an optical 
characteristic which varies in dependence upon a 

potential difference applied thereacross; 
   a first conductive layer provided on a first 

surface of said electro-optic material; 
   a second conductive layer provided on a second 

surface of said electro-optic material, opposite said 
first surface; and 

   a high permittivity layer provided on said second 
conductive layer. 
An electro-optic probe as claimed in claim 29, 
wherein the first conductive layer is transparent and 

the second conductive layer is a thin metal film. 
A method of measuring the voltage of an object 
using the apparatus of claim 29 or claim 30 

comprising: 
   maintaining the first conductive layer at a 

predetermined potential;
 

   bringing the high permittivity layer into contact 
with the object; 

   passing a beam of light through the electro-optic 
material; and 

   detecting one or more characteristic of the beam 
of light after it passes through the electro-optic 

material to determine the voltage of the object. 
A method as claimed in claim 31 when dependent on 
claim 30 wherein the beam of light is directed through 

the transparent conductive layer and electro-optic 
material, is reflected by the thin metal film and 

passes back through the transparent conductive layer 
and electro-optic material before being detected. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
