<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630205</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATED LASER WORKSTATION FOR HIGH PRECISION SURGICAL AND INDUSTRIAL INTERVENTIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61F900	A61F900	A61F9007	A61F9008	A61F901	B23K2600	B23K2600	B23K2604	B23K2604	B23K2642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method, apparatus and system for template-controlled, precision laser interventions is described for microsurgery, and industrial micromachining. The system includes a user interface, wherein the user can either draw, adjust, or designate particular template patterns overlaid on live video images of the target and provides the means for converting the template pattern into a sequence of laser shots on the corresponding surgical or industrial site. The user interface also continuously presents three dimensional visual information to the surgeon/user during the operation. The system thus comprises the following key elements: (a) a user interface (19), consisting of a video display (18), microprocessor (16) and controls, (b) an imaging system (86), including a surgical video microscope with zoom capability, (c) an automated 3D target acquisition and tracking system (84, 85, 82) that can follow the movements of the tissue, during the operation, (d) a laser, (e) a diagnostic system, incorporating a mapping and topography means (98) for measuring precise surface shapes prior to and subsequent to a procedure.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOENIX LASER SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHOENIX LASER SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOUNTAIN WILLIAM D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOPP CARL F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORKISZEWSKI JERZY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSIANTSEV MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKLAR ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WYSOPAL JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOUNTAIN WILLIAM D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOPP CARL F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORKISZEWSKI JERZY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSIANTSEV MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SKLAR ALFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WYSOPAL JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATED LASER WORKSTATION FOR HIGH PRECISION SURGICAL ANDINDUSTRIAL INTERVENTIONSS P E C I F I C A T I O NReference to Related ApplicationsThis application is a continuation-in-part of copending patent appli¬ cation Serial No. 307,315, filed February 6, 1989, now and copending application Serial No. 475,657, filed February 6, 1990,Background of the InventionThe invention relates to methods and apparatus for performing pre¬ cise laser interventions, and in particular those interventions relevant to improved methods and apparatus for precision laser surgery. In one pre¬ ferred embodiment, the system of the invention is used for effecting pre- .5 cise laser eye surgery. In other embodiments the invention is applicable to non-surgical diagnostic procedures or non-medical procedures involving precision laser operations, such as industrial processes.When performing laser interventions, whether in medical surgery, .0 industrial processes, or otherwise, several fundamental considerations ■r, are common to most applications and will influence the viability and ef- 

fectiveness of the intervention. To influence the outcome of the interven¬ tion, the present invention addresses both the technical innovations in¬ volved in an apparatus to facilitate precision laser interventions, and the methods by which a user of such apparatus can achieve a precise result.The present invention addresses the following considerations: (1) how does the user identify a target for the laser intervention, (2) how does the user obtain information as to the location and other pertinent features of the target and its important surroundings, (3) how does the user lock onto that target so that the user has the assurance he is affect¬ ing the intended target, (4) how does the user localize the effect to the target site, (5) how does the user treat a large number of individual tar¬ gets, whether continuously connected, piecewise connected, or discon¬ nected, (6) how does the user assess the effect of the intervention, (7) how does the user correct errors committed either during the course of the intervention or as a result of previous . interventions, (8) how does the user react to changing conditions during the course of the intervention to ensure the desired result, and (9) how is safety ensured consistent with U.S. Food and Drug Agency regulations for medical instruments and good commercial practice guidelines for industrial applications.Of particular interest are medical interventions such as surgical procedures described by Sklar et.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE- CLAIM:
1. A laser workstation for precision ophthalmic surgery at a surgery site on a patient, comprising: therapeutic laser means for generating a short pulse laser beam capable of effecting photodisruption of the patient's eye tissue so as to effect the desired surgery by sequences of pulses traversing through a surgical path in the tissue, including within transparent tissue of the patient's eye, user interface means including control means for enabling the surgeon to select and initiate a pattern of surgery in the ocular tissue of the patient, and including high resolution video imaging means with a video monitor, for presenting live, magnified video images of the surgery site to the surgeon, a laser beam delivery system including
(a) optical path means for receiving the short pulse laser beam and for redirecting and focussing the beam as desired toward a' target in the patient's eye, including a front lens element from which the beam exits the optical path means toward the patient,
(b) beam steering means connected to the optical path means for controlling the position at which the beam is pointed in X-Y directions,
(c) beam focussing means connected to the optical path means for controlling the depth at which the laser beam is focussed, tracking means for tracking eye movements of the patient during the progress of the surgery, including X-Y tracking means for tracking a feature of the eye in X and Y directions, and depth or Z tracking means for tracking depth movements of the eye's feature, toward and away from the workstation, microprocessor means connected to the tracking means for automatically shifting the optical path means as the feature of the eye is tracked through X-Y and Z movements, so as to change the aim and focus of the laser beam when necessary to 


follow such movements of the eye, and safety interrupt means associated with the microprocessor means for interrupting delivery of the laser beam to the patient when it is determined via the microprocessor means that the tracking means has lost the feature being tracked.
2. A laser workstation according to claim 1, further including laser energy monitoring means for sampling the laser beam from the optical path means, and for feeding a signal representing the energy magnitude to the microprocessor means, and the safety interrupt means further including means for interrupting delivery of the laser beam when the signals from the laser energy monitoring means indicate that energy is above or below a prescribed range.
3. A laser workstation according to claim 1, further including parallax depth ranging means connected into the optical path means, for tracking the depth of the eye's feature in a broader range of depth than the Z tracking means, the parallax depth ranging means being connected to the microprocessor means and being effective to assist in focussing the treatment beam to structure below the transparent cornea.
4. A laser workstation according to claim 1, wherein the Z tracking means comprises a separate tracking subassembly from the X-Y tracking means, both being folded onto the optical path means.
5. A laser workstation according to claim 4, wherein the Z-tracking means includes means for maintaining essentially constant distance between the front lens element and the targeted eye tissue.
6. A laser workstation according to claim 4, wherein the X-Y tracking means comprises means for tracking the limbus of the eye. 


 7. A laser workstation according to claim 1, wherein the X-Y tracking means includes means for tracking the limbus of the eye.
8. A laser workstation according to claim l, further including ocular topographic mapping means connected into the optical path means, for determining surface shapes of the eye and for displaying such shapes and data regarding such shapes on the video monitor.
9. A laser workstation according to claim 8, wherein the ocular topographic mapping means includes means for determining topographical shapes of at least the epithelium and the endothelium of the cornea, as well as the thickness of the cornea between the epithelium and the endothelium.
10. A laser workstation according to claim 9, wherein the ocular topographic mapping means further includes means for determining topographical shapes of the ocular lens.
11. A laser workstation according to claim 8, wherein the ocular topographic mapping means includes means acting in combination with the microprocessor means for display on the video monitor a contour elevation map of a surface of the eye, in different selectable perspectives.
12. A laser workstation according to claim 11, wherein the topographic mapping means and the microprocessor means further include numerical display means for displaying on the monitor diagnostic data pertaining to shapes of surfaces of the eye.
13. A laser workstation according to claim 11, further including superimposing means associated with the video monitor and the microprocessor means for enabling the surgeon to superimpose a pattern of proposed surgery on the video image of the contour elevation map. 


 14. A laser workstation according to claim 1, wherein the video imaging means and the microprocessor means include means for displaying an indicated laser aim point on the live video image on the video monitor, superimposed on the surgery site in the patient's eye tissue.
15. A laser workstation according to claim 14, further including means for displaying on the video monitor a depth or z position of the laser aiming point in the patient's eye tissue.
16. A laser workstation according to claim 1, wherein the high resolution video imaging means is coaxial with the laser beam through the front lens element of the optical path means and includes zooming means for enabling selectable variable magnification of the video image on the video monitor.
17. A laser workstation according to claim 16, wherein the zooming means includes means for providing variable magnification up to 250 times.
18. A laser workstation according to claim 16, wherein the resolution of the high resolution video imaging means is better than five microns.
19. A laser workstation according to claim 1, further including template means under the control of the user for generating and implementing a preprogrammed template or path of successive laser photodisruption points across the patient's eye tissue, and for automatically carrying out the template-controlled surgery without active participation by the user during the surgery.
20. A laser workstation according to claim 1, further including template means for enabling the user to draw, adjust or designate a particular template pattern of preprogrammed surgery, as overlaid on video images of the 


patient's eye tissue displayed on the video monitor.
21. A laser workstation according to claim 20, wherein the template means includes means for converting a template pattern into a sequence of automatic motion instructions to direct a laser beam to focus sequentially on a number of points in three-dimensional space which will, in turn, replicate the designated template pattern onto the surgery site.
22. A method for conducting precision ophthalmic surgery at a surgery site on a patient, comprising: generating a short pulse laser beam capable of effecting photodisruption of the patient's eye tissue so as to effect the desired surgery by sequences of pulses traversing through a surgical path in the tissue, including within transparent tissue of the patient's eye, providing a user interface control means for enabling the surgeon to select and initiate a pattern of surgery in the ocular tissue of the patient, presenting live, high resolution, magnified video images of the surgery site to the surgeon on a video monitor,using a high resolution video imaging means, with a laser beam delivery system, performing the steps of
(a) receiving the short pulse laser beam and redirecting and focussing the beam with optical means and when appropriate toward a target in the patient's eye, through a front lens element,
(b) controlling the position at which the beam is pointed in X-Y directions, using a beam steering means connected to the optical means,
(c) controlling the depth at which the laser beam is focussed, with a beam focussing means connected to the optical means, tracking eye movements of the patient during the progress of the surgery, in X and Y directions, with an 


 X-Y tracking means for tracking a feature of the eye, and as to depth movements of the eye with a depth or Z tracking means, automatically shifting the optical path means as the feature of the eye is tracked through X-Y and Z movements, so as to change the aim and focus of the laser beam when necessary to follow such movements of the eye, with the aid of a microprocessor connected to the tracking means, and automatically interrupting delivery of the laser beam to the patient when it is determined via the microprocessor that the tracking means has lost the feature being tracked.
23. The method of claim 22, further including determining surface shapes of the eye automatically using an ocular topographic mapping means connected to the optical path means and displaying such shapes and data regarding such shapes on the video monitor.
24. The method of claim 22, further including monitoring substantially continuously the laser beam from the optical means, and feeding a signal representing the energy magnitude to the microprocessor, and automatically interrupting delivery of the laser beam when the signals from laser energy monitoring indicate that energy is above or below a prescribed range.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the pulsed laser beam has a repetition rate of at least about 200 pulses per second, with each pulse having less than two millijoules energy in a near-diffraction-limited beam, each pulse having a duration between about one and twenty nanoseconds, and wherein the laser beam is focussed to a spot size of less than five microns.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the laser beam is focussed below the anterior surface of the cornea, and including the steps of making T-cut or radial incisions to effect optical corrections of deficiencies such as myopia, 


hyperopia or astigmatism, through the creation of a precise lesion within the stroma.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the wavelength of the laser beam is in a range permitting reasonably good transmission through the cornea, i.e. between about 450 and 900 nanometers.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the wavelength of the laser beam is approximately 532 nanometers.
29. The method of claim 24, wherein the laser beam is focussed into the lens of the eye for modification to effect precise lesions for the prevention of presbyopia.
30. The method of claim 29, further including tracking the depth of the eye's feature in a broader range of depth than the Z-tracking means with a parallax depth ranging means, the parallel depth ranging means being connected to the microprocessor means, and using the parallax depth ranging means to assist in focusing the treatment beam to structure below the transparent cornea.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein the wavelength of the laser beam is in the range of about 450 to 900 nanometers.
32. The method of claim 25, wherein the laser beam is pulsed at a repetition of over 1000 pps and focussed onto the lens of the eye, the pattern of. surgery being such as to remove cataracts from the lens.
33. The method of claim 25, wherein the laser beam is focussed on the posterior capsule of the eye, the pattern of surgery being such as to effect capsulotomy.
34. The method of claim 26, including maintaining essentially constant distance between the front lens element 


and the targeted eye tissue using the Z-tracking means.
35. The method of claim 26, wherein the step of tracking eye movements in X and Y directions comprises tracking the limbus of the eye.
36. The method of claim 26, further including determining surface shapes of the eye automatically using an ocular topographic mapping means connected to the optical path means and displaying such shapes and data regarding such shapes on the video monitor.
37. The method of claim 36, including determining topographical shapes of at least the epithelium and the endothelium of the cornea, as well as the thickness of the cornea between the epithelium and the endothelium.
38. The method of claim 36, including displaying on the video monitor a contour elevation map of a surface of the eye, in different selectable perspectives, using the ocular topographic mapping means in cooperation with the microprocessor.
39. The method of claim 38, further including, under the control of the surgeon, superimposing a pattern of proposed surgery on the video image of the contour elevation map on the video monitor.
40. The method of claim 26, further including, under the control of the surgeon, drawing, adjusting or designating a particular template pattern of pre-programmed surgery, as overlaid on video images of the patient's eye tissue displayed on the video monitor.
41. The method of claim 25, wherein the laser beam is focussed into the iris of the eye, to perform iridectomy.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the step of 


tracking eye movements in X and Y directions comprises tracking the limbus of the eye.
43. The method of claim 41, further including determining surface shapes of the eye automatically using an ocular topographic mapping means connected to the optical path means and displaying such shapes and data regarding such shapes on the video monitor.
44. The method of claim 25, wherein the laser beam is focussed into the sclera of the eye, to perform sclerectomy.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the step of tracking eye movements in X and Y directions comprises tracking the limbus of the eye.
46. The method of claim 25, including focussing the laser beam onto Schlemm's canal of the eye, to perform trabeculoplasty.
47. The method of claim 24 wherein the laser beam is focused onto the retina of the eye to treat retinal membranes or to perform photocoagulation to correct or prevent macular degeneration or to perform pan-retinal photocoagulation.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein the laser beam has a pulse repetition rate of at least about 200 pps, each of the laser pulses having less than about two millijoules energy per pulse in a near-diffraction limited beam, i.e. a beam having energy of about 1.5 to 2.5 times diffraction limit energy.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the laser has a wavelength between about 450 and 650 nanometers.
50. The method of claim 22, further including tracking the depth of the eye's feature in a broader range of depth 


than the Z tracking means with a parallax depth ranging means, the parallax depth ranging means being connected to the microprocessor means, and using the parallax depth ranging means to assist in focussing the treatment beam to structure below the transparent cornea.
51. The method of claim 22, including maintaining essentially constant distance between the front lens element and the targeted eye tissue using the Z-tracking means.
52. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of tracking eye movements in X and Y directions comprises tracking the limbus of the eye.
53. The method of claim 22, further including determining surface shapes of the eye automatically using an ocular topographic mapping means connected to the optical path means and displaying such shapes and data regarding such shapes on the video monitor.
54. The method of claim 53, including determining topographical shapes of at least the epithelium and the endothelium of the cornea, as well as the thickness of the cornea between the epithelium and the endothelium.
55. The method of claim 53, including displaying on the video monitor a contour elevation map of a surface of the eye, in different selectable perspectives, using the ocular topographical mapping means in cooperation with the microprocessor.
56. The method of claim 55, further including displaying on the monitor relevant numerical diagnostic data pertaining to shapes of surfaces of the eye, using topographic mapping means and the microprocessor.
57. The method of claim 55, further including, under the control of the surgeon, superimposing a pattern of 


proposed surgery on the video image of the contour elevation map on the video monitor.
58. The method of claim 22, including automatically displaying an indicated laser aim point on the live video image, superimposed on the surgery site in the patient's eye tissue on the video monitor, using the microprocessor and the video imaging means.
59. The method of claim 58, further including automatically displaying on the video monitor a depth or Z position of the laser aiming point in the patient's eye tissue.
60, The method of claim 22, wherein the ophthalmic surgery site is the patient's cornea, the desired pattern
"
 of surgery being a pattern of corneal refractive surgery.
61. The method of claim 60, wherein the laser beam is focussed below the anterior surface of the cornea to make a desired pattern of incisions to effect optical correction of deficiencies by creating a precise lesion within the stroma.
62. A method for modifying ocular tissue to correct deficiencies of the eye using a laser beam, comprising: generating a pulsed laser beam, having a pulse repetition rate of at least about 200 pulses per second, each of the laser pulses having less than about two millijoules energy per pulse in a near-diffraction-limited beam, each pulse having a duration between about one to twenty nanoseconds, and focusing the pulse laser beam and steering the beam so as to form a desired series of lesions in the ocular tissue, to carry out the desired pattern of surgery.
63. The method of claim 62, wherein the laser beam is focussed below the anterior surface of the cornea to make incisions to effect optical corrections of deficiencies of 


the eye, by creating a precise lesion of a desired size and shape within the stroma.
64. The method of claim 62, wherein the wavelength of the laser beam is in a range which for reasonably good transmission through the cornea, i.e. between about 450 and 900 nanometers.
65. The method of claim 62, wherein the wavelength of the laser beam is approximately 532 nanometers.
66. The method of claim 62, wherein the laser beam is focused into the lens of the eye for modification to effect precise lesions for the prevention of presbyopia.
67. The method of claim 62, wherein the laser beam has a repetition rate of over 1000 pps and is focused onto the lens of the eye, the pattern of surgery being such as to remove cataracts from the lens.
68. A method for tracking an eye of a living patient «.n X-Y directions during a diagnostic or laser surgical procedure on the eye, to stabilize motion of the eye, comprising: illuminating a region of the eye, including a portion of the limbus, at the outer rim of the iris, providing optics for receiving reflected light from said region of the eye and for focussing an image of said region on a photodetector means, with the photodetector means, detecting a pattern of contrast in the image of said region, at the limbus and including portions of the iris and the sclera on either side of the limbus, as a nominal position of the limbus relative to the photodetector means, during the course of the diagnostic or surgical procedure, repeatedly reviewing and analyzing the received image and tracing changes in the received pattern of contrast to motions of the limbus as the image of the limbus shifts 


relative to the photodetection means, to thus determine a new position of the limbus, and shifting the optics to aim at the determined new position of the limbus, to thereby again read a detected pattern with the photodetector means, similar to the pattern for the nominal position.
69. The method of claim 68, wherein the illuminating step comprises illuminating said region with deep red or infrared light, to enable detection of said pattern of contrast even if the patient's iris is of such color and density as to exhibit low contrast with the sclera under ambient lighting, and to reduce the potential of light toxicity to the eye.
70. The method of claim 68, as part of an automated laser surgical procedure using a pulsed laser beam, and wherein the reviewing and analyzing steps, the tracing and shifting steps are carried out faster than the pulse repetition rate of the laser, and including preventing the laser from firing, within one to two pulses, if the limbus is not tracked and the optics shifted just prior to the time a pulse is to be fired.
71. The method of claim 68, wherein the detecting, reviewing and analyzing and tracing steps are carried out using a quadrant detector as said photodetector means, in combination with a microprocessor.
72. The method of claim 71, wherein the image of said region is focussed onto the quadrant detector such that, at the nominal position of the limbus relative to the quadrant detector, a known pattern of light/dark values exists among the four quadrants of the quadrant detector, and wherein the quadrant detector and microprocessor means determine the direction and length of shift of the patient's eye, for accurate shifting of the optics, by the change in relative values of light/dark among the quadrants. 


 73. The method of claim 72, including using two quadrant detectors, one at each side of the limbus, to attain additional assurance regarding the direction and magnitude of changes of position of the eye.
74. The method of claim 68, wherein the detecting, reviewing and analyzing and tracing steps are carried out using a position sensor in combination with the microprocessor.
75. A tracking system for tracking an eye of a living patient in X-Y directions during a diagnostic or laser surgical procedure on the eye, to stabilize motion of the eye, comprising: illuminating means for illuminating a region of the eye, including a portion of the limbus, at the outer rim of the iris, a photodetector means for detecting levels of light and contrast, optical means for receiving reflected light from said region of the eye and for focussing an image of said region on the photodetector means, means associated with the photodetector means and including microprocessor means, for detecting a pattern of contrast in the image of said region, at the limbus and including portions of the iris and the sclera on either side of the limbus, as a nominal position of the limbus relative to the photodetector means, means associated with the microprocessor means for automatically and repeatedly reviewing and analyzing the received image during the course of the diagnostic or surgical procedure, and for tracing changes in the received pattern of contrast to motions of the limbus as the image of the limbus shifts relative to the photodetection means, to thus determine a new position of the limbus, and means for shifting the optical means to aim at the determined new position of the limbus, to thereby again read 



a detected pattern with the photodetector means similar to the pattern for the nominal position.
76. The system of claim 75, as part of an automated laser surgical system using a pulsed laser beam, and wherein the means for reviewing and analyzing, for tracing and for shifting include means for acting faster than the pulse repetition rate of the laser, and including safety interlock means for preventing the laser from firing, within one to two pulses, if the limbus is not tracked and the optics shifted just prior to the time a pulse is to be fired.
77. The system of claim 75, including a quadrant detector in combination with the microprocessor means, serving as said photodetector means and said means for detecting, reviewing, analyzing and tracing.
78. The method of claim 77, including means for focussing the image of said region onto the quadrant detector such that, at the nominal position of the limbus relative to the quadrant detector, a known pattern of light/dark values exists among the four quadrants of the quadrant detector, and wherein the quadrant detector and microprocessor means determine the direction and length of shift of the patient's eye, for accurate shifting of the optical means, by the change in relative values of light/dark among the quadrants.
79. The system of claim 78, including two quadrant detectors, one receiving light from each side of the limbus, to attain additional assurance regarding the direction and magnitude of changes of position of the eye.
80. The system of claim 75, including a position sensor in combination with the microprocessor serving as said photodetector means and said means for detecting, reviewing, analyzing and tracing.
81. A laser workstation for precision laser 


 interventions on a work site target, for carrying out a precision operation, comprising: laser means for generating a short pulse laser beam capable of effecting a desired type of intervention on the work site so as to effect the desired operation by sequences of pulses traversing througl- a path on o in he work site, user interface means including control means for enabling a user to select and initiate a pattern of interventions at the work site, a laser beam delivery system including
(a) optical path means for receiving the short pulse laser beam and for redirecting and focussing the beam as desired toward a work site target including a front lens element from which the beam exits the optical path means toward the worJ site,
(b) beam steering means connected to the optical path means for controlling the position at which the beam is pointed in X-Y directions, (c) beam focussing means connected to the optical path means for controlling the depth at which the laser beam is focussed, (d) template means under the control of the user for generating and implementing a template or path of successive laser interventions across the work site as overlaid on magnified video images of the work site displayed on the video monitor, and for automatically carrying out the template-controlled operation without active participation by the user during the operation, microprocessor means connected to the tracking means for automatically shifting the optical path means as the feature of the work site is tracked through X-Y and Z movements, so as to change the aim and focus of the laser beam when necessary to follow such movements of the feature, and interrupt means associated with the microprocessor means 


for interrupting delivery of the laser beam to the patient when it is determined via the microprocessor means that the tracking means has lost the feature being tracked.
82. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein the template means includes means for enabling selection of a template from a library of stored preprogrammed templates, as said means for generating a template.
83. A laser workstation according to claim 81, further including depth or Z-tracking means with means for positioning and maintaining essentially constant distance between the front lens element and the feature of the workpiece.
84. A laser workstation according to claim 83, wherein the means for positioning and maintaining has a resolution within one micron.
85. A laser workstation according to claim 81, further including tracking means for tracking movements of the work site during the progress of the operation, including X-Y tracking means for tracking a feature of the worksite in X and Y directions.
86. A laser workstation according to claim 81, further including means for displaying on the video monitor a depth or Z position of the laser aiming point in the worksite target.
87. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein the high resolution video imaging means is coaxial with the laser beam through the front lens element of the optical path means and includes zooming means for enabling selectable variable magnification of the video image on the video monitor.
88. A laser workstation according to claim 87, wherein 


the zooming means includes means for providing variable magnification of the worksite target up to 250 times.
89. A laser workstation according to claim 88, wherein the resolution of the high resolution video imaging, means is at least within five microns.
90. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein the template means includes means for converting a template pattern into a sequence of automatic motion instructions to direct a laser beam to focus sequentially on a number of points in three-dimensional space which will, in turn, replicate the designated template pattern onto the work site.
91. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein x.he laser means generates a beam of visible laser light.
92. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein the laser means generates a laser beam having a wavelength of about 532 nanometers.
93. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein the laser means generates a laser beam having a.wavelength in the ultraviolet range.
94. A laser workstation according to claim 93, wherein the laser means generates a beam having a wavelength of about 177 nanometers.
95. A laser workstation according to claim 93, wherein the laser means generates a laser beam having a wavelength of about 215 nanometers.
96. A laser workstation according to claim 93, wherein the laser means generates a laser beam having a wavelength of about 266 nanometers.
97. A laser workstation according to claim 93, wherein 


the laser means generates a laser beam having a wavelength of about 355 nanometers.
98. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein the laser means generates a laser beam having a wavelength and sufficient power density and fluence to effect photoablation on the exterior surface of the work site.
99. A laser workstation according to claim 81, wherein the laser means generates a laser beam having a wavelength and sufficient power density and fluence to effect photodisruption with each pulse within the work site, under a transparent outer surface of the work site.
100. A laser workstation according to claim 81, further including parallax depth ranging means connected into the optical path means, for tracking the depth of the work site in a broader range of depth than the Z-tracking means, the parallax depth ranging means being connected to the microprocessor means and being effective to assist in focusing the treatment beam to structure below a transparent outer surface of the work site. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
