<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646024</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE INJECTION SYRINGE SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M519	A61M519	A61M524	A61M524	A61M531	A61M531	A61M532	A61M532	A61M534	A61M534	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple injection syringe system (1) having a cartridge carrier (20) that is loaded with three pre-filled cartridges (50) which are to be selectively accessed so that the contents of the cartridges can be delivered to a patient in a particular, predetermined order. One end of a double ended needle projects outwardly from a rotatable manifold (8) for administering an injection, while the opposite end projects inwardly to communicate with a selected cartridge (e.g. 50-1) within the carrier (20). The manifold (8) is rotated around the cartridge carrier (20) to each of three distinct positions, whereby the cannula (2) is correspondingly rotated from one cartridge to the next. Fluid from the selected cartridge (50-1) is expulsed via the cannula (2) by applying to said cartridge a hydraulic pressure that is generated by driving a piston (46) through a fluid filled cylinder (42).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HABLEY MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HABLEY MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOSTER CLARK B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HABER TERRY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOSTER, CLARK, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HABER, TERRY, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTIPLE INJECTION SYRINGE SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to a multiple injection syringe system having a plurality of pre-filled fluid cartridges that are to be selectively accessed in a predetermined order to facilitate the SASH (Saline-Administration Medication-Saline-Heparin) process.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONAs will be known to health care workers, patients who are medicated or who are to receive certain intravenously administered drugs on a regular basis are commonly fit with an IV catheter. A dosage of saline is first delivered to the catheter from a hypodermic syringe. Next, a particular drug is administered to the patient, usually by means of another syringe. Then, another dosage of saline is applied to the catheter, via an additional syringe, to flush from the catheter any remnants of the previously administered drug. Lastly, heparin (or similar anti-coagulant) is applied to the patient to prevent clotting.The foregoing steps are commonly known as the SASH (Saline-Administration Medication-Saline-Heparin) process. 

Unfortunately, the SASH process requires that health care workers have access to and handle several medication cartridges and the syringes by which to deliver the contents of such cartridges. Consequently, the administration of the drug according to the SASH process can be both time consuming and inefficient and will require the health care worker to be certain that the proper medication cartridges have been selected and delivered to the patient in a medically correct order.It would be advantageous to eliminate the necessity for the health care to handle a variety of cartridges and syringes. It would also be desirable to make the SASH process more efficient by packaging the desired medication cartridges in a single syringe system by which to permit easy access to the cartridges in a particular, predetermined order. Accordingly, the possibility of selecting the wrong cartridge or administering the medication thereof at the wrong time can be minimized. 
relative to the cartridge carrier to each of the positions therearound or corresponding to the aforementioned three steps of the SASH process. In the as-packaged configuration of syringe system, the rotatable manifold is spaced forwardly of the cartridge carrier, and the cannula is arranged in spaced, coaxial alignment above the first cartridge filled with saline, corresponding to the first step of the SASH process.The rotatable, cannula carrying manifold includes an upper and a lower rotation control bump projecting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A multiple injection syringe system (1) including a hypodermic needle cannula (2) having proximal and distal ends and comprising: cartridge carrier means (20) in which a plurality of fluid filled cartridges (50) are loaded, said cartridge carrier means having a space therein for receipt of said needle cannula; a manifold (8) coupled to said cartridge carrier means, said needle cannula (2) releasably retained by said manifold such that the distal end of cannula projects from said manifold in spaced alignment with the cartridges (50) of said cartridge carrier means (20) , said manifold being rotated relative to said cartridge carrier means to cause a corresponding displacement of said cannula; means for moving said cannula (2) towards and away from said cartridge carrier means (20) , said cannula moved towards said carrier means such that the proximal end of said cannula is placed into fluid communication with a selected cartridge (e.g. 50-1) from the plurality of cartridges (50) in said cartridge carrier means, and said cannula moved away from said carrier means and out of fluid communication with the selected cartridge; means (40) coupled to said cartridge carrier means (20) for expulsing the fluid contents of the selected cartridge so that an injection may be administered by way of the distal end of said cannula (2) when said cannula is in fluid communication with said cartridge; and needle releasing means (10) carried by said manifold (8) to release the needle cannula (2) from said manifold and to position 


said cannula to be received within and shielded by said cartridge carrier means (20) at the space therein after the injection has been administered and said cannula has been moved out of fluid communication with the selected cartridge.
2. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 1, wherein said manifold is spaced from and movable towards and away from said cartridge carrier means (20) for correspondingly moving said needle cannula (2) towards said cartridge carrier means and placing the proximal end of said cannula into fluid communication with the selected cartridge (50-1) of said carrier means and for moving said needle cannula away from said cartridge carrier means and out of fluid communication with the selected cartridge.
3. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 1, further comprising a peripheral channel (28) extending around said cartridge carrier means (20) , said manifold (8) including first rotation control means (14) projecting therefrom to be received within and ride through said peripheral channel when said manifold is rotated in a first direction relative to said cartridge carrier means.
4. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 3, further comprising stop means (30) located within the peripheral channel (28) of said cartridge carrier means (20) , said stop means permitting said first rotation control means (14) to ride through said peripheral channel when said manifold (8) is rotated in said first direction relative to said cartridge carrier means and 


blocking said rotation control means from riding through said peripheral channel if said manifold is rotated in an opposite direction.
5. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 4, further comprising at least one pair of axial channels (31 and 32) formed at said cartridge carrier means (20) and communicating with said peripheral channel (28) , and second rotation control means (13) projecting from said manifold, said first rotation control means (14) received in and advanced longitudinally through a first (32) of said pair of axial channels and said second rotation control means (13) received in and advanced longitudinally through the second (31) of said pair of axial channels when said manifold (8) is moved toward said cartridge carrier means for correspondingly moving the proximal end of said needle cannula (2) into fluid communication with the selected cartridge (50-1) , the receipt of said second rotation control means in said second axial channel preventing said manifold from rotating in said first direction.
6. The syringe system recited in claim 5, further comprising means (34) to releasably secure said second rotation control means (13) at its longitudinally advanced position within said second axial channel (31) so as to lock said needle cannula (2) in fluid communication with the selected cartridge (50-1) .
7. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 6, further comprising means (16) by which to remove said second rotation control means (13) from said second axial channel (31) to permit 



said needle cannula (2) to be moved out of communication with the selected cartridge (50-1) and said manifold (8) to rotate in the first direction relative to said cartridge carrier means (20) .
8. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 1, further comprising an orifice (54) formed in said manifold (8) and having a needle retaining portion (60)in which to retain said needle cannula (2) , said orifice having a needle releasing portion (62) from which said cannula may be removed, said needle releasing means (10) repositioning said cannula through said orifice from said needle retaining portion to said needle releasing portion.
9. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 8, wherein said needle releasing means includes slide plate means (10) movable laterally through said manifold (8) and into contact with said needle cannula (2) to displace said cannula through said orifice (54) from said needle retaining portion (60) to said needle releasing portion (62) at which said cannula is released from said orifice.
10. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 1, wherein said means (40) for expulsing fluid from the selected cartridge (50-1) includes a fluid filled cylinder (42) and a piston (46) movable through said cylinder for generating a hydraulic force,- said cylinder being connected in fluid communication with said cartridge carrier means (20) so that the hydraulic force generated by said cylinder will cause the piston of the selected 


cartridge to be driven through said cartridge for expulsing the fluid therefrom via said needle cannula (2) .
11. A syringe system (1) having a longitudinally extending axis and a needle cannula (2) and comprising: a cartridge carrier (20) within which a plurality of fluid filled cartridges (50) are located; a manifold (8) coupled to said cartridge carrier (20) and spaced axially from the cartridges (50) located therewithin, said needle cannula (2) retained by and projecting from said manifold such that said cannula is spaced from said cartridges, said manifold being rotated relative to said cartridge carrier to cause a corresponding displacement of said cannula; means by which to move said manifold (8) axially towards and away from said cartridges (50) , said manifold moved towards said cartridges to cause a corresponding axial movement of said needle cannula (2) towards and into fluid communication with a selected one of said cartridges (e.g. 50-1) in said carrier (20) , and said manifold moved away from said cartridges to move said needle cannula away from and out of fluid communication with said cartridge; a cylinder (42) connected to said cartridge carrier (20) and communicating with the cartridges (50) therewithin; and a piston (46) movable through said cylinder (42.) for exerting a pressure on said cartridges (50) and thereby causing the fluid within the selected cartridge (50-1) to be expulsed via said cannula (2) when said cannula is in fluid communication therewith. 


 12. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 11, wherein said cylinder (42) is filled with a fluid and fluidically coupled to the cartridges (50) of said cartridge carrier (20) , the movement of said piston (46) through said cylinder exerting a hydraulic pressure on said cartridges for causing the fluid within the selected cartridge (50-1) to be expulsed via said cannula (2) .
13. The syringe system (1) recited in claim 11, further comprising spring means (56) extending between said manifold (8) and the cartridges (50) within said cartridge carrier (20) and biased so as to oppose the movement of said manifold towards said cartridges, said manifold being moved against the bias of said spring means towards said cartridges so that said cannula (2) is correspondingly moved into fluid communication with the selected one (50-1) of said cartridges. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
