<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624825</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Photosensitive polymer composition for flexographic printing plates processable in aqueous media
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F7004	C08F246	G03F730	C08F250	G03F7033	G03F730	G03F7027	G03F7031	G03F7033	G03F7027	G03F7038	G03F700	G03F700	G03F7038	G03F7004	G03F7031	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	C08F	G03F	C08F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	C08F2	G03F7	C08F2	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A photocurable composition useful in preparing 
water-developable, solid printing plates is prepared by 

blending a urethane (meth)acrylate prepolymer with a 
complexing polymer based on poly(vinyl pyrrolidone) 

composition. The resulting composition is suitably 
formulated with additional photoactive (meth)acrylate 

monomers or oligomers and photoinitiator for casting or 
extrusion on a substrate to form a flexographic 

printing plate. Following UV exposure of the plate 
through a negative, unexposed areas can be removed by 

washing with aqueous media, to give a plate with a 
desirable relief image. The use of the aqueous washout 

solution as opposed to organic solvents minimizes 
pollution problems. The use of the complexing polymer 

significantly reduces the cold flow of the uncured 
plate and both increases toughness 
and reduces tack of 
the cured plate. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PT SUB INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PT SUB, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUYNH-TRAN TRU-CHI THI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRLE SRINIVAS K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUYNH-TRAN, TRU-CHI THI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRLE, SRINIVAS K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to radiation curable
formulations or compositions, as well as
photosensitive articles having solid surfaces or
layers prepared from such polymers or formulations.
Specifically, solid composition can be obtained by
blending a liquid or semi-solid photosensitive polymer
having polar functionalities with a complexing
polymer. This blend is easily dispersible in aqueous
media, yields an uncured material with good
dimensional stability and a cured material which is
tough, yet relatively soft, and can be used to make a
printing plate.Photocurable polymers and compositions are well
known in the art for forming printing plates and other
photosensitive or radiation sensitive articles. In
the field of radiation sensitive flexographic printing
plates, the plates typically comprise a support and a
photosensitive surface or layer from a photocurable
composition. Additional layers or surfaces on the
plate include slip and release films to protect the
photosensitive surface. Prior to processing the
plate, the additional layers are removed, and the
photosensitive surface is exposed to radiation in an
imagewise fashion. The unexposed areas of the surface
are then removed in developer baths.Removal of unexposed surfaces comprising solid
photocurable compositions such as those disclosed in
U.S. Patent No. 2,760,863 require the use of developer
baths comprising environmentally unsafe, organic 
solvents such as tetrachloroethylene, 2-butanone,
benzene, toluene, xylene, trichloroethane and solvent
mixtures such as tetrachloroethylene/n-butanol.
However, due to the toxicity, high volatility and low
flash point, their use gives rise to hazardous
conditions and creates pollution problems. Thus,
recently there has been a strong interest in the field
to develop photosensitive layers in non-organic
solvent developing solutions, e.g., aqueous,
surfactant-aqueous or alkaline-aqueous solutions.
However, the compositions resulting from recent
attempts to achieve aqueous developable plates
demonstrate deficiencies in mechanical properties,
e.g., flexibility. See European Application 261,910.For instance, in addition to possessing an
aqueous developable photosensitive surface, a
flexographic printing plate must have sufficient
flexibility to wrap around a printing cylinder, yet be
strong enough to withstand the rigors experienced
during typical printing processes. Further, the
printing plate should be soft enough to facilitate
ink transfer during printing.Previous aqueous developable compositions have
not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A solid photocurable composition comprising

(a) about 50 to 100 parts by weight of a liquid or semi-solid
photosensitive polymer;
(b) about 0.1 to 50 parts by weight of a complexing polymer;
and
(c) a photoinitiator;

wherein the photosensitive polymer is the reaction product
of at least


1. a glycol-modified MDI;
2. an ethylene oxide capped polypropylene oxide diol having
a molecular weight of about 1,000 to 7,000; and
3. a polypropylene adipate diol having a molecular weight
of about 1,000 to 5,000 or ethylene oxide capped polypropylene

oxide diol having a molecular weight of about
1,000 to 7,000; and
4. a hydroxyalkyl(meth)acrylate terminating agent.
Composition according to claim 1, wherein the complexing
polymer is a polymer or copolymer of poly(vinyl pyrrolidone).
Composition according to claim 2, wherein the polymer or
copolymer is selected from the group comprising poly(vinyl

pyrrolidone), poly(vinyl pyrrolidone-vinyl acetate), or
mixtures thereof.
Composition according to any preceeding claim wherein the
photoinitiator is 2,2-dimethoxy-2-phenylacetophenone.
Composition according to any preceeding claim further comprising
(d) a reactive diluent. 
Composition according to claim 5, wherein the reactive diluent
(d) is selected from the group comprising polypropylene

glycol monomethacrylate, diethylene glycol dimethacrylate,
hexanediol dimethacrylate, lauryl methacrylate, ethoxylated

trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate, aromatic acrylated urethane
oligomer, C
14
-C
15
 methacrylate monomer mixture or mixtures
thereof.
Composition according to any preceeding claim further comprising
(e) an UV absorber.
Composition according to claim 7, wherein the UV absorber is
a substituted hydroxyphenyl benzotriazole.
Composition according to any preceeding claim, further comprising
(f) a pigment having a particle size less than 5000

angstroms.
Composition according to any preceeding claim, wherein the
photosensitive polymer includes alkyl dialkanolamine as

chain-extending agent.
Composition according to claim 10, wherein the alkyl dialkanolamine
is methyl diethanolamine.
Composition according to any preceeding claim, further comprising
a plasticizer.
Composition according to claim 12, wherein the plasticizer
is dipropylene glycol dibenzoate.
A method of preparing the solid photocurable composition of
claim 1, comprising the steps of:


(I) Reacting together in a solvent for the reactants, in
the mole ratios stated, glycol-modified MDI, 12

moles; ethylene oxide capped polypropylene oxide 

diol having a molecular weight of about 3,000, 3
moles; polypropylene adipate diol having a molecular

weight of about 2400, 1 mole; thereby end-capping
the diols with isocyanate;
(II) optionally adding to the reaction mixture of (I),
methyl diethanolamine, 7 moles; continuing the reaction

to chain extend the isocyanate-capped diols,
thereby providing chain-extended isocyanate-capped

diols terminated in isocyanate groups;
(III) adding to the reaction mixture of (II), hydroxyethylmethacrylate,
2 moles, and continuing the reaction

to react the terminal isocyanate groups of (II)
with the hydroxyl group of the hydroxyethylmethacrylate,
(IV) adding a complexing polymer which is a polymer or
copolymer of poly(vinyl pyrrolidone) and a photoinitiator

thereby providing a solid photocurable composition with
reduced cold flow.
Modified method according to claim 14, wherein in step (I)
the following reactants are reacted together in a solvent

for the reactants, in the mole ratios stated, glycol-modified
MDI, 12 moles; ethylene oxide capped polypropylene

oxide diol having a molecular weight of about 3000, 2 moles;
ethylene oxide capped polypropylene oxide diol having a molecular

weight of about 4000, 2 moles; thereby end-capping
the diols with isocyanate.
Modified method according to claim 14, wherein in step (I)
the following reactants are reacted together in a solvent

for the reactants, in the mole ratios stated, glycol-modified
MDI, 12 moles; ethylene oxide capped polypropylene

oxide diol having a molecular weight of about 3000, 1 mole;
ethylene oxide capped polypropylene oxide diol having a molecular 

weight of about 4000, 3 moles; thereby end-capping
the diols with isocyanate.
Modified method according to claim 14, wherein in step (I)
the following reactants are reacted together in a solvent

for the reactants, in the mole ratios stated, glycol-modified
MDI, 12 moles; ethylene oxide capped polypropylene

oxide diol having a molecular weight of about 4000, 4 moles;
thereby end-capping the diols with isocyanate.
A method of preparing a printing plate comprising the composition
of claim 1, comprising the steps of:


(I) blending the composition of claim 1 including 0.1-10
parts by weight of a photoinitiator with 0 to about

25 parts by weight of a diluent selected from the
group comprising polypropylene glycol monomethacrylate,

diethylene glycol dimethacrylate, hexanediol
dimethacrylate, lauryl methacrylate, ethoxylated

trimethylol-propane trimethacrylate, aromatic acrylated
urethane oligomer, C
14
-C
15
 methacrylate monomer
mixture or mixtures thereof; about 0.002 to 8 total

parts by weight of stabilizers; a UV absorber which
is a substituted hydroxyphenyl benzotriazole, and a

pigment having a particle size less than 5000 angstroms,
and 0 to about 200 parts by weight of a

suitable organic solvent; a plasticizer compatible
with both the photocurable polymer and the complexing

polymer;
(II) casting the blend onto a plate substrate; and
(III) drying the plate to remove the solvent.
A method comprising exposing a printing plate prepared according
to the method of claim 18 with UV radiation through

a negative, thereby providing exposed and non-exposed areas
of photopolymer composition on the plate, and developing the

plate by removing the non-exposed areas by washing the plate 
with an aqueous acidic solution or aqueous surfactant solution.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
