<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659254</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CRYOGENIC FLUID COUPLING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L3728	F16L3732	F16L3735	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L37	F16L37	F16L37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fluid coupling (30) has a male half (32) and a female half (31). Each half has a poppet (35, 42) arranged to move toward and away from a seat (34, 43). The male half (32) has an outer sleeve (38) which is adapted to guide initial joinder of the female half distal end (46). After the two halves have been initially joined, the male half body (39) is extended relative to the sleeve (38) so as to move both poppets (35, 42) off their respective seats and to permit flow through the coupling. The coupling has protrusions (76) provided with sharpened edges which are positioned to scrape ice adhering to facing surfaces when the coupling halves are joined and separated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOOG INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRZYSKI, GLENN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, MARTIN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFIN, PATRICK, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLZINGER, JOHN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CRYOGENIC FLUID COUPLINGTechnical Held This invention relates generally to the field of fluid couplings, and, more particularly, to an improved coupling having separable male and female halves and which is adapted to handle fluids at sub-freezing or even cryogenic temperatures.Background Art Very cold fluids at cryogenic temperatures (Le., less than -150 °C) pose special handling problems, principally because the temperature of such fluids will quickly lower the temperature of any valve or coupling through which they flow. When such a coupling is used to transfer a cryogenic fluid, freeze-up prob¬ lems may occur if the transfer takes place in a moist or high-humidity environment. Any water within, or immediately outside of, the coupling will quickly freeze, thereby poten¬ tially impeding subsequent movement of mechanical parts within the coupling. More¬ over, successive transfers from a fluid source with the same pre -chilled coupling half to mating coupling halves communicating with different receptacles at warmer ambient temperatures, have been known to result in freeze-up and leakage because of ice forma¬ tion at the sealing surfaces.These two problems have come to the forefront in the area of liquefied natural gas (LNG). In order for LNG to be considered as a viable alternative automo- tive fuel, it must be easily transferred to the vehicle in which it will be used. In addition, it would be generally desirable that the fuel storage tanks on such vehicles be refilled as quickly as possible. This leads to the prospect of multiple quickly-successive short-dura¬ tion transfers of LNG, at cryogenic temperatures, between a chilled nozzle and a warm receptacle in a potentially-moist environment. Hammer-type fittings would not be ap- propriate in this situation because of the high number of cycles the coupling must en¬ dure between maintenance cycles. In addition, the couplings should be small and light¬ weight so that they may be readily joined and separated by a low-strength operator.Various types of couplings for handling such cryogenic fluids have been developed. Many of these have recognized the problem of ice formation. For example, U.S. Pat. No.3,116,943 appears to disclose a quick disconnect-type of cryogenic coupling having a male half adapted to be selectively inserted into, and withdrawn from, a female half. Because of the problem of icing, a lever yoke is provided to magnify the operator's manual strength. 

 U.S. Pat. No. 3,842,614 discloses another form of quick disconnect-type of cryogenic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
What is claimed is:
1. In a self-sealing fluid coupling half adapted to convey a fluid at a sub-freez¬ ing temperature, said coupling half including a tubular body having an inner surface and an internal annular seat, and including a poppet mounted within said body for relative movement toward and away from said seat, the improvement which comprises: said poppet having an outer surface arranged in spaced facing relation to said body inner surface, and having a protrusion extending from one of said body and poppet surfaces toward the other of said surfaces, said protrusion terminating in a distal surface arranged to slidably engage said other surface, and wherein said protrusion has an outer edge configured and arranged as a scraper for removing ice adhering to said other surface when said poppet is moved relative to said body.
2. The improvement as set forth in claim 1 wherein said protrusion is provided on said poppet, and wherein said poppet is a cup-shaped member having a thin-walled cylindrical side wall provided with a plurality of through-openings adapted to permit ice removed by said protrusion outer edge to pass through said poppet side wall.
3. The improvement as set forth in claim 1 wherein said protrusion is config¬ ured as an arcuate segment
4. The improvement as set forth in claim 1 wherein said protrusion is config¬ ured as an annular member.
5. A coupling adapted to convey a fluid at a sub-freezing temperature, com¬ prising: a female coupling half having a tubular body terminating in a distal end, said female half body having an inner surface, an outer surface and an internal abutment surface; 


 a male coupling half including an outer tubular sleeve having an inner sur¬ face and having an internal shoulder, and including an inner tubular body arranged con¬ centrically within said sleeve for axial movement relative thereto, said male half body having a distal end and having an outer surface arranged in spaced facing relation to said sleeve inner surface so as to form an annular recess therebetween which extends be¬ tween said male half body distal end and said sleeve shoulder, the distal marginal end portion of said female half body being axially insertable into said male section recess until said female half body distal end abuts said male half sleeve shoulder to initially join and align said coupling halves; a holding mechanism for preventing unintended separation of said coupling halves; and a lever for selectively moving said male half body relative to said male half sleeve in a direction toward said female half abutment surface after said halves have been held in such initially-joined position.
6. A coupling as set forth in claim 5 wherein a portion of said female half body outer surface is configured as a sharp-edged scraper for removing ice adhering to the inner surface of said male half sleeve when said male and female halves are moved rela¬ tive to one another.
7. A coupling as set forth in claim 6 wherein said male half sleeve is provided with a plurality of vent openings to allow ice removed by said scraper to pass through said sleeve.
8. A coupling as set forth in claim 5 and further comprising: a protrusion mounted on one of said female half inner surface and male half outer surface to slidably engage the other of said surfaces to seal the joint between said surfaces.
9. A coupling as set forth in claim 8 and further comprising: a sliding seal mounted on said protrusion to engage said other surface. 


10. A coupling as set forth in claim 9 and further comprising: a seal retainer associated with said sliding seal, and wherein said seal retainer has a portion configured as a sharp-edged scraper adapted to remove ice adhering to said other surface when said bodies are moved in one axial direction relative to one another.
11. A coupling as set forth in claim 10 wherein said male half body member has a portion configured as a sharp-edged scraper arranged to remove ice adhering to said female half body inner surface when said bodies are moved in the opposite axial direc¬ tion relative to one another.
12. In a fluid coupling adapted to convey fluid at a sub-freezing temperature, said coupling having a first member provided with a concave arcuate surface generated about an axis and having a second member provided with a coaxial convex arcuate sur¬ face arranged in spaced facing relation to said concave arcuate surface, said members being mounted for relative axial movement, the improvement which comprises: a protrusion extending from one of said arcuate surfaces toward the other of said arcuate surfaces, said protrusion having a first side surface facing in one axial direction and having a second side surface facing in the opposite axial direction, said protrusion also having a coaxial distal arcuate surface slidably engaging said other arcuate surface and joining the margins of said first and second side surfaces, said first side sur¬ face defining with said distal arcuate surface a first edge adapted to scrape ice adhering to said other arcuate surface when the protrusion-carrying member is moved in said one axial direction relative to the other member, and said second side surface defining with said distal arcuate surface a second edge adapted to scrape ice adhering to said other arcuate surface when the protrusion-carrying member is moved in said opposite axial direction; whereby the area in sliding contact between said members may be reduced.
13. The improvement as set forth in claim 12 and further comprising: a sliding seal operatively mounted on said protrusion, and arranged to slidably engage said other arcuate surface. 


14. The improvement as set forth in claim 13 wherein an annular recess extends into said protrusion from said distal arcuate surface, and wherein said sliding seal in¬ cludes a seal member and a spring element arranged in said recess and engaging said other arcuate surface in sealed sliding engagement.
15. The improvement as set forth in claim 13 and further comprising: a seal retainer mounted on said protrusion and providing a lateral restraint for said seal, said seal retainer having one of said edges.
16. The improvement as set forth in claim 12 wherein each of said side surfaces intersects said distal outer surface at an included angle of about 90°.
17. The improvement as set forth in claim 12 wherein the radial height of said protrusion is sufficient to define a space between said concave and convex surfaces to receive scraped ice.
18. The improvement as set forth in claim 12 and further comprising: a plurali¬ ty of said protrusions, and wherein said protrusions are arranged as arcuate segments.
19. The improvement as set forth in claim 12 wherein said first member is a body and wherein said second member is a poppet.
20. The improvement as set forth in claim 12 wherein said first member is a female coupling half body, and wherein said second member is a male coupling half body.
21. The improvement as set forth in claim 20 and further comprising: a tubular sleeve surrounding said male coupling half body, said sleeve having a tapered inner sur¬ face adapted to envelop the distal marginal end portion of said female coupling half 


body, said sleeve having a plurality of internal arcuately-segmented protrusions termi¬ nating in arcuate distal end surfaces arranged in closely-spaced facing engagement to said male half body outer surface, said protrusions having sharp edges adapted to remove ice adhering to said male half body convex surface when said male half sleeve and body are moved axially relative to one another, and wherein said sleeve has a plurality of slots to allow removed ice to pass therethrough.
22. The improvement as set forth in claim 21 and further comprising: a lever operatively arranged to move said male half body relative to said sleeve.
23. The improvement as set forth in claim 22 and further comprising: a holding mechanism for preventing unintended separation of said male and female coupling halves.
24. The improvement as set forth in claim 23 wherein said holding mechanism is located at a position eccentric to the axis of said coupled male and female halves. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
