<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639245</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TILT PAD VARIABLE GEOMETRY BEARINGS HAVING TILTING BEARING PADS AND METHODS OF MAKING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01D2516	F01D2516	F16C1703	F16C1703	F16C1704	F16C1706	F16C3206	F16C3206	F16C3304	F16C3310	F16F15023	F16F15023	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01D	F01D	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16C	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01D25	F01D25	F16C17	F16C17	F16C17	F16C17	F16C32	F16C32	F16C33	F16C33	F16F15	F16F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A one piece hydrodynamic bearing which replicates the function and performance of more costly tilt pad bearings. The pads (12) are supported on a single thin web (37) for pivoting on a support structure which can include one or more beam-like members (14). The support structure preferably includes a primary support portion, a secondary support portion and a tertiary support portion. The beams (14) allow deflection of the pad (12) by either deflecting or twisting in a torsional mode. The bearing pad support structure may include portions which are fluid dampened.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDE, RUSSELL D.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE RUSSELL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE, RUSSELL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TILT PAD VARIABLE GEOMETRY BEARINGS HAVING TILTING BEARING PADS AND METHODS OF MAKING SAMEField of the Invention The present invention relates to a stable anti- vibration fluid film journal bearing for use in an assem¬ bly which includes a shaft and a supply of liquid.Background of the Invention The present invention relates to hydrodynamic fluid film bearings. In such bearings, a rotating object such as a shaft is supported by a stationary bearing pad via a pressurized fluid such as oil, air or water. Hydrodynamic bearings take advantage of the fact that when the rotating object moves, it does not slide along the top of the fluid. Instead, the fluid in contact with the rotating object adheres tightly to the rotating object, and motion is accompanied by slip or shear between the fluid particles through the entire height of the fluid film. Thus, if the rotating object and the contacting layer of fluid move at a velocity which is known, the velocit" at intermediate heights of the fluid thickness decrease.^ at a known rate until the fluid in contact with the stationary bearing pad adheres to the bearing pad and is motionless. When, by virtue of the load resulting fro.n ^ts support of the rotating object, the bearing pad is reflected at a small angle to the rotating member, the fluid will be drawn into the wedge- shaped opening, and sufficient pressure will be generated in the fluid film to support the load. This fact is utilized in thrust bearings for hydraulic turbines and propeller shafts of ships as well as in the conventional hydrodynamic journal bearing.Both thrust bearings and radial or journal bearings normally are characterized by shaft supporting pads spaced ^about an axis. The axis about which the pads are spaced generally corresponds to the longitudinal axis 

 - 2 -of the shaft to be supported for both thrust and journal bearings. This axis may be termed the major axis.In an ideal hydrodynamic bearing, the hydrody¬ namic wedge extends across the entire bearing pad face, the fluid film is just thick enough to support the load, the major axis of the bearing and the axis of the shaft are aligned, leakage of fluid from the ends of the bear¬ ing pad surface which are adjacent the leading and trail¬ ing edges is minimized, the fluid film is developed as soon as the shaft begins to rotate, and, in the case of thrust bearings, the bearing pads are equally loaded. While an ideal hydrodynamic bearing has yet to be achieved, a bearing which substantially achieves each of these objectives is said to be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In an assembly which includes shaft and a supply of liquid a hydrodynamic fluid film bearing for pressurizing the liquid so as to support the shaft for rotation on a pressurized liquid film, the bearing com- prising: a plurality of substantially circumferential bearing pads spaced about the shaft, a bearing housing extending radially outside the bearing pads and encir- cling the bearing pads and a plurality of thin webs equal in number to the number of bearing pads, each web extend- ing radially between one of the pads and the bearing housing so as to support the pad on the bearing housing for pivoting movement, each of the webs having a radial length and a circumferential width, the radial length being greater than the circumferential width; whereby under load, the webs flex so that the pads tilt relative to the shaft so as to form a converging wedge between the shaft and pad surfaces, the converging wedge causing pressurization of the liquid so as to form a pressurized liquid film between the shaft and pad.
2. The bearing of claim 1, wherein a plurality of thrust lands are provided on an axial side of the bearing.
3. The bearing of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of oil supply grooves extending radially through the housing; each oil supply groove being located between adjacent bearing pads. 


 4. In an assembly which includes a shaft and a supply of liquid, a one piece hydrodynamic fluid film bearing for supporting a shaft for rotation, the bearing comprising: a substantially cylindrical bearing housing provided with cuts and grooves to define a plurality of circumferentially spaced bearing pads and a single radi- ally extending web connecting each bearing pad to the bearing housing, each web being sufficiently thin that the bearing pads rotate to form a converging wedge between the pads and the rotating shaft under load so as to pressurize the liquid and maintain a symmetric pres- sure profile.
5. The bearing of claim 4, wherein each of the bearing pads having a pad surface facing the rotating shaft, a support surface facing the support structure, a leading edge, a trailing edge and two side edges, wherein a radius cut face is formed in the leading edge to lengthen the leading edge.
6. The bearing of claim 4, wherein said bear- ing pad face has center line and said support portion supports said bearing pad at a point between said center line and said trailing edge.
7. The bearing of claim 4, wherein the bearing has an easily moldable shape.
8. The bearing of claim 4, further comprising a porous plastic material filling the space between the bearing pads, the porous plastic material being loaded with lubricant such that deflection of at least one of the bearing pad and support structure causes the porous plastic material to release lubricant onto the bearing pad surface. 


 9. The bearing of claim 4, wherein the bearing is bidirectional such that it includes two leading edges and two trailing edges.
10. The bearing of claim 4, wherein
'
 the sup- port surface of each of the bearing pads is tapered toward the leading edge such that the pad is thinner at the leading edge than at the center of the bearing pad so as to increase the flexibility of the leading edge of the bearing pad.
11. The bearing of claim 4, further comprising a groove formed in the support surface of each of the bearing pads proximate the leading edge of the bearing pad so as to increase the flexibility of the bearing pad in the direction of the support surface.
12. The bearing of claim 4, further comprising a bottom recess formed in the support surface of each of the bearing pads, the recess being spaced from the side edges and extending from the leading edge of the bearing pad such that, under load, the pad deflects as to form lubricant retaining channels and to increase leading edge bending.
13. A hydrodynamic bearing supporting a rotat- ing shaft, the bearing comprising a plurality of spaced bearing pads and a support structure for supporting the bearing pads, each of the bearing pads having a pad sur- face facing the rotating shaft, a support surface facing the support structure, a leading edge, a trailing edge and two side edges, wherein a single thin web is provided on the support surface of the bearing pad extending radi- ally outward from the support surface to a support struc- ture so as to support the bearing pad on the support structure such that under load the pads pivot. 


 14. A hydrodynamic bearing of claim 13, wherein the support surface of each of the bearing pads is tapered toward the leading edge such that the leading edge of the bearing pad is thinner than the center region of the bearing pad.
15. The hydrodynamic bearing of claim 13, wherein a groove is formed in the support surface proxi- mate the leading edge of the bearing pad, the groove extending between the side edges of the bearing pad toward the pad surface so as to increase the flexibility of the leading edge away from the shaft to be supported.
16. The hydrodynamic bearing of claim 13, wherein a recess is formed in the support surface of each of the bearing pads, the recess spaced from the side edges and extending from the leading edge of the bearing pad so as to define an undercut region of the bearing pad, a portion of the bearing pad which is not recessed being in contact with the support structure such that under load, the undercut region of the bearing pad deflects away from the shaft to be supported toward the support structure so as to define a lubricant retaining pocket and to allow lubricant to enter the leading edge. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
