<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643755</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING SOLVATED MESOPHASE PITCH AND CARBON ARTIFACTS THEREFROM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10C300	C10C100	C10C302	C10C100	C10C310	C10C308	D01F9145	D01F9145	C10C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10C	C10C	C10C	C10C	C10C	C10C	D01F	D01F	C10C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10C3	C10C1	C10C3	C10C1	C10C3	C10C3	D01F9	D01F9	C10C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This application relates to a process for making carbon artifacts from solvated mesophase pitch comprising quinoline insoluble materials. The process has a significant advantage over the art as it permits the use of otherwise unusable pitch feedstocks and the artifacts formed according to the process retain their structural integrity during carbonization. This invention also relates to the pitch formed by this process and carbon artifacts formed by this process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONOCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONOCO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROMINE HUGH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROMINE, HUGH, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates to the discovery that 
mesophase pitch containing quinoline insoluble materials can be 
converted to a solvated mesophase pitch suitable for producing 
carbon fibers and carbon artifacts. Solvated mesophase pitch 
which has a substantial quinoline insoluble content can be 
prepared from feedstocks which are mesophase pitch in part or in 
total and which contain quinoline insoluble materials. Certain 
advantages are achieved with solvated mesophase pitch obtained 
by this process including the ability to use otherwise 
undesirable feed stocks in the solvent extraction process to 
produce a solvated mesophase pitch, and the ability to produce 
a mesophase pitch which, when solvated, melts at a temperature 
suitable for spinning into fibers or forming other structures 
but, when dried (non-solvated), will not melt on heating to 
temperatures suitable for carbonization. It has long been known that mesophase pitch can be used 
to produce carbon fibers and carbon artifacts having excellent 
mechanical properties. The mesophase pitch used to make these 
items is commonly obtained by converting isotropic pitch to 
anisotropic (mesophase) pitch. The conversion process involves 
either a thermal or catalytic growth step to form large 
mesophase-forming molecules (mesogens) from an isotropic pitch 
or aromatic feed, and an isolation step to concentrate the 
mesogens in a mesophase pitch. The isolation of the mesophase 
pitch may be accomplished by settling, sparging the pitch with 
an inert gas to remove unwanted materials, or by extracting the 
unwanted materials with a solvent. Fibers and other artifacts are formed from the 
resulting mesophase pitch by extrusion of molten mesophase pitch 
through a spinnerette or by molding techniques. The pitch is 
then converted to a non-meltable form, typically by oxidative 
stabilization. The stabilized pitch is then converted to carbon  
 
by prolonged heating at temperatures in the range of from 
500 to 2000°C in an inert or largely inert atmosphere. If higher 
performance properties are desired, the carbonized items may then 
be graphitized by additional prolonged heating at temperatures 
above 2000°C in an inert or largely inert atmosphere. There is a great amount of art on improved processes 
for making a preferred mesophase pitch for forming into useful 
artifacts. One frequent measure of mesophase pitch quality is 
the quinoline insolubles (QI) content. High optical anisotropy 
(OA) combined with low QI is taught to be preferred. It is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for making carbon artifacts from a mesophase pitch 
comprising mesophase soluble-quinoline insoluble materials, the 

process comprising the steps of: 

(a) forming a solvent-mesophase pitch mixture by contacting 
a mesophase pitch comprising mesophase soluble-quinoline 

insoluble materials and a solvent suitable 
for solvating the mesophase pitch; 
(b) heating and mixing the solvent-mesophase pitch mixture 
to form a solvated mesophase pitch in a fluid state; 
(c) phase separating the solvent-pitch mixture to obtain 
a solvent phase and a solvated mesophase pitch phase; 
(d) recovering the solvated mesophase pitch phase; 
(e) forming artifacts from the solvated mesophase pitch; 
(f) driving the solvent from the solvated mesophase pitch 
artifacts to thereby form unsolvated mesophase pitch 

artifacts; 
(g) carbonizing the unsolvated mesophase pitch artifacts 
by heating the artifacts to a suitable temperature for 

a time and under conditions suitable for carbonizing. 
The process as described in Claim 1, wherein the solvent 
suitable for solvating the mesophase pitch comprises one or more 

one to three ring aromatic hydrocarbons, wherein 40-100% of the 
carbons in the solvent are aromatic carbons. 
The process as described in Claim 2, wherein the solvent 
suitable for solvating the mesophase pitch is one or more members 

selected from the group consisting of tetralin, xylene, toluene, 
naphthalene, anthracene and 9,10-dihydrophenanthrene, aromatic 

coal-derived oils and aromatic petroleum-derived oils.  
 
The process as described in Claim 2, wherein the solvent 
suitable for solvating the mesophase pitch further comprises a 

paraffinic solvent. 
The process as described in Claim 1, wherein the solvent-pitch 
mixture is heated in step (b) to 180-400°C, and said 

conditions suitable for forming solvated mesophase pitch comprise 
heating and mixing the solvent-mesophase pitch mixture to a 

pressure at or above the vapor pressure of the solvent. 
The process as described in Claim 5, wherein said pressure 
is in the range of atmospheric to 3.45 × 10
7
 Pa (5000 psig). 
The process as described in Claim 1, wherein the phase 
separation of step (c) comprises allowing the mixture to stand 

without mixing for a sufficient period of time to cause phase 
separation of the solvent-pitch mixture into a solvent phase and 

a solvated mesophase pitch phase. 
The process as described in Claim 1, wherein the phase 
separation of step (c) comprises separation of the solvated 

mesophase pitch phase from the solvent phase by mechanical means. 
The process as described in Claim 1, wherein the recovery 
of the solvated mesophase pitch phase of step (d) comprises 

cooling the phase separated solvent-mesophase pitch mixture until 
the mesophase pitch phase is a solid and removing the solid 

mesophase pitch. 
The process described in Claim 1, wherein the recovery of 
solvated mesophase pitch of step (d) comprises recovering the 

solvated mesophase at a temperature where the solvated mesophase 
pitch is a liquid.  

 
The process as described in Claim 1, wherein the 
process is a batch process carried out in a sealed 

container. 
The process as described in Claim 1, wherein the 
process is a continuous process. 
A process as described in Claim 1, wherein the 
length of time for heating in step (b) is a length of 

time sufficient to equilibrate the solvent and pitch 
phases. 
A process as described in Claim 1, wherein the 
solvated mesophase pitch contains up to 40% solvent by 

weight and wherein the solvated mesophase pitch phase of 
step (c) is 40% or more OA. 
A process as described in Claim 1, wherein 
oxidative thermosetting is applied in conjunction with 

or at the conclusion of step (f). 
A process as described in Claim 1, wherein the 
unsolvated mesophase pitch artifact of step (f) contains 

more than 50% by weight of quinoline insolubles. 
The process of Claim 1, wherein said mesophase 
pitch of step (f) has a quinoline insoluble content of 

at least 50 wt.%. 
Carbon artifacts made from solvated mesophase pitch 
comprising mesophase soluble-quinoline insoluble 

materials according to the process comprising the steps 
of: 


(a) forming a solvent-mesophase pitch mixture by 
contacting a mesophase pitch comprising 

mesophase soluble-quinoline insoluble 
materials and a solvent suitable for solvating 

the mesophase pitch; 
(b) heating and mixing the solvent-mesophase pitch  
  

 
mixture to form a solvated mesophase pitch in 

a fluid state; 
(c) phase separating the solvent-pitch mixture to 
obtain a solvent phase and a solvated 

mesophase pitch phase wherein in said solvated 
mesophase pitch phase quinoline insoluble 

mesogens comprise at least 50 wt.% of the 
unsolvated pitch; 
(d) recovering the fluid solvated mesophase pitch 
phase; 
(e) forming artifacts from the solvated mesophase 
pitch by shaping fluid solvated mesophase 

pitch into artifacts; 
(f) driving the solvent from the solvated 
mesophase pitch artifacts to thereby form 

unsolvated mesophase pitch artifacts; 
(g) carbonizing the unsolvated mesophase pitch 
artifacts by 

heating the pitch to a suitable temperature 
for a time and under conditions suitable for 

carbonizing. 
A carbon artifact comprising at least 50% by weight 
quinoline insoluble mesogens and optionally comprising 

quinoline soluble mesogens suitable for carbonizing. 
A solvated mesophase pitch comprising quinoline 
insoluble mesogens and optionally comprising quinoline 

soluble mesogens, wherein said quinoline insoluble 
mesogens comprise at least 50 wt.% of the unsolvated 

pitch. 
The solvated mesophase pitch of Claim 20, wherein 
said pitch has a melting point temperature at least 40°C 

lower than said pitch in an unsolvated form. 
The solvated mesophase pitch of Claim 20, wherein 

said mesophase pitch of step (a) is at least partially 
unmeltable prior to being solvated. 
The solvated mesophase pitch of Claim 20, wherein 
said pitch can be formed into artifacts, desolvated and 

heated above the artifact-forming temperature without 
loss of artifact structure to melting. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
