<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614435</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PACKAGES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B910	B65B920	B65B5126	B65B5130	B65B6118	B65B6118	B65D7500	B65D7546	B65D7552	B65D7558	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B9	B65B9	B65B51	B65B51	B65B61	B65B61	B65D75	B65D75	B65D75	B65D75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A package (2) has a top transverse seal (8) which is designed to be opened by separating two portions (4, 6) of sheet material forming the package (2). The seal (8) has a region of weakness (20) intermediate its extremities (22) where the force required to separate the portions (4, 6) of sheet material is substantially less than that required adjacent the extremities (22). The bottom transverse seal (10) defines the profile of the interior of the package (2). The bottom seal (10) is such that there is a gradual transition (26) between each of the package sides (28, 30) and the transverse direction. Thus the product in the package (2) is encouraged to rest on the central region of the bottom seal (10) for easy accessibility.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DALGETY SPILLERS FOODS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DALGETY SPILLERS FOODS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATCHEN DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER CHRISTOPHER THE PASTURE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER MARTIN KINGSBURY HOUSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BATCHEN, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER, CHRISTOPHER 9 THE PASTURES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMER, MARTIN KINGSBURY HOUSE 4 GROVE ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PACKAGESThe present inventions relate to packaging and in particular, but not exclusively, to the packaging of food products such as snack foods.Many packages in common use such as plastics or paper bags with sealed ends are difficult to open without damaging the remainder of the package. This is a particular problem if the material packaged is a food product and especially a snack product, where the package is to be easily opened without the use of scissors, knives or the like. A problem confronting the manufacturers of such packages is that the packages should have an airtight seal and be structurally strong but at the same time be easily openable by the consumer. With known packages used for products such as potato crisps (chips) and other snack food products, the front and back sides of the bags are usually gripped by the consumer and pulled in directions away from each other so as to open the seal at the top of the bag. Unfortunately this action often results in a tear or tears running from the top of the package to the bottom. This is because initially the consumer pulls the package sides away from each other but with no effect. The consumer increases the applied force with the result that the package opens unexpectedly but force continues to be applied for a short time after opening and this can tear the package, particularly down the sides. The contents of the package can thus be spilled to the annoyance and inconvenience of the would-be consumer. The opening action may alternatively result.in a longitudinal seal of the package pulling apart, with the same consequences.In order to overcome this problem some manufacturers provide a nick, notch or score line in the top seal of the package so that when the consumer wants 

 to open the package, he pulls the top seal in opposite directions on either side of the nick, notch or score line. This results usually in a longitudinal tear in the package. Generally the tear will be towards one side of the package through which the contents may be tipped. This may be suitable for dispensing small items such as peanuts, but such packages are not suitable for products which it is preferred to lift out of a large opening in the package such as potato crisps. Furthermore, such packages do not always tear as intended and the resulting opening may be too large and the contents of the package may be spilled. Alternatively the tear may not be in the intended direction and may for example be across the package which inevitably results in accidental spillage.Similar
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A sealed package of flexible sheet material, said package having a transverse seal across one end, between two portions of sheet material, which seal is intended to be broken by separating the two portions of material so as to gain access to the interior of the package, wherein said transverse seal has a region of weakness intermediate its extremities where the force required to separate the material portions is substantially less than that required adjacent said extremities.
2. A package as claimed in claim 1, wherein said region of weakness is defined by a reduced seal strength relative to the strength of the transverse seal over at least a substantial part of its transverse extent.
3. A package as claimed in claim 1 or 2 , wherein said region of weakness provides a region where opening of the package occurs in preference to any point along any other seals in the package.
4. A package as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the region of weakness is provided by a region of decreased bonding strength of the seal.
5. A package as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the region of weakness is defined by a region where the depth of the transverse seal is less than adjacent the extremities of the seal.
6. A package as claimed in claim 5, wherein the transverse seal has a curved or V-shaped profile with an apex region defining the region of weakness.
7. A package as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the transverse profile of the interior of the 


 package adjacent its lower end is defined by a transverse seal extending between the two sides, wherein said transverse profile is such that there is a gradual transition between each of the sides and the transverse direction.
8. A package as claimed in claim 7, wherein the gradual transition is provided by the lower seal having a curved inner profile.
9. A package as claimed in claim 8, wherein the lowest point of the curve lies in the middle region of the lower seal.
10. A package as claimed in claim 7, wherein the gradual transition is provided by at least one straight line extending downwardly from each side.
11. A package as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein there is provided a central portion spaced a substantial distance down the package from the start of each gradual transition whereby in normal use, product tends to* collect in this central portion.
12. A package as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the weakest part of the bottom seal is equal to or greater in strength than the weakest part of the transverse seal forming the top seal.
13. A package as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said sheet material comprises one of the following materials: plastics film for example polypropylene, paper, foil material or laminates of any one or more of the preceding materials. 


 14. A package as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the or each seal is formed by means of heat and/or pressure.
15. Packaging apparatus for manufacturing a sealed package of flexible sheet material, comprising sealing means for forming a transverse seal between two portions of the sheet material across one end of the package which is adapted to be broken by separating the two portions of material so as to gain access to the interior of the package, wherein the sealing means is such that the transverse seal has a region of weakness intermediate its extremities where the force required to separate the material portions is substantially less than that required adjacent said extremities.
16. A process for manufacturing a sealed package of flexible sheet material in which a transverse seal is formed between two portions of the sheet material across one end of the package, the seal being adapted to be broken by separating the two portions of material so as to gain access to the interior of the package, wherein said seal is formed in such a way as to have a region of weakness intermediate its extremities where the force required to separate the material portions is substantially less than that required adjacent said extremities.
17. A sealing member for forming a transverse seal across an end of a package of flexible sheet material, the sealing member having a profile which defines a seal whose depth in a region intermediate its extremities is less than that adjacent its extremities.
18. A sealing member as claimed in claim 17, wherein said member is arranged to simultaneously form a bottom transverse seal of one package and a top transverse seal 


 of an adjacent package.
19. Apparatus for manufacturing a package of flexible sheet material comprising a pair of sealing members as claimed in any one of claims 17 or 18.
20. A package of flexible sheet material comprising an upper end, a lower end and two sides, the transverse profile of the interior of the package adjacent its lower end being defined by a transverse seal extending between the two sides, wherein said transverse profile is such that there is a gradual transition between each of the sides and the transverse direction.
21. A package as claimed in claim 20, wherein the gradual transition is provided by the lower seal having a curved inner profile.
22. A package as claimed in claim 21, wherein the lowest point of the curve lies in the middle region of the lower seal.
23. A package as claimed in claim 20, wherein the gradual transition is provided by at least one straight line extending downwardly from each side.
24. A package as claimed in any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein there is provided a central portion spaced a substantial distance down the package from the start of each gradual transition whereby in normal use, product tends to collect in this central portion.
25. A package as claimed in any one of claims 20 to 24, wherein the weakest part of the bottom seal is equal to or greater in strength than the weakest part of a transverse seal forming a top seal. 


26. A package as claimed in any one of claims 20 to 25, wherein said sheet material comprises one of the following materials: plastics film for example polypropylene, paper, foil material or laminates of any one or more of the preceding materials.
27. A package as claimed in any one of claims 20 to 26, wherein the lower seal is formed by means of heat and/or pressure.
28. Apparatus for manufacturing a package of flexible sheet material, comprising sealing means for forming a transverse sealed region across an end of the package wherein, the sealing means defines a transverse interior profile adjacent the end of the package in which there is a gradual transition between the sides of the package and the transverse direction.
29. A process for manufacturing a package of flexible sheet material, having an upper end, a lower end and two sides, in which a transverse sealed region is formed across one end of the package, wherein said sealed region defines a transverse interior profile adjacent said end of the package, in which there is a gradual transition between the sides of the package and the transverse direction.
30. A sealing member for forming a transverse seal across an end of a package of flexible sheet material, the sealing member having a profile such that a seal is defined which provides a transverse interior profile at the package adjacent said end, in which there is a gradual transition between the sides of the package and the transverse end. 


31. A sealing member as claimed in claim 30, wherein said member is arranged to simultaneously form a bottom transverse seal of one package and a top transverse seal of an adjacent package.
32. Apparatus for manufacturing a package of flexible sheet material comprising a pair of sealing members as claimed in claim 30 or 31. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
