<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Control of oxygen concentration in single crystal pulled up from melt containing group-V element
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C30B1502	C30B1500	C30B1500	C30B1502	C30B1504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C30B	C30B	C30B	C30B	C30B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C30B15	C30B15	C30B15	C30B15	C30B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The amount of Group-V element included in a melt 6 has the 
close relationship with the oxygen concentration of the melt 6. This 

relationship is utilized for controlling the oxygen concentration 
of a single crystal 8 at a high level. The content of Group-V 

element is calculated from the weight of the melt 6 gauged by a 
gravimeter 11 and compared with a preset value in a control unit 

12. When the calculated content is smaller than the preset value, 
the control signal to additionally supply Group-V element to the 

melt 6 is outputted from the control unit 12 to a feeder 14. When 
the calculated content is larger than the preset value, the control 

signal to supply a raw material to the melt 6 is outputted to 
another feeder 13. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a pull method of producing a 
single crystal having oxygen concentration properly controlled from 
a melt containing Group-V element, and also relates to an apparatus 
useful for said pull method. Czochralski method is a representative method for the growth of 
a single crystal from a melt. Czochralski method uses a crucible 2 provided in a closed 
chamber 1 as shown in Fig. 1. The crucible 2 is supported by a 
support 3 so that the crucible 2 is capable of rotation and/or 
vertical motion. There are concentrically disposed a heater 4 and a 
heat insulator 5 around the crucible 2. A raw material is received in the crucible 2 and intensively 
heated by the heater 4 to prepare a melt 6. The melt 6 is held at a 
temperature suitable for the growth of a single crystal. When a seed crystal 7 being hung from a rotary winder 10 through 
a wire 9 is brought into contact with the melt 6, a single crystal 8 
grows on the seed crystal 7 so that the crystalline orientation of 
the seed crystal 7 is transferred to that of the growing crystal 8. 
The seed crystal 7 is then rotatingly pulled up in response to the 
growth of the single crystal 8. The crucible 2 is descendingly  
 
rotated by the rotating motion of the support 3, too. The obtained single crystal 8 is sliced to wafers useful as 
substrates for electronic devices. When the melt 6 to which Sb is added as a type-n dopant is used 
for crystal growth, an obtained single crystal 8 is useful as a 
high-conductivity semiconductor material bcause of containing Sb. 
Oxygen originated in SiO2 dissolved from the crucible 2 into the 
melt 6 is included in the single crystal 8, too. Oxygen atoms included in the single crystal 8 precipitate in a 
bulk and form crystalline faults, when the single crystal 8 is 
heat treated. The crystalline faults are utilized as a gettering 
center for capturing heavy metal impurities remaining on the 
surface of a semiconductive single crystal substrate comprising an 
electronic device. Hereby, the heavy metal impurities are made 
harmless. Dissolved oxygen atoms are effective for enhancing the 
strength of the single crystal substrate, too. In this regard, it 
is preferable to increase oxygen concentration in the melt, in 
order to increase an amount of oxygen included in the single crystal 
8. However, it is difficult to keep the oxygen concentration in the 
melt at a high level under a stable condition.  
 EP-A-O 435 440 relates to a method for growing antimony-doped single silicon 
crystals. Its
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pull method for the growth of a single crystal having high oxygen concentration 
from a melt, comprising: 


adding Group-V element of Periodical Table in a controlled amount to 
a Si melt to adjust the oxygen concentration of said melt at a value 

corresponding to said controlled amount, 
carrying a seed crystal into contact with the surface of said melt so as 
to grow a single crystal having crystalline orientation transferred from 

said seed crystal, and 
pulling up said single crystal from said melt, while changing atmospheric 
condition to control the diffusion of oxygen from the surface of said 

melt to an atmosphere, 
 
wherein an increase of said controlled amount of said Group-V element 

included in said melt is employed to increase the level of the oxygen concentration 
in said single crystal and a decrease of said controlled amount is 

employed to decrease the oxygen concentration in said single crystal so 
that said single crystal has an oxygen concentration stabilized at a high 

level of 3x10
17
 atoms/cm
3
 or more corresponding to the amount of said 
Group-V element included in said melt. 
The pull method according to Claim 1, wherein the Group-V element is 
selected from P, As, Sb and Bi. 
The pull method according to Claim 1, wherein the Group-V element is 
added to the melt in the controlled amount being compared with a preset 

value. 
The pull method according to Claim 1, wherein the atmospheric condition  
 

to be changed is one or more of an atmospheric pressure, a kind of rare gas 
and the mixing rate of rare gases. 
An apparatus for pulling a single crystal having high oxygen concentration 
from a melt, comprising: 


a crucible supported with a rotary stand located in a vacuum chamber, 
for receiving a melt, 
a gravimeter for gauging the weight of said melt to calculate the concentration 
of Group-V element of Periodical Table included in said melt, 
a control unit to which the calculated concentration of said Group-V 
element is inputted and compared with a preset value, 
a feeder for supplying a raw material to said melt, to which a control 
signal is outputted from said control unit, and 
another feeder for supplying said Group-V element to said melt, to 

which another control signal is outputted from said control unit, 
 
wherein said raw material is additionally supplied to said melt when the 

calculated concentration of said Group-V element is larger than said preset 
value, while said Group-V element is additionally supplied to said melt 

when the calculated concentration of said Group-V element is smaller than 
said preset value. 
The apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein the gravimeter is a load cell 
provided between the crucible and the rotary stand. 
The apparatus according to claim 5 or 6, further comprising: 

a vacuum pump for evacuating the interior of said vacuum chamber, 
a pressure gauge provided in an exhaust conduit extending from said 
vacuum chamber to said vacuum pump, 
an oxygen sensor having a detecting terminal provided at a position 
near the surface of said melt, 
a control unit to which an atmospheric pressure detected by said 
pressure gauge and an oxygen partial pressure detected by said oxygen 

sensor are inputted and compared with preset values,  
 
a regulator valve provided in a conduit extending from an Ar supply 
source to the interior of said vacuum chamber, 
 
wherein the comparison results in said control unit are outputted as a 

control signal to said regulator valves to adjust the opening rate of said 
regulator valve. 
The apparatus according to claims 7, further comprising: 

a second regulator valve provided in a second conduit extending from 
another rare gas supply source and having an end opened to said first 

conduit, 
 
wherein the comparison results in said control unit are outputted as control 

signals to said first and second regulator valves to adjust the opening rates 
of said first and second regulator valves. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
