<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636235</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTERNAL PANEL FOR CABINET DOORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25D2304	F25D2304	F25D2306	F25D2306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25D23	F25D23	F25D23	F25D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Internal panel for cabinet doors, said panel (10) being of the molded type, presenting a frontal face portion (11), facing the inside of the cabinet, at least a rear edge portion of a removable shelf (20) being provided close to said frontal face portion (11), at least one of said parts, defined by the internal panel (10) and by a removable shelf (20), incorporating at least one retaining housing (32), which is opened at least at one of its opposite ends, and also through a restricted region (32a), towards a joining face (11, 11a, 23, 23a) of the corresponding part facing said other part, whereas said other part incorporates at least a locking portion (31), through a respective restricted projection (31a) of the joining face (11, 23) of the corresponding part facing said other part, said locking portion (31) being fitted in the respective retaining housing (32), through its opened end, and through the displacement of the removable shelf part (20), in a parallel direction relative the plane of the door (D), in order to retain the shelf (20) against relative movements, either orthogonal to the plane of the door (D), or lateral relative to said direction of displacement of said shelf part, wherein at least one of said parts (10, 20) carries stop means (40), acting against the other part, so as to define the relative positioning of the final fitting of each shelf (20) onto the internal panel (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONSUL SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONSUL S/A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSTA CRISTIANE FURIATTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSTA, CRISTIANE FURIATTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTERNAL PANEL FOR CABINET DOORSTechnical FieldThe present invention refers to an internal panel for the doors of refrigerated or non-refrigerated cabinets, particularly used in refrigerators and freezers, which allows a better utilization of the useful space of said internal panel, by distributing removable accessories, such as shelves, along the extension of the internal panel, according to an arrangement preferred by the user. Background of the InventionIn some types of conventional refrigerators, the utilization of the internal panel of their doors is previously defined during the manufacturing process of said panel, which incorporates in a single piece a plurality of shelves, thereby not allowing to modify the original arrangement of the shelves. Another type of known refrigerator presents a more versatile door design, which permits the modification in the positioning of the shelves along the longitudinal extension of the internal panel of its door, said shelves presenting a width that is substantially equal to the internal width of said panel.Besides the fact that the movements of said removable shelves are restricted to vertical displacements only, this construction is of difficult and slow handling, due to the used shelf/door fitting system and to the only one pattern of width for said removable shelves, said pattern being a function of the utilization of the shelves on the refrigerator door. Besides the inconveniences cited above, both solutions present the deficiency of requiring a large amount of material in its manufacture, such as 

the unremovable shelves and bands that are incorporated in the internal panel of the door and the provision of peripheral flanges, projecting from said internal panel, in order to surround the portion thereof that is going to receive the shelves, which can be removable or unremovable, thus resulting in an increase in the cost of the product. Disclosure of the Invention Thus, it is an object of the present invention to provide a panel for doors of cabinets, which can be refrigerated or non refrigerated, such as those used in refrigerators or freezers, and which allows the modification in the arrangement, either vertically or horizontally, of shelves that are mounted to said internal panel, as well as multiple combinations of said removable shelves.Another object of the present invention is to provide a panel for cabinet doors as mentioned above, which permits quick and easy modifications in the arrangement of said shelves by the user.Still another object of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Internal panel for cabinet doors, said panel (10) being of the molded type, presenting a frontal face portion (11) , facing the inside of the cabinet, and an opposite face portion, facing the inside of the door (D) , at least a rear edge portion of a removable shelf (20) being placed close to said frontal face portion (11) and presenting at least a pair of lateral walls (21) and a front wall (22) , characterized in that at least one of said parts, defined by the internal panel (10) and by a removable shelf (20) , incorporates at least one retaining housing (32) , which presents a predetermined longitudinal extension and which is opened at least at one of its opposite ends, and also through a restricted region (32a) , towards a joining face (11, 11a, 23, 23a) of the corresponding part facing said other part, whereas said other part incorporates at least a locking portion (31) , through a respective restricted projection (31a) of the joining face (11, 11a, 23, 23a) of the corresponding part facing said other part, said locking portion (31) being fitted in the respective retaining housing (32) , through its opened end, and through the displacement of the removable shelf part (20) , in a parallel direction relative the plane of the door (D) , in order to retain the shelf (20) against relative movements, either orthogonal to the plane of the door (D) , or lateral relative to said direction of displacement of said shelf part, wherein at least one of said parts (10, 20) carries stop means (40) , acting against the other part, so as to define the relative positioning of the final fitting of each shelf (20) onto the internal panel 


 (10 ) .
2. Internal panel, as in claim 1, characterized in that the upper end of each retaining housing (32) is closed. 3. Internal panel, as in claim 2, characterized in that the directions of displacement, both for the fitting and for the removal of each shelf (20) relative the internal panel (10) are downward and upward directions, respectively. 4. Internal panel, as in claim 3, characterized in that the direction of displacement of the shelf part (20) along the internal panel (10) coincides with the longitudinal axis of the retaining housing
(32) . 5. Internal panel, as in claim 4, characterized in that the direction of displacement of the shelf part (20) along the internal panel (10) is vertical.
6. Internal panel, as in claim 1, characterized in that the joining face (11a, 23a) is forwardly projected in relation to the plane of one of said internal panel (10) and removable shelf (20) parts, defined by the frontal face portion (11) of the internal panel (10) and by the rear wall (23) of the removable shelf (20) , each retaining housing (32) being in the form of a recess, provided at least in one projection of one of said panel and shelf parts, from said plane.
7. Internal panel, as in claim 6, characterized in that each housing (32) is in the form of a recess provided in said joining face (11, 23) of the corresponding part.
8. Internal panel, as in any of the claims 6 or 7, characterized in that each housing (32) is provided along at least part of the height of a rear wall (23) of the removable shelves (20) . 


9. Internal panel, as in claim 1, characterized in that each retaining housing (32) receives a respective locking portion (31) .
10. Internal panel, as in claim 1, characterized in that each retaining housing (32) presents a cross section with a continuous peripheral contour.
11. Internal panel, as in claim 1, characterized in that each locking portion (31) presents a continuous longitudinal extension, occupying at least part of the longitudinal extension of a corresponding retaining housing (32) .
12. Internal panel, as in claim 11, characterized in that each locking portion (31) presents a continuous longitudinal extension, similar to that of the respective retaining housing (32) .
13. Internal panel, as in claim 12, characterized in that each locking portion (31) presents a cross section with a continuous peripheral contour.
14. Internal panel, as in claim 1, characterized in that the stop means (40) is incorporated, in a single piece, into at least one of the parts represented by the removable shelf (20) and internal panel (10) .
15. Internal panel, as in claim 14, in which the locking portion (31) presents an upper end and a lower end, characterized in that the stop means (40) is in the form of a projection that stops the relative displacement between the locking portion (31) and a retaining housing (32) , said projection being provided close to at least part of one of the ends of at least one of said retaining housing (32) and locking portion (31) .
16. Internal panel, as in claim 15, characterized in that said stop means (40) is in the form of a continuous stopping rib, which is orthogonal 


relative a corresponding free end of one of the removable shelf (20) and internal panel (10) parts.
17. Internal panel, as in claim 16, characterized in that each removable shelf (20) presents its rear edge in a continuous form, defining a rear wall (23) , where the stop means (40) is defined.
18. Internal panel, as in claim 17, characterized in that the stop means (40) closes the upper end of each retaining housing (32) . 19. Internal panel, as in claim 1, characterized in that each removable shelf (20) incorporates, at a lower edge of its front wall, a bottom wall (24) . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
