<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643834</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SIMULTANEOUS DRUG TESTING AND FINGERPRINTING ASSAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5117	A61B500	G01N33543	A61B5117	A61B500	G01N3394	G01N3394	G01N33543	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01N	A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	G01N33	A61B5	A61B5	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An assay device and method, which allow for the determination of the presence or absence of at least one analyte in a test sample, while providing specific identification of the test subject, are disclosed. The assay device (10) includes a reaction zone (20) made up of separate reaction zones (32-37) for detecting one or more specific analytes located within a control area (18) and a control zone (16) for providing a pattern for identifying the test subject, the preferred pattern being a fingerprint. In the preferred embodiment of the invention, the reaction zone and the control zone include at least one member of a ligand/receptor pair.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is in the field ligand-receptor
assays, including immunoassays, used for determining
the presence or absence of an analyte in a
biological fluid. More particularly, the
apparatuses and methods of the invention relate to
establishing the identity of a test subject and
determining the presence or absence of at least one
analyte in a biological fluid using a single test
device.For many years, those skilled in the art of
ligand-receptor assays have sought an effective,
inexpensive, and reliable device and method for
detecting the presence and/or absence of antigens,
antibodies, and the like. The art is replete with
such devices.For many years, those skilled in the art have
also sought devices and methods for assuring that
the sample being tested actually came from a certain
individual. Many schemes, some elaborate, some
simple, have been established to verify that the
test sample was in fact produced by a particular
individual. Similarly, many schemes exist to thwart
matching a particular test result with a particular
person.For example, drug testing is now a routine
procedure in athletics, prison, and the work place.
The protocols involve testing individual fluid
samples such as urine or blood to determine the
presence of certain antibodies in the fluid sample;
a positive result may be an indication of drug use. A problem which has occurred during such testing
is that test fluids may be obtained from persons other
than the person to be tested or that test fluids become
mixed, lost, or cannot be specifically identified with
that person after the test is returned from the
laboratory. Also, these assays typically take too long
to obtain timely results.As noted above, the principles which form the
basis for this class of detection techniques is a
person's immune system, i.e., the inherent capability
of a mammal to respond to a foreign molecule, typically
a macromolecule. Hereinafter, any molecule which is
capable of eliciting such a response will be referred
to as an antigen, e.g., an antibody generator. The
proteins and protein fragments which are produced in
response to the antigen will be referred to as
antibodies or immunoglobulins.EP-A2-440350 discloses a method and device for
testing for the presence of substances such as drugs in
the blood while simultaneously positively identifying
the test subject. The device comprises an absorbent
pad and a membrane (preferably a nitro cellulose
membrane) mounted to the absorbent pad. The absorbent
pad preferably contains a plurality of separated areas
p
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An assay device for determining the presence
or absence of at least one analyte in a fluid test

sample obtained from a test subject while providing
specific identification of the test subject, said

device comprising a reaction medium, said reaction
medium comprising:


(a) at least one reaction zone which comprises a
member of a first ligand/receptor pair immobilized

thereon, said member selected such that, when the
reaction zone is contacted with a test sample suspected

of containing a specific analyte, said member provides
a means for determining the presence or absence of said

analyte, and
(b) at least one control zone which comprises a
member of a second ligand/receptor pair immobilized

thereon, said member selected such that, when contacted
with a signal producing agent, said member will react

with said signal producing agent to form a pattern
which is capable of establishing the identity of a test

subject.
An assay device as claimed in claim 1, wherein
the control zone is capable of providing a pattern for

identifying the test subject, wherein the pattern
comprises a fingerprint.
An assay device as claimed in claim 1, wherein
the control zone is capable of providing a pattern for

identifying the test subject, wherein the pattern
comprises a footprint.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said one member of a ligand

receptor pair is capable of determining the presence or
absence of at least one of cocaine, benzoylecgonine,

opiates, phencyclidine, amphetamine, methamphetamine,
tetrahydrocannabinol and alcohol.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims, wherein the reaction zone includes a

member of an immunological pair.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said member of said second

ligand/receptor pair is a member of an immunological
pair.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the reaction medium is a

porous membrane.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the reaction medium comprises

more than one reaction zone.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the signal producing agent

comprises a member of a ligand/receptor pair labeled
with a color forming agent.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the signal producing agent

comprises a color forming agent.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the test sample is a

biological fluid.
An assay device as claimed in claim 11,
wherein the biological fluid is blood, a blood product,

saliva or urine.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said member of said first

ligand/receptor pair is antigen or antibody coated
particles.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein said member of said first

ligand/receptor pair is antibody coated particles.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, which includes:


a porous support;
said reaction medium covering a portion of the 
porous support.
An assay device as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the presence of an analyte

produces a color and the absence of an analyte does not
produce a color.
A method for testing for the presence of at
least one analyte in a fluid sample obtained form a

test subject and positively identifying the test
subject which comprises :


(a) obtaining a sample of fluid from the test
subject;
(b) applying said fluid sample to an assay device
which comprises a reaction medium, said reaction medium

comprising

(1) at least one reaction zone which comprises a
member of a first ligand/receptor pair immobilized

thereon, said member selected such that, when the
reaction zone is contacted with said fluid sample

suspected of containing a specific analyte, said member
provides a means for determining the presence or

absence of said analyte, and
(2) at least one control zone for establishing
identity of said test subject, said control zone

comprising a member of a second ligand/receptor pair
immobilized thereon, said member selected such that,

when contacted with a signal-producing agent, said
member with react with said signal producing agent to

form a pattern which establishes the identity of said
test subject;
(c) coating a finger or bottom of a foot of the
test subject with a signal producing agent and

contacting the control zone of the assay device with
said coated finger or foot such that said signal-producing

agent reacts with said member of a second
ligand/receptor pair to form a pattern which

establishes the identity of said test subject; and 
(d) determining from the reaction zone whether the
fluid test sample contains said specific analyte.
A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein
contacting the reaction medium with the test sample

comprises applying the test sample to the reaction
medium with an applicator.
A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the
applicator comprises a finger, a foot, a swab or a

pipette.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 19, wherein forming the test subjec
t identifying
pattern comprises applying a finger of the test subject

to the control zone, thereby producing a fingerprint.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 20, wherein establishing the identity of the person

further comprises coating the finger of the person with
a signal producing agent prior to applying the finger

to the control zone.
A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the
signal producing agent comprises a member of a

ligand/receptor pair labeled with a coloring forming
agent.
A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the
signal producing agent comprises a color forming agent.
A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the
coloring forming agent comprises colloidal gold.
A method as claimed in claim 24, further
comprising contacting the control zone with a silver

coating solution subsequent to applying the finger to
the control zone.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 25, wherein the analyte is at least one of cocaine,

benzoylecgonine, opiates, phencyclidine, amphetamine,
methamphetamine, tetrahydrocannabinol or alcohol.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 26, wherein conducting the ligand/receptor assay 

includes determining the presence or absence of at
least one analyte in a biological fluid.
A method as claimed in claim 27, wherein the
biological fluid is blood, a blood product, saliva or

urine.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17 to
28, wherein conducting the ligand/receptor assay

comprises applying blood to the reaction medium and
subsequently applying a clearing solution to the

reaction medium.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 29, wherein conducting the ligand/receptor assay

comprises determining the presence or absence of a
threshold amount of at least one analyte in the test

sample.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 30, wherein determining the presence of the analyte

produces a color in a reaction zone of the reaction
medium and determining the absence of the analyte does

not produce a color in the reaction zone.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 31, wherein determining the presence of the analyte

produces a color in a reaction zone of the reaction
medium and determining the absence of the analyte does

not produce a color in the reaction zone.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 32, wherein step c includes directly contacting the

control zone with a labeled applicator.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 33, wherein said member of a first ligand/receptor

pair comprises antigen or antibody-coated particles.
A method as claimed in claim 34, wherein said
fluid sample is combined with anti-analyte antibodies

prior to being applied to said reaction medium, and
said member of a first ligand/receptor pair comprises

antigens which specifically bind with said anti-analyte 
antibodies.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 17
to 33, wherein said member of a first ligand/receptor

pair comprises anti-analyte antibodies.
A method for testing for the presence of at
least one analyte in a fluid sample obtained from a

test subject and positively identifying the test
subject which comprises:


(a) obtaining a sample of fluid suspected of
containing a specific analyte from the test subject and

combining it with anti-analyte antibodies which
specifically bind to said analyte so as to form a

solution, whereby said anti-analyte antibodies
specifically bind to said analyte if present in said

fluid sample;
(b) applying said solution to an assay device
which comprises a reaction medium, said reaction medium

comprising

(1) at least one reaction zone which comprises
antigens immobilized thereon which specifically bind to

said anti-analyte antibodies, such that, when the
reaction zone is contacted with said solution unbound

anti-analyte antibodies in said solution bind to said
immobilized antigens;
(2) at least one control zone for recording the
fingerprint or footprint of said test subject, said

control zone comprising anti-species antibody
immobilized thereon that specifically binds a labelled

antibody;
(c) coating a finger or bottom of a foot of the
test subject with a labelled antibody that specifically

binds to said anti-species antibody and said anti-analyte
antibody;
(d) contacting said control zone and said reaction
zone of the assay device with said coated finger or

foot such that a fingerprint or footprint, 
respectively, is produced in said control zone and said labelled antibody binds

to said anti-analyte antibody bound in said test zone;

wherein the presence of said labelled antibody in said test zone indicates
the absence of said analytes in said body fluid and the absence of said labelled

antibody in said test zone indicates the presence of said analytes in said body
fluid.
A method for processing a blood sample comprising:

(a) pricking a finger of a test subject to form a droplet of blood;
(b) smearing the blood to coat the finger with a thin film of blood;
(c) applying the finger to a reaction medium of an assay device and
allowing the blood to dry, wherein said reaction medium is a porous medium

that includes one member of a first ligand/receptor pair, which member
specifically binds to a predetermined analyte in the blood sample;
(d) applying a clearing solution to the reaction medium;
(e) determining the presence or absence of at least one analyte in the
test sample; and
(f) forming a test subject identifying pattern in a control zone of the
reaction medium, wherein said control zone includes one member of a second

ligand/receptor pair, which member specifically binds to a signal producing
agent to form a pattern which is capable of establishing the identity of the test

subject.
A method for processing a blood sample as claimed in claim 38,
which additionally comprises applying a clearing solution to the reaction

medium prior to applying the finger.
A kit for processing a sample comprising:

(a) an assay device as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16; and
(b) at least one agent for producing a signal in at least one of said
reaction zone and said control zone.
A kit as claimed in claim 40, wherein the 
signal producing agent is conjugated to a member of a

ligand/receptor pair.
A kit as claimed in claim 40 or 41, further
comprising a sample collection device.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
