<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612104</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compound semi-conductors and controlled doping thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C30B2502	C30B2502	C30B2518	C30B2518	H01L2102	H01L21205	H01L21365	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C30B	C30B	C30B	C30B	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C30B25	C30B25	C30B25	C30B25	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of controlling the amount of impurity incorporation 
in a crystal grown by a chemical vapor deposition 

process. Conducted in a growth chamber, the method includes 
the controlling of the concentration of the crystal growing 

components in the growth chamber to affect the demand of 
particular growth sites within the growing crystal thereby 

controlling impurity incorporation into the growth sites. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OHIO AEROSPACE INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OHIO AEROSPACE INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARKIN DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATUS LAWRENCE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEUDECK PHILIP G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWELL J ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARKIN,DAVID J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATUS,LAWRENCE G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEUDECK,PHILIP G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POWELL,J.ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the controlled growth of 
high-quality semiconductor device crystal films, and more 
particularly, to a method and system for producing high-quality 
silicon carbide semiconductors which are highly reproducible. United States Patent Application entitled "Process For 
The Controlled Growth Of Single-Crystal Films Of Silicon 
Carbide Polytypes On Silicon Carbide Wafer" identified by 
attorney docket number LEW-15,222-1 and United States Patent 
Application entitled "Process For The Homoepitaxial Growth 
Of Single-Crystal Silicon Carbide Films On Silicon Carbide 
Wafers" identified by attorney docket number LEW-15,223-1 
which both illustrate the pretreatment of a silicon carbide 
substrate are incorporated herein by reference. The invention is particularly applicable to production 
of silicon carbide crystals (herein used to include crystal 
films) and it will be discussed with particular reference 
thereto; however, the invention has much broader applications 
and can be used for other crystals grown by the chemical 
vapor deposition process. Semiconductor devices are used in a wide variety of 
electronic applications. Semiconductor devices include diodes, 
transistors, integrated circuits, light-emitting diodes 
and charge-coupled devices. Various semiconductor devices 
using silicon or compound semiconductors such as gallium 
arsenic (GaAs) and gallium phosphide (GaP) are commonly 
used. In order to fabricate semiconductor devices, it is 
necessary to be able to grow high-quality, low-defect-density 
single-crystal films with controlled impurity  
 
incorporation (with respect to both net concentration and 
concentration profile) while possessing good surface morphology. 
In recent years, there has been an increasing interest 
in research of the silicon carbide semiconductors for 
use in high temperature, high powered and/or high radiation 
operating conditions under which silicon and conventional 
III - V semiconductors cannot adequately function. Silicon carbide has been classified as a compound semiconductor 
with potentially superior semiconductor properties 
for use in applications involving high temperature, high 
power, high radiation and/or high frequency. Silicon carbide 
has a number of characteristics that make it highly 
advantageous for various uses. Such advantages include a 
wide energy gap of approximately 2.2 to 3.3 electron volts, 
a high thermal conductivity, a low dielectric constant, a 
high saturated electron drift velocity, a high breakdown 
electric
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of controlling the amount of a selected, 
especially a non-crystal, element deposited in a given 

growth area of a crystal formed from at least two crystal 
elements as said crystal is grown at said area by a CVD 

process conducted in a growth chamber, said crystal elements 
comprising a first crystal element and a second crystal element, 

said crystal having at least two crystal growing sites 
wherein said first crystal element is deposited in a first 

growth site and said second crystal element is deposited in 
a second element growth site, said selected element being 

competitive for at least one of said first and second growth 
sites, said method comprising the steps of: 


a. flowing a controlled amount of gaseous crystal element 
compounds through said chamber, wherein each of said 

element compounds include at least one of said crystal element; 
and, 
b. controlling the ratio of said controlled amount of 
gaseous crystal element compounds to control said amount of 

said non-crystal element deposited in said competitive crystal 
growth site at said growth area. 
A method as in claim 1, wherein said at least two 
crystal elements comprise Si as a first crystal element 

being deposited in said first growth sites and further comprise 
C as a second crystal element being deposited in said 

second growth sites. 
A method as in claim 1 or 2, wherein said selected 
element only competes for said first growth site. 
A method as in claim 3, includes increasing the 
rate of said selected element deposited in said first element 

growth site by decreasing said ratio of said first 
crystal element compound to said second crystal element compound 

or, vice versa , decreasing the rate of said selected 
element deposited in said first element growth site by increasing 

said ratio of said first crystal element compound 
to said second crystal element compound. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 1 to 4, wherein 
said selected element only competes for said second growth 

site. 
A method as in claim 5, includes increasing the 

rate of said selected element deposited in said second element 
growth site by increasing said ratio of said first crystal 

element compound to said second crystal element compound 
or, vice versa, decreasing the rate of said selected 

element deposited in said second element growth site by 
decreasing said ratio of said first crystal element compound 

to said second crystal element compound. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 1 to 6, wherein 
said selected element is a dopant. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 1 to 6, wherein 
said selected element is a contaminant. 
A method as in claim 7, wherein said dopant competes 
for said second growth sites and is selected from a 

group consisting of phosphorous, nitrogen and boron. 
A method as in claim 7, wherein said dopant competes 
for said first growth sites and is selected from a 

group consisting of aluminum and boron. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein said Si/C ratio is 
between about 0.8 to about 0.05, preferably between about 

0.5 to about 0.1. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein said Si compound 
is selected from a group consisting of silicon halides or 

organosilicon compounds, preferably said Si compound being 
silane. 
A method as in claim 2, wherein said C compound is 
gaseous hydrocarbon, preferably propane. 
A method as defined in anyone of the claims 1 to 
13, includes using a carrier gas to introduce said crystal 

element compounds into said chamber. 
A method as defined in claim 14, wherein said carrier 
gas is hydrogen gas. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 1 to 15, 
wherein said crystal is grown on the growth surface of a 

substrate. 
A method as in claim 16, wherein said growth surface 
of said substrate has a non-zero inclination relative 

to a basal plane, said non-zero inclination being, preferably, 
less than 7°. 
A method as in claim 16 or 17, includes pretreating 
said growth surface to remove impurities and crystal 

structure on said growth surface that can act as sites for 
heterogeneous nucleation during said crystal growth. 
A method as in claim 18, wherein said pretreatment 
comprises pregrowth etching of said growth surface. 
A method as in claim 19, wherein said pregrowth 
etching consists of heating said growth surface of said substrate 

in an HCl/H₂ mixture to a temperature of between 
1200°C and 1500°C, preferably to a temperature of between 

1300°C and 1450°C. 
A method as in claim 20, wherein the time of said 
etching is between 2 min. and 60 min., and the HCl concentration 

is between 1% and 5%. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 18 to 21, 
wherein said pretreating includes Polishing said growth surface. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 16 to 22, 
wherein said subrate is a SiC substrate, preferably a wafer 

cut from a single-crystal SiC boule. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 16 to 22, 
wherein said growth surface is the silicon face of the SiC 

substrate. 
A method as in claim 23 or 24, wherein the polytype 
of said substrate is 6H-SiC. 
A method as in claim 23 or 24, wherein the polytype 
of said substrate is 3C-SiC. 
A method as in claim 23 or 24, wherein the polytype 
of said substrate is 4H-SiC. 
A method as in claim 25 or 26, wherein the polytype 
of said grown crystal is 6H-SiC. 
A method as in claim 25 or 26, wherein the polytype 
of said grown crystal is 3C-SiC. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 16 to 29, 
includes nucleating on said substrate surface to grow a particular 

crystal polytype. 
A method as in claim 30, wherein a site for intentianal 
heterogeneous nucleation is a prescribed localized 

alteration of said growth surface. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 16 to 31, including 
nucleating on said substrate to grow a particular 

SiC crystal polytype. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 30 to 32, 
wherein said nucleating of said substrate is the introduction 

of a suitable impurity to stimulate the growth of a 
desired crystal structure. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 16 to 33, 
includes dividing said growth surface into growth areas by 

introducing grooves along the boundaries of said growth 
areas. 
A method as in claim 34, wherein said groove is up 
to 50 micrometers deep. 
A method as in claim 34 or 35, wherein said groove 
has a width of at least 1 micrometer. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 34 to 36, 
wherein the location of said nucleation is in the corner of 

said growth area. 
A method as in anyone of the claims 1 to 37, 
wherein the growth temperature is maintained at a temperature 

of at least about 1350°C, preferably between about 
1350°C to 1550°C. 
A method as in claim 17, wherein said substrate is 
a SiC substrate and said growth surface is inclined toward 

the 〈1100〉 direction or toward the 〈1120〉 direction. 
A system for controlling the amount of a selected 
element deposited in a given growth area of a crystal formed 

by Si and C as a SiC crystal is being grown at said area by 
a CVD process conducted in a growth chamber, wherein said Si 

is deposited in Si growth sites and C is deposited in C 
growth sites, said element being competitive for one of said 

growth sites, said system comprising means for flowing a 
first amount of a gaseous Si compound through said chamber, 

means for flowing a second amount of a gaseous C compound 
through said chamber and means for controlling the ratio of 

said first and second amounts to control said amount of said 
element deposited in said crystal at said area. 
A system for controlling the amount of a non-crystal 
element deposited in a given growth area of a crystal 

formed from at least two crystal elements as said crystal is 
grown at said area by a CVD process conducted in a growth 

chamber, said crystal elements comprising a first crystal 
element and a second crystal element, said crystal having at 

least two crystal growing sites wherein said first crystal 
element is deposited in a first growth site and said second 

crystal element is deposited in a second growth site, said 
non-crystal element being competitive for at least one of 

 
said growth sites, said system including means for flowing a 

controlled amount of gaseous crystal element compounds 
through said chamber, wherein each of said element compounds 

include at least one of said crystal elements and means for 
controlling the ratio of said controlled amount of gaseous 

crystal compound to control said amount of said non-crystal 
element deposited in said crystal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
