<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623115</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NUCLEOPHILIC DISPLACEMENT METHOD FOR SYNTHESIS OF NON-RIGID PBZ POLYMERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G7300	C08G7306	C08G7322	C08G7500	C08G7532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G73	C08G73	C08G73	C08G75	C08G75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Azole rings, such as oxazole and thiazole rings, can activate an aromatic ring bonded to a leaving group such as a halogen atom so that the aromatic ring will undergo aromatic nucleophilic substitution. The reaction is useful for making ethers, thioethers and amines containing azole rings. In particular, monomers having azole rings, activated aromatic rings with leaving groups and nucleophilic moieties can react under conditions of aromatic nucleophilic displacement to form non-rigid rod PBZ polymers. The non-rigid rod PBZ polymers can be used to form molecular composites with rigid rod PBZ polymers which molecular composites are not substantially phase separated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DOW CHEMICAL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INBASEKARAN MUTHIAH N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLINS MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INBASEKARAN MUTHIAH N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULLINS MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NUCLEOPHILIC DISPLACEMENT METHOD FOR SYNTHESIS OF NON-RIGID PBZ POLYMERSThe invention relates to the synthesis of poly- benzoxazole (PBO), polybenzimidazole (PBI) or polyben- 5 zothiazole (PBT) and related polymers (hereinafter referred to as PBZ polymers).PBZ polymers are a known class of polymers which contain a plurality of mer units comprising at10 least:(1) a first aromatic group (Ar'); and(2) a first azole ring which is fused with -.j- the first aromatic group.Each mer unit preferably further comprises(3) a second azole ring which is fused 0 with the first aromatic group, and(4) a divalent group (DL), which is inert with respect to all reagents for making PBZ polymers under polymerization conditions,5 

 bonded by a single bond to the 2-carbon of the second azole ring.Those mer units ordinarily comply with one of the following two formulae1orwherein:Ar ,1' is a first aromatic group as previously described;DL is a divalent group as previously described; and each Z is independently chosen from the group consisting of -0-, -S- or -NR-, wherein R is an aliphatic or aromatic group which does not interfere with polymerization. 

 PBZ polymers, their chemical structure, their properties and their synthesis are described in depth in numerous references such as 11 Ency. Poly. Sci & Eng.,Polybenzothiazoles and Polybenzoxazoles, 601 (J. Wiley& Sons 1988); Wolfe et al., Liquid Crystalline PolymerCompositions and Process and Products, U.S. Patent4,703,103 (October 27, 1987); Tsai et al., Method forMaking Heterocyclic Block Copolymer, U.S. Patent4,578,432 (March 25, 1986); Wolfe et al., Liquid Crystalline Poly(2,6-Benzothiazole) Compositions,Process and Products, U.S. Patent 4,533,724 (August 6, 1985); Wolfe, Liquid Crystalline Polymer Compositions, Process and Products, U.S. Patent 4,533,693 (August 6, 1985) and Wolfe et al., Liquid Crystalline Polymer Compositions and Process and Products, U.S. Patent 4,533,692 (August 6, 1985).It is known in the art to synthesize PBZ poly¬ mers by the reaction of a first monomer comprising:(1) a first aromatic group (Ar^);(2) a first o-amino-basic moiety bonded to said first aromatic group, which o-amino-basic moiety contains:(a) a primary amine group bonded to the first aromatic group; and(b) a hydroxy, thio or amine group bonded to the first aromatic group in ortho position with respect to the primary amine group;(3) an azole-forming group bonded to the first aromatic group which is either a second o-amino-basic group or an "electron-deficient carbon group," 

 and a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A process for synthesizing a di-aromatic ether, thioether or amine wherein one aromatic group is bonded to an azole ring, said process comprising the step of contacting:
(1) an azole-containing compound having:
(a) an azole ring;
(b) an aromatic group bonded to the 2-carbon of said azole ring; and
(c) a leaving group bonded to said aromatic group in a position such that it is activated by said azole ring,
and
(2) a displacing compound having:
(a) an organic moiety which is not electron-withdrawing and which is inert with respect to all reagents under reaction conditions;
(b) a nucleophilic moiety linked to said organic moiety which nucleophilic moiety is a nitrogen atom having a hydrogen atom or an inert organic 


 substituent, or an oxygen atom, or a sulfur atom; and
(c) a counter-moiety bonded to said nucleophilic moiety which can easily be removed therefrom,
under conditions such that the counter-moiety is removed from the nucleophilic moiety and an ether, thioether or amine linkage is formed between the aromatic group of the azole-containing compound and the organic moiety of the displacing compound.
2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the aromatic group of the azole-containing compound comprises no more than about 10 carbon atoms and the leaving group of the azole-containing compound is bonded to the aromatic group in ortho or para position with respect to the azole ring.
3. The process of Claim 2 wherein the azole ring is an oxazole or thiazole ring and the leaving group is a halogen atom or an aryloxy group.
4. The process of Claim 3 wherein the nucleophilic moiety is an oxygen atom or a sulfur atom.
5. The process of Claim 4 wherein the aromatic group of the azole-containing compound is a single six- membered ring.
6. The process of Claim 5 wherein the counter- moiety of the nucleophilic moiety is an alkali metal ion. 


 7. The process of Claim 6 wherein the process is carried out in a solvent capable of dissociating the alkali-metal ion from the nucleophilic moiety.
8. The process of Claim 5 wherein the process takes place in the presence of an activating compound suitable for nucleophilic aromatic displacement reactions.
9. The process of Claim 5 wherein counter- -moiety of the displacing compound is a trialkylsilyl moiety.
10. The process of Claim 9 wherein the reaction takes place in the presence of a catalytic amount of alkali metal halide salt.
11. The process of Claim 10 wherein the process takes place in a polar organic solvent.
12. The process of Claim 11 wherein the temperature of the process is between 140°C and 400°C.
13. The process of Claim 12 wherein the product ether, thioether or amine is produced in yields of at least about 80 percent.
14. The process of Claim 5 wherein the process takes place in the presence of a stoichiometric amount of strong base.
15. The process of Claim 14 wherein the reaction takes place in a polar, aprotic solvent. 


 16. The process of Claim 14 wherein the activating compound is an alkali metal hydroxide, carbonate or phenate.
17. The process of Claim 16 wherein the counter-moiety of the displacing compound is a hydrogen atom or a trimethylsilyl moiety.
18. The process of Claim 17 wherein the temperature of the process is between 140°C and 400°C.
19. The process of Claim 18 wherein the product ether, thioether or amine is produced in yields of at least about 80 percent.
20. The process of Claim 5 wherein the leaving group is a chlorine or fluorine atom.
21. The process of Claim 20 wherein the leaving group is a fluorine atom.
22. A process for synthesizing non-rigid-rod PBZ polymer comprising polymerizing, under conditions suitable for nucleophilic substitution reactions, one or more difunctional monomers, each said monomer independently containing:
(1) an organic moiety which is inert with respect to all reagents under reaction conditions; and
(2) two reactive groups selected, such that a polymer is formed, from the class consisting of:
(a) azole-containing groups having: an azole ring bonded to said organic moiety, an 


 aromatic group bonded to the 2-carbon of said azole ring, and a leaving group bonded to said aromatic ring in a position where it is activated by said azole ring; and
(b) displacing groups having: a nucleophilic moiety, which nucleophilic moiety is a nitrogen atom having a hydrogen atom or inert organic substituent or an oxygen atom or a sulfur atom, bonded to said organic moiety; and a counter-moiety bonded to said 0 nucleophilic moiety,
whereby a non-rigid-rod PBZ polymer is formed.
23. A compound comprising: 5
(1) a first aromatic group;
(2) an azole ring fused to said first aromatic group; 
Q
 (3) a second aromatic group bonded to the
2-carbon of said azole ring;
(4) a leaving group bonded to said second aromatic group in a position where it is activated by said azole ring; 5 (5) a nucleophilic moiety, which nucleophilic moiety is a nitrogen atom having a hydrogen atom or inert organic substituent or an oxygen atom or a sulfur atom, linked to said first aromatic group in a position not ortho to 0 the 4- or 5-carbon of the azole ring; and
(6) a counter-moiety, as previously defined, bonded to said nucleophilic moiety. 


 24. A compound comprising:
(1) an unfused first aromatic group (Ar'), which comprises two aromatic moieties (Ar^
a
 and Ar^
D
) linked by a bond or a divalent linking moiety (D) which is inert with respect to nucleophilic aromatic substitution;
(2) a first azole ring fused with one aromatic moiety (Ar^
a
) of said unfused first aromatic group, and a second azole ring fused with the other aromatic moiety (Ar'
b
) of said unfused first aromatic group;
(3) a second aromatic group (Ar
2
) bonded to the 2-carbon of said first azole ring and a third aromatic group (Ar ) bonded to the 2- carbon of said second azole ring; and
(4) a first leaving group bonded to said second aromatic group and a second leaving group bonded to said third aromatic group.
25. A PBZ polymer synthesized by polymerizing, under conditions suitable for nucleophilic substitution reactions, one or more difunctional monomers, each said monomer independently containing:
(1) an organic moiety which is inert with respect to all reagents under reaction conditions; and
(2) two reactive groups selected, such that a polymer is formed, from the class consisting of: 


 (a) azole-containing groups having: an azole ring bonded to said organic moiety, an aromatic group bonded to the 2-carbon of said azole ring, and a leaving group bonded to said aromatic ring in a position where it is activated by said azole ring; and
(b) displacing groups having: a nucleophilic moiety, which is an oxygen atom, a sulfur atom or a nitrogen atom, bonded to said organic moiety; and a counter-moiety bonded to said nucleophilic moiety,
whereby a non-rigid-rod PBZ polymer is formed.
26. A thermoplastic polymer comprising a plurality of repeating units which contain:
(1) a first aromatic group;
(2) an azole ring fused to said first aromatic group;
(3) a second aromatic group bonded to the 2-carbon of said azole ring; and
(4) an oxygen, sulfur or nitrogen atom bonded by single bonds to said second aromatic group and to the first aromatic group of an adjacent unit.
27. A molecular composite comprising the polymer of Claim 26 and a rigid rod PBZ polymer.
28. A non-rigid-rod PBZ polymer comprising ether, thioether, or amine linkages which contains essentially no mineral acid or mineral acid residue, 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[receivedby the Int-ernational Bureau on 1 July 1992 (01.07.92); original claims 1-28 replacedby amended claims 1-9
(3 pages)]
1. A process for synthesizing a non-rigid-rod PBZ polymer comprising the step of reacting monomers that are represented by any one of the Formulae:
wherein:
(i) each L is a halogen atom, an alkoxy group, an aryloxy group or a nitro group; (il) each Z is -0-, -S- or -NR-;
(iii) R is H, an alkyl group or an aromatic group; (iv) each Ar is an aromatic group; and (v) D is a bond or a divalent linking moiety,
with monomers that are represented by the Formula:
Y-Nu-A-Nu-Y
wherein:
(i) A is a divalent organic moiety;
(ii) each Nu is any one of -0-, -S- or -NR-; and
(iii) each Y is a counter-moiety,
under conditions such that Y Is removed from Nu and a 


 2. A process for synthesizing a non-rigid-rod PBZ polymer comprising the step of reacting monomers that are represented by the Formula:
wherein
(i) each Ar is an aromatic group;
(ii) Z and Nu are each independently -0-, -S- or
-NR-; (iii) R is a hydrogen atom, an aromatic group or an aryl group; (iv) L is a halogen, an alkoxy group, an aryloxy group or a nitro group; and (v) Y is a counter-moiety,
under conditions such that Y is removed from Nu and a polymer is formed.
3. A process as described in any one of Claims 1 or 2 wherein Z and Nu are each independently any one of -0- or -S-.
4. A process as described in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein Y is an alkali metal ion.
5. A process as described in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein Y is a trialkylsilyl moiety.
6. A process as described in Claim 5 wherein the reaction occurs in the presence of an alkali metal halide salt or a base. 


 7. A process as described in any one of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein Y is a hydrogen atom.
8. A process as described in Claim 7 wherein the reaction is carried out in the presence of a base in a polar aprotic solvent.
9. A process as described in any one of the preceding Claims which is carried out at a temperature of 140°C to 400°C. 

STATEMENTUNDERARTICLE19
The International Search Report indicated that all claims lacked either novelty or inventive step - except for Claim 22, which claimed a polymerization process using the nucleophilic displacement reaction. The amendments eliminate all claims, except for claims to the polymerization process. The original claim 22 is now broken down into two independenc claims (Claims 1 and 2) which contain a more specific definition of the monomers that are used. The amendments also provide several dependent claims for Claims 1 and 2. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
