<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618664</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Linear electromagnetic driving apparatus and use of same for lens adjustment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B710	H02K41035	G02B710	H02K41035	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	H02K	G02B	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B7	H02K41	G02B7	H02K41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A linear electromagnetic driving apparatus includes a substantially rectangular 
tube-shaped magnetic yoke comprised of outer (9) and inner (10) frame plates spaced 

apart to form a gap (11) with at least one magnet (16) secured to an outer (9) or inner 
(10) frame plate to generate magnetic flux. A bobbin (14) supporting a coil (24) 

which extends in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the magnetic yoke 
(8,9,10) is positioned in the gap (11). A driven member (12,13) is secured to and 

coaxial with the bobbin (14) and has openings (35) to receive the inner frame plates 
(10) of the yoke such that when the coil (24) is energized to move the bobbin (14) in 

the gap (11), the inner frame plates (10) extend into and through the bobbin (14) and 
into and through the openings (35) of the driven member (12,13). A fixed shaft (4a) 

extends parallel to the longitudinal axis of the yoke; and a bearing (18a) secured to the 
bobbin structure and extending outwardly therefrom receives and is slidable on the 

fixed shaft (4a). At least one of the corners formed on the rectangular tube-shaped 
yoke (8,9,10) is cut out to define an open portion through which the bearing (18a) 

passes so as to be unobstructed as the bobbin (14) slides within the yoke. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORIMO SHINICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAKAMOTO SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ORIMO, SHINICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAKAMOTO, SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electromagnetic driving apparatus and, more 
particularly, to such apparatus which exhibits compact size, is of light weight and 
finds ready application in a camera to adjust the lenses therein, such as for zooming 
and/or focusing purposes. Motor-driven lenses for zooming and/or focusing have been designed for 
photographic cameras, video cameras, electronic still cameras, and the like. In one 
arrangement, a motor is used to drive a worm screw on which is mounted a lens 
holder, resulting in bidirectional movement of the lens. This structure is relatively 
large, bulky, heavy and complex; and typically is used to provide gross movements (as 
opposed to fine movements) of the lens. Consequently, apparatus of this type has 
been used heretofore to implement a motor-driven zoom operation, but typically not a 
motor-driven focusing operation. Other motor-drive arrangements which can be used both for zooming and 
focusing employ what has come to be known as a voice coil motor. One example of a 
motor-driven lens assembly which incorporates a voice coil motor is described in U.S. 
Patent 5,220,461, assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Another example 
of a motor-driven lens assembly which incorporates a voice coil motor is illustrated in 
accompanying Figs. 1 and 2. This assembly finds particular application in the lens 
barrel of a video camera, such as the type shown in Fig. 3. In the lens assembly of Fig. 
1, a fixed lens, referred to as a forward lens unit 120, cooperates with a zoom lens 121 
which is driven by a stepping motor 122. An image from zoom lens 121 passes 
through a diaphragm unit 123 to a focusing lens unit 125. The combination of zoom 
lens 121 and diaphragm 123 typically is referred to as a zoom unit 126. Focusing unit 
125 is comprised of a fixed lens 124, a movable unit 103 which includes a lens whose 
position is adjusted to effect proper focusing and a fixed unit 102 supported within a 
casing 101. Units 102 and 103 in combination comprise a voice coil motor, as will be 
described. Movable unit 103 includes bearing members slidable on shafts 104a and 
104b which are mounted in casing 101 and extend in a direction parallel to the 
longitudinal axis of the voice coil motor.  
 Stepping motor 122 is used to vary the position of zoom lens 121 over a 
relatively wide range so as to effect a zoom function to provide both telephoto and 
wide-angle imaging. The range of movement of unit 103 is relatively small in 
comparison to that of stepping motor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Linear electromagnetic driving apparatus comprising stator means (2) 
including a substantially rectangular tube-shaped magnetic yoke (8,9,10) comprised 

of outer frame plates (9), inner frame plates (10) spaced from and facing said outer 
frame plates to form a gap (11) therebetween, a connecting member (8) for connecting 

the outer and inner frame plates and providing a magnetic flux path therethrough and 
at least one magnet (6) secured to one of said outer and inner frame plates to generate 

said magnetic flux, said rectangular tube-shaped magnetic yoke having a longitudinal 
axis and also having corners, at least one of said corners being cut out to define an 

open portion; movable means (3) slidable within said gap (11) between said outer and 
inner frame plates and including a drive member comprised of a bobbin (14) 

positioned within said gap (11) and a coil (24) wound on said bobbin and extending in 
a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis, a driven member (12,13) secured to and 

coaxial with said bobbin (14) and having openings (35) to receive said inner frame 
plates (10) of said yoke means such that when said coil (24) is energized to move said 

movable means (3) in said gap (11), said inner frame plates (10) extend into and 
through said bobbin (14) and into and through the openings (35) of said driven 

member; a fixed shaft (4a,4b) extending parallel to said longitudinal axis of the 
rectangular tube-shaped magnetic yoke; and bearing means (18a) secured to said 

movable means (3) and extending outwardly therefrom substantially perpendicular to 
said longitudinal axis and passing through the open portion of said at least one comer 

of said rectangular tube-shaped magnetic yoke, said bearing means (18a) receiving 
and being slidable on said fixed shaft (4a). 
The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said yoke is further comprised of an 
annular frame member (41) coupled to end portions of said outer (9) and inner (10) 

frame plates remote from said connecting member (8), said annular frame member 
(41) providing a magnetic flux connection between said outer and inner frame plates 

and establishing a magnetic flux path therethrough.  
 
The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising position detecting means (22) 
coupled to said movable means (3) for detecting the position of said movable means 

relative to said stator means (2). 
The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein said position detecting means comprises 
a magnet (22) and a sense coil (34), one of which is fixed and the other of which is 

secured to said bearing means (18a) and is positioned externally of said rectangular 
tube-shaped magnetic yoke (8,9,10), whereby movement of said movable means (3) 

results in relative movement between the magnet (22) and sense coil (34) of said 
detecting means. 
The apparatus of Claim 4, wherein said sense coil (34) is fixedly positioned 
externally of said rectangular tube-shaped magnetic yoke (8,9,10) and the magnet 

(22) of said detecting means is secured to said bearing means (18a) opposite said sense 
coil (34) and movable therepast. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 or 2, wherein said outer frame plates (9) form a 
substantially rectangular outer frame structure, said inner frame plates (10) form a 

substantially rectangular inner frame structure, each of said inner and outer frame 
plates having a respective surface parallel to said longitudinal axis and forming a 

respective pair of frame plates, and one magnet (6) being secured to one surface of 
each pair of said frame plates. 
The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein each magnet (6) is disposed in said gap 
with one surface thereof secured to one of the frame plates of a respective pair and the 

other surface thereof facing the other frame plate of said pair. 
The apparatus of Claim 7, wherein each magnet exhibits a thickness Lm 
(mm), a length Wm (mm) extending in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis 

and a residual flux density Br (Tesla); wherein the gap has a length Lg (mm); the 
average residual flux density of said magnets is Brx (Tesla) and the average length of 

said magnets is Wmx (mm); and wherein (Lm/Lg) x (Br/Brx) x (Wm/Wmx) ≥ 0.05.  
 
The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said outer frame plates are integral with 
said connecting member, the latter having a substantially rectangular opening the 

perimeter of which is secured to said inter frame plates. 
The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein said driven member is suspended from 
said bobbin in a radially inward direction. 
The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a second fixed shaft parallel 
to the first-mentioned shaft, and second bearing means secured to said movable 

means and extending outwardly therefrom, passing through the open portion of 
another corner of said rectangular tube-shaped magnetic yoke, and receiving said 

second fixed shaft. 
The apparatus of Claim 11, wherein said first and second fixed shafts are 
disposed externally of said rectangular tube-shaped magnetic yoke. 
Electromagnetically driven focussing apparatus comprising an apparatus according to any 
preceding claim, wherein the driven member secured to said bobbin is a lens holding 

means for holding a lens. 
Electromagnetically driven focussing apparatus according to claim 13 when appended to claim 7, 
wherein each magnet exhibits a thickness Lm (mm), a length Wm (mm) 

extending in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis and a residual flux density Br 
(Tesla); wherein the gap has length Lg (mm); and wherein (Lm/Lg) x (Br/0,8) x 

Wm/20)≥0.05. 
A camera comprising an apparatus according to claim 13 or 14, for moving the lens. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
