<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620925</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REMOTE FIBER OPTIC ELECTRICAL SWITCH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B635	G02B635	G02B642	G02B642	G02B2608	G02B2608	H01H3500	H01H3500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B26	G02B26	H01H35	H01H35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIRELESS CONTROL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WIRELESS CONTROL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEFEVRE DONALD KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULALLY DANIEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEFEVRE, DONALD, KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MULALLY, DANIEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLERemote Fiber Optic Electrical SwitchBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates in general to electrical switches and, more specifically, to a remote switching system using a single fiber optic to carry the switching signal.Conventionally, switches having at least two insulated metal wires are used to connect switches to electrical devices, such as lights, motors, fans, heaters or the like, to allow the device to be turned on and off.In new construction, the wires are extended through walls, requiring cutting holes through studs, and threading the wires therethrough. There is always a danger that someone, during construction or later, may insert screws or nails into the wall, drill holes, etc. and contact the wires, resulting in a shock and fire hazard. Also, conventional electrical switches present a shock hazard in wet environments, such as laundry areas, bathrooms, kitchens and outdoors. Since there is a small arc in most switches, they also present a hazard in explosive environments such as industrial sites and areas where oxygen is used, such as in hospitals.In remodeling of rooms or adding new electrical devices, adding switches with insulated metal wires between the new switches and devices is expensive and difficult, requiring fishing wires through existing, covered, walls. In some cases, switches are desired on thin partition walls or solid masonry walls where the wiring cannot be hidden. The use of surface mounted wires or loose extension cords is both visually undesirable and a safety hazard.Attempts have been made to use thin wires taped to the wall for remote switches. However, because of the required insulation and required wire diameter, the surface mounted wires are very apparent and unattractive. Also, the wires are subject to damage, such as during moving of furniture, resulting in both an electrical shock and fire hazard._ Recently, a number of small hand-held remote controls using a radio frequency or infrared signal sent to a receiver at the 

 device to be controlled have been developed. These are very effective in a number of applications, such as the control of audio or video entertainment equipment. They are, however, less successful in applications such as the control of room lights and similar permanent devices. Generally, these remote controls require a receiver mounted at the device, such as at an electrical outlet between a lamp plug and the outlet. These senders and receivers tend to be expensive and prevent the normal lamp switch from being used. Also, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS:
1. A remote fiber optic switch system for controlling an electrical device which comprises: a single optical fiber adapted to extend from a first remote location to a second location at an electrical device to be switched between on and off states; an emitter at said second location adapted to introduce light into said optical fiber; a detector at said second location adapted to receive light from said optical fiber; an optical switch assembly comprising a self-aligning retroreflector at said first location and means for moving said retroreflector into and out of a first position for reflecting a high percentage of the light emitted by said fiber back into said fiber to said detector and for preventing reflection of light emitted by said fiber back into said fiber; and means for changing the operating state of said electrical device in response to the receipt of light at said detector.
2. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said means for moving said retroreflector includes means for continuously moving said retroreflector from a first position preventing reflection of light emitted from the fiber back into said fiber, through a second position aligned with the fiber end for reflecting light emitted by said fiber back into said fiber to said detector and a third position preventing reflection of the light emitted by said fiber back into said fiber whereby a pulse of light passes back through said fiber to said detector while said retroreflector is aligned with said fiber end.
3. The fiber optic switch according to claim 2 further including a plurality of optical fibers extending from said detector to a plurality of said switches, each comprising one of said retroreflectors and associated means for moving said reflectors, whereby any of said switches can change the state of said electrical device.
4. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said means for moving said retroreflector includes means for moving said retroreflector between a first position preventing 


 reflection of light emitted from the fiber back into said fiber and a second position aligned with the fiber end for reflecting light emitted by said fiber back into said fiber to said detector whereby the operating state of said electrical device is changed in response to the receipt or non-receipt of light at said detector.
5. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said retroreflector is a sheet bearing a plurality of small retroreflecting areas, said areas comprising spherical lens retroreflectors.
6. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said fiber is axially bonded to a length of tape adapted to be bonded to a wall surface between said switch and device being controlled.
7. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said electrical device is a mechanical manual switch connected to an additional electrical device spaced from said mechanical switch, and includes means permitting either said fiber optic switch or said mechanical switch to control said additional electrical device.
8. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 further including at least one fiber optic coupler connecting at least one additional optical fiber to said optical fiber, and an additional optical switch connected to each additional optical fiber.
9. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said emitter is a light emitting diode.
10. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 further including a fiber optic coupler at said second location for coupling two fibers to said single fiber, one optically connected to said emitter and the other optically connected to said detector.
11. The fiber optic switch according to claim 8 wherein said single optical fiber includes a plurality of substantially parallel fibers, which carry the emitter signal to said switch and which carry the return signal to said detector.
12. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said 


 fiber optic comprises a bundle of individual fibers, said bundle being divided at said first location, with a first portion of said bundle aligned with said detector and the remaining portion of said bundle aligned with said detector.
13. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said emitter and detector are abutting along a line, with the end of said fiber aligned with said line, so that about half of the fiber is operatively engaged with each of said emitter and detector.
14. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said optical fiber has a diameter of from about 0.003 to 0.10 inch.
15. The fiber optic switch according to claim 1 wherein said retroflector is a sheet bearing a plurality of small retroflecting areas, said areas comprising cube-corner retroflectors.
16. A remote fiber optic switch system for controlling an electrical device which comprises: a single optical fiber adapted to extend from a first remote location to a second location at an electrical device to be switched between on and off states; an emitter at said second location adapted to introduce light into said optic fiber; a detector at said second location adapted to receive light from said optical fiber; an optical switch assembly comprising: a self-aligning retroflector at said first location; and means for continuously moving said retroflector from a first position preventing reflection of light emitted from said fiber back into said fiber, through a second position aligned with said fiber end for reflecting light emitted by said fiber back into said fiber to said detector and a third position preventing reflection of the light emitted by said fiber back into said fiber; whereby a pulse of light is passed back through said fiber to said detector while said retroflector is aligned with said fiber end; and 


 means for changing the operating state of said electrical device in response to the receipt of said light pulse at said detector.
17. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 wherein said fiber retroflector is a sheet bearing a plurality of small retroflecting areas, said areas comprising retroflectors selected from a group consisting of cube-corner retroflectors and spherical lens retroflectors.
18. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 wherein said fiber is axially bonded to a length of tape adapted to be bonded to a wall surface between said switch and device being controlled.
19. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 wherein said electrical device is a mechanical switch connected to an electrical device spaced from said mechanical manual switch, and includes means permitting either said fiber optic switch or said mechanical switch to control said additional electrical device.
20. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 further including at least one fiber optic coupler connecting at least one additional optical fiber to said optical fiber, and an additional optical switch connected to each additional optical fiber.
21. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 wherein said emitter is a light emitting diode.
22. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 further including a fiber optic coupler at said second location for coupling two fibers to said single fiber, one optically connected to said emitter and the other optically connected to said detector.
23. The fiber optic switch according to claim 22 wherein said single optical fiber includes a plurality of substantially parallel fibers, which carry the emitter signal to said switch and which carry the return signal to said detector.
24. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 wherein said fiber optic comprises a bundle of individual fibers, said bundle being divided at said first location, with a first portion of said bundle aligned with said detector an the remaining 


portion of said bundle aligned with said detector.
25. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 wherein said emitter and detector are abutting along a line, with the end of said fiber aligned with said line, so that about half of the fiber is operatively engaged with each of said emitter and detector.
26. The fiber optic switch according to claim 16 wherein said optical fiber has a diameter of from about 0.003 to 0.10 inch. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
