<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630455</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STABILIZED CENTER-SHOULDER-SEALED TUBULAR CONNECTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L1500	F16L1506	F16L1500	E21B1702	E21B17042	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L15	F16L15	F16L15	E21B17	E21B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention pertains to a tubular connection (100) having a stabilized center-shoulder seal (104). The stabilization of the center-shoulder seal is achieved using at least one run-out section (114, 110) of thread adjacent to the center-shoulder seal configuration of each connection member. The run-out section of thread is typically used in combination with a run-in section of thread on the corresponding connection member. Preferably, the center-shoulder seal configuration of each connection member is positioned between a run-out thread section and a run-in thread section. (The corresponding connection member will comprise the corresponding sections of run-in and run-out threads, respectively, so there is an interengaging set of run-in and run-out threads). Even more preferably, in addition to the connection having one set of run-out and run-in thread sections adjacent to the center-shoulder seal, the connection has a second set of run-out and run-in threads adjacent to the exterior edges of the connection (A double run-out, run-in stabilization of the center-shoulder seal). The double set of run-out, run-in sections of thread provides the most stable connection. The most preferred center-shoulder seal design is a "locked double shoulder" design (119), wherein the cross section of the assembled center-shoulder area exhibits an interlocking double shoulder configuration. The most preferred thread profile is a single hook thread profile wherein the load flank angle is a negative angle and the stab flank angle is about zero degrees. The preferred thread profile comprises chamfered stab flanks at least at locations which will come into contact upon initial telescoping of a connection pin member into a connection box member. The thread is typically a variable width thread having a progressively increasing thread width throughout a continuous section of thread.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARUBENI TUBULARS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARUBENI TUBULARS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEMENTICH ERICH F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEMENTICH, ERICH, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to tubular connections of the kind commonly used
in the oil industry. In particular, the tubular connection of the present invention
comprises a stabilized center-shoulder seal, wherein stabilization is provided by
specialized thread constructions adjacent the center-shoulder seal. The invention also
pertains to a specialized center-shoulder seal design. Further, the invention pertains to
a thread profile which provides a self-centering function upon makeup of the tubular
connection. This thread profile can be used with the stabilized center-shoulder seal
connection as well as other connection designs known in the art.The present invention is applicable broadly for use in joining pipes, couplings and
the like, and has particularly been developed for use in oil industry tubular connections,
since these connections experience more severe and demanding conditions than those
observed for other industries and applications. In particular, the trend in the oilfield is
to minimize pipe diameter and to conserve borehole diameter. The smaller the diameter
of the borehole for the well, the greater the conservation of energy and reduction of
drilling costs. However, in utilizing smaller diameter pipe, it is important that the
connections between adjacent tubular pipes be transparent in geometry and performance
characteristics, i.e. the geometry and performance characteristics of the connection be
substantially the same as that of the tubular pipe itself. Preferably, the pipe string should
behave as if the pipe connections were not there. The ideal connection would have the
same geometry as the pipe, such as the same inside and outside diameters, and would
have the same performance characteristics such as tension rating, compression rating,
internal and external pressure ratings, torsion resistance, and bending resistance, for
example. Two types of oilfield connections, namely flush joints and slim line connections,
have been utilized to conserve hole diameter. The outer diameter of a flush joint
connection is generally the same as the outside diameter of the tubular pipe. The outside
diameter of a slim line connection is generally 2 to 3.5% greater than that of the pipe.
Although the objective of such prior art pipe has been to achieve total geometric and
performance characteristic transparency, such has not been possible. Often, the
performance characteristics of pnor art pipe have been sacrificed to achieve greater
geometric transparency.Various standards have been set for evaluating
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tubular connection comprising:

at least two connection members;
each said connection member including at least two
threaded sections of threads having stab and load flanks

and a centre shoulder disposed between said at least two
threaded sections;
said centre shoulders engaging to form a centre
shoulder seal configuration; characterised by:
said at least two threaded sections including at least
one run-out thread section present on each connection

member and engaging threads on the other connection member;
said at least one run-out thread section being
adjacent said centre shoulder seal configuration; and
said centre shoulders being arranged to form a centre
shoulder seal configuration having a plurality of sealing

surfaces.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein said
threads are variable width threads having progressively

increasing thread width, and the thread crests of the
threads are wider than the adjacent thread roots.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein said centre
shoulder seal configuration comprises a locked double

shoulder configuration.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein said centre
shoulder seal configuration is a hook shoulder with a

frustum seal.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein said
threads have a negative load flank angle from nearly a zero

degree angle to an angle of about 3 degrees and a
positive stab flank angle from zero degrees to about 2

degrees. 
A connection according to claim 1, further including
a chamfered stab flank for centring one connection member

with respect to the other connection member.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein said at
least two threaded sections include full height threads

with the stab flank of said full-height threads being
chamfered.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein each said
connection member includes a run-in thread section opposite

said run-out thread section on the other connection member.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein each said
connection member includes a full-height thread section

opposite said run-out thread section on the other
connection member.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein said
connection members each have trailing ends and further

include at least one additional run-out thread section
between said centre shoulder seal configuration and said

trailing end of each connection member.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein each said
connection member includes a leading terminal end and a

trailing end, said run-out thread section being a first
run-out thread section located between said centre shoulder

seal configuration and said leading terminal end, and each
said connection member further including a second run-out

threaded section adjacent the trailing end of each
connection member and run-in threaded sections on each

connection member located opposite said first and second
run-out threaded sections on the other connection member.
A connection according to claim 1, wherein: 

said at least two connection members include a first
member having a first centre shoulder and a second member

having a second centre shoulder;
said first centre shoulder including a first shoulder
and a first undercut surface and said second centre

shoulder including a second shoulder and a second undercut
surface.
A connection according to claim 12, wherein at least
one of said first and second shoulders sealingly engages

one of said first and second undercut surfaces.
A connection according to claim 12, wherein said first
shoulder includes a first exterior sealing surface and said

first undercut surface includes a first interior sealing
surface; said second shoulder includes a second exterior

sealing surface and said second undercut surface includes
a second interior sealing surface; whereby at least one of

said first exterior sealing surfaces forms a metal-to-metal
seal with one of said first and second interior sealing

surfaces.
A connection according to claim 14, wherein said first
and second exterior and interior sealing surfaces are

formed by bevelled surfaces.
A connection according to claim 12, wherein said first
and second undercut surfaces each have a portion thereof

which interferingly engages said second and first shoulders
respectively.
A connection according to claim 12, wherein said first
shoulder and first undercut surface form a first surface

extending therebetween and said second shoulder and second
undercut surface form a second surface extending

therebetween, and a seal being formed between said first
and second surfaces. 
A connection according to claim 12, wherein said first
member further includes a first interior ramp surface

extending from said first undercut surface and a first
exterior ramp surface extending from said first shoulder

and said second member further includes a second interior
ramp surface extending from said second undercut surface

and a second exterior ramp surface extending from said
second shoulder, at least one of said first and second

exterior ramp surfaces interferingly engaging one of said
first and second interior ramp surfaces.
A connection according to claim 18, wherein said first
and second connection members include ramp surfaces for

aligning and guiding said first and second exterior ramp
surfaces into sealing engagement with said second and first

interior ramp surfaces respectively.
A method of stabilizing a tubular connection having at
least two connection members, each with a centre shoulder,

the method characterised by the steps of:

threading a run-out thread section on one of the
connection members located between its centre shoulder and

leading terminal end with a thread section on the other
connection member;
threading a run-out thread section on the other
connection member located between its centre shoulder and

leading terminal with a thread section on the one of the
connection members; and,
engaging the centre shoulders to form a seal between
the two connection members, the seal having a plurality of

sealing surfaces.
The method of claim 20, wherein the thread sections
threading with the run-out thread sections are run-in

thread sections.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
