<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647285</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A CURVED SUCTION BOX APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D21F148	D21F200	D21F200	D21F152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D21F	D21F	D21F	D21F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D21F1	D21F2	D21F2	D21F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A curved suction box apparatus (34) is disclosed for guiding a web (W) towards a nip (N) of a nip press (32). The apparatus includes an initial shoe (36) which is disposed upstream relative to the nip (N), the shoe defining a convex surface (46) for guiding the web (W). A box (40) is disposed downstream relative to the initial shoe (36) for guiding the web (W) from the initial shoe (36). The box (40) is connected to a partial vacuum (42).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELOIT TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BELOIT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRONIN DENNIS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRONIN, DENNIS, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a papermaking machine 
press section comprising a pick-up apparatus for 
guiding a web towards a press nip defined by a pair of cooperating rolls or a nip 
of an extended nip press. More particularly, the present invention relates to a curved suction 
box apparatus which avoids the need for suction rolls or the like. In a press section of a papermaking machine, a suction pick-up roll is 
usually provided for transferring a formed web from a fourdrinier wire onto 
a press felt such that the press felt guides the formed web towards a 
downstream pressing nip. Also, when the formed web is supported beneath the 
aforementioned press felt for guidance towards a nip press, the web is 
preferably subjected to a flow of steam prior to passage of the formed web 
tnrough the nip.  
 More particularly, the steam is usually applied directly to the surface 
of the web by means of a steam box or the like. A vacuum box is disposed 
on the opposite side of the web for extracting excess steam from the web. More specifically, when heat is applied to a formed web supported 
on a press felt such as by the application thereto of steam, the viscosity 
and surface tension of the water within the web is reduced and the fibers 
within the web are softened and are hence easier to compact, due to the 
increased temperature thereof. Such decreased viscosity and fiber 
softening facilitates removal of additional quantities of water from the web 
while strengthening the web during subsequent pressing of the web 
through the nip press. However, the provision of a suction pick-up roll or the provision of 
one or more vacuum rolls in the vicinity of the steam box involves 
considerable expense during manufacture thereof. For example, a suction 
roll may require 600 man hours for drilling the roll shell thereof. Also, such 
roll requires the provision of relatively complex internal sealing glands and 
the like. Therefore, it is not unusual for a suction roll to cost $1 million or 
more.  
 EP-A-0 253 508 discloses a stationary couch device 
which is to be used in the forming section. US-A-3 992 254 discloses a structure for facilitating 
separation of a web and a wire in a twin-wire former by 
application of steam. In Figure 1 there is shown a prior art papermaking 
machine press section according to the preamble of claim 1. 
More specifically, Figure 1 shows a papermaking machine 
press section comprising a nip press and a pick-up 
apparatus disposed upstream of said nip press for guiding 
the paper web
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A papermaking machine press section comprising a 
nip press (32A) and a pick-up apparatus (34;34') disposed 

upstream of said nip press (32A) for guiding a web (WA) towards 
a nip (NA) of said nip press (32A), characterized in that 

said pick-up apparatus is a curved suction box apparatus 
(34;34') comprising: 


initial shoe means (36) disposed upstream relative to 
the nip (NA), said shoe means (36) defining a convex 

surface (38) for guiding the web (WA); 
a box means (40) disposed downstream relative to said 
initial shoe means (36) for guiding the web (WA) from said 

initial shoe means (36), said box means (40) being 
connected to a partial vacuum means (42); 
said initial shoe means (36) including: 
a solid shoe (54) having an initial curved surface 
(56) for guiding the web (WA); 
a further shoe (58) disposed downstream relative to 
said solid shoe (54), said further shoe (58) having a 

further curved surface (60), said further curved surface 
(60) defining a plurality of perforations (48-50) which 

extend from said further curved surface (60) to a variable 
source of partial vacuum (52) such that the web (WA) is 

drawn towards said further curved surface (60); 
said box means (40) including: 
a perforate surface (68) which is connected to a 
partial vacuum means (42) such that the web (WA) is drawn 

towards said perforate surface (68) during movement of the 
web (WA) past said perforate surface (68); 
a first compartment (70) disposed adjacent to said 
initial shoe means (36), said first compartment (70) being 

connected to a first source of partial vacuum of said  
 

partial vacuum means (42) for drawing the web (WA) towards 
said perforate surface (68); 
a second compartment (74) disposed downstream relative 
to said first compartment (70), said second compartment 

(74) being connected to a second source of partial vacuum 
of said partial vacuum means (42) for assisting in drawing 

the web (WA) towards said perforate surface (68); 
said perforate surface (68) further including: 
an upstream perforate closure (78) which cooperates 
with said first compartment (70); and 
a downstream perforate closure (80) which cooperates 
with said second compartment (74), the arrangement 

permitting the application of a differential vacuum level 
to said upstream closure (78) relative to said downstream 

closure (80). 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 1, characterized in that said initial shoe means (36) 

is of ceramic material. 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 1, characterized in that said suction box apparatus 

(34), further includes: 

a framework (62) defining a dove-tail shaped extension 
(64); 
said solid shoe (54) defining a cross-machine 
directional undercut groove (66) which cooperates with said 

dove-tail shaped extension (64) from removably securing 
said solid shoe (54) to said framework (62). 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 1, characterized in that said perforate surface (68) 

is flat. 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 1, characterized in that where said perforate surface 

(68B) is convex.  
 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 1, characterized in further including:
 
   a further shoe means (44) disposed downstream relative 

to said box means (40), said further shoe means (44) 
defining a further convex surface (46) for guiding the web 

(WA) from said box means (40) towards the nip (NA). 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 6, characterized in that said further shoe means (44) 

is of ceramic material. 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 6, characterized in that said further shoe means (44) 

defines a plurality of channels (82, 83, 84) which extend 
from said further convex surface (46) to a partial vacuum 

source (42) for guiding the web (WA) towards the nip (NA). 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth in 
claim 6, characterized in that said suction box apparatus 

(34) further includes: 

a first shower (88) for supplying lubricant to the web 
(WA) between said further shoe means (44) and said box 

means (40); 
a second shower (90) for supplying lubricant to the 
web (WA) between said upstream and said downstream closures 

(78, 80); 
a third shower (92) for supplying lubricant to the web 
(WA) between said box means (40) and said initial shoe 

means (36). 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that said suction box 

apparatus (34) further includes:
 
   a shower means (94) for supplying lubricant to the web 

(WA) between said solid shoe (54) and said further shoe 
(58) .  

 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth 
in claim 9 or claim 10, characterized in that said 

lubricant is water. 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that said suction box 

apparatus (34) further includes:
 
   a flood shower (96) disposed upstream relative to said 

initial shoe means (36) for continuously supplying water 
for lubricating and cooling said apparatus (34), said flood 

shower (96) being disposed between said initial shoe means 
(36) and the web (WA). 
A papermaking machine press section as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that said suction box 

apparatus (34) further includes:
 
   steam application means (26A) disposed adjacent to said 

box means (40) such that the web (WA) is disposed between 
said application means (26A) and said box means (40) so that 

upon application of steam from said steam application means 
(26A) to the web (WA), such steam (S) reduces the viscosity 

of water within the web (WA) to assist removal of such 
water during subsequent pressing in the nip press (32A), 

excess steam being drawn through the web (WA) and being 
extracted through said box means (40). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
