<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652504</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for determining if a data packet is addressed to a computer within a network.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F100	G06F100	G06F1300	G06F1300	G06F1516	G06F1516	G06F15163	H04L1212	H04L1212	H04L1226	H04L1226	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F13	G06F13	G06F15	G06F15	G06F15	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system is disclosed that allows a computer system within a network 
environment to determine whether a data packet is to be processed by a 

particular computer system. This is accomplished through an address 
matching scheme that provides for an LED indication that the computer is to 

utilize the data packet provided by the network. In so doing, the system 
provides more capability to the computers on a network to operate more 

efficiently. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBSON GLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBSON, GLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed toward a computer network and more 
particularly to determine if a particular computer is receiving data on such a 
network. Ethernet controllers have traditionally supported a plurality of light 
emitting diode (LED) indicators. These indicators have generally been 
associated with ethernet controller cards that are plugged into personal 
computers utilized within the network. These LED indicators are generally 
utilized for diagnostics purpose to determine if the controller is functioning 
properly. Accordingly, the LED indicators are utilized to determine if a controller 
card is transmitting, receiving, detecting collision, polarity and link status. In a 
typical network environment, when a signal is provided from one computer to 
another on a network, the other computer on the network receive this same 
data and the receive LED indicator on all the computers on the network will be 
activated. Oftentimes, there are other reasons, that it is important for a particular 
computer to have an indication that a data packet is being transmitted on the 
network that must be processed by the particular computer. For example in 
some environments it is important that the power be conserved when the 
computers are utilized in such networks. Power management schemes are 
known that are utilized directly within a personal computer. A power 
management scheme is one that conserves power by putting the computer in  
 
a 'sleep' mode allowing it to only draw enough power to maintain information 
in its memory. Even though the computer is on, it is almost completely 
inactive. This 'sleep' mode can be triggered either manually or automatically, 
for example, when the computer remains idle for a predetermined amount of 
time. However, there are presently no power management schemes related to 
the detection of network activity or the like. Thus, whenever there are network 
activities on the network, all computers within the network will be turned on (or 
'awoke'), that is, taken out of the 'sleep' mode, regardless of whether the 
network activities are addressed to any specific computer within the network. Hence, there is a long-felt but unsatisfied need to provide a system for 
allowing a controller on a computer within a network to determine if a data 
packet has arrived that the computer is to process. The present invention 
addresses such a need. A system is disclosed which allow for determining whether a particular 
data packet is to be addressed to a computer system within a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining if a data packet is addressed to a 
computer system in a network, the computer system having an address, the 

data packet comprises a plurality of addresses indicating which computer 
systems in the network the data packet is intended to be addressed, the 

method comprising the steps of: 

(a) determining if a data packet has been received; 
(b) determining if one of the addresses on the data packet 
matches the address of the computer system if an information has been 

received; and 
(c) providing a first signal if one of the addresses on the 
data packet matches the address of the computer system. 
The method as recited in Claim 1 further comprises a step of 
turning on a first LED in response to the first signal to indicate that one of 

the addresses on the data packet matches the address of the computer 
system. 
The method as recited in Claim 1 further comprises a step of 
turning on the computer system from a sleep mode in a power management 

scheme in response to the first signal when one of the addresses on the 
data packet matches the address of the computer system. 
The method as recited in Claim 1 in which if no data packet 
has been received, the method further comprises the step of: 
(a1) repeating step (a) to (c) until a data packet has been 
received. 
The method as recited in Claim 4 in which if none of the 
addresses on the data packet matches the addresses of the computer 

system, the method further comprises the steps of: 

(b1) providing a second signal if none of the addresses on 
the data packet matches the address of the computer system; and 
(b2) repeating step (a) to (c). 
The method as recited in Claim 5 further comprises a step of 
turning on a second LED in response to the second signal to indicate that a 

data packet has been received and that none of the addresses on the data 
packet matches the address of the computer system 
A method for determining if a data packet is addressed to a 
computer system in a network, the computer system having an address, the 

data packet comprises a plurality of addresses indicating which computer 
systems in the network the data packet is intended to be addressed, the 

method comprising the steps of: 

(a) determining if a data packet has been received; 

(a1) repeating step (a) if no data packet has been received 
(b) determining if one of the addresses on the data packet 
matches the address of the computer system if an information has been 

received; 
(c) providing a first signal if one of the addresses on the 
 

data packet matches the address of the computer system; 
(d) turning on a first LED in response to the first signal to 
indicate that a data packet has been received; 
(e) providing a second signal and repeating step (a) to (b) if 
none of the addresses on the data packet matches the address of the 

computer system; and 
(f) turning on a second LED in response to the second 
signal to indicate that a data packet has been received and that none of the 

addresses on the data packet matches the address of the computer system. 
The method as recited in Claim 7 further comprises a step of 
turning on the computer system from a sleep mode in a power management 

scheme in response to the first signal when one of the addresses on the 
data packet matches the address of the computer system. 
A network controller for determining if a data packet is 
addressed to a computer system in a network, the computer system having 

an address, the data packet comprises a plurality of addresses indicating 
which computer systems in the network the data packet is intended to be 

addressed, the network controller comprising: 
   a register means for receiving the data packet; 

   a memory means for storing the address of the computer 
system; and a comparator means coupled to the register 

means and the memory means for providing a first signal if one of the 
addresses of the data packet matches the address of the computer system 

and for providing a second signal if none of the addresses match the 
 

address of the computer system. 
The network controller as recited in Claim 9 further comprises: 
   a first logic means responsive to the first signal for turning on 

a first LED to indicate that one of the addresses on the data packet matches 
the address of the computer system. 
The network controller as recited in Claim 10 further comprises: 
   a second logic means responsive to the second signal for 

turning on a second LED to indicate that none of the addresses on the data 
packet matches the address of the computer system. 
The network controller as recited in Claim 9 further comprises: 

   a first logic means responsive to the first signal for turning on a 
first LED to indicate that one of the addresses on the data packet matches 

the address of the computer system, the first logic means also responsive to 
the second signal for turning on a second LED to indicate that none of the 

addresses on the data packet matches the address of the computer system. 
The network controller as recited in Claim 9 further comprises: 
   a third logic means responsive to the first signal for turning on 

the computer system from a sleep mode in a power management scheme 
when one of the addresses on the data packet matches the address of the 

computer system. 
A network controller for determining if a data packet is 
 

addressed to a computer system in a network, the computer system having 
an address, the data packet comprises a plurality of addresses indicating 

which computer systems in the network the data packet is intended to be 
addressed, the network controller comprising: 

   a register means for receiving the data packet; 
   a memory means for storing the address of the computer 

system; 
   a comparator means for 

   providing a first signal if one of the addresses on the 
data packet matches the address of the computer system, and 

   providing a second signal if none of the addresses on 
the data packet matches the address of the computer system; 

   a first logic means responsive to the first signal for turning on a 
first LED to indicate that one of the addresses on the data packet matches 

the address of the computer system; and 
   a second logic means responsive to the second signal for 

turning on a second LED to indicate that none of the addresses on the data 
packet matches the address of the computer system. 
The network controller as recited in Claim 14, wherein the first 
and second logic means are identical. 
The network controller as recited in Claim 14 further comprises: 
   a third logic means responsive to the first signal for turning on 

the computer system from a sleep mode in a power management scheme 
when one of the addresses on the data packet matches the address of the 

 
computer system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
