<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612865</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Chlor-alkali diaphragm electrolysis process and relevant cell
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C25B134	C25B908	C25B100	C25B906	C25B900	C25B1508	C25B900	C25B1500	C25B146	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	C25B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C25B1	C25B9	C25B1	C25B9	C25B9	C25B15	C25B9	C25B15	C25B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a process of chlor-alkali electrolysis carried out in a 
diaphragm cells comprising pairs of interleaved anodes (B) and 

cathodes, said cathodes being provided with openings and 
coated with a porous diaphragm resistant to corrosion, at 

least part of said anodes (B) being provided with hydrodynamic 
means (D) to produce circulation of the anodic brine, said 

cell having inlets (M) for feeding the fresh brine, and 
outlets for the removal of produced chlorine (H), hydrogen 

and caustic, the improvement comprising controlling the oxygen 
content in the chlorine and the chlorate concentration in the 

caustic independently from the said fresh brine introduced and 
from the concentration of the said brine by adding an aqueous 

solution of hydrochloric acid to the brine in the anodic 
compartment of the cell through a distributor (C) positioned 

over the hydrodynamic means (D). 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DE NORA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DE NORA S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENEGHINI GIOVANNI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAINI CARLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENEGHINI, GIOVANNI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAINI, CARLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The control of the amount of oxygen in chlorine produced by 
the electrolysis of brine in a diaphragm electrolytic cell is 
a serious problem. The oxygen content in chlorine is a direct 
function of the amount of caustics that back-migrate through 
the diaphragm from the cathodic compartments to the anodic 
compartments. In addition, the reaction of caustics with 
chlorine allows for the production of hypochlorite in the 
brine. As the brine flows through the diaphragms in the 
cathodic compartment to form a solution of caustic and sodium 
chloride, it is evident that this solution is polluted with 
the chlorates produced by the dismutation of hypochlorite 
favored by the high operation temperature. Back-migration of 
caustics, which is unavoidable with diaphragm cells, is 
further enhanced by depletion of brine close to the diaphragm. 
For this reason an improved operation of diaphragm cells was 
obtained by installing onto the anodes of said cells a 
hydrodynamic means described in U.S. patent No. 5,066,378. In 
fact, said means allow for high internal recirculation of  
 
brine, thus efficaciously avoiding the formation of low 
concentration areas. The hydrogen content in the produced chlorine is a further 
serious problem affecting the diaphragm cells. According to 
the current knowledge, one of the causes for hydrogen in 
chlorine is the presence of iron in the feed brine. Iron is 
reduced at the cathodes with consequent growth of dendrites of 
metal iron or conductive oxides such as magnetite. When tipes 
of the dendrites come out of the diaphragm on the brine side, 
they behave as tiny cathodic areas able to produce hydrogen 
directly in the anodic compartment. In is an object of the invention to provide an improved 
process for the electrolysis of brine with complete control of 
the oxygen content in the chlorine, of the chlorates in the 
produced caustic and of the formation of hydrogen in the 
anodic compartments. In is an object of the invention to provide an improved 
diaphragm electrolysis cells suitable for the process of the 
invention.  
 These and other objects and advantages of the invention 
will become obvious from the following detailed description. The novel process of the invention for the electrolysis of 
brine to produce chlorine in a diaphragm cell provided with 
pairs of interleaved anodes and cathodes, the cathode being 
provided with openings and coated with a porous diaphragm 
resistant to corrosion, the anode being either expandable or 
non-expandable, at least a portion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process of chlor-alkali electrolysis carried out in a 
diaphragm cell, comprising pairs of interleaved anodes (B) and 

cathodes, said cathodes being provided with openings and 
coated with a porous diaphragm resistant to corrosion, the 

anodes (B) being either expandable or non-expandable, at least 
part of said anodes (B) being provided with hydrodynamic means 

(D) to produce recirculation of the anodic brine, said cell 
having inlets (M) for feeding the fresh brine, and outlets for 

the removal of produced chlorine (H) and hydrogen and caustic, 
caracterized in that it comprises controlling the oxygen 

content in the chlorine and the chlorate concentration in the 
caustic independen
tly from the 
flow rate of 

said fresh brine introduced and 
from the concentration of the said brine by adding an aqueous 

solution of hydrochloric acid to the brine in the anodic 
compartment of the cell through at least one distributor (C) 

positioned over said hydrodynamic means (D). 
The process of claim 1 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is a tube positioned beneath the level (P) of 

the brine in the cell. 
The process of one of claims 1 or 2 characterized in that said 
hydrodynamic means (D) are positioned with their longitudinal  

 
axis in an orthogonal way with respect to the electrode 

surfaces of the anodes (B). 
The process of one of claims 1 or 2 characterized in that the 
hydrodynamic means (D) are positioned with their respective 

longitudinal axis parallel to the electrode surface of said 
anodes (B). 
The process of one of claims 1 to 4 characterized in that each anode 
(B) is equipped with one hydrodynamic means (D). 
The process of one of claims 1 to 5 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is oriented with its longitudinal axis in an 

orthogonal way with respect to the electrode surface of said 
anodes (B). 
The process of one of claims 1 to 5 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is oriented with its longitudinal axis 

parallel with respect to the electrode surface of said anodes 
(B). 
The process of one of claims 1 to 7 characterized in that a 
distributor (C) is provided to each of said hydrodynamic 

means (D).  
 
The process of one of claims 1 to 8 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is a tube having perforations in 

correspondence to each of said hydrodynamic means (D). 
The process of one of claims 1 to 9 characterized in that the amount 
of added hydrochloric acid is sufficient to neutralize the 

amount of back-migrating caustic to keep constant the pH value 
of said anodic brine in the range of 2.0-3.0. 
The process of one of claims 1 to 10 characterized in that the amount 
of hydrochloric acid is sufficient to maintain the oxygen 

level in the chlorine less that 0.5% (volume) and of the 
chlorate in the produced caustic less than 0.2 g/l. 
The process of one of claims 1 to 11 characterized in that the amount 
of added hydrochloric acid is sufficient to increase the 

current of the cell by at least 2% with respect to the typical 
value of the same cell under the same operating conditions 

without the addition of the acid. 
The process of one of claims 1 to 12 characterized in that the fresh 
brine contains iron in a concentration higher than 0.01 g/l. 
A diaphragm cell for chlor-alkali electrolysis, 
comprising pairs of interleaved anodes (B) and cathodes, said 

cathodes being provided with openings and coated with porous  
 

diaphragms resistant to corrosion, said anodes (B) being 
either expandable or non-expandable, at least part of said 

anodes being provided with hydrodynamic means (D) to promote 
circulation of anodic brine, the cell also having an inlet (M) 

for feeding fresh brine and outlets for removing chlorine (H) 
and hydrogen and caustic, characterized in that the cell has 

at least one distributor (C) for acid positioned over said 
hydrodynamic means (D) to control the pH of the anodic brine. 
The cell of claim 14 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is a tube positioned beneath the level (P) of 

the brine in the cell. 
The cell of one of claims 14 or 15 characterized in that said 
hydrodynamic means (D) are positioned with their longitudinal 

axis in an orthogonal way with respect to the electrode 
surfaces of said anodes (B). 
The cell of one of claims 14 or 15 characterized in that said 
hydrodynamic means (D) are positioned with their longitudinal 

axis parallel with respect to the electrode surfaces of the 
anodes (B). 
The cell of one of claims 14 to 17 characterized in that each anode 
(B) is equipped with one hydrodynamic means (D).  

 
The cell of one of claims 14 to 18 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is oriented with its longitudinal axis in an 

orthogonal way with respect to the electrode surfaces of the 
anodes (B). 
The cell of one of claims 14 to 18 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is oriented with its longitudinal axis in 

parallel with respect to the electrode surfaces of said anodes 
(B). 
The cell of one of claims 14 to 20 characterized in that a distributor 
(C) corresponds to each of said hydrodynamic means (D). 
The cell of one of claims 14 to 21 characterized in that the 
distributor (C) is a tube with perforations in correspondence 

to each of said hydrodynamic means (D). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
