<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612934</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Planetary type speed reducer having compound planets and method of constructing such planets.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25J910	B25J910	B25J1700	B25J1700	B25J1900	B25J1900	F16H128	F16H128	F16H136	F16H146	F16H5700	F16H5708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25J9	B25J9	B25J17	B25J17	B25J19	B25J19	F16H1	F16H1	F16H1	F16H1	F16H57	F16H57	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A planetary type speed reducer provides a 
large central hole for passing electric and service 

lines for a robot therethrough. The speed reducer may 
be used in either a self-motorized or an externally-motorized 

rotary joint. In a predetermined embodiment, 
the speed reducer includes a cylindrical carrier and 

multiple compound gear planets which are rotatably 
mounted on their respective shafts so
me of which, in 
turn, are eccentrically mounted on the carrier. A 

method for manufacturing the gear planets is also 
provided. Each of the gears has two sections or parts 

which are shifted angularly relative to each other and 
are adapted to engage adjacent fixed output gears of the 

rotary joint. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC ROBOTICS NORTH AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC ROBOTICS NORTH AMERICA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKEEL HADI A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLOSKY STAN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKEEL, HADI A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLOSKY, STAN H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is related to an application 
entitled "Motorized Rotary Joint And Method Of Constructing 
A Modular Robot Utilizing Same" having the 
same filing date and assignee as the present application. This invention relates to planetary type speed 
reducers and, in particular, to planetary type speed 
reducers having compound planets. Speed reducers such as cycloidal and harmonic 
drive speed reducers have been used extensively for 
robot joints. In modules incorporating such speed 
reducers, the joint bearing is occasionally integrated 
with the speed reducer. However, such speed reducers 
have not fully supported the particular needs of robot 
construction. For example, it is desirable that the 
robot joint be hollow to pass cables and service lines 
through the joints from a base to serially connected 
joints of the robot arm and finally to its end effector. 
It is also desirable to avoid the duplication of bearings 
at the joints wherein the robot joint, the speed 
reducer, and possibly a motor which drives the speed 
reducer, have their own independent bearings.  Robots are also subjected to occasional 
overloads resulting from interference with peripheral 
equipment. Such interferences could damage the robot 
and render it inoperable unless the robot joints and 
reducers have inherently high overload carrying capacities. 
Furthermore, the robot operation under tight 
servo controls demands a robot joint having minimal 
backlash and high stiffness. Robot construction also 
benefits from the integration of components to simplify 
manufacturing, assembly, and maintenance and reduce 
robot cost. Some commercial speed reducers offer some of 
these advantages. For example, rotary vector reducers, 
known as RV reducers, and harmonic drives can be integrated 
into the robot joints and share common bearings. 
RV reducers also have low backlash and high overload 
carrying capacity and can be provided with a small 
center hole. However, the RV reducer is heavy in 
weight, costly, and does not offer a hollow center core 
large enough to be of appreciable value. Harmonic 
Drives have excessive backlash, low overload capacity, 
and, do not provide a hollow center. Both drives have 
very limiting motor mounting options. Custom reducers, 
utilizing gear trains, can be built to provide the 
required characteristics but at undesirably high costs, 
or, with excessive compliance. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,601,216 and 2,150,540 to 
Inoue et al and Chilton, respectively, disclose hollow 
reduction gears.  U.S. Patent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A planetary type speed reducer adapted to 
be integrated in a robotic rotary joint, the speed 

reducer comprising: 
   a cylindrical carrier adapted to be coupled to 

a prime mover and having a central hole extending 
completely therethrough along a central axis of rotation, 

the carrier having an outside dimension and an 
inside dimension; and 

   a plurality of compound gear planets rotatably 
mounted on the carrier about the circumference of the 

carrier, wherein each gear planet includes axially 
adjacent sections having teeth adapted to be coupled to 

reaction and output gears, respectively, of the rotary 
joint, and wherein the reaction and output gears are 

rotatable relative to one another, and wherein the 
carrier provides a central hollow core for passing 

service lines therethrough parallel to the central axis 
of rotation, and wherein the inside dimension is relatively 

large in relation to the outside dimension to 
permit a relatively large number and sized service lines 

therethrough. 
The speed reducer as claimed in claim 1 
wherein the teeth of one section have a form different 

from the form of the teeth of the other section. 
The speed reducer as claimed in claim 1 
further comprising a carrier driving element drivingly 

coupled to the carrier for driving the carrier. 
The speed reducer as claimed in claim 3 
wherein the carrier driving element is a gear. 
The speed reducer as claimed in claim 1 
wherein the carrier has an axially extending base 

portion and radially extending spaced apart side wall 
portions and wherein the gear planets are mounted to the 

carrier for rotation between the side wall portions. 
A method for constructing compound gear 
planets for a planetary gear reducer having output and 

reaction gears, each of the gear planets including two 
sections having teeth, the teeth of one section being 

angularly phased relative to the teeth of the other 
section about a common central axis, the method comprising 

the steps of: 

   mounting the two sections on a common axis so 
that both of the sections butt against each other; 

   orienting the two sections relative to each 
other with a predetermined angular phase shift between 

the teeth of the sections; and 
   joining the two sections so that the two 

sections rotate together. 
The method of claim 6 wherein the two 
sections are joined to each other. 
The method of claim 6 wherein the two 
sections are mounted on and joined to a common axle at 

opposite ends of the common axle to allow the common 
axle to provide angular compliance between the two 

sections and hence allowing for load sharing among 
compound gear planets engaging a common reaction gear 

and a common output gear. 
The method of claims 6 or 7 wherein the 
step of joining is accomplished with a bonding compound. 
The method of claims 6, 7 or 8 wherein 
the step of joining includes the step of welding. 
The method of claim 10 wherein the step 
of welding is accomplished with an electron beam. 
The method of claim 10 wherein the step 
of welding is accomplished with a laser beam. 
The method of claim 8 wherein said axle 
is a hollow sleeve. 
A method for constructing a plurality of 
identical planet groups for a planetary gear reducer 

having output and reaction gears, each of the groups 
including compound gear planets, each of the gear 

planets including two gear sections having teeth, the 
teeth of one section being angularly phased relative to 

the teeth of the other section about a common central 
axis, the method comprising the steps of: 

   providing the two gear sections of each gear 
planet with a number of guideways equally angularly 

spaced around its common central axis such that the 
number of guideways of each gear planet is a multiple of 

the number of gear planets in one of the planet groups, 
and wherein the number of teeth of each gear section is 

not a multiple of the number of gear planets in one of 
the planet groups; 

   aligning the two gear sections of each gear 
planet such that the guideways in each section are 

aligned and the teeth of the two gear sections are 
angularly phased relative to each other; and 

   inserting at least one shear element into the 
aligned guideways of each gear planet wherein the at 

 
least one shear element of each gear planet engages both 

gear sections so that the gear sections rotate together. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the 
guideways define a splined hollow along the common 

central axis. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the at 
least one shear element is a mechanical key mounted on 

a shaft that fits the splined hollow. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the at 
least one shear element is a splined shaft. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the 
guideways are equally angularly spaced holes cut axially 

into the butting surfaces of the two gear sections and 
the at least one shear element is a shear pin. 
The method of claim 14 wherein the 
guideways are radial keyways and the at least one shear 

element is a mechanical key. 
The method of any of claims 14 through 19 
wherein the output and reaction gears have a number of 

teeth and wherein the number of teeth of either the 
output or reaction gears is a multiple of the number of 

planet groups. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
