<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0293525</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUORESCENT LIGHTING SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J6504	H01J6504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J65	H01J65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrodeless fluorescent lighting device is disclosed comprising 
an outer bulb (22) coated internally with a fluorescent coating (20) which 

fluoresces when impinged by ultraviolet radiation generated in the bulb by 
an excitation means (12) which accelerates electrons within a toroidal 

chamber (14), filled with an ionizable gas which emits ultraviolet radiation 
under bombardment with electrons. The electrons are accelreated within 

the toroidal gas filled chamber by a coil (18) which generates an enclosed 
magnetic field, an induced electrical field, and a radiating electrical field, 

where the induced electrical field is substantially parallel and in the same 
direction as the magnetic field. Both the magnetic and induced electrical 

fields are applied at substantially the same frequency for accelerating and 
directing electrons for collision with gas composition atoms contained 

within a closed contour gas housing (14). An electrostatic shield (26) 
earthed at (28) is provided surrounding the excitation mechanism (12) to 

contain the radiating electrical field within the bulb (22). In a second 
embodiment, the toroidal gas chamber is omitted, and the ionizable gas is 

simply contained within the bulb (22). Ballast (30) provides an operating 
frequency in the range 0.1 to 50 Megahertz. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTENT PATENTS A.G.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANLET, JACQUES MARIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to fluorescent type lighting systems. Fluorescent lighting systems are well known. In general, 
conventional fluorescent lighting systems comprise a fluorescent lighting 
tube containing a mixture of noble gases such as neon, argon, and possibly a 
secondary gas such as mercury, and provided with a pair of filament 
electrodes which are coated with a material having the property of readily 
emitting electrons when heated. When electrical current is introduced such 
filaments heat up and emit electrons with the filaments alternatively acting 
as an anode and a cathode. In such prior art fluorescent tubes, extremely 
high voltages between the electrodes are required in order to initiate the 
noble gas discharge. Thus, such prior art fluorescent lighting systems 
require high initial input of electrical energy and further necessitate the use 
of starters and ballasts for initiation of the self-sustaining discharge. 
Utilisation of such systems provides for a complicated system and increases 
the cost expenditures for production of such systems. Also in general, conventional fluorescent lighting systems require a 
fluorescent tube which is linearly or arcuately extended and which is of a 
specified diameter. The diameters for such fluorescent tubes are selected 
for efficient operation. Thus, such prior art fluorescent tubes are restricted 
in their design as a function of operation efficiency. In conventional fluorescent type lighting tubes, during each cycle of 
operation, the electrons flow in a single direction creating a concentration 
at one end of the prior art fluorescent tube which allows ions to recombine 
on the wall of the tube with the electrons they capture, and instead of 
recombining to produce radiation, energy is lost on the wall of the tube. 
Thus, such prior art systems provide for a limitation as to the minimum 
diameter since a very small diameter would increase the occurrence of the 
recombination of electrons with ions without the production of ultraviolet 
radiation. Prior art fluorescent type systems are also limited in operating 
efficiency due to the re-absorption of ultraviolet radiation by the metallic 
gas composition material. As photons of ultraviolet radiation are emitted 
with the collision of electrons and ions, the photons may be attenuated by 
the metallic gas. Thus, the limitation is related to the distance that the 
photons must travel and this in effect limits the maximum diameter of such  
 
prior art fluorescent lighting systems. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fluorescent lighting device, comprising:
 
   an outer bulb (22) translucent to visible light and coated internally 

with a fluorescent coating (20) capable of converting ultraviolet radiation 
impinging thereon into visible light;
 
   an ionizable inert gas composition contained within the bulb and 

capable of emitting the ultraviolet radiation when bombarded with 
electrons; and
 
   means (12) for generating electrons within the bulb and accelerating 

the electrons into the inert gas composition to generate the ultraviolet 
light, the electron generating and accelerating means comprising a toroidal 

coil (18; 18") for generating an enclosed magnetic field, an induced electric 
field substantially parallel and in the same direction as the enclosed 

magnetic field and a radiating electric field orthogonal to the enclosed 
magnetic field, the magnetic field and induced electric field being produced 

at substantially the same frequency for accelerating and directing the 
electrons for collision with the gas composition;
 
   characterised by:
 
   a hollow, solid-walled toroid (14; 14') which is within the outer bulb, 

which encloses the ionisable inert gas composition, and about which the 
toroidal coil is wound; and
 
   an electrostatic shield member (26) located within the bulb and 

substantially encompassing the toroidal coil for containing the radiating 
electric field. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to claim 1, characterised in 
that the electric field induced by the toroidal coil accelerates said electrons 

and the magnetic field produced by the toroidal coil directs said electrons in 
a predetermined helical path. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to claim 1, characterised by 
at least one permanent magnet (42, 44) for establishing a substantially 

constant magnetic field substantially orthogonal to said enclosed magnetic 
field.  

 
A fluorescent lighting device according to claim 3, characterised by a 
pair of such permanent magnets which are disc shaped magnets (42, 44) 

located within the internal diameter of the toroidal coil (18; 18'; 18"). 
A fluorescent lighting device according to any one of claims 1-4, 
characterised in that said ionizable inert gas composition is totally enclosed 

within the toroid (14; 14'), which is constructed of a material which is 
translucent to ultraviolet radiation. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to claim 5, characterised in 
that the space within the bulb (22) external to the gas-containing toroid (14, 

14') is evacuated. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to claim 5 or 6, characterised 
in that the toroidal coil (18; 18") is constructed of copper or silver. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the electrostatic shield (26) is a perforate metallic 

screen connected to earth. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to any preceding claim, 

characterised in that the coil (18; 18") is electrically coupled to a ballast 
means (30) for electrically driving the toroidal coil at a predetermined 

frequency. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to claim 9, characterised in 
that said predetermined frequency is in the range 0.1 to 50 Megahertz. 
A fluorescent lighting device according to claim 10, characterised in 
that said predetermined frequency is about 10 Megahertz. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
