<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0090065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method of delivering depolarization mix into a dry cell can.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M406	H01M410	H01M604	H01M608	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	H01M6	H01M6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A battery assembly apparatus (10) comprises a device 
(12) for delivering depolarization mix into a dry cell can (11). 

Another device (40) inserts a carbon rod (42) into the de足
polarizing mix in the dry cell can (11). A mix washer inser足

tion device (60) consolidates the depolarizing mix by push足
ing a mix washer (66) against the depolarizing mix. In an 

alternative embodiment, the invention entails the provision 
of a battery assembly apparatus and method comprising a 

device (12) for delivering depolarization mix into a dry cell 
can (11). A mix washer insertion device (60) inserts a mix 

washer (66) into said dry cell above the depolarizing mix. 
Next, a device (40) inserts a carbon rod (42) into the dry cell 

can (11) containing the depolarizing mix and the mix wash足
er. Then another device (60) consolidates the depolarizing 

mix in the dry cell can (11) containing the carbon tod (42) and 
mix washer (66). 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WONDER CORP OF AMERICA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WONDER CORPORATION OF AMERICA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUB LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHUB, LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

APPARATUS AND   METHOD    OF DELIVERING DEPOLARIZATION MIX
 INTO A DRY   CELL    CAN
Field of the Invention
An apparatus and a method for producing dry cell batteries.


   Descri#tion    of the Prior Art
While the invention is subject to a wide range of applications, it is especially suited for use as an apparatus and method for making dry cells and will be particularly described in that connection.


In producing dry cell batteries of substantially uniform performance characteristics and of a uniform quality, it is necessary to place a uniform quantity of depolarizing mix in each cell can and to compact the mix uniformly. It is also desirable to discharge most of the air from the can so that it will not create internal resistance in the cell can.


The general technique of construction a dry cell battery follows. A paper liner is formed and inserted into a cell can.


Next a paper washer is inserted into the can. This washer is initially positioned in the can near its upper opened end. The side walls of the cup-shaped washer have sufficient inherent   elasticity b    force the paper liner into close proximity with the inner wall of the can as the washer is moved downward into the can. After the washer is placed into the can, the can is advanced over an extruder nozzle until the end of the nozzle reaches nearly to the bottom of the can. This movement pushes the washer to the bottom of the can as explained in   Us-Patent   
No. 3.198.221 to Orlando. The nozzle delivers into the can, by way of example,   aidepolarizing    mix of manganese dioxide, conductive carbon, suitable electrolyte salts, such as  ammonium chloride and zinc chloride and enough water to make a pasty mass as required.


The extruder nozzle is formed of a relatively thin-walled tube with an outside diameter nearly the same as the internal di-ameter of the can. The can is supported by a spring-biased support device which allows the can to move off the nozzle against the force of the spring as the depolarizing mix enters into the can.


More specifically, when the pressure created by the depolarizing mix being delivered to the can reaches the spring pressure, the can moves back off the nozzle as further mix enters the can. Means are provided so that the can stops moving just before the last of the mix is delivered to the can. The last of the mix, delivered to the can after its movement has been arrested, causes a consolidation of the material in the can to a desired pressure and predetermined height.


In using the extruder as described
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:



1. A battery assembly apparatus (10) characterised by (a) means (12) for delivering depolarizing mix to a dry cell
 can (11), (b) means (40) for inserting a carbon rod (42) into a dry cell

 can (11) containing depolarizing mix, and (c) mix washer insertion means (60) for reconsolidating said de
 polarizing mix with the insertion of a mix washer (66) after

 said carbon rod (42) has been inserted.



2. A battery assembly apparatus, characterised by (a) means (12) for delivering depolarizing mix into a dry cell
 can (11), (b) mix washer insertion means (60) for inserting a mix washer

 (66) into said dry cell can (11) above said depolarizing mix, (c) means (40) for inserting a carbon rod (42) into the dry cell
 can (11) containing said depolarizing mix and said mix washer,

 and (d) means (60) for consolidating said depolarizing mix in the
 dry cell can (11) containing said carbon rod (42) and mix

 washer (66).



3. The battery assembly apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein said mix washer insertion means (60) includes compression means (64) for supporting the bottom of the can (11) and allowing the can to move as the mix washer (66) is inserted into the can.



4. The battery assembly apparatus of claim 3, wherein said compression means (64) includes a compression body (79) having a bore (82), a plunger (80) reciprocally received in said bore (82), biasing means (98) in said compression body (79) for biasing said plunger (80) towards said can (11).



5. The battery assembly apparatus of claim 4, wherein said biasing means (98) is a spring disposed between said plunger (80) and said compression body (79).  



6. The battery assembly apparatus of claim 4, wherein said compression means (64) includes adjustment means (96) for changing the bias of said biasing means (98).



7. The battery assembly apparatus of claim 3, characterised in that said washer insertion means (60) includes a mix washer insertion device (62) disposed opposite said compression means (64) for inserting a mix washer (66) into the top of said can (11).



8. The battery assembly apparatus of claim 7, characterised by means for moving the dry cell can from the means (12) for delivering depolarizing mix to the means (40) for inserting a carbon rod to the mix washer insertion means (60).



9. The battery assembly apparatus of claim 2, wherein said means (60) for consolidating said depolarizing mix includes a plunger means (74) disposed opposite said compression means (64) for pushing said mix washer (66) against said depolarizing mix, and said plunger means (74) has a core for receiving the carbon rod (42) during the consolidation of the mix.



10. The method of delivering depolarizing mix into a dry cell can comprising the steps of: (a) delivering a depolarizing mix into a dry cell, (b) inserting a carbon rod into the dry cell can, (c) inserting a mix washer against the depolarizing mix, and (d) reconsolidating the depolarizing mix with said mix washer.



11. The method of delivering depolarizing mix into a dry cell can comprising the steps regardless of order of: (a) delivering depolarizing mix into a dry cell can, (b) inserting a carbon rod into the depolarizing mix in said
 dry cell can, and (c) consolidating said depolarizi ng mix by pushing a mix

 washer against said depolarizing mix.  



12. The method of delivering depolarizing mix into a dry cell can comprising the steps of: (a) delivering a depolarizing mix into a dry cell can, (b) inserting a carbon rod into the dry cell can containing
 depolarizing mix, and (c) inserting a mix washer into the depolarizing mixfilled dry

 cell can and against the depolarizing mix, while exerting
 a bias against and supporting the bottom of said can while

 also allowing said can to move as said mix washer is inser
 ted into said can, so that said mix washer contacts, pushes

 against and uniformly reconsolidates said depolarizing mix
 to the proper density,

 whereby the mix washer inserting step is performed prefer
 ably so that the bias is exerted against the bottom of the

 can by compressing the bottom of the can utilizing a com
 pression body having a bore, a plunger reciprocally received

 in said bore, 

 and biasing means in said compression body for
 biasing said plunger towards said can. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
