<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652554</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method of texturing the surface of a brittle material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2600	G11B584	G11B562	B23K2600	C03C2300	G11B582	C03C2300	G11B582	G11B584	G11B573	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	G11B	G11B	B23K	C03C	G11B	C03C	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K26	G11B5	G11B5	B23K26	C03C23	G11B5	C03C23	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process is disclosed for creating an array of bumps to texture a 
brittle surface, such as a glass substrate 12 for data recording disks. 

The texturing process uses a laser 10 to provide pulses of proper energy 
fluence to the brittle glass surface to produce a plurality of raised 

bumps in the surface. The bump creation is accomplished without 
unwanted micro-cracking or ejection of surface material by limiting the 

laser pulse fluence to a value in a narrow operating region discovered 
below the abrupt thermal shock fluence threshold for the brittle surface 

material. The process is also applicable to other brittle surface 
textures, such as those intended for use as "stamping surfaces" for the 

contact reproduction of the negative of a surface pattern, such as an 
optical disk. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the texturing of a surface of
a brittle material, such as a glass substrate for a magnetic data
storage disk substrate, and more specifically to such methods which
irradiate the surface in order to texture it.Recent magnetic disk drive designs employ a commonly denominated
Contact Start-Stop (CSS) system in which the magnetic head contacts the
magnetic disk surface when the disk is stationary. When the disk starts
to rotate, the magnetic head slides along the surface, eventually flying
fully lifted from the surface because of laminar air flow at the disk
surface.A smooth, specular recording surface is preferred in the art to
permit the magnetic head to ride as closely as possible to the disk
surface. Creation of a "textured" region on the metallic disk surface
for magnetic head contact during CSS is used in the art to overcome the
excessive contact stiction and friction developed during startup and
stopping of disk rotation. The magnetic head is moved to the "CSS
region" at the appropriate times by the drive controller. The specular
smoothness of the remainder of the disk surface is retained to permit
high-density magnetic data recording.Several useful techniques for texturing metal disk surfaces have
been proposed. For instance, the use of repetitive laser pulses to
create reproducible pits on a metal surface is known for application to
sheet-metal stamping surfaces, liquid transfer surfaces and metal data
storage disk surfaces, as discussed in the "Procedure Employing a diode-pumped
laser for controllably texturing a disk surface", US application
150525 (SA9-93-005), filed 10 November 1993 by the applicant of the
present application, and a copy of which is filed herewith.
Unfortunately, such techniques are not generally useful for texturing of
brittle nonmetallic disk substrate surfaces such as the glass substrate
known in the art for certain data storage disk applications. A brittle
nonmetallic surface, especially a glass surface, is expected to crack or
deform excessively during the grinding or laser texturing techniques
known in the art for metal disk substrates. Accordingly, chemical 
surface texturing techniques and other patterned deposition techniques
are preferred in the art for brittle surfaces such as ferrite or glass.For instance, in U.S. patents 5,079,657 and 5,162,073, Michael I.
Aronoff et al. disclose a selective chemical etching technique for
texturing the flying surface of a magnetic head. Aronoff et al. teach a
stiction-reducing approach that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of texturing the surface (14) of a brittle glass material
by irradiating the surface with radiant energy at a plurality of

locations, and characterised in that said radiant energy is a short laser pulse having a fluence f
p

at each surface location, wherein said fluence f
p
 is less than the thermal shock
threshold for the brittle glass material, such that a bump is formed at

each surface location, with said bump having a maximum bump diametral dimension
d
d
 and rising to a maximum height h
d
 above said surface.
The method of claim 1 wherein said radiant energy comprises a pulse
of laser energy E
p
 having a duration t
p
 and a focused spot having a
maximum diametral dimension D
p
, wherein E
p
, t
p
 and D
p
 are selected to
limit said fluence f
p
 to a value below said thermal shock threshold.
The method of claim 2 wherein said pulse duration t
p
 is in the
interval [10
-9
, 10
-1
] seconds and said maximum spot diametral dimension

D
p
 is in the interval [1, 500] micrometers.
The method of claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein said maximum bump height h
d

being in the interval [1, 1000] nanometers.
The method of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein said location of each
bump is separated from the nearest neighboring location by a spacing

distance D
s
 ≥ D
d
.
The method of claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said location of each bump
is separated from the nearest neighboring location by a spacing distance

D
s
 substantially less than said maximum diametral dimension D
d
, whereby a
plurality of said bumps merge with their neighboring bumps to form a

substantially continuous ridge on said surface.
The method of any of claims 2 to 6 wherein said laser energy pulse
has a wavelength λ
p
 such that the optical penetration of said laser
energy pulse into the glass surface is in the interval [10
-8
, 10
-3
]
meters. 
The method of claim 7 wherein said laser pulses are generated by a
carbon dioxide (CO
2
) laser, and said wavelength λ
p
 is in a spectral
region which is strongly absorbed by the brittle glass surface.
A method for manufacturing a data recording disk using a glass
plate (12) with a brittle surface, said method comprising the steps of:

   polishing said glass surface to a predetermined smoothness;

   texturing said glass surface using the method of any preceding
claim; and

   depositing over said glass surface a film of magnetic data
recording material (50) to create a data recording layer.
A magnetic recording disk (40) having an outer surface for storing
magnetically-readable data, said disk comprising:

   a layer of brittle glass substrate material (12) having a substantially
planar substrate surface; and

   a magnetizable film layer (50) deposited over said brittle glass substrate
surface having a substantially uniform thickness and substantially

planar recording surface,

characterized in that

   said outer surface includes a plurality of bumps formed initially on said layer of brittle glass by a laser pulse having a fluence f
p
, each
said bump having a maximum diametral dimension D
d
 and rising to a
maximum height h
d
 above the planar recording surface.
The magnetic recording disk of claim 10 wherein said maximum
diametral dimension D
d
 
<
 D
s
 is in the interval [1, 200] micrometers and

said bump height h
d
 is in the interval [1, 1000] nanometers.
The magnetic recording disk of claim 10 or 11 wherein said
plurality of bumps are separated from one another by a minimum

separation distance D
s
 
>
 D
d
 in the interval [1, 500] micrometers.
The magnetic recording disk of claim 10 or 11, wherein each bump
is separated from the nearest neighboring bump by a spacing distance D
s

substantially less than said maximum diametral dimension D
d
, whereby a
plurality of said bumps merge with their neighboring bumps to form a

substantially continuous ridge on said brittle surface. 
A direct access storage device for reading and storing data,
including a magnetic recording disk according to any of claims 10 to 13,

a magnetic head (46), and means (48) for supporting said head in a
selected orientation and for generally radial controlled movement

relative to said disk.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
