<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640195</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIPE INSERTION METHOD AND APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L55162	F16L55165	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L55	F16L55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH GAS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BG PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKES ADRIAN SYDNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKES, ADRIAN SYDNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is concerned with a method and apparatus for
inserting a first pipe into a second pipe, for example to
enable an existing gas pipe to be replaced or reconditioned by
a new pipe.The invention is particularly concerned with a technique known
as "live insertion" whereby an existing pipe carrying a fluid,
particularly gas, is replaced by a replacement pipe of smaller
diameter than the existing pipe while the existing pipe is
still maintaining a live flow of fluid. This technique is
particularly important when the pipe serves a multi-occupancy
or non-domestic structure. If for example, the pipe is
serving a block of flats, then interruption of the flow will
cause inconvenience to a large number of people. If the pipe
is serving an industrial installation, then an industrial
process which is normally continuous might have to be
interrupted, if a live flow cannot be maintained.It is already known to insert a new plastics pipe into an
existing cast-iron main, for example as described in our
earlier Patent Application GB 2103753A. However a number of
disadvantages are associated with existing methods, and in
particular it is necessary to put a clamp onto the trailing
end of the new pipe, as it is being inserted, to prevent gas
from escaping along the new pipe before installation of the 
new pipe is complete. It is difficult to apply a sealing
clamp effectively to the new pipe, particularly as the pipe,
and hence the clamp, has to move over the ground, as the pipe
is being inserted.WO 90/0672 describes a method for replacing and existing
service pipe carrying fluid to an outlet within a property
with a replacement service pipe. In the method the outlet is
disconnected within the property from the existing service
pipe (2) in such a way that both during and after
disconnection fluid is prevented from escaping into the
property. A desired length of replacement service pipe (18) is
then fed into the existing service pipe (2) in such a way that
during and after the feeding step fluid is prevented from
escaping into the property. The outlet is then connected to
the outlet end of the replacement pipe (2) in such a way that
during the connection fluid is prevented from escaping into
the property and after the connection step fluid is allowed to
pass to the outlet solely by way of the replacement pipe (18).Accordingly, the invention provides a method of inserting a
first pipe into a second pipe according to claim 1.The leading portion of the
first pipe is temporarily sealed during insertion of the first
pipe
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of inserting a first pipe (25) into a second
pipe (11), the external diameter of the first pipe (25)

with respect to the internal diameter of the second pipe
(11) being chosen to provide a clearance between the

pipes (25)(11) which is sufficient to maintain the flow
of a fluid along the second pipe (11), the second pipe

(11) carrying fluid from a feeder pipe (10) to an inlet
pipe (13), the method comprising isolating the second

pipe (11) from the inlet pipe (13) after ensuring that
the inlet pipe (13) is supplied with fluid independently

of its junction with the second pipe (11), temporarily
sealing the leading end of the first pipe (25), feeding

the leading end of the first pipe (25) into the second
pipe (11), connecting the trailing end of the first pipe

(25) to the inlet pipe (13) either before or after the
first pipe (25) is fed into the second pipe (11),

maintaining a flow of fluid along the clearance between
the pipes (25,11) unsealing the leading end of the first

pipe (25) and injecting a viscous curable material into
the clearance up to the leading end of the first pipe

(25) but not into the feeder pipe (10).
A method as claimed in any of claims 1, characterised in
that the first pipe (25) is temporarily sealed by a plug

(28). 
A method as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the
plug (28) is subsequently removed by pushing an elongate

member (38) along the inside of the first pipe (25).
A method as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the
first pipe (25) is temporarily sealed by a membrane.
A method as claimed in claim 4, characterised in that the

membrane is subsequently ruptured by pushing an elongate
member (38) along the inside of the first pipe (25).
A method as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that
means (29,30,31,32,33) are provided to centralise the

leading end of the first pipe (25) with respect to the
second pipe (11).
A method as claimed in claim 6, characterised in that the
centralising means (29) has fluid flow passages

(34,42,43,44,45) therethrough.
A method as claimed in claim 7, characterised in that the
fluid flow passages (34,42,43,44,45) are such as to

permit the flow therethrough of the fluid being carried
by the second pipe (11), but are such as to prevent the

flow of the viscous curable material used to seal the
clearance between the two pipes. 
A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims,
characterised in that a by-pass (21) is fitted between

the second pipe (11) and the inlet pipe (13) before the
second pipe (11) is isolated from the inlet pipe (13) to 

ensure that the inlet pipe (13) is supplied with fluid
independently of its junction with the second pipe (11).
A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the second pipe (11) comprises an

existing service pipe, and the first pipe (25) is a
replacement pipe.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the second pipe (11) is a gas pipe.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
characterised in that the first pipe (25) is inserted

into the second pipe (11) in a direction which is
opposite to the direction of flow of fluid along the

second pipe (11).
A seal (26) for use when inserting a first pipe (25) into
a second pipe (11) while maintaining a flow of fluid

through the second pipe (11), the seal (26) being adapted
for attachment to the leading portion of the first pipe

(25) to temporarily seal the first pipe (25) during
insertion of the first pipe (25), to prevent fluid flow

along the first pipe (25) until the first pipe (25) has
been inserted, the seal (26) having a vane (29)

characterised in that means are provided on the vane
(29), such as to permit the flow of the fluid, but 

prevent or restrict the flow of a more viscous sealing
material.
A seal as claimed in claim 13, characterised in that the,
or each, vane comprises a circular or annular member, the

axis of which is coincident with the longitudinal axis of
the first pipe.
A seal as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the
vane has holes (34) therethrough, the size of the holes

(34) being such as to permit the flow of the fluid, but
prevent or restrict the flow of a more viscous sealing

material.
A seal as claimed in claim 14 characterised in that the
vane has notches (42) or slits (43) in its periphery.
A seal as claimed in claim 16, characterised in that the
vane has at least one non-return valve (44) therethrough.
A seal as claimed in any of claims 13 to 17 characterised
in that the seal (26) includes a removable plug (28).
A seal as claimed in any of the claims 13 to 17
characterised in that the seal (26) includes a rupturable

membrane.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
