<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653035</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A CONDUIT SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L2300	F16L23036	F16L2308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L23	F16L23	F16L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a conduit system comprising a plurality of large diameter conduit elements (7) wherein adjacent conduit elements (7) may be connected together by a coupling means (5) in flexible yet fluid tight fashion. This coupling means (5) may provide a fluid-tight joint despite variations of temperature to which the conduit elements (7) may be subjected. The conduit system may be conveniently used for joining conduits (7) used for feeding water to the turbines of hydro-electric plants. The coupling means (5) may comprise annular rings or flanges (16) fixed on the periphery of each of the pipe ends to be joined together, the annular rings (16) having upwardly and inwardly extending side walls (17, 18). An annular-type gasket (21, 22) formed of a resilient material may be positioned around the periphery of the rings (e.g. in a bridging relation with same), the annular gasket (21, 22) being positioned in a substantially co-axial alignment with the longitudinal axis of the conduits (7). The coupling means (5) may also comprise ring clamp means (8) having at least two clamp elements positionable around the annular rings (16). The clamp elements (8) are provided with a flange receiving channel or groove (10). With the clamp elements (8) secured about the flanges (16) the gasket member (21, 22) may be radially compressed between the flanges (16) and the clamp means (8) for a fluid tight joint.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
2807611 CANADA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
2807611 CANADA INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOIVIN SYLVAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOIVIN, SYLVAIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A conduit systemBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a conduit system comprising a plurality of large diamemeter conduit elements wherein adjacent conduit elements may be connected together by a coupling means in flexible yet fluid tight fashion. This coupling system may provide a fluid-tight joint despite variations of temperature to which the conduit elements may be subjected. The conduit system may, forexample, be conveniently used for joining conduit elements used for feeding water to the turbines of hydro-electric plants.In industrial applications where large diameter conduit systems are involved, (such as for the delivery and/or removal of water with respect to hydro-electric power plants), the known practice for connecting and sealing pipe or conduit element ends to each other has been to weld the elements together. The welding technique for joining adjacent ends of large diameter conduit elements has a number of drawbacks. Welding is a labour intensive process requiring the attention of a skilled artisan and is thus inherently relatively expensive to carry out. A large diamenter conduit system for a hydroelectric installation is normally assembled in the field, where welding may not be an easy task; welding may, for example, pose a fire hazard during installation. Conduit elements which are connected together by joints which consist solely of a "weld", cannot be easily dimantled for replacement and/or repair. Additionally, welded joints are more or less rigid such that relatively complicated means (e.g. 

a plurality of expansion joints) must be provided to allow for stress relief in the conduit system due to expansion/ contraction of the conduit material in response to temperature changes, due to shifting of the conduit support, etc...Accordingly, it would be advantageous to have a coupling means whereby large diameter conduit elements may be connected or interlocked in a simple, economical maimer, which interlocking may be carried out by relativelyunskilled workmen with relatively simple tools.It would further be advantageous to have coupling means which may provide a pipe coupling or joint which will provide a flexible yet fluid-tight seal between two adjacent ends of pipe or conduit elements. It would, thus, in particular, be advantageous to have a conduit system comprising large diameter conduit elements wherein provision is made for expansion and contraction of the pipe materials while maintaining a fluid tight seal between coupled conduit elements.It would be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A water conduit system, for a hydroelectric generating plant, comprising a plurality of large diameter conduit elements wherein adjacent conduit elements are connected together by a coupling means, characterized in that said coupling means comprises two peripheral flanges, each peripheral flange being fixed to a respective conduit element and extending radially therefrom, and ring clamp means, each flange having a first side member, a second side member axially remote from the end of the conduit section relative to the first side member and a peripheral ring member disposed between the first and second side members, the ring clamp means comprising a plurality of clamp elements which together surround the said flanges, and each said clamp element having a groove for receiving said flanges, said groove being defined by a base member disposed between opposed side wall members, said groove and said flanges being configured to co¬ operate such that when the clamp element is in an operative position, the groove is sized larger than the combined size of the flanges received in the groove so as to provide the ends of the connected conduit elements with a predetermined degree of longitudinal movement. 


and wherein the coupling means includes sealing means disposed between the peripheral ring members and the
base members, and the clamp elements are connected together about the flanges in an operative position such that the sealing means is sandwiched between said peripheral ring members and said base members for fluid tight sealing of said coupling means and the ends of the conduit elements have a predetermined degree of longitudinal freedom of movement.
2. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein the opposed side wall members of said groove each have flat wall surfaces, said wall surfaces sloping away from each other and each flange has a second side member having a flat surface of complimentary slope to that of a respective side wall member for sliding abutting engagement therewith for urging the ends of the conduit elements towards each other when a clamp element passes from a non-operative position to an operative position.
3. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said clamp elements are connected together by releasable connection means. 


4. A system as defiend in claim 3 wherein said releasable connection means comprises nuts and bolts.
5. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein each flange of said coupling means is disposed such that the first member of the flange is adjacent to the end of a respective conduit element.
6. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said conduit elements have an inner diameter of 90 cm or more.
7. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said coupling means includes adjustment means for adjusting the predetermined degree of movement.
8. A system as defined in claim 7 wherein said adjustment means comprises an adjustment screw having an abutment end extending through a side wall member of said groove for abutting contact with a respective side member of said flange.
9. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein the opposed side wall members of said clamp elements are sized such that, when the clamp elements are in an operative position, the opposed side wall members are spaced apart from respective conduit elements a predetermined distance.
10. A coupling means for connecting together adjacent large diameter 


conduit elements , characterized in that said coupling means comprises two peripheral flanges, each peripheral flange being fixed to a respective conduit element and extending radially therefrom, and ring clamp means, each flange having a first side member, a second side member axially remote from the end of the conduit section relative to the first side member and a peripheral ring member disposed between the first and second side members, the ring clamp means comprising a plurality of clamp elements which together surround the said flanges, and each said clamp element having a groove for receiving said flanges, said groove being defined by a base member disposed between opposed side wall members, said groove and said flanges being configured to co¬ operate such that when the clamp element is in an operative position, the groove is sized larger than the combined size of the flanges received in the groove so as to provide the ends of the connected conduit elements with a predetermined degree of longitudinal movement, and wherein the coupling means includes sealing means for disposition between the peripheral ring members and the base members, 


and means for connecting the clamp elements together about the flanges in an operative position such that the sealing means is sandwiched between said peripheral ring members and said base members for fluid tight sealing of said coupling means and the ends of the conduit elements have a predetermined degree of longitudinal freedom of movement.
11. A system as defined in claim 10 wherein the opposed side wall members of said groove each have flat wall surfaces, said wall surfaces sloping away from each other and each flange has a second side member having a flat surface of complimentary slope to that of a respective side wall member for sliding abutting engagement therewith for urging the ends of the conduit elements towards each other when a clamp element passes from a non- operative position to an operative position.
12. A system as defined in claim 10 wherein said clamp elements are connected together by releasable connection means.
13. A system as defiend in claim 12 wherein said releasable connection means comprises nuts and bolts. 


14. A system as defined in claim 10 wherein each flange of said coupling means is disposed such that the first member of the flange is adjacent to the
end of a respective conduit element.
15. A system as defined in claim 10 wherein said conduit elements have an inner diameter of 90 cm or more.
16. A system as defined in claim 10 wherein said coupling means includes adjustment means for adjusting the predetermined degree of movement.
17. A system as defined in claim 16 wherein said adjustment means comprises an adjustment screw having an abutment end extending through a side wall member of said groove for abutting contact with a respective side member of said flange.
18. A system as defined in claim 10 wherein the opposed side wall members of said clamp elements are sized such that, when the clamp elements are in an operative position, the opposed side wall members are spaced apart from respective conduit elements a predetermined distance. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
