<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622645</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Thin film coated filter and method of manufacture
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B528	G02B528	G02B110	G02B110	C03C1736	C03C1736	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	C03C	C03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02B1	G02B1	C03C17	C03C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thin film interference filter comprising in order:
 

   a transparent substrate (2);
 

   a first substantially transparent dielectric layer (8);
 

   a first metal precoat layer (10);
 

   a partially reflective metal layer (12);
 

   a second metal precoat layer (14); and
 

   a second substantially transparent dielectric layer (16),
 

characterised in that the first metal precoat layer comprises nickel and 
chromium or chromium nitride, and the second metal precoat layer comprises 

nickel and chromium nitride. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to coated products in the form of visibly
transparent infra-red reflecting interference filters, and more
particularly, to a durable low-emissivity filter.The use of transparent panels in buildings, vehicles and other structures
for controlling solar radiation is quite prevalent today. The goal of
solar control is to transmit light while excluding much of the solar
energy, thus decreasing the amount of air condition or cooling required,
and conserving energy. In addition, modified glass as a structural
material provides the colour flexibility architects desire.Various processes have been employed to alter the optical properties of
these panels, including coating glass or plastic substrates by various
techniques such as electrolysis, chemical vapour deposition and physical
vapour deposition, including sputtering with planar magnetrons. For
instance, thin metal films have been deposited on glass or plastic to
increase the reflectance of solar radiation. Windows deposited with a
multi-layer dielectric-metal-dielectric coating that exhibits high visible
transmittance, and high reflectivity and low emissivity in the infra-red
range, are even more energy efficient. The index of refraction of the
dielectric layer is preferably 2.0 or greater in order to minimise the
visible reflectance and enhance the visible transmittance of the window.
This dielectric layer which often consists of metal oxide coating also
offers additional protection to the fragile metal films. The optical
properties of panels can also be modified by altering the composition of
the substrate material. Nevertheless, interference filter panels
manufactured by the above-described methods have been only partially
successful in reflecting solar radiation to the degree required for
significant energy conservation. For example US Patent Specification
No. 3,682,528 describes an infra-red interference filter with visible light
transmission of only approximately 72% and with infra-red transmission of
approximately 8%.Another problem associated with interference filters is their structural
integrity, particularly their inability to withstand harsh environmental 
conditions. Current transparent panels having high reflectivity for solar
radiation are unsatisfactory in that the panels are subject to chemical and
mechanical degradation.The present invention is concerned with the provision of a durable,
thin-film interference filter which transmits visible light while
reflecting infra-red radiation as that disclosed in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thin film interference filter comprising in order:

a transparent substrate (2);
a first substantially transparent dielectric layer (8) consisting of titanium
dioxide, niobium pentoxide, tin oxide, zinc oxide, indium oxide, indium oxide

doped with tin oxide, bismuth oxide, zirconium oxide or a composite of silicon
nitride with one or more other nitrides of zirconium, titanium and hafnium;
a first metal precoat layer (10) comprising a
nickel-chromium alloy or nickel with chromium nitride;
a partially reflective metal layer (12);
a second metal precoat layer (14); and
a second substantially transparent dielectric layer (16),

characterised in that the second metal
precoat layer (14) comprises nickel with chromium nitride.
A thin film interference filter according to Claim 1 in which the second
dielectric layer (16) comprises silicon nitride.
A thin film interference filter according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the
second dielectric layer (16) comprises a composite of silicon nitride and one

or more other nitrides selected from the group consisting of zirconium nitride,
titanium nitride and hafnium nitride.
A thin film interference filter according to Claim 1, 2 or 3 in which the first
dielectric layer (8) has a refractive index of 2.1 to 2.5.
A thin film interference filter according to any preceding claim in which the first
dielectric layer comprises a composite of silicon nitride and zirconium nitride. 
A thin film interference filter according to any preceding claim in which the
partially reflective metal layer is a metal selected from the group consisting of

silver, gold, copper, and platinum.
A thin film interference filter according to any preceding claim in which the first
metal precoat layer has a thickness of 0.5 to 2 nm, the second metal precoat

layer has a thickness of 0.5 to 2 nm, the metal layer has a thickness of 8 to
15 nm, the first dielectric layer has a thickness of 25 to 45 nm, and the

second dielectric layer has a thickness of 30 to 50 nm.
A thin film interference filter according to any preceding claim in which the first
metal layer comprises nickel with chromium nitride, in which the second metal

precoat layer has a thickness of 0.5 to 2 nm, and in which the metal layer is
silver.
A method of production of a thin film interference filter according to any
one of Claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the second metal precoat layer (14)

is deposited by reactively sputtering a nickel-chromium alloy target in an
atmosphere containing nitrogen.
A method according to Claim 9 in which the partially reflective metal layer (12)
comprises silver deposited by sputtering a silver target in an atmosphere

containing nitrogen.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
