<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614614</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and device for forming joining lines of adhesive material, particularly in food products
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G302	A23G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G3	A23G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Joining lines (2) of adhesive alimentary material such as 
chocolate are formed on products such as hemispherical 

wafer half-shells (1), the respective opening portions (1a) 
of which are to be joined together. For this purpose, the 

adhesive material is applied to a transfer surface in the 
form of a substantially continuous layer or in the form of 

piping (C) of a shape representing the shape of the joining 
line (2) to be formed. The opening portions (1a) of the 

products (1) are then dipped in the continuous layer or 
piping of adhesive alimentary material (C). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FERRERO OHG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FERRERO SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOREMARTEC SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FERRERO OFFENE HANDELSGESELLSCHAFT M.B.H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FERRERO S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOREMARTEC S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERTALERO ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERTALERO, ROBERTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of forming 
joining lines of adhesive material in certain regions of 
products. The invention has been developed with 
particular attention to its possible use in processes for 
the manufacture of food products such as, for example, 
confectionery products. The problem upon which the invention is based can easily be 
understood by reference to Figures 1 and 2 of the appended 
drawings. These drawings show a food product, typically a 
confectionery product, constituted by two hemispherical 
half-shells or leaves 1 constituted by pieces of wafer the 
mutually facing opening portions 1a of which are to be 
joined together. This gives rise to a finished product 
constituted by a spherical wafer shell enclosing within it 
a mass of pasty or creamy filling, possibly of a praline, 
of nut kernels, or the like. For a general description of products of this type, 
reference may usefully be made, for example, to European 
patents EP-B-0 064 155, EP-B-0 083 324, and EP-B-0 086 319. A 
substantially similar product is disclosed, e.g., in US-A-1382 601. In particular, the use of an annular line of alimentary 
material of an adhesive nature, for example, melted 
chocolate or a cream or paste with similar characteristics 
for joining the opening portions 1a of the leaves or half-shells 
1 together has already been proposed. 
Also, it is generally known that products such as hollow 
confectionery products can be closed at their mouth portions by 
means of a closure or covering lid or layer: see, e.g., FR-A-512 
530 or BE-A- 370 850. This latter document shows that layer 
as being formed starting from pasty chocolate coated onto a 
metal plate. Naturally, the reference to two hemispherical wafer leaves  
 
or half-shells joined together by a circular annular line 
of adhesive alimentary material 2 is purely an example; in 
fact, the solution according to the invention is also 
suitable for use for different products (e.g. chocolate 
shells) and not only for forming flat, circular joining 
lines but for forming joining lines of any profile in 
general (flat or not) which can join together bodies with 
various profiles, for example, polygonal or mixtilinear 
profiles (by way of example, a product constituted by two 
pieces of wafer representing the two portions of a shell, 
etc. may be considered), etc. Moreover, the term "joining line" as used in the present 
description and in the following claims, should in no way 
be considered as being limited to a continuous line; it 
thus
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming, on predetermined regions (12) of a product (1), 
lines (2) of adhesive material for joining said product (1) to another 

product, characterized in that it comprises the chronological steps of: 

providing a member (10; 30) having a surface defining a 
transfer surface (15; 32) for the adhesive material, 
forming (17; 34) on the transfer surface (15, 30) 
an accumulation of the adhesive material in a melted state, 
bringing about (12, 14) a relative movement of the 
products (1) and of the transfer surface (15; 32), 

dipping the predetermined regions (1a) of the products 
(1) in the accumulation of the adhesive material, whereby the melted 

material adheres to said predetermined regions of product (1), and 
separating the products (1) and the transfer surface (15; 32) while 

the adhesive material is in a melted state, whereby a portion of the 
material of said accumulation is carried with the products (1) forming 

said joining lines (2). 
A method according to Claim 1, characterized in that 
it comprises the step of producing the accumulation of 

adhesive material in the form of a piping of adhesive 
material of a shape corresponding to the joining lines 

(2). 
A method according to Claim 1, characterized in that 
it comprises the step of producing the accumulation of 

adhesive material in the form of a substantially 
continuous layer of adhesive material deposited (34) on 

the transfer surface (32). 
A method according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, 
characterized in that the relative movement is stopped 

(28a) so as to keep the predetermined regions (1a) of the  
 

products (1) at least marginally spaced from the transfer 
surface (15; 30). 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a substantially flat transfer surface 

(15; 30) is used. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that a food product is used as the 

adhesive material (2). 
A method according to Claim 6, characterized in that the 
food product is chocolate. 
A method according to Claim 6 or Claim 7, characterized 
in that the adhesive material is kept heated (26b; 36) to 

a predetermined temperature. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that it comprises the step of keeping the 

transfer surface (15; 30) facing downwards during the 
formation of the accumulation of adhesive material, and in 

that the relative movement is brought about with the 
predetermined regions (1) of the products generally facing 

upwards. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that it comprises the step of gripping the 

products (1) by means of vacuum gripping elements (21) at 
least during the relative movement.  

 
Method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the products are food products. 
A method according to Claim 10, characterized in that 
the products are pieces of wafer. 
A method according to Claim 11, characterized in that: 

the food products (1) have a generally shell-like 
configuration, 
the predetermined regions (1a) are constituted by the 
opening portions of the shell-like products (1), 
the opening portions being cut in a plane perpendicular to 
at least one polar axis of the shell-shaped product (1), 

and 
the relative movement is brought about in a direction 
generally perpendicular to the plane. 
A device for carrying out a method according to any one 
of Claims 1 to 13, characterized in that it comprises: 


a member (10, 30) having a surface defining a transfer surface (15, 32) 
for providing an accumulation of adhesive material. 
support means (20) for supporting the products (1) with the 
predetermined regions (1a) facing towards said transfer 

surface (15; 32), 
gripping means (14; 21) which can cooperate with the 
products (1) in a gripping relationship, 

in order to move the products (1)  
 

towards and away from the transfer surface (15; 32) 
as a result of said relative movement so as to dip the 

predetermined regions (1a) in the accumulation of adhesive 
material (C) and thereafter separate the products (1) and the 

transfer surface (15; 32). 
A device according to Claim 14, characterized in that 
the support means are constituted by a die-like structure 

(20) which can extend in a position between the transfer 
surface (15; 32) and the gripping means (14, 21) in use. 
A device according to Claim 15, characterized in that 
the die-like structure (20) has respective holes (22) for 

housing the products (1), the respective holes (22) having 
dimensions such as to allow the gripping means (21) to 

penetrate through the holes (22). 
A device according to any one of Claims 14 to 16, 
characterized in that the gripping means comprise 

resiliently yielding collar portions (25) which can 
cooperate with and partially surround the products (1). 
A device according to any one of Claims 14 to 17, 
characterized in that the gripping means (24) are vacuum 

gripping members. 
A device according to Claim 16, characterized in that 
the die structure (20) is constituted essentially by a 

plate in which an array of the holes (22) for housing the 
products (1) is formed, and in that the gripping means are 

associated with a tray-like structure (14) on which the 
gripping elements (21) are distributed in an array 

complementary to the array of holes (22).  
 
A device according to Claim 19, characterized in that 
drive means (12) are associated with the tray-like 

structure (14) for imparting to the gripping means (21) the 
movement relative to the transfer surface (15; 30). 
A device according to any one of Claims 14 to 20, 
characterized in that transfer means (19) are associated 

with the structure (20) for bringing about a general 
movement for loading the products (1) onto the device (10) 

and/or unloading the products (1) therefrom. 
A device according to any one of Claims 14 to 21, 
characterized in that the transfer surface is constituted 

essentially by a supply plate (15) through which a 
plurality of nozzles (27) extend for supplying the adhesive 

material, the nozzles being arranged along a line the shape 
of which corresponds to that of the joining lines to be 

formed, and in that supply means (26) are associated with 
the plate (15) for selectively causing the adhesive 

material to emerge through the nozzles (27). 
A device according to Claim 22, characterized in that 
the nozzles (27) are on an end face of the plate (15) in a 

groove (28) in the end face, so that the accumulation of 
adhesive material is formed at least partially within the 

groove (28). 
A device according to Claim 13, characterized in that 
stop formations (28a) are associated with the groove (28) 

for stopping the relative movement of the products (1) and 
of the transfer surface (15) when the predetermined regions  

 
(1a) of the products (1) are dipped in the accumulation of 

adhesive material. 
A device according to Claim 19 and Claim 22, 
characterized in that the supply plate (15) carries an 

array of sets (23) of nozzles (27), each set (23) of the 
array being intended to form a respective accumulation of 

the adhesive material in order to form a respective joining 
line on a respective product (1).  

 
A device according to Claim 22, characterized in that 
thermostatically-controlled (16) supply means (26a, 26b) 

are associated with the supply plate (15) in order to keep 
the adhesive material at a predetermined temperature.  

 
A device according to Claim 14, characterized in that 
the transfer surface is constituted by a flat surface (30) 

with associated applicator means (32) for applying a 
substantilly continuous layer of the adhesive material to
 
the flat surface (33), the substantially continuous layer 

(C) constituting the accumulation. 
A device according to Claim 27, characterized in that 
the flat surface (30) has a surface corrugation so as to 

retain the accumulation of adhesive material (C) on the 
surface. 
A device according to Claim 27 or Claim 28, 
characterized in that the flat surface (30) is constituted 

by one of the passes (32)of an endless motor-driven belt. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
