<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650645</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTEGRATED RESONANT CIRCUIT WITH TEMPERATURE COMPENSATED QUALITY FACTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H1104	H03H1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H11	H03H11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITTEL JAMES GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKES JOHN JOSEPH JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITTEL, JAMES, GREGORY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKES, JOHN, JOSEPH, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTEGRATED RESONANT CIRCUIT WITH TEMPERATURE COMPENSATED QUALITY FACTORField of the InventionThis invention relates in general to filters, and more specifically to filters having temperature compensation for the quality factor.Background of the InventionFrequency selective devices, such as filters, pass signals of certain frequencies and attenuate signals of other frequencies. Many filter topologies require the use of resonant circuits comprising the parallel or series connection of transconductance amplifiers arranged in gyrator configurations, resistors, and capacitors on an integrated circuit. The resonant frequency ω0 is defined by the equation ω0~= g / C, where g is the transconductance of the amplifiers and C is the capacitance of the circuit. The center frequency of these circuits can be held constant over temperature by controlling the ratio of the amplifier transconductance to the nodal capacitance. Most forms of integrated capacitors have a low temperature coefficient, thus the problem is reduced to maintaining constant transconductance. For a typical transconductance amplifier, this can be achieved by making the bias current of the amplifier linearly dependent on temperature. The quality factor ( ) of the resonant circuit refers to the energy stored in the circuit vs. the energy dissipated in the circuit, and, if the resonant frequency is held constant, the Q determines the bandwidth of the filter. The Q is defined by the equation Q = gR in a parallel resonant circuit and by the equation Q = 1 / gR in a series resonant circuit, where J refers to the resistance of the circuit. If the transconductance of the amplifiers is held constant, the Q may be controlled by holding the resistance constant over temperature. However, typical integrated circuit resistors of reasonable size have relatively large temperature coefficients. In some known filters, the resistors are approximated by the use of transconductance amplifiers whose bias current is made linearly dependent on temperature. Although these filters hold the Q constant 

over temperature, they require more current drain and additional components. Use of this type of filter might create a problem, for example, if battery life is of concern or if the space is at a premium in the component area.Summary of the InventionAccording to an aspect of the present invention, an electronic circuit having an input node and an output node comprises first and second transconductance amplifiers coupled between the input node and the output node. The first
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An electronic circuit having an input node and an output node, comprising: first and second transconductance amplifiers coupled between the input node and the output node, wherein the first transconductance amplifier comprises a first positive input coupled to the input node, a first negative input coupled to a ground voltage, and a first output coupled to the output node, and wherein the second transconductance amplifier comprises a second positive input coupled to the ground voltage, a second negative input coupled to the output node, and a second output coupled to the input node; a parallel capacitor coupled between the input node and the ground voltage; a parallel resistive means coupled between the input node and the ground voltage for providing resistance; a series capacitor having a first terminal coupled to the output node; and a series resistive means coupled between a second terminal of the series capacitor and the ground voltage for providing resistance.
2. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 1, wherein the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance.
3. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance.
4. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 1, wherein the parallel resistive means and the series resistive means have substantially the same temperature coefficient.
5. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 1, wherein: the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance; 


 the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance; and the parallel resistive means and the series resistive means have substantially the same temperature coefficient.
6. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 1, wherein the parallel and series resistive means each comprise a resistor.
7. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 6, wherein the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance.
8. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 6, wherein the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance.
9. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 6, wherein the parallel resistor and the series resistor have substantially the same temperature coefficient.
10. The electronic circuit in accordance with claim 6, wherein: the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance; the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance; and the parallel resistor and the series resistor have substantially the same temperature coefficient. 


 11. A selective call receiver, comprising: an antenna for receiving modulated radio frequency signals; receiver circuitry coupled to the antenna for shifting the frequency of the modulated radio frequency signal to an intermediate frequency; a filter coupled to the receiver circuitry for filtering the modulated intermediate frequency signal, the filter having an input node coupled to the receiver circuitry and an output node, comprising: first and second transconductance amplifiers coupled between the input node and the output node, wherein the first transconductance amplifier comprises a first positive input coupled to the input node, a first negative input coupled to a ground voltage, and a first output coupled to the output node, and wherein the second transconductance amplifier comprises a second positive input coupled to the ground voltage, a second negative input coupled to the output node, and a second output coupled to the input node; a parallel capacitor coupled between the input node and the ground voltage; a parallel resistive means coupled between the input node and the ground voltage for providing resistance; a series capacitor having a first terminal coupled to the output node; and a series resistive means coupled between a second terminal of the series capacitor and the ground voltage for providing a resistance; a demodulator coupled to the output node for demodulating the filtered signal; and a microprocessor coupled to the demodulator for processing the demodulated signal.
12. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 11, wherein the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance.
13. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 11, wherein the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance. 


 14. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 11, wherein the parallel resistive means and the series resistive means have substantially the same temperature coefficient. 
•
15. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 11, wherein: 
•
 the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance; the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance; and the parallel resistive means and the series resistive means have substantially the same temperature coefficient.
16. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 11, wherein the parallel and series resistive means each comprise a resistor.
17. The selective call receiver in accordance with daim 16, wherein the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance.
18. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 16, wherein the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance.
19. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 16, wherein the parallel resistor and the series resistor have substantially the same temperature coefficient.
20. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 16, wherein: the parallel capacitor and the series capacitor have substantially the same capacitance; the first and second transconductance amplifiers have substantially the same transconductance; and the parallel resistor and the series resistor have substantially the same temperature coefficient. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
