<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652524</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMAGE PROCESSING DEVICE AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1310	A63F1310	G06T1570	G06T1570	H04N726	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	A63F13	G06T15	G06T15	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Image processing 
device and method by which 

a foreground to be combined 
with a background can 

be displayed with natural 
movement and a realistic 

synthesized image can 
be displayed. The image 

processing device combines 
a first image data (foreground 

data) developed in a first 
memory (23) with a second 

image data (background 
data) developed in a second 

memory (24) and outputs the 
synthesized image, includes 

a third memory (13) which 
stores data of time-varying 

images and means (17 and 
20) for reading out the 

time-varying image data from 
the third memory (13) and 

develop the data in the first 
memory (23) as the first image 

data. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEGA ENTERPRISES KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEGA ENTERPRISES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITAHARA ATSUSHI SEGA ENTERPRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKUNOKI YUTAKA SEGA ENTERPRISE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITAHARA, ATSUSHI, SEGA ENTERPRISES,LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OKUNOKI, YUTAKA, SEGA ENTERPRISES,LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image 
processing device and method, and more particularly to 
an image processing device having a function of 
superimposing a foreground image and a background 
image. Conventionally, a video game device is known 
such a kind of image processing device. The video game 
device is connected to a monitor device such as a CRT 
or a liquid crystal display. An image of a foreground 
such as a character coming on a game is superimposed 
with an image of a background and is displayed on the 
monitor device. The game is played by changing the 
foreground image and the background image in response 
to a control signal input by the player. The foreground contains an object (character) 
having motion, such as a human being or an animal. The 
motion of the character is represented by changing its 
position and shape on the display. For example, the 
motion of a player character, which is a character 
directly controlled by the player, is represented so 
that the position and shape of the player character is 
changed in accordance with the control signal given by 
the player. Conventionally, in order to represent the 
motion of the character and the like by a change of its  
 
shape, still pictures having different shapes are 
produced beforehand and are stored in a non-volatile 
memory such as a ROM. A series of motion is 
represented by sequentially reading the still pictures 
from the memory. The still pictures may be 
artificially produced or pictures extracted from a 
natural picture taken by a video camera in a time-lapse 
way. The technique of representing the motion of 
the character by means of the still pictures can reduce 
the capacity of the memory to be built in the video 
game device, while it provides an unnatural motion of 
the character and the player feels insufficient reality 
during play of the game. The present invention was made taking into 
consideration the above, and has an object of providing 
an image processing device and method capable of 
representing natural motion of a foreground image to be 
superimposed with a background image and representing a 
resultant image having good reality. In order to overcome the above disadvantages, 
the image processing device of the present invention, 
in which a superimposed image is produced by combining 
first image data stored in a first memory (23) and 
second image data stored in a second memory (24), 
includes a third memory (13) storing data of a moving 
picture, and means (17, 20) for reading the data of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image processing device in which a 
superimpose
d image is produced by combining first image 
data stored in a first memory (23) and second image 

data stored in a second memory (24), said image 
processing device being characterized by comprising: 

   a third memory (13) storing data of moving 
picture; and 

   means (17, 20) for reading the data of the 
moving picture from the third memory and storing, as 

the first image data, the data of the moving picture in 
the first memory. 
The image processing device as claimed in 
claim 1, characterized in that said means comprises: 

   a fourth memory (22) storing foreground image 
data forming a foreground of a picture plane; 

   transfer control means (15) for reading the 
data of the moving picture from the third memory (13) 

and transferring it to the fourth memory as the 
foreground image data; and 

   engine means (20) for reading the foreground 
image data from the fourth memory and writing it into 

the first memory as the first image data. 
The image processing device as claimed in 
claim 2, characterized in that said transfer control 

means (15) comprises means (15) for transferring all of 
the data of the moving picture stored in the third 

memory (13) to the fourth memory. 
The image processing device as claimed in 
claim 2, characterized in that said transfer control 

means (15) comprises means (15) for transferring part 
of the data of the moving picture stored in the third 

memory (13) to the fourth memory. 
The image processing device as claimed in 
claim 1, characterized by further comprising priority 

circuit means (30) for selecting, on a dot basis of 
image data, either the first image data or the second 

image data. 
The image processing device as claimed in 
claim 1, characterized by further comprising decoder 

means (12) for reading and expanding compressed moving 
picture data in an external storage device (10) and for 

writing expanded moving picture data into the third 
memory (13). 
The image processing device as claimed in 
claim 1, characterized by further comprising priority 

circuit means (30) for selecting, on a dot basis of 
image data, either the first image data or the second 

image data. 
A method of obtaining a superimposed 
image by combining first image data stored in a first 

memory (23) and second image data stored in a second 
memory (24), characterized by comprising: 

   a first step ([6], [7]
) of storing data of a 
moving picture in a third memory (13); and 

   a second step ([9] - [11]
) of reading the 
 

data of the moving picture from the third memory and 
storing, as the first image data, the data of the 

moving picture in the first memory. 
The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein 
said second step comprises: 

   a third step ([9], [10]
) of reading the data 
of the moving picture from the third memory (13) and 

transferring it to a fourth memory as foreground image 
data; and 

   a fourth step ([11]) of reading the 

foreground image data from the fourth memory and 
writing it into the first memory as the first image 

data. 
Amended claims
(Amended) An image processing device 
having a first memory, first data processing means for 

storing image data of a first type in said first 
memory, a second memory for storing image data of a 

second type, and second data processing means for 
combining the image data respectively read from said 

first memory and said second memory and for outputting 
resultant image information, 

   said image processing device being 
characterized by further comprising a third memory, and 

third data processing means for reading data of a 
moving picture from an outside of said image processing 

device and writing the data of the moving picture into 
said third memory, wherein said first data processing 

means reads the image data stored in said third memory, 
processes read image data as image data of the first 

type, and stores processed image data in said first 
memory. 
(Amended) The image processing device as 
claimed in claim 2, characterized in that: 

   the image data of the first type is 
foreground image data forming a foreground of the 

superimposed image; 
   the image data of the second type is 

background image data forming a background of the 
superimposed image; 

   said image processing device further 
comprises a fourth memory for storing foreground image 

data, and fourth data processing means for transferring 
 

the image data stored in said third memory to said 
fourth memory as the foreground image data; and 

   said first data processing means performs an 
information process for the image data read from said 

fourth memory and stores the information-processed 
foreground image data in said first memory. 
(Amended) The image processing device as 
claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said fourth 

data processing means comprises means for cutting out 
part of the image data stored in said third memory and 

transfers the cut-out image data to said fourth memory. 
(Amended) The image processing device as 
claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said fourth 

data processing means comprises means for transferring 
one frame of the image data stored in said third memory 

to said fourth memory. 
(Amended) The image processing device as 
claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said second 

data processing means further comprises priority 
circuit means for selecting, on a dot basis of the 

image data, the image data of the first type or the 
image data of the second type. 
(Amended) The image processing device as 
claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said third 

data processing means comprises decoder means for 
reading and expanding compressed moving picture data in 

an external storage device and for writing expanded 
moving picture data into said third memory. 
(Amended) The image processing device as 
claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said fourth 

data processing means further comprises means for 
transferring the image data to said second data 

processing means from said third memory; and 
   priority circuit means for selecting, on a 

dot basis of the image data, one of the image data of 
the first type, the image data of the second type and 

the image data read from said third memory. 
(Amended) An image processing device 
comprising: 

   first data processing means; 
   second data processing means, having a first 

memory and a second memory, for storing image data in 
said first memory under control of said first data 

processing means, producing image data of a first type 
by performing an information process for the image data 

read from said first memory, and storing produced image 
data in said second memory; 

   third data processing means, having a third 
memory, for producing image data of a second type and 

storing the image data of the second type in said third 
memory; 

   fourth data processing means for combining 
the image data from said second and third memories and 

outputting resultant display image information; and 
   fifth data processing means, having a fourth 

memory, for reading data of a moving picture from an 
outside of the image processing device and storing the 

data of the moving picture in said fourth memory,
 

   said first data processing means comprising 
means for reading the data of the moving picture stored 

in said fourth memory and storing read data of the 
moving picture in said first memory, and said second 

data processing means comprising means for performing 

an information process for the data of the moving 
picture read from said second memory and storing 

information-processed data of the moving picture in 
said second memory. 
(Amended) The image processing device as 
claimed in claim 8, characterized in that said first 

data processing means further comprises means for 
transferring the data of the moving picture from said 

fourth memory to said fourth data processing means, and 
priority selecting means for selecting, on a dot basis 

of the image data, one of the image data read from said 
second memory, the image data read from said third 

memory and the image data read from said fourth memory. 
(Added) An image processing device 
characterized by comprising: 

   a first memory; 
   first data processing means for reading a 

series of moving picture data from an external device 
and storing the series of moving picture data in said 

first memory; 
   a second memory; 

   a second data processing means including 
means for writing still-picture data in said second 

memory and means for writing the moving picture data 
stored in said first memory in said second memory;

 
   a third memory; 

   third data processing means for producing 
first display image data by sequentially reading either 

the still-picture data or the moving picture data from 
said second memory and performing an information 

process for read data so that a series of motion can be 
represented and for storing the first display image 

data in said third memory; 
   a fourth memory; 

   fourth data processing means for producing 
second image data and storing the second image data in 

said fourth memory; and 
   fifth data processing means for combining the 

image data read from said third and fourth memories and 
for outputting resultant display image information. 
(Added) An image processing device 
characterized by comprising: 

   a moving picture frame buffer memory; 
   first data processing means for reading a 

series of moving picture data from an external storage 
device and sequentially storing the series of moving 

picture data in said moving picture frame buffer 
memory; 

   a first video memory; 
   a second data processing means including 

means for writing still-picture data in said first 
video memory and means for writing the moving picture 

data stored in said moving picture frame buffer memory 
into said first video memory; 

   a second frame buffer memory; 
   third data processing means for sequentially 

 
reading the still-picture data and the moving picture 

data from said first video memory and performing an 
information process for read data so that foreground 

image data for representing a series of motion can be 
produced and for storing the foreground image data in 

said second frame buffer memory; 
   a second video memory; 

   fourth data processing means for producing 
background image data and storing the background image 

data in said fourth memory; and 
   fifth data processing means for combining the 

image data read from said second frame buffer memory 
and said second video memory and for outputting 

resultant display image information. 
(Added) A game machine including the 
image processing device as described in claim 11, 

characterized in that: 
   said image processing device further 

comprises an I/O controller for accommodating a game 
control device, means for connecting said image 

processing device to the external storage device, and 
means for executing a game program, 

   said first data processing means comprises a 
decoder for expanding compressed moving picture data, 

   in a state where a disk storing the game 
program and the compressed moving picture data is 

loaded to the external storage device, the game program 
is input to said image processing device, said first 

data processing means reads and expands the compressed 
moving picture data, and stores the expanded moving 

picture data in said moving picture frame buffer 
 

memory. 
(Added) A method including step (a) of 
storing image data in a first memory, step (b) of 

sequentially reading desired image data from said first 
memory, producing display image data of a first type 

representing motion, and storing the produced display 
image data in a second memory, step (c) of producing 

display image data of a second type in a third memory, 
and step (d) of sequentially reading image information 

from said second and third memories, combining the 
display image data of the first and second types to 

thereby produce superimposed display image data, 
characterized in that said method comprises: 

   step (e) of sequentially reading a series of 
moving picture data stored in an external storage 

device and storing the series of moving picture data in 
a fourth memory; and 

   step (f) of sequentially reading the moving 
picture data stored in said fourth memory and storing 

it in said first memory, 
   in the step (b), the moving picture data 

being subjected to an information process and being 
stored, as the first display image data, in said second 

memory. 
(Added) The method as claimed in claim 
12, characterized in that the step (d) sequentially 

reads the moving picture data stored in said third 
memory and combines it with a display image to thereby 

produce said superimposed display image data. 
(Added) An image processing method 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) sequentially reading a series of moving 
picture data from an external device and storing the 

read data in a first memory; 
(b) producing still-picture data and storing 
the produced data in a second memory; 
(c) storing the moving picture image read 
from said first memory in said second memory; 
(d) performing an information process for the 
still-picture data read from said second memory to 

produce foreground image data representing a series of 
motion, and storing the thus produced foreground image 

data in a third memory when the still-picture data is 
stored in said second memory; 
(e) performing an information process for the 
moving picture data read from said second memory to 

produce foreground image data including a moving 
picture, and storing the thus produced foreground image 

data in said third memory; 
(f) producing background image data and 
storing the background image data in a fourth memory; 

and 
(g) reading the image data from said third 
and fourth memories and producing display image data by 

combining the foreground image data and the background 
image data. 
Brief statement of amendment under article 19(1)
Although references, Japanese Laid-Open 
Patent Application No. 2-308376 and Japanese Laid-Open 

Patent Application No. 62-149287 were cited as 
category-X documents, these references do not any 

essential features of the present invention. 
Japanese Laid-Open Patent Application No. 2-308376 
discloses that a still picture having low-speed 

motion and a moving picture having high-speed motion 
are separately produced and combined so that the moving 

picture has priority over the still picture. In this 
reference, still-picture data is stored in a still-picture 

display memory, and moving-picture data is 
stored in a moving-picture display memory. The still-picture 

data and the moving-picture data are 
multiplexed by a selecting part. The moving picture 

is produced by means of an operation unit DDA built in 
the device. 
In comparison of the above with the original 
claim 1, the moving picture data 
corresponds to "first 
image data", the still-picture data corresponds to 

"second image data", the moving-picture display memory 
corresponds to "first memory", and the still-picture 

display memory corresponds to "second memory". 
However, the reference fails to disclose "data is read 

from the third memory and is developed in the first 
memory as first image data". That is, the reference 

does not disclose anything beyond the prior art 
described in the present application. 
Japanese Laid-Open Patent Application No. 62-149287 
discloses a device used in a video conference 

 
system in which part of an image taken by a video 

camera is cut out therefrom and the cut-out image is 
put in a background image read from a memory. Even if 

this application is interpreted so that "second memory" 
defined in the original claim 1 corresponds to 

"background memory", it is very difficult to make the 
remaining constituent elements of claim 1 to correspond 

to elements of the device disclosed in the reference 
being considered. However, there is nothing that 

discloses the third memory storing moving picture data 
(images taken externally) and means for developing the 

moving picture data read from the third memory in the 
first memory as the first image data. 
Japanese Laid-Open Patent Application No. 2-308376 
is intended to increase the computation speed 

while suppressing an increase in the cost of hardware 
by separately computing high-speed image data and low-speed 

image data, and does not suggest any necessity 
for inputting moving picture data (image taken 

externally). Japanese Laid-Open Patent Application No. 
62-308376 is intended to save the investment of 

background setting in a video conference room. There 
is nothing that shows a motive of combining the image 

combining technique of Japanese Laid-Open Patent 
Application No. 2-308376 and the image combining 

technique of Japanese Laid-Open Patent Application No. 
62-149287 together. 
In order to more clarify the above, the 
original claims 1 through 9 are amended and new claims 

10 - 15 are filed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
