<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629225</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ADDITIVES FOR ELECTRODEPOSITABLE COATING COMPOSITIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09D544	C09D544	C09D712	C09D712	C09D16300	C09D16300	C25D1310	C25D1310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C25D	C25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09D5	C09D5	C09D7	C09D7	C09D163	C09D163	C25D13	C25D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG INDUSTRIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PPG INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESWARAKRISHNAN V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAYLO ALAN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCENTIRE EDWARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEINER JEROME A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ESWARAKRISHNAN, V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAYLO, ALAN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCENTIRE, EDWARD, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEINER, JEROME, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ADDITIVES FOR ELECTRODEPOSITABLE COATING COMPOSITIONSField of the Invention The present invention relates to polymeric products useful as additives in electrodepositable coating compositions.Brief Description of the Prior ArtPolymeric products made by the polymerization of diene and vinyl monomers in the presence of aqueous dispersions of anionic and cationic polymers are known in the art. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,055,527 to Jozwiak et al discloses polymerization of dienes, mixtures of dienes and vinyl monomers in aqueous dispersions in the presence of partially neutralized maleinized oils. U.S. Patent No. 4,297,261 to Jozwiak discloses the polymerization of ethylenically unsaturated monomers in the presence of a cationic polyepoxide-amine adduct having pendant unsaturation. Polymerization is conducted in the presence of anionic oil-soluble free radical polymerization initiator, and the patent teaches that water soluble free radical catalysts are preferably not used.U.S. Patent No. 4,791,161 to Leising discloses the preparation of a cationic latex which first includes the preparation by aqueous emulsion polymerization techniques of a vinyl monomer mixture including an amino group containing vinyl monomer and subsequent polymerization of vinyl monomers in the presence of an uncharged or a cationically charged free radical initiator.Also well known are polymeric products which can be used as additives in electrodepositable coating compositions. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,432,850 to Moriarity et al. describes a polyepoxide-polyalkylenepolyamine resin additives which improves the flow and appearance of the electrodeposited coating.Australian Patent Application 41209189 discloses aqueous dispersions of film forming resins capable of being deposited cathodically or anodically and 0.5 to 30 percent by weight of 

crosslinked polymeric microparticles. The microparticles are prepared by polymerizing vinyl monomers including a crosslinking monomer by* aqueous emulsion polymerization techniques in the presence of water soluble free radical initiators including cationic initiators and low molecular weight surface active agents and protective colloids.Summary of the Invention The present invention is directed to electrodepositable aqueous resinous dispersions comprising(a) from about 0.5 to about 40 weight percent based on total weight of resin solids of a polymeric product which is prepared by polymerizing in an aqueous medium under free radical initiated conditions an aqueous dispersion of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An electrodepositable aqueous resinous dispersion, comprising: (a) from about 0.5 to about 40 weight percent based on total weight of resin solids of a polymeric product prepared by polymerizing in aqueous medium, under free radical initiated conditions, an aqueous dispersion of a polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomer composition, in the presence of a cationic polymeric surface active substance; and
(b) from about 60 to about 99.5 weight percent based on total weight of resin solids of a cationic salt group containing film forming polymer which is electrodepositable on a cathode.
2. A dispersion, aε claimed in claim 1, wherein said monomer composition includes a diene-containing monomer.
3. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said monomer composition includes an alkyl ester of acrylic or methacrylic acid containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms in the alkyl group.
4. A disperεion, aε claimed in claim 1, wherein said monomer composition includes styrene.
5. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said monomer composition includes a hydroxy-functional monomer.
6. A dispersion, aε claimed in claim 1, wherein εaid monomer composition includes a halogen-containing monomer.
7. A diεpersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said aqueous medium in which said polymeric product is prepared further comprises a chain transfer agent.
8. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said aqueous medium in which said polymeric product is prepared further comprises a mercaptan functional substance. 


 9. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 8, wherein said mercaptan functional substance is mercaptan functional polysulfide.
10. A dispersion, aε claimed in claim 1, wherein (b) is a cationic polyepoxide-amine adduct.
11. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said polymeric product is prepared in the presence of a cationic εalt group containing free radical initiator.
12. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 11, wherein said free radical initiator is an azo free radical initiator.
13. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 12, wherein said azo free radical initiator comprises a compound selected from the group consiεting of 2,2'-azobis(N,N'-dimethyleneisobutyramidine) dihydrochloride, 2,2'-azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride, acid saltε of 2,2'-azobis(N,N'-dimethyleneisobutyramidine), acid salts of 2,2'-azobis(2-amidinopropane), and mixtures thereof.
14. An electrodepositable aqueous resinous dispersion, comprising:
(a) from about 0.5 to about 40 weight percent based on total weight of resin solids of a cationic polymeric product prepared by polymerizing in aqueous medium, under free radical initiated conditions, an aqueous diεpersion of a polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomer composition comprising a diene-containing monomer, in the presence of an at least partially acid-neutralized polyepoxide-amine adduct; and (b) from about 60 to about 99.5 weight percent based on total weight of resin solids of a. cationic salt group containing film forming polymer which is electrodepositable on a cathode and which is different from (a). 


 15. A method for coating a conductive substrate serving as a cathode in an electric circuit, wherein the electric circuit compriseε said cathode and an anode which are immersed in an aqueous cationic electrocoating composition, said process comprising pasεing an electric current between εaid cathode and said anode so as to cause the electrocoating composition to deposit as a coating on said cathode, wherein εaid cationic electrocoating composition is the electrodepositable aqueous reεinouε dispersion of claim 1. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 13 July 1993 (13.07.93); original claims 1-15 replaced by amended claims 1-13 (3 pages)]
1. An electrodepositable aqueouε reεinouε dispersion, comprising: (a) from about 5 to about 40 weight percent based on total weight of reεin εolids of a polymeric additive prepared by polymerizing in aqueous medium, under free radical initiated conditions, an aqueous dispersion of a polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomer composition in which the monomers are selected from the group consisting of diene monomerε and mixtures of diene monomerε with monomers selected from the group consisting of C^-C-^ alkyl acrylates and methacrylates, hydroxy alkyl esterε of acrylic and methacrylic acid, vinyl aromatic compoundε and halogenated monomers; said monomer mixture containing at least 20 percent by weight of said diene monomer, in the presence of a cationic polymeric surface active substance which is present in the electrodepositable aqueous resinouε dispersion; and (b) from about 60 to about 95 weight percent based on total weight of reεin solids of a cationic salt group containing film forming polymer which is electrodepositable on a cathode.
2. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the C-r-Cig alkyl acrylate and methacrylate is an alkyl ester of acrylic or methacrylic acid containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms in the alkyl grou .
3. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the vinyl aromatic compound is styrene.
4. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said halogen-containing monomer iε vinyl chloride.
5. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said aqueous medium in which said polymeric additive is prepared further comprises a chain transfer agent. 


 6. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said aqueous medium in which said polymeric additive is prepared further comprises a ercaptan-containing substance.
7. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said mercaptan-containing substance is mercaptan-containing polysulfide.
8. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein (b) is a cationic polyepoxide-amine adduct.
9. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said polymeric additive is prepared in the presence of a cationic salt group containing free radical initiator.
10. A dispersion, as claimed in claim 9, wherein said free radical initiator is an azo free radical initiator.
11. A disperεion, aε claimed in claim 10, wherein said azo free radical initiator comprises a compound selected from the group consisting of 2,2'-azobis(N,N'-dimethyleneisobutyramidine) dihydrochloride, 2,2'-azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride, acid salts of 2,2'-azobis(N,N'-dimethyleneisobutyramidine), acid salts of 2,2'-azobiε(2-amidinopropane), and mixtures thereof.
12. An electrodepoεitable aqueous resinous dispersion, comprising:
(a) from about 5 to about 40 weight percent based on total weight of resin solids of a polymeric additive prepared by polymerizing in aqueous medium, under free radical initiated conditions, an aqueous diεperεion of a polymerizable, ethylenically unsaturated monomer composition in which the monomers are selected from the group consisting of diene monomers and mixtures of diene monomers with monomers selected from the group consisting of C^-C^ alkyl acrylates and methacrylates, hydroxy alkyl esters of acrylic and methacrylic acid, vinyl aromatic compounds and halogenated monomers: said 


 monomer mixture containing at least 20 percent by weight of said diene monomer, in the presence of an at least partially acid-neutralized polyepoxide-amine adduct which is present in the electrodepositable aqueous resinous dispersion; and (b) from about 60 to about 95 weight percent based on total weight of reεin solids of a cationic salt group containing film forming polymer which is electrodepositable on a cathode.
13. A method for coating a conductive substrate serving as a cathode in an electric circuit, wherein the electric -circuit comprises said cathode and an anode which are immersed in an aqueous cationic electrocoating composition, said process comprising pasεing an electric current between said cathode and said anode so as to cause the electrocoating composition to deposit as a coating on said cathode, wherein εaid cationic electrocoating composition is the electrodepositable aqueous resinous disperεion of claim 1. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
