<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659195</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ETHYLENIC OXYGEN SCAVENGING COMPOSITIONS AND PROCESS FOR MAKING SAME BY ESTERIFICATION OR TRANSESTERIFICATION IN A REACTIVE EXTRUDER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L3326	C08F814	C08L3300	C08F800	C08L3100	C08F800	C08K500	B32B2718	C08L3302	C08L3104	B32B2718	C08L3308	C08K5098	C08L5700	C08L3102	C08L3324	C08K300	C08L5700	C08K509	C08L3304	C08K316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08F	C08L	C08F	C08L	C08F	C08K	B32B	C08L	C08L	B32B	C08L	C08K	C08L	C08L	C08L	C08K	C08L	C08K	C08L	C08K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L33	C08F8	C08L33	C08F8	C08L31	C08F8	C08K5	B32B27	C08L33	C08L31	B32B27	C08L33	C08K5	C08L57	C08L31	C08L33	C08K3	C08L57	C08K5	C08L33	C08K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a process for transesterifying a polymer having a polyethylenic backbone and pendant ester moieties comprising contacting a melt of the polymer in a reactive extruder with a transesterifying compound so that the polymer undergoes transesterification but not alcoholysis. The transesterified polymer also has pendant ester moieties which differ in kind and/or number from the unreacted polymer. In one embodiment, the process also comprises adding an amount of a transition metal salt that is effective to promote oxygen scavenging. Also in a further embodiment, the process comprises irradiating the transesterified polymer with actinic radiation to reduce the induction period before oxygen scavenging commences. Also disclosed are compositions comprising a component which comprises an ethylenic backbone and a pendant or terminal moiety comprising a benzyl radical are disclosed. The invention also embodies new polyethylenic oxygen scavenging compositions comprising a transition-metal salt and a component which comprises a polyethylenic backbone and a pendant or terminal moiety comprising a benzyl radical. Methods of making the compositions, and methods and compositions using the ethylenic compositions, are disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEVRON CHEM CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEVRON CHEMICAL COMPANY LLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHING TA YEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRENT STEVEN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATSUMOTO KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THEARD LESLIE P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHING, TA, YEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURRENT, STEVEN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATSUMOTO, KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THEARD, LESLIE, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention provides ethylenic compositions and articles. Also included are compositions and methods for scavenging
oxygen from environments containing oxygen, particularly food and beverage-containing products. In addition,
a process is disclosed for transesterifying a polymer having a polyethylenic backbone and pendant ester moieties in
a reactive extruder to obtain a polymer having a polyethylenic backbone and pendant ester moieties which differ in
kind and/or in number from the unreacted polymer.It is well known that regulating the exposure of oxygen-sensitive products to oxygen maintains and enhances the
quality and "shelf-life" of the product. For instance, by limiting the oxygen exposure of oxygen sensitive food products
in a packaging system, the quality of the food product is maintained, and food spoilage is avoided. In addition, such
packaging also keeps the product in inventory longer, thereby reducing costs incurred from waste and having to restock
inventory. In the food packaging industry, several means for regulating oxygen exposure have already been developed.
These means include modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) and oxygen barrier film packaging.One method currently being used is through "active packaging", whereby the package for the food product is
modified in some manner to regulate the food product's exposure to oxygen. The inclusion of oxygen scavengers within
the cavity of the package is one form of active packaging. Typically, such oxygen scavengers are in the form of sachets
which contain a composition which scavenges the oxygen through oxidation reactions. One sachet contains iron-based
compositions which oxidize to their ferric states. Another type of sachet contains unsaturated fatty acid salts on a
particulate adsorbent. See U.S. Patent No. 4,908,131. Yet another sachet contains metal/polyamide complex. See U.
S. Patent No. 5,194,478.However, one disadvantage of sachets is the need for additional packaging operations to add the sachet to each
package. A further disadvantage arising from the iron-based sachets is that certain atmospheric conditions (e.g., high
humidity, low CO2 level) in the package are sometimes required in order for scavenging to occur at an adequate rate.
Further, the sachets can present a danger to consumers if accidentally ingested.Another means for regulating the exposure to oxygen involves incorporating an oxygen scavenger into the packaging
structure itself. A more uniform scavenging effect throughout the package is achieved by incorporating the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composition comprising a transition-metal salt and a component which has an ethylenic backbone and a pendant
and/or terminal moiety comprising a benzyl radical, wherein the composition is effective to scavenge at least 1 cc

of oxygen per gram of said composition.
The composition of Claim 1 further comprising a heteroatom-containing radical directly bonded to said benzyl
radical.
The composition of Claim 2 wherein said benzyl radicals comprise benzyl radicals substituted with at least one
radical selected from the group consisting of alkyl radicals containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms, alkoxy radicals

having from 1 to 16 carbon atoms, amine radicals having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, ester and amide radicals of
acids having from 1 to 16 carbon atoms, aryl radicals or substituted aryl radicals having 6 to 24 carbon atoms, and

aryl ether radicals or substituted aryl ether radicals having from 6 to 24 carbon atoms.
The composition of Claim 3 wherein said benzyl radicals comprise benzyl radicals having the phenyl substituted
with at least one radical selected from the group consisting of alkyl radicals containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms,

alkoxy radicals having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, amine radicals having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, ester and amide
radicals of acids having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, aryl radicals or substituted aryl radicals having 6 to 15 carbon

atoms, and aryl ether radicals or substituted aryl ether radicals having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms.
The composition of Claim 2 wherein the heteroatom-containing radical is selected from the group consisting of
ester, amide, and imide radicals.
The composition of Claim 5 wherein the ester, amide, and imide radicals are directly bonded to the ethylenic
backbone.
The composition of Claim 6 wherein the ester radical is directly bonded to the ethylenic backbone through the
carbon atom of the ester radical.
The composition of Claim 6 wherein the amide radical is directly bonded to the ethylenic backbone through the
carbon atom of the amide radical.
The composition of Claim 6 wherein the heteroatom-containing radical is selected from the group consisting of
ester and amide radicals.
The composition of Claim 9 wherein said component comprises the dibenzyl ester of 1,10-decanedicarboxylic acid.
The composition of Claim 9 wherein said component comprises a polymer having an ethylenic backbone and
having between 1 and 17.9 mole percent benzyl ester, 3-methoxybenzyl ester, 3-methylbenzyl ester, and/or N-benzyl

amide radicals directly bonded to the ethylenic backbone.
The composition of Claim 11 wherein the composition contains between 20 and 200 moles of benzyl radicals per
mole of transition-metal element.
The composition of Claim 12 wherein the transition-metal salt comprises cobalt neodecanoate and/or cobalt benzoate.
The composition of Claim 11 wherein the polymer contains sodium, zinc, potassium, or ammonium counter-ions.
The composition of Claim 11 wherein said polymer further comprises said ethylenic backbone and pendant carboxy
radicals.
The composition of Claim 11 wherein said polymer further comprises said ethylenic backbone and pendant alkyl
ester radicals. 
The composition of Claim 16 wherein the pendant alkyl ester radicals comprise methyl ester radicals.
The composition of Claim 17 wherein the composition contains between 0.3 and 17.2 mole percent methyl ester
radicals.
The composition of Claim 17 wherein the composition contains between about 0.3 and about 8.9 mole percent
methyl ester radicals.
The composition of Claim 2 wherein the composition contains between 10 and 2000 moles of benzyl radicals per
mole of transition-metal element.
The composition of Claim 2 wherein the composition contains between 20 and 200 moles of benzyl radicals per
mole of transition-metal element.
The composition of Claim 21 wherein the transition-metal salt comprises a cobalt salt.
The composition of Claim 21 wherein the transition-metal salt comprises cobalt neodecanoate and/or cobalt benzoate.
The composition of Claim 1 wherein the transition-metal salt and the benzylic radical are both present in an amount
which is effective to scavenge oxygen.
The composition of Claim 24 wherein the induction period of the composition to scavenge oxygen can be reduced
by exposure to ultraviolet radiation.
The composition of Claim 25 wherein the composition contains no photo-initiators.
A polymer composition prepared by reacting an ethylene alkyl acrylate copolymer with a benzylic amine.
A polymer composition prepared by reacting an ethylene alkyl acrylate
copolymer with a benzylic alcohol, said composition having both benzyl ester

and methyl ester radicals, and said benzylic alcohol having the
formula:



wherein X is OH, and R is independently selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, phenyl, alkyl radicals containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms,

alkoxy radicals having from 1 to 16 carbon atoms, amine radicals having from 1 to 6
carbon atoms, aryl radicals or substituted aryl radicals having 6 to 24 carbon atoms,

aryl ether radicals or substituted aryl ether radicals having from 6 to 24 carbon atoms,
and ester and amide radicals of acids having from 1 to 16 carbon atoms.
The composition of Claim 28 having more than 5 mole percent benzyl ester radicals.
The composition of Claim 28 wherein the ethylene alkyl acrylate copolymer has a melt-point temperature at least
6 deg F greater than a reference ethylene-alkyl acrylate copolymer, where the reference copolymer is made in a

multi-zone autoclave reactor and the ratio of alkyl acrylate to ethylene in a reaction zone when making the reference

copolymer is about equal to the overall ethylene to alkyl acrylate ratio fed to the multi-zone autoclave reactor.
A film comprising the composition of Claim 1.
A layer in a film or article comprising the composition of Claim 1.
A multi-layer composition comprising:

A) a first layer comprising an oxygen barrier layer; and
B) a second layer comprising the composition of Claim 24.
The composition of Claim 33 further comprising a third layer comprising a functional layer.
The composition of Claim 33 further comprising a third layer comprising a structural layer
The composition of Claim 35 further comprising a fourth layer comprising a functional layer.
A rigid thick-walled composition comprising the composition of Claim 1. 
A process comprising:

A. forming a melt of a polymer having a polyethylenic backbone and
pendant ester moieties; and
B. contacting the melt with a transesterifying compound in a reactive
extruder under transesterification conditions, where the polymer

undergoes transesterification but not alcoholysis, the polymer after
transesterification has a polyethylenic backbone and pendant ester

moieties, and the transesterifying compound has the formula:


wherein X is OH, and R is independently selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, phenyl, alkyl radicals containing from 1 to 18 carbon atoms,

alkoxy radicals having from 1 to 16 carbon atoms, amine radicals having from 1 to 6
carbon atoms, aryl radicals or substituted aryl radicals having 6 to 24 carbon atoms,

aryl ether radicals or substituted aryl ether radicals having from 6 to 24 carbon atoms,
and ester and amide radicals of acids having from 1 to 16 carbon atoms.
The process of claim 38 further comprising contacting the melt with a transesterification catalyst in the reactive
extruder.
The process of claim 38 wherein the reaction occurs essentially at atmospheric pressure.
The process of claim 38 further comprising adding an amount of transition metal salt that is effective to promote
oxygen scavenging in the transesterified polymer.
The process of claim 41 wherein the transition metal salt comprises a cobalt metal salt.
The process of claim 41 further comprising irradiating the transesterified polymer with actinic radiation.
The process of claim 38 wherein the polymer comprises ethylene alkyl acrylate copolymer or ethylene alkyl acrylate
copolymer grafted with maleic anhydride.
The process of claim 44 wherein the polymer comprises ethylene methyl acrylate copolymer.
The process of claim 44 wherein the transesterifying compound comprises benzyl alcohol.
The process of claim 45 wherein the transesterifying compound comprises benzyl alcohol.
The process of claim 47 further comprising adding an amount of transition metal salt that is effective to promote
oxygen scavenging in the transesterified polymer.
The process of claim 48 further comprising irradiating the transesterified polymer with actinic radiation.
The process of claim 44 wherein the transesterifying compound comprises 3-methylbenzyl alcohol.
The process of claim 44 wherein the transesterifying compound comprises 3-methoxybenzyl alcohol.
The process of claim 38 wherein the polymer comprises an ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer.
The process of claim 52 wherein the transesterifying compound comprises phenyl acetic acid.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
