<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0150265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD FOR IMPROVING THE PROPERTIES OF AN ELONGATE STRUCTURAL MEMBER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D3100	B21D3100	C21D700	C21D702	C22F100	C22F100	E04C330	E04C332	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	C21D	C21D	C22F	C22F	E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D31	B21D31	C21D7	C21D7	C22F1	C22F1	E04C3	E04C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The longitudinally compressive and tensile propor­
tionality limits and ultimate strengths of an elongated struc­

tural member are increased by applying to the member a 
longitudinally compressive load which is close to its maxi­

mum load. In order to prevent buckling of the member under 
such a load, the member is confined in an encasement 

which allows the member to yield longitudinally without 
bending. By applying to the member a longitudinally com­

pressive load much greater than the member's original (i.e. 
untreated) ultimate compressive strength, both the ultimate 

strengths and the proportionality limits of the member are 
increased. In addition, application of a longitudinally com­

pressive load close to or greater than the original ultimate 
compressive strength of the member also increases the 

straightness of the member and frees the member of re­
sidual stresses. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GROTNES METALFORMING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JAVORIK, LASZLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>

A method for improving the properties of an elongate structural member
THIS INVENTION relates generally to a method of improving the properties of an elongated structural member. Such a structural member may be solid, or hollow, i.e. a large tube.


 Resistance to buckling is an important quality for many elongated structural members used under compressive loads. By improving resistance to buckling, better performance when subjected to compressive load can be achieved. In addition, increased resistance to buckling allows smaller, and therefore lighter and less expensive, members to be advantageously used in applications where these qualities are important. Consequently, extensive studies have been made of how to improve the buckling resistance of elongated structural members when under compressive loads.


 Typically, the prior art has attempted to improve buckling resistance by applying radially compressive loads in order to increase the straightness of an elongated structural member (i.e., column). For example, U.S. Patent
No. 2,178,141 to Frame discloses the cold-straightening of well casings by applying radially compressive loads   incrementally    and progressively along the casing length. As a result of the radial compression, residual stresses in the casing are reduced, giving the casing an increased resistance to buckling.


 The present invention seeks to provide an improved method of improving the properties of an elongate structural member.


 According to one aspect of this invention there is provided a method for increasing the elastic region of a column when under compression or tension, said method comprising the steps of: confining said column against movement in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of said column;  applying to said confined column a longitudinally compressive load sufficient to cause the column to yield longitudinally; preventing said confined column from buckling while longitudinally yielding; and increasing said longitudinally compressive load on said column to a value close to the ultimate compressive strength of said column so as to increase the elastic region of said column.


 Preferably the method includes the step of: further increasing said longitudinally compressive load on said column to a value approximately twice as great as the original ultimate compressive strength of said column so as to increase both the ultimate compressive and tensile strengths of said column.


 The invention also provides a method for increasing the critical load of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:



I. A method for increasing the elastic region of a column when under compression or tension, said method comprising the steps of: confining said column against movement in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of said column; applying to said confined column a longitudinally compressive load sufficient to cause the column to yield longitudinally; preventing said confined column from buckling while longitudinally yielding; and increasing said longitudinally compressive load on said column to a value close to the ultimate compressive strength of said column so as to increase the elastic region of said column.



2. A method according to claim I including the step of: further increasing said longitudinally compressive load on said column to a value approximately twice as great as the original ultimate compressive strength of said column so as to increase both the ultimate compressive and tensile strengths of said column.



3. A method for increasing the critical load of a column to a value substantially accurately predicted by Euler's equation,
EMI13.1     

 wherein Pc equals the critical load of a column, E equals the Young's modulus of the column material, K is a constant representing end conditions of said column and   X equals    the ratio between column length and its radius of gyration, said method comprising the steps of: longitudinally compressing a column whose critical load is less than that predicted by Euler's equation; preventing said column from buckling by restraining its ability to bend; and allowing said column to yield longitudinally in response to said longitudinal compression so as to increase the elasticity of the column such that said column's critical load is more accurately predicted by Euler's equation.



4. A method according to claim 3 wherein said longitudinal compression is much greater than the original ultimate compressive strength of said column so as to thereby increase both the ultimate compressive and tensile strengths of said column.  



5. A method according to claim 3 or 4 wherein said column is composed of mild steel and the critical load of the column after longitudinal compression is accurately predicted by Euler's equation for   values    as low as approximately 76.9.



6. A method for increasing the elastic strength of an elongated column under compression or tension, said method comprising the steps of: applying a compressive load to the end of said column which is parallel to the longitudinal axis of said column and which is approximate to or greater than the ultimate compressive strength of said column; inhibiting the movement of said column in the direction transverse to said load; and allowing said column to yield axially without buckling.



7. A method according to claim 6 including the step of: controlling the movement of said column under compression in the direction transverse to said load such that residual stresses are relieved and the straightness of the column is improved.



8. A method for straightening an elongated column, said method comprising the steps of: applying a compressive load to the end of said column with said load being parallel to the longitudinal axis of said column and of substantially the same magnitude as the ultimate strength of said column; and controlling the yielding of said column in response to said load in directions orthogonal to the longitudinal axis of said column such that the uniformity of said column is improved.



9. A method according to claim 8 including the steps of: applying said compressive load to the end of said column at a magnitude substantially greater than the ultimate compressive strength of said column; and allowing said column to yield without buckling in response to said compressive load so as to increase the elasticity and the ultimate strength of said column in both compression and tension.



10. A method for increasing the ultimate compressive and tensile strengths of an elongated member utilising an encasement for the member and opposing pistons located at opposite ends of the encasement, said method comprising the steps of: inserting the member   into the    encasement  such that the encasement inhibits bending of the member when it is placed under a longitudinally compressive load; moving said pistons against said opposite ends of said member so as to apply a longitudinally compressive load to said member which is approximately equal to the ultimate compressive strength of said member; and allowing said member to yield without buckling in response to the longitudinally compressive load to thereby increase the elastic region of the member.

 


   I.    A method according to claim 10 wherein the longitudinally compressive load applied to said member is increased to a magnitude greater than the original ultimate compressive strength of said member so as to increase both the ultimate compressive and tensile strengths of said 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
