<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640675</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A crosslinkable polymer emulsion, a method for making a crosslinked polymer film, the film produced by the method and a crosslinking agent for carboxyl-substituted polymers.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F800	C08F844	C08K500	C08K500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C08K	C08K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F8	C08F8	C08K5	C08K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A crosslinkable polymeric emulsion has a pH from 1.5 to 8.5 and includes a 
carboxyl-substituted latex polymer dispersed in an aqueous medium, an Iron (III) 

compound and an amount of a stabilizer selected from the group consisting of 
nonionic surfactants and protective colloids effective to sterically stabilize the 

emulsion. A method for making a crosslinked polymer film includes forming a layer 
of the crosslinkable polymer emulsion and drying the layer to form the crosslinked 

polymer film, the film being ionically crosslinked between carboxyl substituent 
groups of the polymer by Iron (III) cations. A crosslinking agent for carboxyl-substituted 

polymers includes particles of a water-insoluble Iron (III) compound 
having an average maximum characteristic linear dimension of less than or equal to 

5 microns. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROHM 
&
 HAAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROHM AND HAAS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRICKER MARK CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN RHEENEN PAUL RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRICKER, MARK CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN RHEENEN, PAUL RALPH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a crosslinkable polymer emulsion, a method 
for making a crosslinked polymer film, the film produced by the method and a 
crosslinking agent for carboxyl-substituted polymers. US-A-3,740,366 discloses pressure sensitive adhesives prepared from an 
aqueous dispersion or solution of a polymer that includes free carboxylic groups and 
a compatible polyvalent metal compound. The polyvalent metal compound may be 
an ionic compound, an organo-metallic complex or a metal chelate that is at least 
partially ionizable or soluble in the dispersing medium or solvent. Use of zinc and 
zirconium compounds as suitable polyvalent metal compounds is demonstrated in 
the Examples of the '366 patent The adhesive compositions of the '366 patent exhibit 
improved shear resistance while maintaining good tackiness. Despite the useful properties of the zinc and zirconium crosslinked emulsions 
taught in the '366 patent, such compounds are not effective in crosslinking polymer 
emulsions that have a pH in the acid to neutral range. Furthermore, the use of zinc 
and other heavy metals has become undesirable from an environmental perspective. There is a need in the art for an inexpensive, effective, one pot, low toxicity 
crosslinker that can be used over a wide range of pH to cross link carboxyl-substituted 
latex polymer emulsions through reaction with the carboxyl substituent 
groups of the polymer. In accordance with the first aspect of the present invention there is provided a 
crosslinkable polymeric emulsion comprising a carboxyl-substituted latex polymer 
dispersed in an aqueous medium; an Iron (III) compound; and an amount of 
stabilizer selected from the group consisting of nonionic surfactants and protective 
colloids effective to sterically stabilize the emulsion; said emulsion having a pH from 
1.5 to 8.5, preferably 2 to 7, and even more preferably 3 to 5.5. In accordance with the second aspect of the present invention there is 
provided a method for making a crosslinked polymer film, the method comprising: 
a) forming a layer of a crosslinkable polymer emulsion comprising: a carboxyl-substituted 
latex polymer dispersed in an aqueous medium; an Iron (III) compound 
and an amount of a nonionic surfactant effective to stabilize the emulsion; said  
 
emulsion exhibiting a pH from 1.5 to 8.5; and b) drying the layer to form the 
polymer film which is crosslinked between carboxyl substituent groups of the 
polymer by polyvalent iron cations. In accordance with the third aspect of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A crosslinkable polymeric emulsion comprising: 
   a carboxyl-substituted latex polymer dispersed in an aqueous medium; 

   an Iron (III) compound; and 
   an amount of a stabilizer selected from the group consisting of nonionic 

surfactants and protective colloids effective to sterically stabilize the emulsion; 
said emulsion having a pH from 1.5 to 8.5, preferably 2 to 7, and even more 

preferably 3 to 5.5. 
2. The emulsion of claim 1, wherein the latex polymer comprises from 
1 wt % to 7 wt%, preferably 2 wt% to 5 wt% monomeric units derived from an 

ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer and from 93 weight % to 99 
weight %, preferably 95 wt% to 98 wt%, monomeric untis derived from an 

ethylenically unsaturated comonomer. 
3. The emulsion of claim 2, wherein the ethylenically unsaturated 
carboxylic monomer is selected from the group consisting of acrylic acid, 

methacrylic acid, crotonoic acid, itaconic acid, aconitic acid, atropic acid, maleic acid, 
fumaric acid, vinyl acetic acid, vinyl benzoic acid and mixtures thereof, and/or the 

ethylenically unsaturated comonomer comprises a comonomer selected from the 
group consisting of monoethylenically unsaturated monomers and mixtures thereof, 

and is preferably selected from the group consisting of methyl methacrylate, butyl 
acrylate, ethyl acrylate, ethyl hexyl acrylate styrene, vinyl acetate, acrylonitrile and 

mixtures thereof. 
4 The emulsion of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the emulsion includes from 
30 weight percent to 65 weight percent carboxyl-substituted latex polymer. 
5. The emulsion of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the Iron (III) compound is a 
water soluble ferric salt dissolved in the aqueous medium; and wherein the salt is 

preferably generated in situ by addition of finely divided iron powder and an 
equivalent amount of an organic acid or a salt of an organic acid; and wherein the 

ferric salt is even more preferably directly added to the emulsion and the emulsion 
further comprises an amount of a salt of a weak acid effective to raise the pH of the 

emulsion to a pH from 2 to 8. 
6. The emulsion of claim 5, wherein the ferric salt is selected from the 
group consisting of ferric chloride, ferric nitrate and mixtures thereof and wherein 

the salt of the weak acid is selected from the group consisting of sodium acetate, 
sodium benzoate, potassium formate, sodium formate,potassium 2-ethyl hexanoate, 

sodium 2-ethyl hexanoate sodium octanoate and mixtures thereof. 
7. The emulsion of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the Iron (III) 
compound comprises colloidal particles of an insoluble ferric salt and, wherein the 

 
insoluble salt is preferably selected from the group consisting of ferric benzoate, 

ferric hexanoate, ferric 2-ethyl hexanoate, ferric octanoate, ferric naphthenoate, ferric 
oleate and mixtures thereof. 
8. The emulsion of claim 7, wherein at least a portion of the insoluble 
ferric salt is dispersed in the aqueous phase of the emulsion, or is dispersed within 

the latex particles of the emulsion. 
9. The emulsion of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the emulsion 
includes 0.05 to 1.5, preferably 0.1 to 1.0, equivalents Iron (III) ions per carboxyl 

substituent of the polymer. 
10. The emulsion of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the 
stabilizer is a nonionic surfactant having a hydrophilic/lipophilic balance of greater 

than 10 selected from the group consisting of ethoxylated alkyl phenols, ethoxylated 
alcohols, ethoxylated mercaptans, ethoxylated fatty acids, ethoxylated amines, 

ethoxylated fatty esters, ethoxylated oils, ethoxylated sorbitan derivatives, 
ethoxylated sucrose esters, poly(ethylene oxide-propylene oxide) block copolymers 

and mixtures thereof, or wherein the stabilizer is a protective colloid selected from 
the group consisting of fully hydrolyzed poly(vinyl alcohol), partially hydrolyzed 

poly(vinyl alcohol), poly(vinyl pyrollidone), hydroxyethyl cellulose and mixtures 
thereof. 
11. The emulsion of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the 
emulsion includes from 0.5 parts by weight to 5 parts by weight steric stabilizer per 

100 parts by weight carboxyl-substituted polymer. 
12. A method for making a crosslinked polymer film, the method 
comprising: 


a) forming a layer of a crosslinkable polymer emulsion comprising: 
      a carboxyl-substituted latex polymer dispersed in an aqueous 

medium; 
      an Iron (III) compound; and 

      an amount of a nonionic surfactant effective to stabilize the 
emulsion; 

   said emulsion exhibiting a pH from 1.5 to 8.5; and 
b) drying the layer to form the crosslinked polymer film which is crosslinked 
between carboxyl substituent groups of the polymer by polyvalent iron cations. 
13. A crosslinked polymer film made by the method of claim 12. 
14. An article comprising a substrate and a crosslinked polymer film 
covering a portion of the substrate, wherein said film is formed by the method of 

claim 12, and wherein preferably the article is an adhesive tape and the substrate is 
 

masking tape crepe paper; the article is a removable adhesive label and the substrate 
is a paper label stock or a polymeric film; or the article comprises a coated substrate, 

the substrate comprises a wood, a paper, a metal, a polymer or a ceramic, and the 
polymer film forms a coating on the substrate. 
15. The method of claim 12, wherein step a) includes forming the layer on 
a first substrate, and the method further comprises the step of covering the layer 

with a second substrate, and step b) forms a laminate structure comprising the 
substrates bonded together by a crosslinked polymer adhesive film between the 

substrates. 
16. A laminate formed by the process of claim 15. 
17. A crosslinking agent for carboxyl-substituted polymers, the agent 
comprising particles of a water-insoluble Iron (III) compound having an average 

maximum characteristic linear dimension of less than or equal to 5 microns. 
18. The crosslinking agent of claim 17, wherein the water-insoluble Iron 
(III) compound is selected from the group consisting of ferric benzoate, ferric 

hexanoate, ferric 2-ethyl hexanoate, ferric octanoate and mixtures thereof. 
19. A crosslinker composition comprising an aqueous colloidal dispersion 
of the crosslinking agent of claims 17 or 18. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
