<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653165</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for the production of a watersoluble, low-iron protein product from blood cell raw material, and a low-iron, watersoluble protein product produced by hydrolysis of blood cell raw material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23J106	A23J100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23J	A23J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23J1	A23J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method for the production of a protein product 
from whole blood or a blood cell fraction separated from whole blood, said protein product 

being highly digestible, having a low content of iron and salts, being light brown, 
watersoluble and having good adhesive properties. 
The method for the production of the protein product is characterised in that an 
aqueous blood cell material is subjected to hydrolysis at a temperature of between 140 and 

190 °C and that the treated material is separated into a low-iron, liquid phase containing 
soluble proteins and an iron-rich, solid phase containing insoluble proteins, the liquid phase 

subsequently being concentrated or dried to a low-iron protein product, if desired. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAKA A M B A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAKA A.M.B.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLM-JENSEN BJARNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLM-JENSEN, BJARNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for the production of a watersoluble, low-iron
protein product from blood cell raw material. More specifically, the invention relates to a
method, which makes it possible to produce a powdered protein product being highly
digestible, having low contents of iron and salts, being light brown in colour, watersoluble
and having good adhesive properties.Large quantities of whole blood are each year sent by the slaughterhouses to rendering
plants, where it is processed into dried blood products. These are primarily used in fodder
matures for livestock and fish. Also, the rendering plants receive a large part of the blood
cell fractions separated by the slaughterhouses in their production of blood plasma for use
in foodstuffs.There are three limiting factors when using blood products in fodder mixtures or as
supplements to foodstuffs. The first is the high iron content, which in itself sets the limit
for the quantity that can be used in fodder or foodstuffs; the second is the colour of blood
products, which is due also to the iron content and gives the fodder or foodstuffs an often
inappropriate colour; the third factor is the taste of the blood products, which particularly
limits their use in foodstuffs.Over the years, several scientists have been engaged in the removal of iron from whole
blood and blood cell fractions. Thus, Hill and Holden describe a method of separating the
heme-group from hemoglobin by treating the blood with a acid acetone solution (R. Hill
& H.F. Holden (1926): "Preparation and properties of the globin and oxyhaemoglobin",
Biochem. J., 20, 1326). The hemoglobin denaturates in this solution and the heme group
is liberated. The globin precipitates, whereas the heme group remains in solution in the
organic phase. The phases are separated. If the process is carried out at a sufficiently low
temperature, the globin can be redissolved in water and the solution is spray dried. This
method has been modified over the years, and has been the most frequently used method 
of producing globin. From a technical point of view, the method is disadvantageous in that
large quantities of highly volatile, organic solvents are used in the process, which demands
major investments in process equipment, preventing evaporation of solvents to the
surroundings and also ensuring no hazards of explosion.Tybor et al. have improved the method by inclusion of a pre-processing of the blood: First
the blood is extracted with chloroform and then ascorbic acid is added (P.T.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for the production of a watersoluble, low-iron protein product from a blood cell
raw material, 
characterised
 in that a aqueous blood cell material is subjected to
hydrolysis at a temperature of between 140 and 190 °C and that the treated material is

separated into a low-iron, liquid phase containing soluble proteins and a iron-rich, solid
phase containing insoluble proteins, the liquid phase subsequently being concentrated or

dried to a low-iron protein product, if desired.
Method according to claim 1, wherein no substances promoting the hydrolysis at the
used hydrolysis temperature are added to the aqueous blood cell material to be hydrolysed

or at most less than 0.1 % by weight of such substances is added, based on the dry matter.
Method according to any one of claims 1-2, wherein the hydrolysis is provided by
blowing pressurized steam of a temperature above the used hydrolysis temperature into the

aqueous blood cell material.
Method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the aqueous blood cell material is
subjected to grinding prior to the hydrolysis process.
Method according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein a aqueous blood cell raw material
is subjected to coagulation, ad the coagulate is separated from the liquid, salts containing

phase, the separated coagulate subsequently being subjected to the hydrolysis process after
any addition of water.
Method according to claim 5, wherein the raw material is coagulated by heating,
preferably to a temperature of between 90 and 100 °C, especially between 95 and 100 °C,

the heating preferably being provided by introduction of steam into the raw material.
Method according to any one of claims 5-6, wherein the raw material is matured by
heating to a temperature of between 20 and 50 °C, preferably between 30 and 40 °C, before

being subjected to the coagulation process. 
Method according to ay one of claims 1-7, wherein the raw material used is whole
blood collected in slaughterhouses or a blood cell fraction separated from such whole

blood.
Method for the production of a watersoluble, low-iron protein powder from whole blood
collected in slaughterhouses or a blood cell fraction separated from such whole blood,

according to claim 1, comprising the following steps:

a) maturation of the whole blood or the blood cell fraction at a temperature of
between 20 and 50 °C, preferably between 30 and 40 °C, for a period of up to one

hour;
b) coagulation of the blood material obtained in step a) by heating it to an increased
temperature, preferably to a temperature of between 90 and 100 °C;
c) separation of the material obtained in step b) into a coagulate and a liquid, salts
containing phase;
d) grinding of the coagulate obtained in step c);
e) hydrolysis under aqueous conditions of the ground coagulate obtained in step d)
at a temperature of between 140 and 190 °C, preferably by introduction of

pressurized steam into the ground coagulate, whereby no substances promoting the
hydrolysis at the used hydrolysis temperature are added to the blood cell material,

neither in this stage nor the preceding stages a)-d), or at most less than 0.1 % by
weight of such substances is added, based on the dry matter;
f) separation of the material obtained in step e) into a low-iron, liquid phase
containing soluble proteins and an iron-rich, solid phase containing insoluble

proteins; and 
g) drying of the low-iron, liquid phase to a
low-iron protein product, and grinding it to

the desired protein powder, if necessary.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 9,
wherein the heat for the hydrolysis process is

provided by introduction of pressurized steam into the
aqueous blood cell material, and wherein the

hydrolysis process is carried out at a pressure of
600-800 kPa (6 to 8 bar, absolute) and at a

temperature of between 160 to 170°C, for a period of
between 10 and 30 minutes.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 10,
wherein the aqueous blood cell material to be

hydrolysed has a dry matter content of not more than
35% by weight, preferably not more than 30% by weight,

whereas the remainder is water, water being added to
reduce the dry matter percentage, if desired.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 11,
wherein the separation of the low-iron phase and the

iron-rich phase after the hydrolysis process is
carried out by centrifuging or ultrafiltration.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 12,
wherein the low-iron, liquid phase is spray dried to a

protein powder.
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 13,
wherein the iron-rich, solid phase containing

insoluble proteins is fed back to the hydrolysis
process. 
Method according to any one of claims 1 to 14,
wherein the hydrolysis is carried out in batches in a

pressure container, or continuously in a continuous-flow
reactor.
Watersoluble, low-iron protein product obtainable
by hydrolysis of a blood cell material, characterised

in that it contains more than 90% by weight of raw
protein, less than 5% by weight of ashes and less than

0.04% by weight of iron, based on the dry matter, the
amino-acid distribution of the proteins corresponding

mainly to that of blood cells.
Apparatus for producing a watersoluble, low-iron
protein product from a blood cell raw material

comprising:

a pressure container adapted to a pressure of
between 400 and 1200 kPa (4 and 12 bar, absolute)

and having a supply of pressurized steam;
a centrifuge or ultrafiltration equipment
connected to the outlet of the pressure

container, and
a drying equipment, preferably a spray drier,
connected to the outlet of the centrifuge or

ultrafiltration equipment.
Apparatus according to claim 17, further
comprising a grinding equipment for grinding the blood

cells before they are fed to the pressure container.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
