<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649375</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE STAGE TORSION AXLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60G1100	B60G1118	B60G1122	B60G1702	B60G1702	B60G2100	B60G21055	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60G11	B60G11	B60G11	B60G17	B60G17	B60G21	B60G21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A torsion axle (10) for a vehicle includes an elongated axle tube (12) enclosing first stage torsion shafts (22) and second stage torsion shafts (34) all having a common axis, and a metal tube (16, 32) and a plurality of resilient rubber rods (26, 36) confine each of the shafts for torsionally resisting rotation of the shaft. Each first stage metal tube is secured to the surrounding axle tube, and each second stage metal tube is connected to the corresponding first stage shaft. A stud (42) projects outwardly from each second stage metal tube through a slot (44) within the surrounding axle tube to limit rotation of the second stage tube with the first stage shaft, and a crank arm (52) and eccentric spindle (56) are secured to the outer end portion of each second stage shaft for receiving a wheel. In modifications, the first stage shafts (72) for both the left and right wheels are connected as one shaft, and a winch cable (106) and spool (104) provide for pre-rotating the one shaft to lower the vehicle for convenient loading.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENSCHEN CURTISS W
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HENSCHEN, CURTISS, W.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENSCHEN CURTISS W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENSCHEN, CURTISS, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTIPLE STAGE TORSION AXLEBackground of the InventionIn the art of rubber torsion axles of the general type disclosed in U.S. Patents No.3,208,168 and No.3,436,069 which issued to applicant and are commonly used on trailers and other load carrying vehicles, it is frequently necessary for such vehicles to be transported along the road or highway while empty or at a static load and also be transported with a gross load which is substantially greater than the static load.For example, it is desirable to use such a torsion axle on a trailer with a static load of about two thousand pounds and having a gross load of about six thousand pounds without the trailer or vehicle bouncing or swaying under any loading condition. It is also desirable for the torsion axle to be a simple, economical and dependable in construction and to be easily installed on a vehicle chassis.Summary of the Invention The present invention is directed to an improved torsion axle of the general type mentioned above and which provides multiple stages for use on a trailer or other vehicle adapted to transport a wide range of loads ranging from an empty or static load and a gross load several times that of the static load. The multiple stage torsion axle of the invention also provides the vehicle with a smooth ride under various loading conditions without bouncing and swaying of the vehicle. In addition the torsion axle of the invention is simple and economical in construction and provides for a dependable service life over an extended 

period of time.The above features and advantages are provided in accordance with the invention by a torsion axle including an elongated cylindrical axle tube which mounts on the vehicle chassis and encloses a pair of first stage torsion shafts and a pair of second stage torsion shafts all in axial alignment. A generally square metal tube and a plurality of resilient or rubber rods confine each of the shafts for torsionally resisting rotation of the shaft, and each of the metal tubes for the first stage is connected to the axle tube. Each second stage metal tube is connected to the corresponding first stage shaft, and a crank arm and eccentric spindle are secured to the outer end portion of each of the second shafts for receiving a wheel. In modifications, the first stage shafts for both the left and right wheels are connected together as one shaft, and a winch cable and spool are connected to the one shaft to provide for pre-rotation of the one shaft to lower the vehicle for convenient loading.Other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A multiple stage torsion axle adapted for use on a trailer or other vehicle, comprising an elongated axle tube having a center axis, means for mounting said axle tube on the vehicle, a first stage torsion shaft and a second stage torsion shaft disposed within said axle tube, first stage torsion means including a resilient rubber-like material and connected for torsionally resisting rotation of said first stage torsion shaft relative to said axle tube, second stage torsion means including a resilient rubber-like material and connected for torsionally resisting rotation of said second stage torsion shaft relative to said first stage torsion shaft, and a crank arm connected to said second stage torsion shaft and having eccentric means for attaching a wheel.
2. A torsion axle as defined in claim 1 and including means for stopping rotation of said first stage torsion shaft relative to said axle tube after a predetermined rotation of said first stage torsion shaft.
3. A torsion axle as defined in claim 1 wherein said first and second stage torsion shafts are axially aligned within said axle tube.
4. A torsion axle as defined in claim 1 wherein said crank arm includes a tubular bushing welded to said crank arm for receiving said second stage torsion shaft and having means for rotating said second stage torsion shaft with said crank arm.
5. A torsion axle as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said first and second stage torsion means comprise a non-cylindrical metal tube section, and a plurality of resilient rubber-like rods disposed between each of said metal tube section and the corresponding said shaft.
6. A torsion axle as defined in claim 1 wherein said axle tube encloses a pair of said second stage torsion shafts and a pair of said second stage torsion means, and a pair of said crank arms connected to said second stage torsion shafts for receiving a pair of the wheels.
7. A torsion axle as defined in claim 6 wherein said axle tube also encloses a pair of said first stage torsion shafts, and a pair of said 


first stage torsion means supporting said first stage torsion shafts for independent rotation.
8. A torsion axle as defined in claim 6 wherein said axle tube encloses a pair of said first stage torsion shafts rigidly connected for common rotation, and said first stage torsion means torsionally resist common rotation of said first stage torsion shafts.
9. A torsion axle as defined in claim 8 and including means for pre- rotating said first stage torsion shafts as a unit to provide for raising the wheels and lowering the vehicle to facilitate loading the vehicle.
10. A torsion axle as defined in claim 1 and including bearing means within said axle tube and supporting an inner portion of said second stage torsion shaft slightly eccentric relative to the axis of said axle tube.
11. A multiple stage torsion axle adapted for use on a trailer or other vehicle, comprising an elongated axle tube having a center axis, means for mounting said axle tube on the vehicle, a first stage torsion shaft and a second stage torsion shaft disposed within said axle tube in axial alignment, a rigid torsion tube section and a plurality of rubber-like resilient rods confining each of said shafts with said rods disposed between said shaft and said torsion tube section for torsionally resisting rotation of said shaft relative to said torsion tube section, means for connecting said torsion tube section confining said first stage torsion shaft to said axle tube, means for connecting said torsion tube section confirming said second stage torsion shaft to said first stage torsion shaft, and a crank arm connected to said second stage torsion shaft and having eccentric means for attaching a wheel.
12. A torsion axle as defined in claim 11 and including means for stopping rotation of said first stage torsion shaft relative to said axle tube after a predetermined rotation of said first stage torsion shaft.
13. A torsion axle as defined in claim 11 wherein said axle tube encloses a pair of said first stage torsion shafts and a pair of said 


second stage torsion shafts and corresponding said resilient rods, and a pair of said crank arms connected to said second stage torsion shafts for receiving a pair of the wheels.
14. A torsion axle as defined in claim 13 wherein said pair of said first stage torsion shafts are rigidly connected for common rotation, and the corresponding said torsion tube sections and rods torsionally resist common rotation of said first stage torsion shafts.
15. A torsion axle as defined in claim 14 and including means for pre- rotating said first stage torsion shafts as a unit to provide for raising the wheels and lowering the vehicle to facilitate loading the vehicle.
16. A multiple stage torsion axle adapted for use on a trailer or other vehicle, comprising an elongated axle tube having a center axis, means for mounting said axle tube on the vehicle, a mir of first stage torsion shafts and a pair of second stage torsion s* «ts disposed in said axle tube within corresponding first stage and second stage rigid torsion tube sections, a plurality of resilient rubber-like rods disposed between each said torsion shaft and the corresponding said torsion tube section for torsionally resisting rotation of each said torsion shaft relative to the corresponding torsion tube section, means for connecting said first stage torsion tube sections to said axle tube, means for connecting said second stage torsion tube sections to said first stage torsion shafts, and a crank arm connected to each said second stage torsion shaft and having eccentric means for attaching a wheel.
17. A torsion axle as defined in claim 16 and including means for stopping rotation of said first stage torsion shafts relative to said axle tube after a predetermined rotation of said first stage torsion shafts.
18. A torsion axle as defined in claim 16 wherein said first and second stage torsion shafts and corresponding torsion tube sections are axially al igned. 


19. A torsion axle as defined in claim 16 wherein each said crank arm comprises a crank arm tube, a tubular bushing welded to each said crank arm tube for receiving the corresponding said second stage torsion shaft and having means for rotating each said second stage torsion shaft with the corresponding said crank arm.
20. A torsion axle as defined in claim 16 wherein said first stage torsion shafts are rigidly connected for common rotation, and one of said torsion tube sections torsionally resist common rotation of said first stage torsion shafts.
21. A torsion axle as defined in claim 16 and including means for pre- rotating said first stage torsion shafts as a unit to provide for raising the wheels and lowering the vehicle to facilitate loading the vehicle. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
