<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616155</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pinch valve
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K704	F04B5310	A61M130	A61M114	F04B5310	A61M114	A61M130	F16K700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F04B	A61M	A61M	F04B	A61M	A61M	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K7	F04B53	A61M1	A61M1	F04B53	A61M1	A61M1	F16K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A clamp for occluding a flexible tube comprising a 
permanent magnet rotary actuator coupled to a rotatable 

cam. A spring-biasing mechanism is provided to 
counteract the rotation of the rotary actuator and to 

return the rotatable cam to a pre-determined position 
when power is withheld from the rotary actuator. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROPUMP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROPUMP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKETT CARL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEVRAIN CHRISTOPHE J P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECKETT, CARL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SEVRAIN, CHRISTOPHE J. P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to an apparatus for
controlling the flow of a fluid in a flexible tubing.
It is particularly well suited for controlling blood
flow in single needle hemodialysis machines and related
medical and biotechnological applications.The control of fluid flow through flexible tubing is
required in many technical fields of endeavor, including
routine laboratory practices, and the chemical,
biotechnological and medical fields. The present
invention relates to an apparatus for clamping flexible
tubes in a controlled manner so as to occlude the tube
and thereby prevent the flow of fluid through the tube.
The disclosed apparatus was developed in response to the
need for an improved clamping apparatus for use in
single needle hemodialysis, but will find widespread
utility in many other applications.Hemodialysis machines serve as artificial kidneys
for extracting waste material from the blood of a
patient whose kidneys do not function properly.
Generally, this waste is removed from the patient's
blood by dialysis through semipermeable barriers into a
dialysate. This dialysis is performed in a hemodialysis
machine. It is therefore required that blood be removed
from the patient, conveyed to the hemodialysis machine
for treatment and then returned to the patient. This is
achieved by means of flexible tubes and a pump
mechanism, such as a peristaltic pump.In one type of hemodialysis, termed single needle
hemodialysis, a single venipuncture needle is inserted
into a vein in the patient's arm. This needle is used
both to remove untreated blood from the patient and
deliver it to the hemodialysis machine and to return
treated blood to the patient from the hemodialysis
machine. This blood removal and return is performed 
through two separate flexible tubes, both of which are
operably attached to the single needle.To avoid co-mingling of the treated and untreated
blood, the dialysis machine operates on a dual phase
cycle: in one phase, termed the arterial phase, blood
is withdrawn from the patient through the needle and
passed through one of the tubes, termed the arterial
line, into the dialysis machine for treatment. During
this arterial phase, the other tube, termed the venous
line, is occluded. In the other phase, termed the
venous phase, treated blood is pumped from the dialysis
machine through the venous line, and returned to the
patient through the needle, while the arterial line is
occluded. The operation of a typical single needle
hemodialysis apparatus is disclosed in United States
Paten
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (30) for controlling
whether or not a fluid will be conducted through a flexible

tube (28), the apparatus comprising a frame (120), a rotor
(56) having an axis; a support (74, 76, 78) for supporting

the rotor for rotation about the axis; a fixed stator (52)
supported within said frame and defining a bore through

which the rotor coaxially extends; the rotor having a first
end to which is affixed a tube occluding cam (40) for

rotation with said rotor about the axis, said cam being
operable upon rotation about the axis to pinchably occlude

the flexible tube held in proximate relationship to said
cam, the apparatus being characterized in that:


a) the rotor comprises a permanent magnet (62)
configured to be axially situated in the bore and to define

an alternating configuration of radially outwardly directed
magnetic poles;
b) the stator defines radial projections (58)
extending toward the axis and the permanent magnet in the

bore without touching the permanent magnet, each radial
projection being configured to produce, when electrically

energized, a radially inwardly directed magnetic pole that
is opposite to the magnetic poles produced by adjacent

radial projections; and
c) the rotor is operable to assume a first rotational
position relative to the axis whenever the radial

projections of the stator are electrically energized to
attract corresponding opposite poles on the permanent

magnet, and to return to a second rotational position
relative to the axis whenever the radial projections are

electrically de-energized.
The apparatus of claim 1 further
characterized by a stop limit (90, 94,168, 170) for

limiting the degree of axial rotation of the rotor. 
The apparatus of claim 1 further
characterized by a rotation limiting means for limiting the

degree of axial rotation of the permanent magnet, the
rotating limiting means comprising at least one pin (90)

connected to the permanent magnet and at least one raceway
(94) defined by a fixed surface (76) into which the pin

projects, the raceway limiting movement of the pin to
movement within the raceway.
The apparatus of claim 1 further
characterized by a rotation limiting means for limiting the

rotation of the permanent magnet having a rotation-limiting
cam (170) operably connected to the permanent magnet and a

fixed stop (168) that restricts the movement of the
rotation-limiting cam.
The apparatus of claim 1 further
characterized by resistance means (101) (173) for opposing

movement of the tube-occluding cam.
The apparatus of claim 5, further
characterized in that said resistance comprises at least one

spring (101, 173) having two ends and being operably
connected at one en to a fixed surface (76) and operably

connected at the other end to the permanent magnet.
The apparatus of claim 1, further
characterized by a release cam (140) operably attached to

the frame and cooperable with the rotor, such that manual
rotation of the release cam effects release of the tube-occluding

cam from its occluding relationship with the
flexible tubing.
The apparatus of claim 1, further
characterized in that the permanent magnet is a rare earth

magnet. 
The apparatus of claim 8, further
characterized in that the permanent magnet is selected from

the group consisting of samarium cobalt and iron neodymium.
A line clamp for use in a hemodialysis
machine and the like having a flexible tube for transporting

fluids, the line clamp comprising a frame (120), a rotor
(56) having an axis; a support (74, 76, 78) for supporting

the rotor for rotation about the axis; a fixed stator (52)
supported within said frame and defining a bore through which

the rotor coaxially extends; the rotor having a first end to
which is affixed a tube-occluding cam (40) for rotation with

said rotor about the axis, said cam being operable upon
rotation about the axis to pinchably occlude the flexible

tube held in proximate relationship to said cam, the line
clamp being characterized in that:


a) the rotor comprises a permanent magnet (62)
configured to be axially situated in the bore and to define

at least one set of opposing radially outwardly directed
magnetic poles;
b) the stator defines radial projections (58)
extending toward the axis and the poles of the permanent

magnet in the bore without touching the permanent magnet,
each radial projection being electrically energizabel, so

as to produce, when so energized, a radially inwardly
directed magnetic pole that is opposite to the magnetic

poles produced by adjacent radial projections, whereing each
inwardly directed magnetic pole corresponds to a magnetic

pole on the permanent magnet; and
c) the rotor is operable to assume a first rotational
position relative to the axis whenever the radial

projections of the stator are electrically energized to
attract corresponding opposite poles on the permanent

magnet, and to return to a second rotational position
relative to the axis whenever the radial projections are

electrically de-energized.
The line clamp of claim 10, further
characterized in that the permanent magnet is a cylindrical

magnet having circumferential radially extending portions of
alternating magnetic polarity.
The line clamp of claim 11, further
characterized in that said stator substantially surrounds

said permanent magnet, and each said radial projection of
the stator includes an electrical coil wound thereabout, the

coils being connectable to a source of electrical current to
energize the radial projections.
The line clamp of claim 12, further
characterized in that, whenever the coils are electrically

energized by the source of electrical current, each
circumferential radially extending portion of the permanent

magnet becomes aligned with a corresponding radial
projection of the stator having opposite magnetic polarity.
The line clamp of claim 10 further
characterized by said rotary actuator having a drive shaft

(66) interconnecting said permanent magnet and tube-occluding cam.
The line clamp of claim 10 further
characterized by a biasing mechanism (101) (172) arranged to

normally urge said magnet and cam coupled thereto to a non-occluding
position, whereby fluids can move freely through

said flexible tube when the coil means is not energized.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
