<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632895</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RAPID HYPERSENSITIVE FLOWTHROUGH IMMUNODETECTION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3032	G01N33543	G01N3052	G01N3088	G01N3508	G01N33543	G01N3508	G01N3000	G01N3002	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N30	G01N33	G01N30	G01N30	G01N35	G01N33	G01N35	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is an apparatus and method for the rapid flowthrough assay of an analyte. A multiplicity of binding sites which bind selectively to an analyte are immobilized on a rigid matrix, which defines a flowpath. A liquid sample containing the analyte is delivered convectively to a hydraulically full volume through the matrix to permit formation of a binding site: analyte complex. A detectable tagging reagent capable of binding with the binding site or the complex is then delivered convectively to the matrix and the amount of tagging reagent which is bound is detected to provide an assay of the concentration or presence of the analyte.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERSEPTIVE BIOSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERSEPTIVE BIOSYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFEYAN NOUBAR B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORVAL BRENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REGNIER FRED E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFEYAN, NOUBAR, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DORVAL, BRENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REGNIER, FRED, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to methods and
apparatus for conducting assays for analytes. In
particular, the invention relates to methods and
apparatus for conducting highly sensitive specific
binding assays for analytes utilizing a novel insoluble
matrix comprising binding sites for the analytes.The need to rapidly detect the presence or
concentration of trace quantities of organic compounds
in various industrial, research, and clinical contexts
is well understood in the art. Millions of clinical
assays have been conducted. Immunoassay is now
exploited to detect the presence of toxins or
contaminants in food and water, and in many other
research, diagnostic, and quality control contexts.
Process monitoring systems are of particular importance
in the production of therapeutic substances for human
use, where Federal regulatory agencies place stringent
controls on product quality. The monitoring system
should be rapid, allowing the data generated to be used
in a feedback system to adjust process parameters. The
monitoring system should also be adaptable and easily
altered to analyze different samples. Tests which are
sensitive, fast, easy to perform, and readily adaptible
for assay of a given antigen are in great demand. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), high
performance capillary electrophoresis (HPCE), rapid
analytical immunoassay (RAIA), or some combination of
these, are alternative analytical techniques that may
be adapted for rapid process monitoring. Each of these
techniques has limitations. Chromatography and
electrophoresis analyze samples by separation, based on
size or charge. During the early stages of protein
purification the product may be contaminated with a
large number of other proteins and constitute less than
10% of the total protein mass, making it difficult to
identify a protein of interest in a process stream by
conventional separation techniques. Similarly, at the
very late stages of protein purification, protein
purity is very high, generally exceeding 95%. At high
concentrations of a single product, a chromatogram or
electropherogram is essentially a single peak, making
it difficult to detect small concentrations of
contaminants in this range. Separation methods here
are also of limited utility.In addition, chromatographic and electrophoretic
analyses are limited by the time required to perform
them. The speed of conventional HPLC analysis
generally is limited by the porous particulate
chromatographic packings used in conventional HPLC.
While mobile phase mass
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for rapid flowthrough assay of an analyte,
comprising:


a flowpath defined by a rigid matrix contained within a
containing volume (52), the matrix having a surface with

an area, the flowpath having a flowpath volume fillable
with fluid having access to the surface,
first binding sites which are disposed on the surface and
which bind selectively with an analyte to form a

surface-immobilized binding site:analyte complex,
means for delivering convectively, to the flowpath volume,
and substantially adjacent the surface, a liquid sample

containing an analyte under conditions to permit formation
of the binding site:analyte complex;
means for delivering convectively, to the flowpath volume,
and substantially adjacent the surface, a detectable

tagging reagent which binds with one of the binding site
and the binding site:analyte complex, thereby to

immobilize molecules of the tagging reagent on the
surface, and
means (56) for detecting the quantity of the tagging
reagent immobilized on the surface thereby to permit

determination of the presence or concentration of analyte
in the sample, 
the ratio of the area of the surface to the flowpath
volume being at least 10
4
 cm
-1
.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said ratio is at
least 10
6
 cm
-1
.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for
convective delivery of the analyte or the tagging reagent

includes means for temporarily stopping flowthrough to
enhance binding.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tagging reagent
binds with the analyte,

wherein the apparatus further comprises means for
preincubating the analyte and the tagging reagent to allow

binding of the analyte and the tagging reagent, and
wherein the means for delivering the analyte and the

means for delivering the tagging reagent are comprised of
a single means for delivering convectively the bound

analyte and tagging reagent together.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for detecting
comprises a spectrophotometer, a spectrofluorimeter, or an

illuminescent detector mounted for analysis of liquid
exiting the matrix.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the tagging reagent
comprises an enzyme, the apparatus further comprising

means for flowing an enzyme substrate solution through
the matrix, the means for detecting comprising means for

detecting the product of the enzymatic reaction of the
substrate. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the matrix comprises a
microcapillary tube having an internal diameter less than

about four micrometers.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the matrix comprises a
plurality of intercontacted particles which define

intraparticle throughpores and interparticle throughpores
defining the flowpath through which the liquid sample or

the tagging reagent is delivered.
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the particles comprise
interadhered clusters of smaller nonporous particles and

the surface comprises the surface of the nonporous
particles.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the surface comprises a
hydrophobic polymer surface.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the binding protein is
disposed on the surface by hydrophobic/hydrop
hobic
interaction.
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the surface comprises a
cross-linked acrylic polymer surface.
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the acrylic polymer
comprises polystyrene.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said polymer comprises
polystyrene divinyl benzene.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the matrix comprises a
plurality of intercontacted nonporous particles which

define interparticle throughpores having a mean diameter
less than about four micrometers. 
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the particles comprise
substantially spherical particles having an average

diameter less than about 12 micrometers.
A rapid assay method comprising the steps of:

providing a flowpath defined by a rigid matrix contained
within a containing volume (52), the matrix having a

surface with an area, the flowpath having a flowpath
volume fillable with fluid having access to the surface,

the surface having a multiplicity of first binding sites
which bind selectively with an analyte to form a

surface-immobilized binding site:analyte complex, the
ratio of the area to the flowpath volume being at least

10
4
 cm
-1
,
delivering convectively, to the flowpath volume, and
substantially adjacent the surface, a liquid sample

containing an analyte to form a binding site:analyte
complex,
delivering convectively, to the flowpath volume, and
substantially adjacent the surface, a detectable tagging

reagent which binds with one of the binding sites and the
binding site:analyte complex, thereby to immobilize

molecules of the tagging reagent on the surface, and
detecting the quantity of the tagging reagent immobilized
on the surface, thereby to permit determination of the

presence or the concentration of analyte in the sample.
The method of claim 17 wherein the ratio is at least
10
6
 cm
-1
. 
The method of claim 17 wherein the step of delivering
convectively the analyte or the tagging reagent includes

the step of temporarily stopping flowthrough to enhance
binding.
The method of claim 17 wherein the tagging reagent binds
with the analyte; wherein the method further comprises,

prior to the step of delivering the analyte and the
tagging reagent, preincubating the analyte and the

tagging reagent together to enhance binding, and wherein
the bound analyte and tagging reagent are delivered

convectively together.
The method of claim 17 wherein the tagging reagent is
detected by means of a spectrophotometer, a

spectrofluorimeter, or an illuminescent detector mounted
for analysis of liquid exiting the matrix.
The method of claim 17 wherein the tagging reagent
comprises an enzyme, wherein the method further comprises

providing a means for flowing an enzyme substrate
solution through the matrix, and means for detecting the

product of enzymatic reaction of the substrate.
The method of claim 17 wherein the matrix comprises a
microcapillary tube having an internal diameter less than

about four micrometers.
The method of claim 17 wherein the matrix comprises a
plurality of intercontacted particles which define

intraparticle throughpores and interparticle throughpores
defining the flowpath through which the liquid sample or

the tagging reagent is delivered. 
The method of claim 24 wherein the particles comprise
interadhered clusters of smaller nonporous particles and

the surface comprises the surface of the nonporous
particles.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
