<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640424</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hydrogen assisted reduced oxide soldering system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K334	B23K120	H05K334	B23K120	B23K3538	C25C100	B23K3102	B23K3102	B23K3522	C25C100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	B23K	H05K	B23K	B23K	C25C	B23K	B23K	B23K	C25C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K3	B23K1	H05K3	B23K1	B23K35	C25C1	B23K31	B23K31	B23K35	C25C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system is provided for regenerating reducing agents used in ancillary chemical or 
electrochemical processes such as restoring solderability of electronic components to be 

soldered in a fluxless soldering process. The system includes a cathode, an anode, and an 
electrolyte system that is separated by a semipermeable ionic barrier into a catholyte and an 

anolyte. The catholyte includes the reduced member of a redox couple, which can be 
regenerated electrochemically. The redox couple of the electrolyte system is charged like a 

battery and discharged during the ancillary process. Regeneration of the reduced member of the 
redox couple is accomplished at the cathode, which may evolve hydrogen gas. Chemical 

balance is maintained by the semipermeable ionic barrier, which permits proton migration from 
the anolyte to the catholyte but acts as a barrier against diffusion and migration of cations from 

the catholyte to the anolyte. Ideally, the anodic reaction is breakdown of water to form oxygen, 
which is vented, and protons that migrate across the ionic barrier to the catholyte replacing 

protons consumed in the ancillary process. The overall reaction in a fluxless soldering system 
is reduction of metallic oxides to metal, electrochemical regeneration of reducing agents, release 

of oxygen, and evolution of hydrogen to produce a reducing atmosphere in an enclosed 
chamber containing the fluxless soldering system. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TENCH MORGAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TENCH, MORGAN D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electrochemistry and, in particular, to
an apparatus and an electrochemical
method for regenerating reducing agents that become oxidized in the course of a
chemical or electrochemical process.Electrochemical regeneration of reducing agents is useful in on-going
chemical or
electrochemical processes such as synthesizing organic compounds or restoring solderability of
electronic components, for example. A method of restoring solderability of electronic
components, to which the present invention is applicable, is described in U.S.-A-5,104,494
issued April 14, 1992, which represents the most relevant
state of the art and,
Metallic oxides, when present on solderable portions of electronic components, are detrimental
to solderability of the components. In the patented process, a reducing agent is used to reduce
the detrimental oxides to their metallic state, thereby restoring solderability of the electronic
components. During this process, however, the reducing agent becomes depleted and must be
replenished. Thus, in any large-scale electronic component soldering system using the patented
method for restoring and/or ensuring solderability of electronic components, there is a need for
a further process for regenerating the reducing agent so that the overall soldering system can be
run efficiently, without interruption, and without generation of environmentally objectionable
by-products.The present invention comprises
an apparatus for reduced oxide, hydrogen assisted soldering
according to claim 1 and
a process of regenerating reducing agents according to claim 7. Such
reducing agents are
used in restoring solderability of electronic components. In the process of restoring
solderability, which is described herein as an example (but not a limitation) of a system to
which the present invention is applicable, reducing agents are used to reduce detrimental
metallic oxides found on the surfaces of solderable portions of electronic components. The 
present system for regenerating the reducing agents includes a cathode, an inert anode, and a
catholyte and anolyte that are separated by a semipermeable ionic barrier. The catholyte
includes an aqueous electrolyte containing a redox couple comprising a reduced member and an
oxidized member. The anolyte includes a supporting electrolyte without the redox couple. The
reducing agent, which comprises the reduced member of the redox couple and which can be
regenerated electrochemically, reduces metallic oxides to the metallic state without a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus
for reduced oxide, hydrogen assisted soldering

comprising means (14) for contacting a solderable component
(24) with a reducing agent for reducing oxides on said solderable

component (24) wherein said means (14) comprises

a vessel (12),
a solution including said reducing agent contained in the vessel, and
a cathode (15) and an inert anode (17) placed in said solution,
characterized in that

said apparatus comprises a chamber (25) wherein said means (14) is
enclosed, said vessel (12) is separated into two compartments by a

semipermeable ionic barrier (20) whereby said cathode (15) and a catholyte
solution (14) including said reducing agent is contained in a first of said

compartments and said anode (17) and an anolyte solution (16) is

contained in a second of said compartments whereby said ionic barrier (20)
allows migration of protons from said anolyte (16) to said catholyte (14) but

opposes migration and diffusion of cations from said catholyte (14) to said
anolyte (16), and whereby said cathode (15) electrochemically regenerates

said reducing agent and evolves hydrogen into said chamber (25) for
producing a reducing atmosphere within said chamber (25).
The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising means (26) for transporting
said component (24) in said reducing atmosphere from said reducing agent

contacting means (14) to a means (28) for soldering said component (24).
The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said reducing agent comprises a
reduced member of a redox couple selected from the group of materials

consisting of vanadium, chromium, and europium ions. 
The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said cathode (15) comprises a material
selected from the group of materials consisting of Ga, Si, Be, Cu, Mo, W,

Cr, Fe, Ni, V, Ag, Au, Rh, Ir, Os, Ru, Pt, Pd, and alloys thereof.
The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said catholyte (14) comprises a sulfate
solution and said anolyte (16) comprises a sulfuric acid (H
2
SO
4
) solution.
The apparatus of Claim 5, wherein said catholyte (14) comprises vanadium
sulfate and sulfuric acid; said cathode (15) comprises a material selected

from the group of materials consisting of Cu, Mo, W, Ag, Au, Rh, Os, Pt, Pd,
and alloys thereof; and said ionic barrier (20) comprises a microporous

glass separator.
A method of reduced oxide, hydrogen assisted soldering, comprising the
steps of:


providing an enclosed chamber (25);
contacting a solderable component (24) in said chamber (25) with a
reducing agent for reducing oxides on said solderable component (24);
electrochemically regenerating said reducing agent while evolving hydrogen
into said chamber (25) to produce a reducing atmosphere within said

chamber (25); and
transporting (26) and soldering (28) said component (24) in said reducing
atmosphere of said chamber (25), characterized in that the step of contacting said

solderable component (24) with said reducing agent is further comprises
the steps of:
providing a vessel (12) having two compartments;
providing a catholyte solution (14) including said reducing agent in a first of
said compartments;
placing a cathode (15) in said catholyte (14); 
providing an anolyte (16) solution in a second of said compartments;
placing an inert anode (17) in said anolyte (16);
separating said first and second compartments with a semipermeable ionic
barrier (20), said ionic barrier (20) allowing migration of protons from said

anolyte (16) to said catholyte (14) but opposing migration and diffusion of
cations from said catholyte (14) to said anolyte (16);
and electrochemically regenerating said reducing agent and evolving said
hydrogen at said cathode (15).
The method of Claim 7, wherein the step of providing said catholyte (14)
comprises providing a redox couple having an oxidized member and a

reduced member comprising the reducing agent.
The method of Claim 8, wherein the step of placing said cathode (15) in
said catholyte (14) further comprises selecting said cathode (15) from the

group of materials consisting of Ga, Si, Be, Cu, Mo, W, Cr, Fe, Ni, V, Ag,
Au, Rh, Ir, Os, Ru, Pt, Pd, and alloys thereof.
The method of Claim 9, wherein the step of providing said catholyte (14)
comprises providing a solution of vanadium sulfate and sulfuric acid.
The method of Claim 10, wherein the step of providing said anolyte (16)
comprises providing a sulfuric acid (H
2
SO
4
) solution.
The method of Claim 11, wherein the step of separating said first and
second compartments with a semipermeable ionic barrier (20) comprises

separating said compartments with a microporous glass separator.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
