<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTIPLE K FACTOR, SELECTABLE GAS DETECTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2700	G01N2700	G01N2714	G01N2716	G01N27409	G01N27409	G01N3300	G01N3300	G01N3322	G01N3322	G01N3326	G01N3328	G08B2100	G08B2100	G08B2116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G08B	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G08B21	G08B21	G08B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BACHARACH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BACHARACH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPLER MARK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOBLE PETER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVACK ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOZIER JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COPPLER MARK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOBLE PETER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVACK ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOZIER JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTIPLE K FACTOR, SELECTABLE GAS DETECTORBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field Of The Invention This invention relates to gas detectors and, more particularly, to a gas detecting apparatus which can selectively monitor one of a plurality of gases in a sampled atmosphere. .- ~2. Description Of The Prior Art It is often desirable to measure the concentration of gas levels, such as oxygen or combustible gases, in a sampled or confined atmosphere. Low levels of oxygen present a danger to human life. For combustible gases, typically one is concerned with the lower explosive limit, the lowest concentration at which a flame will propagate or burn when the gas is exposed to an open flame or spark. In addition, inert and other gases also may pose a hazard as they displace oxygen in the air. A number of methods have been developed for detecting specific gases. For example, the use of catalytic sensors to measure the concentration of combustible gases is well known. In such a sensor, a resistive element is coated with a catalytic material which reacts when contacted with a particular gas. A current passing through the resistive element heats the catalytic coating to a desired operating temperature and as the gas and oxygen contact the catalytic coating, it chemically reacts thereupon and adds heat to the resistive element. This additional heat changes the resistance of the coated element, a change that can be detected electrically in various known ways. In a common arrangement, a catalytic sensor, combining an active element in series with a reference element, is provided in one branch of a heatstone bridge. Voltage imbalances in the Wheatstone bridge are measured and provide a reading of the concentration of the gas 

contacting the sensor. Other known sensors for detecting a combustible gas include metal oxide semiconductor sensors in which the conductivity of the material changes when contacted by a particular gas. This change in conductivity can also be measured electrically to provide a direct reading of the concentration of the gas.For many known sensors, the electrical signal generated when the sensor is contacted by a particular gas is proportionally related to the gas concentration. The slope of a plot of gas concentrations versus electrical activity in the sensor is often referred to as a sensitivity for the sensor. The ratio of the sensitivity of a sensor to different gases is sometimes referred to as a K factor, conversion factor, scaling factor or multiplier. Once the K factor for a gas is calculated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM :
1. Gas detecting apparatus for determining the concentration, in a gas sample, of a selected one of a plurality of predetermined gases, said apparatus comprising: sampling means for obtaining said gas sample; gas sensing means connected to said sampling means for generating a gas output signal related to the concentration of said selected predetermined gas in said gas sample; 0 drive means for supplying controlled electrical power to said gas sensing means;
K factor storage means associated with said gas sensing means for storing at least one K factor, unique to and generated by using said gas sensing means, for 5 each of said plurality of predetermined gases; gas selector means for generating a selected gas signal representing the particular selected gas to be detected; a processor means for selecting, in response to 
Q
 the selected gas signal and gas output signal, the K factor or factors from said K factor storage means for the selected gas and for calculating, in accordance with a predetermined process stored in said processor means, a concentration signal representing the concentration of 5 the selected gas in said gas sample; and display means responsive to said concentration signal for displaying the concentration of said detected gas in said gas sample.
2. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gas sensing means is a combustible gas sensor. 


 3. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 2 wherein said combustible gas sensor is a catalytic combustible gas sensor having an active element and a reference element, each of whose resistance varies as a function of temperature, with said sensor forming one branch of a Wheatstone bridge network, and with electrical imbalances in said bridge generating said gas output signal.
4. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 3 wherein said drive means adjusts the electrical power supplied to said catalytic combustible gas sensor to maintain the operating temperature of at least said active element at a predetermined constant level.
5. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 further including alarm means for indicating when the concentration of a particular gas in said gas sample exceeds a predetermined level.
6. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor means is a microprocessor based digital controller.
7. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 6 wherein the gas output signal and the selected gas signal are analog signals which are supplied to a multiplexer which supplies these signals to an analog-to-digital converter in said digital controller, and wherein the K factor storage means is a digital memory means supplying its stored K factor information directly to a microprocessor in said digital controller.
8. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 7 wherein said digital memory means is an electrically erasable programmable read only memory. 


 9. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 7 wherein said gas selector means is formed of a series resistance network connected to a source of voltage and includes a plurality of contacts positioned between adjacent resistors in said resistance network and connected to a multi-position selector switch having at least as many positions as the number of predetermined gases to be selected.
10. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gas sensing means and said K factor storage means are mounted on a common support.
11. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein the K factors stored in said K factor storage means are generated in advance for a particular gas sensing means in accordance with the following steps: a. applying electrical power to said gas sensing means; b. measuring the gas output signal when clean air is applied to said gas sensing means; c. applying a first of said predetermined gases in a known concentration to said gas sensing means and measuring the gas output signal generated thereby; d. calculating the K factor of said first gas based upon the gas output signals generated in steps (b) and (c) above and the known concentration of said first gas; and e. repeating steps (b) through (d) for each of the remaining of said predetermined gases. 


 12. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 11 wherein one of said gases is selected as a reference gas and assigned a K factor of 1, and wherein the K factors for each of the remaining gases are calculated with respect to the reference gas.
13. Gas detecting apparatus for determining the concentration, in a gas sample, of a selected one of a plurality of predetermined combustible gases, said apparatus comprising: sampling means for obtaining said gas sample; combustible gas sensing means connected to said sampling means for generating a combustible gas output signal related to the concentration of said selected predetermined combustible gas in said gas sample; drive means for supplying controlled electrical power to said combustible gas sensing means;
K factor storage means associated with said combustible gas sensing means for storing at least one K factor, unique to and generated by using said combustible gas sensing means, for each of said plurality of predetermined combustible gases; gas selector means for generating a selected gas signal representing the particular selected combustible gas to be detected; a processor means for selecting, in response to the selected gas signal and combustible gas output signal, the K factor or factors from said K factor storage means for the selected combustible gas and for calculating, in accordance with a predetermined process stored in said processor means, a concentration signal representing the concentration of the selected combustible gas in said gas sample; and display means responsive to said concentration signal for displaying the concentration of said detected combustible gas in said gas sample. 


 14. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein said combustible gas sensing means is a catalytic combustible gas sensor.
15. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 2 wherein said catalytic combustible gas sensor has an active element and a reference element, each of whose resistance varies as a function of temperature, with said sensor forming one branch of a Wheatstone bridge network, and with electrical imbalances in said bridge generating said combustible gas output signal.
16. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 3 wherein said drive means adjusts the electrical power supplied to said catalytic combustible gas sensor to maintain the operating temperature of at least said active element at a predetermined constant level.
17. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 further including alarm means for indicating when the concentration of a particular combustible gas in said gas sample exceeds a predetermined level.
18. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor means is a microprocessor based digital controller.
19. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 6 wherein the combustible gas output signal and the selected gas signal are analog signals which are supplied 
^
feo a multiplexer which supplies these signals to an analog-to-digital converter in said digital controller, and wherein the K factor storage means is a digital memory means supplying its stored K factor information directly to a microprocessor in said digital controller. 



 20. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 7 wherein said digital memory means is an electrically erasable programmable read only memory.
21. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 7 wherein said gas selector means is formed of a series resistance network connected to a source of voltage and includes a plurality of contacts positioned between adjacent resistors in said resistance network and connected to a multi-position selector switch having at least as many positions as the number of predetermined combustible gases to be selected.
22. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein said combustible gas sensing means and said K factor storage means are mounted on a common support.
23. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein the K factors stored in said K factor storage means are generated in advance for a particular combustible gas sensing means in accordance with the following steps: a. applying electrical power to said combustible gas sensing means; b. measuring the combustible gas output signal when no gas is applied to said combustible gas sensing means; c. applying a first of said predetermined combustible gases in a known concentration to said combustible gas sensing means and measuring the combustible gas output signal generated thereby; d. calculating the K factor of said first combustible gas based upon the combustible gas output signals generated in steps (b) and (c) above and the known concentration of said first combustible gas; and 


o e. repeating steps (b) through (d) for each of the remaining of said predetermined combustible gases.
24. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 11 wherein one of said combustible gases is selected as a reference gas and assigned a K factor of 1, and wherein the K factors for each of the remaining combustible gases
5 are calculated with respect to the reference gas.
25. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 1 wherein the concentration signal represents a percent of the lower explosive limit of said selected combustible gas in said gas sample.
26. Gas detecting apparatus for determining the concentration, in a gas sample, of a selected one of a plurality of predetermined combustible gases, said apparatus comprising:
5 sampling means for obtaining said gas sample; combustible gas sensing means connected to said sampling means for generating a combustible gas output signal related to the concentration of said 0 selected predetermined combustible gas in said gas sample; drive means for supplying controlled electrical power to said combustible gas sensing means; oxygen sensing means connected to said 5 sampling means for generating an oxygen output signal proportional to the concentration of oxygen in said gas sample; 


 K factor storage means associated with said combustible gas sensing means for storing at least one K factor, unique to and generated by using said combustible gas sensing means, for each of said plurality of predetermined combustible gases; gas selector means for generating a selected gas signal representing the particular selected combustible gas to be detected; a mode selector means for generating a mode signal representing the mode of operation of said apparatus, with said mode selector means selectable between at least an oxygen detection mode and a combustible gas detection mode; a processor means for calculating, in response to the mode signal, selected gas signal, combustible gas output signal and oxygen output signal, and using predetermined processes stored in said processor means, a first concentration signal representing the concentration of oxygen detected in said gas sample, or selecting the K factor or factors from said K factor storage means for the selected combustible gas and calculating a second concentration signal representing the concentration of the selected combustible gas in said gas sample; and display means responsive to said first and second concentration signals for displaying, as determined by the mode signal, either the concentration of oxygen in said gas sample or the concentration of said detected combustible gas in said gas sample.
27. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 26 wherein said oxygen . sensing means is an electrochemical oxygen sensor. 


 28. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 26 wherein said combustible gas sensing means is a catalytic combustible gas sensor.
29. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 28 wherein said catalytic combustible gas sensor has an active element and a reference element, each of whose resistance varies as a function of temperature, with- said sensor forming one branch of a Wheatstone bridge network, and with electrical imbalances in said bridge generating said combustible gas output signal.
30. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 29 wherein said drive means adjusts the electrical power supplied to said catalytic combustible gas sensor to maintain the operating temperature of at least the active element at a predetermined constant level.
31. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 26 further including alarm means for indicating when the concentration of a particular combustible gas in said gas sample exceeds a predetermined level or when the concentration of the oxygen in said gas sample falls below a predetermined level.
32. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 26 wherein said processor means is a microprocessor based digital controller.
33. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 32 wherein the combustible gas output signal, selected gas signal, oxygen output signal and mode signal are analog signals which are supplied to a multiplexer which supplies these signals to an analog-to-digital converter in said digital controller, and wherein the K factor 


storage means is a digital memory means supplying its stored K factor information directly to a microprocessor in said digital controller.
34. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 33 wherein said digital memory means is an electrically erasable programmable read only memory.
35. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 33 wherein said gas selector means and said mode selector means are each formed of a series resistance network connected to a source of voltage and include a plurality of contacts positioned between adjacent resistors in said resistance network and connected to a multi-position selector switch having at least as many positions as the number of predetermined combustible gases or modes of operation, respectively, to be selected.
36. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 26 wherein said combustible gas sensing means and said K factor storage means are mounted on a common support.
37. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 26 wherein the K factors stored in said K factor storage means are generated in advance for a particular combustible gas sensing means in accordance with the following steps: a. applying electrical power to said combustible gas sensing means; b. measuring the combustible gas output signal when clean air is applied to said combustible gas sensing means; c. applying a first of said predetermined combustible gases in a known concentration to said combustible gas sensing means and measuring the combustible gas output signal generated thereby; 


 d. calculating the K factor of said first combustible gas based upon the combustible gas output signals generated in steps (b) and (c) above and the known concentration of said first combustible gas; and 
e
« repeating steps (b) through (d) for each of the remaining of said predetermined combustible gases.
38. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 37 wherein one of said combustible gases is selected as a reference gas and assigned a K factor of 1, and wherein the K factors for each of the remaining combustible gases are calculated with respect to the reference gas.
39. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 26 wherein said first concentration signal represents a percent of the lower explosive limit of said selected combustible gas in said gas sample.
40. Gas detecting apparatus for determining the concentration, in a gas sample, of a selected one of a plurality of predetermined combustible gases, said apparatus comprising: sampling means for obtaining said gas sample; combustible gas sensing means connected to said sampling means for generating a combustible gas output signal related to the concentration of said selected predetermined combustible gas in said, gas sample; drive means for supplying controlled electrical power to said combustible gas sensing means; 


 oxygen sensing means connected to said sampling means for generating an oxygen output signal proportional to the concentration of oxygen in said gas sample;
K factor storage means associated with said combustible gas sensing means for storing at least one K factor, unique to and generated by using said combustible gas sensing means, for each of said plurality of predetermined combustible gases; gas selector means for generating a selected gas signal representing the particular selected combustible gas to be detected; a mode selector means for generating a mode signal representing the mode of operation of said apparatus, with said mode selector means selectable between at least an oxygen detection mode and a combustible gas detection mode; a processor means for calculating, in response to the mode signal, selected gas signal, combustible gas output signal and oxygen output signal, and using predetermined processes stored in said processor means, a first concentration signal representing the concentration of oxygen detected in said gas sample, or selecting the K factor or factors from said K factor storage means for the selected combustible gas and calculating a second concentration signal representing the concentration of the selected combustible gas in said gas sample; and display means responsive to said first and second concentration signals for displaying, as determined by the mode signal, either the concentration of oxygen in said gas sample or the concentration of said detected combustible gas in said gas sample, 


 wherein the K factors stored in said K factor storage means are generated in advance for a particular combustible gas sensing means in accordance 50 with the following steps: a. applying electrical power to said combustible gas sensing means; b. measuring the combustible gas output signal when clean air is applied to said combustible gas
55 sensing means; c. applying a first of said predetermined combustible gases in a known concentration to said combustible gas sensing means and measuring the combustible gas output signal generated thereby;
60 d- calculating the K factor of said first combustible gas based upon the combustible gas output signals generated in steps (b) and (c) above and the known concentration of said first combustible gas; and g5 e. repeating steps (b) through (d) for each of the remaining of said predetermined combustible gases.
41. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 40 wherein said combustible gas sensing means is a catalytic combustible gas sensor.
42. The gas detecting apparatus of claim. 41 wherein said catalytic combustible gas sensor has an active element and a reference element, each of whose resistance varies as a function of temperature, with said
5 sensor forming one branch of a Wheatstone bridge network, and with electrical imbalances in said bridge generating said combustible output signal, and with said drive means adjusting the electrical power supplied to said catalytic 


combustible gas sensor to maintain the operating temperature of at least the active element at a predetermined constant level.
43. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 40 wherein said processor means is a microprocessor based digital controller.
44. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 43 wherein the combustible gas output signal, selected gas signal, oxygen output signal and mode signal are analog signals which are supplied to a multiplexer which supplies these signals to an analog-to-digital converter in said digital controller, and wherein the K factor storage means is a digital memory means supplying its stored K factor information directly to a microprocessor in said digital controller.
45. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 44 wherein said digital memory means is an electrically erasable programmable read only memory.
46. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 44 wherein said gas selector means and said mode selector means are each formed of a series resistance network connected to a source of voltage and include a plurality of contacts positioned between adjacent resistors in said resistance network and connected to a multi-position selector switch having at least as many positions as the number of predetermined combustible gases or modes of operation, respectively, to be selected.
47. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 40 wherein said combustible gas sensing means and said K factor storage means are mounted on a common support. 


 48. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 40 wherein said oxygen sensing means is an electrochemical oxygen sensor.
49. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 40 further including alarm means for indicating when the concentration of a particular combustible gas in said gas sample exceeds a predetermined level or when the concentration of the oxygen in said gas sample falls below a predetermined level.
50. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 40 wherein one of said combustible gases is selected as a reference gas and assigned a K factor of 1, and wherein the K factors for each of the remaining combustible gases are calculated with respect to the reference gas.
51. The gas detecting apparatus of claim 40 wherein said first concentration signal represents a percent of the lower explosive limit of said selected combustible gas in said gas sample. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
