<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621524</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical image processor and correlator comprising at least one such processor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F113	G02F300	G02F300	G06E300	G06E300	G06T700	G06T700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	G02F	G06E	G06E	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F3	G02F3	G06E3	G06E3	G06T7	G06T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical image processor which may be used for optical image 
correlation comprises a liquid crystal spatial light modulator 1 for 

displaying an input image as a two dimensional array of pixels. An array 
of photodetectors 3 provides the output. Between the SLM 1 and the 

photodetectors 3, there are provided a spatial light modulator and microoptic 
array 2 of pin holes or lenses. The SLM has a respective picture 

element for each of the elements of the array and displays a filter or 
template image for correlation with the image displayed on the input 

SLM 1. Each photodetector 23 of the array of output photodetectors 3 
views each of the pixels of the SLM 1 via respective pin holes or lenses 

and pixels of the SLM and array 2. Thus, each photodetector 3 receives 
light from the input through an array of pin holes or microlenses which, 

when selectively shuttered, act as a filter. The attenuation of the light 
intensity through the filter SLM and convergence on each photodetector 

represents the multiplication and addition corresponding to a discrete 
correlation integration function. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHARP KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POON PETER C H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBINSON MICHAEL GERAINT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POON, PETER C.H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBINSON, MICHAEL GERAINT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an optical image processor. Such a 
processor may be used as incoherent adaptable optical image correlator. 
The present invention also relates to an optical image processing system 
and an optical image correlator. GB 1 319 977 discloses an information conversion system which makes 
use of an optical memory such as an exposed and developed 
photographic emulsion. An array of controllable light sources illuminates 
the optical memory, which has a memory element for each light source. 
Each memory element produces a light pattern on an array of 
photodetectors, which combine the light patterns to provide an output 
indicative of the state of illumination of the light sources. Such a system 
may be used to provide fixed coding or decoding of input signals to the 
light sources and is an optical equivalent of a programmed read only 
memory. GB 2 228 118 discloses an optical processor comprising an array of 
input picture elements and an array of output photodetectors optically 
interconnected by an. array of holographic or refractive elements. A 
spatial light modulator is located between the input and output arrays so 
as to control the optical interconnections. No example of an 
interconnection regime is disclosed. According to the invention, there is provided an optical image processor 
as defined in the appended Claim 1. Preferred embodiments of the invention are defined in the other  
 
appended claims. The invention will be further described, by way of example, with 
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which: 
Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an optical image processor 
constituting an embodiment of the invention illustrating use as an optical 
image correlator presented with a first image; Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of the processor of Figure 1 presented 
with a laterally shifted image; Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of an optical image processor 
constituting a second embodiment of the invention; Figure 4 is cross-sectional diagram of the processor of Figure 3 illustrating 
processing and updating; and Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of an optical image processor 
constituting a third embodiment of the invention. Like reference numbers refer to corresponding parts throughout the 
drawings. The processor shown in Figure 1 comprises a spatial light modulator 
(SLM 1) comprising a two dimensional array of picture elements (pixels). 
The optical transmissivity of each pixel is individually controllable so that 
the SLM 1 modulates a light source (not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical image processor comprising: an array (3) of optical 
detectors; first image forming means (1) for forming a first array of X first 

image picture elements, where X is an integer greater than one; a set (2, 
31) of optical path defining means; and second image forming means (2, 

30) for forming a second array of second picture elements, at least one of 
the first and second image forming means (1, 2, 30) comprising a spatial 

light modulator each of whose picture elements has an optical 
transmissivity which is independently controllable, characterised in that: 

the set (2, 31) of optical path defining means comprises Y optical path 
defining means, where Y is an integer greater than one; the second array 

comprises Y second image picture elements, each of which is arranged 
to modulate the optical path defined by a respective one of the optical 

path defining means; and each ith one of the optical detectors cooperates 
with a subset of Zi optical path defining means to define Zi optical paths 

between the ith optical detector and Zi of the first image picture 
elements, respectively, where Zi is an integer greater than one and less 

than or equal to X and each subset of Zi optical path defining means is 
different from all of the other subsets thereof. 
A processor as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that each ith 
one of the optical detectors is connected to each of the first image 

picture elements by a respective one of the optical paths so that each Zi 
is equal to X. 
A processor as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterised in that 
each of the array (3) of optical detectors, the first array, the set (2, 31) of 

optical path defining means, and the second array is a two dimensional 
 

array. 
A processor as claimed in Claim 3, when dependent on Claim 
2, characterised in that the array (3) of optical detectors comprises an A x 

B array, the first array comprises a C x D array, and each of the set (2, 
31) of optical path defining means and the second array comprises an 

(A+C-1) x (B+D-1) array, where A, B, C and D are integers greater than 
one. 
A processor as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that each of the optical path defining means comprises a 

converging lens. 
A processor as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4, 
characterised in that each of the optical path defining means comprises 

an aperture. 
A processor as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the first image forming means (1) comprises a first 

spatial light modulator. 
A processor as claimed in Claim 7, characterised in that the first 
spatial light modulator (1) comprises a liquid crystal device. 
A processor as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 6, 
characterised in that the first image forming means comprises an imaging 

lens. 
A processor as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that the second image forming means (2, 30) comprises 

a second spatial light modulator. 
A processor as claimed in Claim 10, characterised in that the 
second spatial light modulator (2, 30) comprises a liquid crystal device. 
A processor as claimed in Claim 10 or 11, characterised in that 
the second spatial light modulator (2, 30) is optically addressable. 
A processor as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised in that each of the optical path defining means is disposed 

adjacent a respective second picture element. 
A processor as claimed in Claim 13, characterised in that the set 
(2) of optical path defining means and the second image forming means 

(2) are disposed between the array (3) of optical detectors and the first 
image forming means (1). 
A processor as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 12, 
characterised in that the set (31) of optical path defining means is 

disposed between the array (3) of optical detectors and the first image 
forming means (1), the first image forming means (1) is disposed between 

the set (31) of optical path defining means and the second image forming 
means (30), and a converging lens (32) is disposed between the first and 

second image forming means (1, 30) and is arranged to image each of 
the second picture elements onto a respective optical path defining 

means. 
A processor as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, 
characterised by a collimated light source (33, 40). 
A processing system characterised by a plurality of processors as 
claimed in any one of the preceding claims, the processors being 

arranged optically in parallel. 
A system as claimed in Claim 17, characterised in that the 
processors are optically independent of each other. 
An optical image correlator characterised by at least one of a 
processor as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 16 and a system as 

claimed in Claim 17 or 18. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
