<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648344</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FIBER OPTIC SPLICE ORGANIZER AND ASSOCIATED METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B600	G02B600	G02B644	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fiber optic splice organizer (21) for storing optical fiber splices (20) and the slack associated therewith to permit ready separation of the optical fibers (24, 25), such as to remake a splice. The splice organizer (21) includes a generally rectangular base (30), splice securing slots (31) on the base (30), and optical fiber guides (42A, 42B) for guiding slack portions of first and second optical fiber groups (40A, 40B) from a first end of the base, along respective portions of the base (30) adjacent the first and second sides thereof, into a plurality of overlying slack loops adjacent the second end of the base (30), and back to the splice securing means (31) from respective first and second sides of the base. The slack optical fibers (40A, 40B), including the overlying respective slack loop, of the first and second optical fiber groups, form a figure-eight pattern on the base and are thus readily separable from each other.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYCHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYCHEM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNSINGER TERRANCE DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAY CRAIG DWAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNSINGER, TERRANCE, DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAY, CRAIG, DWAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FIBER OPT IC SPLICE ORGA NIZER AND ASSOC IAT ED MET HODField of the InventionThe invention relates to the field of fiber optics and, more particularly, to the storage and organization of fiber optic splices and associated slack.Background of the InventionOptical fiber communications systems are used extensively in the telecommunications industry due to their large information carrying capacity, their virtually noise-free performance, and the long span distances achievable with optical fibers before regeneration and amplification of the signal is required. Practical limits on the lengths of optical fiber cables that can be manufactured and installed typically require that many splice points be included over the total cable route. At each splice location, the optical fibers are separated from the other protective cable components for splicing and are, thus, more susceptible to damage. In addition, the optical fibers at a splice point are handled by a technician who must splice the fibers and then store the splice and associated slack in a protective enclosure.Accordingly, enclosures for protecting optical fiber splices have been developed and are readily available. Typically, these enclosures include one or more splice organizers, or splice trays, on which the individual splices and associated slack are mounted. For example, the assignee of the present invention manufactures a conventional splice enclosure and splice organizer under the model designation FOSC 100. Siecor Corporation of Hickory, North Carolina makes splice enclosures under the model designations SC2, and SC4- 6. Another splice enclosure is shown in UK Patent Application No. 2,150,313A assigned to Preformed Line Products of Cleveland, Ohio.A splice organizer is typically limited in the amount of space it may occupy although it must permit the mounting of the individual splices and permit storage of the slack optical fibers in a relatively neat configuration. To hold a sufficient amount of slack to permit splicing, a splice organizer typically accommodates one or more bends of slack optical fiber in 

slack loops that cannot be sharply bent and thereby exceed the minimum bend radius for the optical fiber. Exceeding the bend radius causes microbending losses, that is, increased attenuation of the optical signal. In addition, the optical fibers may be physically damaged by exceeding the minimum bend radius. An approach to storing a sufficient length of slack, is to use multiple loops for each individual fiber. See, for example, U.S. Patent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A fiber optic splice organizer for securing a plurality of optical fiber splices between first and second optical fiber groups and for securing slack associated therewith, said splice organizer comprising : a generally rectangular base having lengthwise extending first and second opposing sides and widthwise extending first and second opposing ends; splice securing means positioned on a medial portion of said base between the first and second sides thereof and adjacent the first end of said base for securing a plurality of optical fiber splices on said base; and slack guide means positioned on said base for guiding respective slack portions of laterally spaced apart first and second optical fiber groups from the first end of said base, along respective portions of said base adjacent the first and second sides thereof, into a plurality of overlying slack loops adjacent the second end of said base, and back to said splice securing means from respective first and second sides of said base so that overlying respective slack loops of first and second optical fiber groups are readily separable from each other.
2. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 1 wherein said slack guide means comprises first and second pairs of laterally spaced apart optical fiber guides positioned adjacent respective first and second sides of said base.
3. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 2 wherein each of said first and second pairs of optical fiber guides comprises first and second optical fiber guides; wherein the first optical fiber guide of each pair of optical fiber guides is positioned on a medial portion of said base between the first and second ends thereof; arid wherein the second optical fiber guide of each pair of optical fiber guides is positioned adjacent the second end of said base.
4. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 2 wherein each of said optical fiber guides comprises a pair of opposing spaced apart walls extending upwardly from said base. 


 5. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 1 further comprising optical fiber group securing means positioned on said base adjacent the first end thereof for securing first and second optical fiber groups in laterally spaced apart relation on said base upstream from said guide means and adjacent respective first and second sides of said base.
6. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 5 wherein said optical fiber group securing means comprises a pair of laterally spaced apart optical fiber guides and a pair of fasteners associated therewith for securing first and second optical fiber groups in respective optical fiber guides.
7. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 6 wherein said splice securing means and said slack guide means are positioned on a first surface of said base; and wherein said optical fiber group securing means further comprises means for securing first and second optical fiber groups to said base on a second surface of said base opposite said first surface.
8. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 1 wherein said splice securing means comprises a series of laterally spaced apart walls extending upwardly from said base and defining a series of widthwise extending slots for receiving optical fiber splices therein.
9. A fiber optic splice organizer for securing a plurality of optical fiber ribbon splices between first and second optical fiber ribbon groups, and for securing individual optical fiber splices between predetermined individual optical fibers broken out from the optical fiber ribbons, said splice organizer comprising: a base; splice securing means positioned on said base for securing both a plurality of optical fiber ribbon splices and a plurality of individual optical fiber splices on said base; and breakout means positioned on said base for securing first and second optical fiber ribbon groups on said base and for guiding predetermined individual optical fibers broken out from optical fiber ribbons away therefrom for effecting splicing of predetermined individual optical fibers. 


 10. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 9 wherein said base is generally rectangular in shape having lengthwise extending first and second opposing sides and widthwise extending first and second opposing ends.
11. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 10 wherein said breakout means comprises crossover means positioned adjacent the first end of said base for guiding first and second optical fiber ribbon groups in a crossing relation to positions adjacent respective opposing sides of said base.
12. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 11 wherein said crossover means further comprises optical fiber ribbon group securing means positioned on said base adjacent the first end thereof for securing first and second optical fiber ribbon groups in laterally spaced apart relation on said base and adjacent respective first and second sides of said base.
13. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 12 wherein said optical fiber ribbon group securing means comprises a pair of laterally spaced apart optical fiber ribbon guides and a pair of fasteners associated with said pair of optical fiber ribbon guides for securing first and second optical fiber ribbon groups in respective optical fiber ribbon guides.
14. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 13 wherein said breakout means further comprises first and second arcuately shaped walls positioned on said base adjacent respective optical fiber ribbon guides of said optical fiber ribbon group securing means and extending upwardly from said base; and wherein each of said first and second arcuately shaped walls has a predetermined radius of curvature for maintaining predetermined individual optical fibers at a predetermined minimum bend radius.
15. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 10 further comprising separator means for maintaining predetermined individual optical fibers separate from first 


and second optical fiber ribbon groups downstream from said breakout means to prevent entangling therewith.
16. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 15 wherein said separator means comprises first and second channels on said base extending lengthwise adjacent respective first and second sides of said base for receiving therein slack portions of predetermined individual optical fibers.
17. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 16 wherein said first and second channels comprise respective lengthwise extending side walls extending upwardly from said base adjacent first and second sides of said base and a series of laterally spaced apart tabs connected to upper portions of said side walls and extending inwardly from respective first and second sides of said base.
18. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 15 wherein said separator means comprises a generally widthwise extending arcuately shaped wall having a predetermined radius of curvature and extending upwardly from said base adjacent the second end thereof.
19. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 9 wherein said splice securing means comprises a series of laterally spaced apart walls extending upwardly from said base adjacent the first end thereof and defining a series of widthwise extending slots for receiving both optical fiber ribbon splices and individual optical fiber splices therein.
20. A fiber optic splice organizer for securing a plurality of optical fiber ribbon splices between first and second optical fiber ribbon groups, for securing individual optical fiber splices between predetermined individual optical fibers broken out from the optical fiber ribbons, and for securing slack associated with both the optical fiber ribbon splices and the individual optical fiber splices, said splice organizer comprising: a generally rectangular base having lengthwise extending first and second opposing sides and widthwise extending first and second opposing ends; 


 splice securing means positioned on a medial portion of said base between the first and second sides thereof and adjacent the first end of said base for securing a plurality of optical fiber ribbon splices on said base; breakout means positioned on said base for securing first and second optical fiber ribbon groups on said base and for guiding predetermined individual optical fibers broken out from optical fiber ribbons away therefrom for effecting splicing of predetermined individual optical fibers; and slack guide means positioned on said base for guiding respective slack portions of laterally spaced apart first and second optical fiber ribbon groups from the first end of said base, along respective portions of said base adjacent the first and second sides thereof, into a plurality of overlying slack loops adjacent the second end of said base, and back to said splice securing means from respective first and second sides of said base so that overlying respective slack loops of first and second optical fiber ribbon groups are readily separable from each other.
21. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 20 wherein said slack guide means comprises first and second pairs of laterally spaced apart optical fiber guides positioned adjacent respective first and second sides of said base.
22. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 21 wherein each of said first and second pairs of optical fiber guides comprises first and second optical fiber guides; wherein the first optical fiber guide of each pair of optical fiber guides is positioned on a medial portion of said base between the first and second ends thereof; and wherein the second optical fiber guide of each pair of optical fiber guides
'
 is positioned adjacent the second end of said base.
23. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 20 wherein said breakout means comprises crossover means positioned adjacent the first end of said base for guiding first and second optical fiber ribbon groups in a crossing relation to positions adjacent respective opposing sides of said base.
24. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 23 wherein said crossover means further comprises optical fiber ribbon group securing means positioned on said base adjacent the first end thereof for securing first and second optical fiber ribbon 


groups in laterally spaced apart relation on said base and adjacent respective first and second sides of said base.
25. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 24 wherein said optical fiber ribbon group securing means comprises a pair of laterally spaced apart optical fiber ribbon guides and a pair of fasteners associated with said pair of optical fiber ribbon guides for securing first and second optical fiber ribbon groups in respective optical fiber ribbon guides.
26. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 25 wherein said breakout means further comprises first and second arcuately shaped walls positioned on said base adjacent respective optical fiber ribbon guides of said optical fiber ribbon group securing means and extending upwardly from said base; and wherein each of said first and second arcuately shaped walls has a predetermined radius of curvature for maintaining predetermined individual optical fibers at a predetermined minimum bend radius.
27. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 20 further comprising separator means for maintaining predetermined individual optical fibers separate from first and second optical fiber ribbon groups downstream from said breakout means.
28. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 27 wherein said separator means comprises first and second channels on said base extending lengthwise adjacent respective first and second sides of said base for receiving therein slack portions of predetermined individual optical fibers.
29. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 28 wherein said first and second channels comprise respective lengthwise extending side walls extending upwardly from said base adjacent first and second sides of said base and a series of laterally spaced apart tabs connected to upper portions of said side walls and extending inwardly from respective first and second sides of said base. 



 30. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 27 wherein said separator means comprises a generally widthwise extending arcuately shaped wall having a predetermined radius of curvature and extending upwardly from said base adjacent the second end thereof.
31. A fiber optic splice organizer according to Claim 20 wherein said splice securing means comprises a series of laterally spaced apart walls extending upwardly from said base adjacent the first end thereof and defining a series of widthwise extending slots for receiving both optical fiber ribbon splices and individual optical fiber splices therein.
32. A method for organizing a plurality of optical fiber splices between first and second optical fiber groups and slack associated therewith on a generally rectangular base having lengthwise extending first and second opposing sides and widthwise extending first and second opposing ends, the method comprising the steps of: guiding and securing respective slack portions of first and second optical fiber groups from the first end of the base, along respective portions of the base adjacent the first and second sides thereof, into a plurality of overlying slack loops adjacent the second end of said base, and back to adjacent the first end of the base from respective first and second sides of the base so that overlying respective slack loops of the first and second optical fiber groups are readily separable from each other; and securing the optical fiber splices between the first and second optical fiber groups on a medial portion of the base adjacent the first end thereof.
33. A method according to Claim 32 further comprising the step of securing the first and second optical fiber groups in laterally spaced apart relation on the base adjacent the first end of the base prior to splicing.
34. A method according to Claim 32 wherein each of the optical fiber groups comprises optical fiber ribbons and further comprising the steps of breaking out predetermined individual optical fibers from predetermined optical fiber ribbons; and splicing the thus broken out predetermined individual optical fibers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
