<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633874</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PURIFICATION OF P-AMINOPHENOL COMPOSITIONS AND DIRECT CONVERSION TO N-ACETYL-P-AMINOPHENOL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07C21576	C07C21300	C07C23100	C07C23325	C07C21310	C07C21500	C07C23300	C07C21302	C07C23102	C07C23307	C07C23124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07C215	C07C213	C07C231	C07C233	C07C213	C07C215	C07C233	C07C213	C07C231	C07C233	C07C231	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for removing impurities from an aqueous feed mixture comprising a reaction solution produced by catalytic hydrogenation of nitrobenzene in an acid aqueous medium. An aqueous feed mixture comprising the reaction solution is contacted with an extractant comprising aniline for extraction from the feed mixture of 4,4'-diaminodiphenylether, thereby providing a primary raffinate that contains p-aminophenol and is contaminated with aniline. The primary raffinate is contacted at a pH of between about 5.5 and about 8.0 with a purifying solvent, the purifying solvent comprising an organic solvent effective for extraction of aniline from the primary raffinate, thereby producing a purified raffinate comprising p-aminophenol. Also described is a unified process for the preparation of N-acetyl-p-aminophenol in which p-aminophenol contained in the aforesaid purified raffinate is acetylated without prior separation of solid p-aminophenol from the raffinate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MALLINCKRODT CHEMICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MALLINCKRODT CHEMICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOVANOVIC VOJKO B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN, THOMAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOVANOVIC, VOJKO, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the manufacture of 
N-acetyl-p-aminophenol and more particularly to an improved 
process in which N-acetyl-p-aminophenol is prepared by acetylation 
of p-aminophenol that has been produced by catalytic 
hydrogenation of nitrobenzene in acidic aqueous medium. N-acetyl-p-aminophenol ("APAP") is an analgesic 
more commonly known as acetaminophen. Conventionally, APAP 
is produced by acetylation of p-aminophenol ("PAP") with 
acetic anyhydride. In one variation of this process, the PAP 
used is produced by catalytic hydrogenation of nitrobenzene 
in an acidic aqueous medium, for example, in approximately 
10% to 15% by weight solution of sulfuric acid. According to conventional practice, the PAP is 
first isolated from the hydrogenation reaction medium through 
precipitation with a base, and the precipitate taken up in a 
solvent prior to acetylation. Precipitation and redissolution 
of the PAP has been considered necessary in order to 
exclude impurities from the acetylation reaction medium. 
Among the impurities typically present in the PAP reaction 
liquor are aniline, o-aminophenol ("OAP"), 4,4'-diaminodiphenylether, 
and other aromatic amines at trace or low levels. Purification 
of the crude PAP system is necessary to provide for 
satisfactory manufacture of U.S.P. quality APAP. In US-A-4 440 954 
a 
process is disclosed for removing 4,4'-diaminodiphenylether 
from the PAP hydrogenation liquor by extraction with a mixture  
 
of aniline and toluene. While this process is quite 
effective for removing the 4,4'-diaminodiphenylether, 
residual aniline content in the extract is typically in 
the range of 25 g/L to 45 g/L. In implementation of the 
process of US-A-4 440 954, therefore, it has still been 
considered essential to precipitate PAP from the 
raffinate by treatment with base, separate the PAP by 
centrifugation or filtration, and wash the filter cake 
prior to acetylation. The disclosure of EP-A-0 041 837 corresponds to 
that of US-A-4 440 954. GB-A-1 469 099 discloses a method for the 
preparation of paracetamol (N-acetyl-p-aminophenol) 
comprising treating an aqueous solution of p-aminophenol 
sulphates and aniline sulphate with a neutralizing agent 
comprising ammonia or an alkali metal acetate or ammonium 
acetate to adjust the pH to a value of from 5 to 6, 
removing the aniline and acetylating the p-aminophenol by 
adding acetic anhydride, the pH being maintained at a 
value of from 5 to 6 by addition of neutralizing agent. The ratio of aniline to p-aminophenol can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for removing impurities from an aqueous 
feed mixture comprising a reaction solution produced by 

catalytic hydrogenation of nitrobenzene in an aqueous acid 
medium which comprises contacting said aqueous feed mixture 

with a primary extractant comprising aniline for extraction 
from said feed mixture of 4,4'-diaminodiphenylether, thereby 

producing a primary raffinate that contains p-aminophenol 
and is contaminated with aniline, 
characterized in that
 the 
primary raffinate is contacted at a pH of between 6.5 and 

8.0 with a purifying solvent comprising an organic solvent 
effective for extraction of aniline from said primary 

raffinate, thereby producing a purified raffinate comprising 
p-aminophenol. 
A process according to claim 1, 
characterized in 
that
 said 4,4'-diaminodiphenylether is removed from said 
aqueous feed mixture in a continuous countercurrent 

extraction system, and said purifying solvent is introduced 
into the extraction system at a point downstream, with 

respect to the flow of the aqueous phase, of the point of 
introduction of aniline into said system. 
A process according to claim 2, 
characterized in 
that
 countercurrent extraction is carried out in a vertical 
column, a solvent comprising aniline is introduced into the 

column at a point below the feed point at which said aqueous 
feed mixture is introduced into said column, said purifying 

solvent is introduced into the column below the point of 
introduction of aniline, and said purified raffinate is 

withdrawn from the column below the point of introduction of 
aniline. 
A process according to claim 3, 
characterized in 
that
 an aqueous solution of a back-extraction agent selected 
from the group consisting of ammonium sulfate, aniline 

sulfate, and sulfuric acid is introduced into said column at  
 

a point above said feed point, and the extract comprising 
aniline, said purifying solvent, and 4,4'-diaminodiphenylether 

is withdrawn from said column at a point above said 
feed point, whereby said extract is back-extracted for 

recovery of p-aminophenol therefrom. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, 

characterized in that
 a base is added to said reaction 
mixture of said primary raffinate so that the pH of said 

primary raffinate is adjusted to between 6.5 and 8.0 prior 
to extraction with said purifying solvent. 
A process according to claim 5, 
characterized in 
that
 a base is added to said reaction mixture or said 
primary raffinate so that the pH of said primary raffinate 

is adjusted to between 6.5 and 7.5 prior to extraction with 
said purifying solvent. 
A process according to claim 5 or claim 6, 

characterized in that
 the extract obtained from said primary 
extraction is contacted with a back-extraction agent 

selected from the group consisting of ammonium sulfate, 
aniline sulfate, and sulfuric acid for extractive recovery 

of p-aminophenol from said extract. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 7, 

characterized in that
 adjustment of the pH causes 
precipitation of p-aminophenol, a primary raffinate slurry 

containing precipitated p-aminophenol is produced, and said 
primary raffinate slurry is contacted with said purifying 

solvent to extract aniline therefrom and produce a purified 
raffinate slurry containing said p-aminophenol precipitate. 
A process according to claim 8, 
characterized in 
that
, the pH is adjusted in the presence of an organic 
solvent. 
A process according to claim 9, 
characterized in 
that
, secondary extract from the purification extraction is 
recycled to and mixed with the primary raffinate to provide  

 
a source of solvent, the pH of the primary raffinate being 

adjusted to between 6.5 and 7.5 as said primary raffinate is 
mixed with said secondary extract. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 10, 

characterized in that
 acetic anhydride is reacted with the 
p-aminophenol contained in said purified raffinate to 

produce N-acetyl-p-aminophenol, and N-acetyl-p-aminophenol 
is recovered from the acetylation reaction mixture. 
A process according to claim 11, 
characterized in 
that
, subsequent to the extraction of aniline with said 
purifying solvent, acetic anhydride is reacted with the 

p-aminophenol contained in the aqueous phase to produce 
N-acetyl-p-aminophenol, said reaction with acetic anhydride 

being carried out without prior removal of p-aminophenol 
from said aqueous phase, and N-acetyl-p-aminophenol is 

recovered from the acetylation reaction mixture. 
A process according to claim 11 or claim 12, 

characterized in that
 the acetylation reaction is conducted 
at a pH of between 6 and 7. 
A process according to claim 12 or claim 13, 

characterized in that
 said purified raffinate slurry is 
concentrated by partial dewatering prior to reacting acetic 

anhydride with the p-aminophenol contained in the slurry. 
A process according to any one of claims 11 to 14, 

characterized in that
, prior to the reaction between acetic 
anhydride and p-aminophenol, said purified raffinate slurry 

is acidified to dissolve the p-aminophenol in the aqueous 
phase, the acidified purified raffinate is treated with an 

adsorbent for removal of residual impurities therefrom, a 
base is added to the repurified acidic raffinate to 

reprecipitate p-aminophenol and produce a repurified 
raffinate slurry, and the acetylation is conducted by 

reaction of acetic anhydride and p-aminophenol in said 
repurified slurry.  

 
A process according to claim 15, 
characterized in 
that
 said repurified raffinate slurry is concentrated by 
partial dewatering prior to reacting acetic anhydride with 

the p-aminophenol contained in the slurry. 
A process according to any one of claims 11 to 16, 

characterized in that
 N-acetyl-p-aminophenol is recovered 
from the acetylation reaction mixture by cooling the 

acetylation reaction mixture to crystallize 
N-acetyl-p-aminophenol and separating the crystallized 

product from the mother liquor. 
A process according to claim 17, 
characterized in 
that
 the acetylation reaction mixture is contacted with 
activated carbon for removal of residual impurities 

therefrom prior to cooling and crystallization. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 18, 

characterized in that
 said purifying solvent contains not 
more than 0.2% by weight aniline. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 19, 

characterized in that
 said primary raffinate is contacted 
with said purifying solvent in a ratio of at least 0.05 

parts by volume purifying solvent per part by volume aqueous 
phase. 
A process according to claim 20, 
characterized in 
that
 said volumetric ratio is at least 0.1. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 21, 

characterized in that
 said purified raffinate contains not 
more than 2 g/l aniline. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 22, 

characterized in that
 the purification extraction is carried 
out at a temperature of at least 80°C. 
A process according to any one of claims 1 to 23, 

characterized in that
 said extractant comprises aniline and 
toluene. 
A process according to claim 24, 
characterized in
that
 said extractant contains between 0.2 parts by volume 
and 4 parts by volume toluene per part by volume aniline. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
