<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632155</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for continuous mercerization of polyester fibres and relative apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06B700	D06B704	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06B	D06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06B7	D06B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Continuous mercerisation method which is suitable to carry 
out mercerisation treatment of a plurality of threads (11) 

of polyester fibres being unwound independently, 
continuously and parallel to each other from one (12) or 

more (112-212) feeder beams, the plurality of threads (11) 
undergoing the following operational steps in succession: 

impregnation (13) by immersion in at least one tank (22) 
containing heated caustic soda lye; first drying (14) in an 

oven (31a) with a circulation of hot air; steam treatment 
(15); neutralisation with hot washing, the neutralisation 

comprising a first stage of washing in hot water (16) by 
immersion in at least one tank (22) containing a bath of hot 

water, a second stage of actual neutralisation (17) by 
immersion in at least one tank (22) containing acid liquor 

and a third stage of rinsing (18) by immersion in at least 
one tank (22) containing cold water; a second and final 

drying (19) in an oven (31b) with a circulation of hot air; 
the threads (11) leaving the second and final drying (19) 

being wound on at least one take-up beam (39). 
Continuous mercerisation plant which is suitable to carry 
out mercerisation treatment of a plurality of threads (11) 

of polyester fibres being unwound continuously and parallel 
to each other from one (12) or more (112-212) feeder beams, 

the plant (20) employing the above method (10) and 
comprising the following operational assemblies positioned 

in succession: an impregnation assembly (29) comprising at 
least one tank (22); a first drying assembly (30) comprising 

an oven (31a) working with hot air; a steaming assembly 
(34); a hot water washing assembly (35) comprising at least 

one tank (22); a neutralisation assembly (36) comprising at 
least one tank (22); a cold water rinsing assembly (37) 

comprising at least one tank (22); a second and final drying  
 

assembly (38) comprising an oven (31b) working with hot air; 
and a thread (11) take-up assembly comprising at least one 

take-up beam (39). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GESMA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GESMA - GESTIONE SVILUPPO MEDIE AZIENDE SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CACCIA DOMINIONI AMBROGIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANCEROTTO FABIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINTO LUIGI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CACCIA DOMINIONI, AMBROGIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LANCEROTTO, FABIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINTO, LUIGI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns a method for the continuous 
mercerisation of polyester fibres, as set forth in the main 
claim. To be more exact, the invention concerns a method suitable 
to carry out mercerisation treatment of a plurality of 
polyester fibres being unwound parallel and continuously 
from at least one feeder beam. The invention concerns also a plant which employs the 
above method. The state of the art covers a plurality of methods and 
devices for mercerisation of woven fabrics and threads, 
especially consisting of cotton. It is known that mercerisation is a treatment with caustic 
soda applied, for instance, to threads, and the description 
that follows will refer to threads, which are subjected to a 
suitable tension to ensure that they acquire a lustre like 
that of silk. In general, the threads to be used, above all, for 
knitwear made by hand or machine, for shirts, embroidery and 
sewing threads undergo mercerisation. The principle on which mercerisation is based has been 
known for a long time; the action of the caustic soda causes 
a great shrinkage of the cotton which, when brought back to 
its original length, possesses a silky lustre. The same result is achieved by preventing shrinkage of the 
cotton by applying a suitable tension. Polyester fibres, instead, are very shiny and smooth and 
therefore sometimes have to be dulled. Moreover, where the 
same dye is used, mercerised fibres are coloured much more 
intensely than non-mercerised fibres, and this leads to a  
 
smaller consumption of dyestuffs in the dyehouse. Mercerisation increases also the mechanical strength of 
polyester fibres although the properties of resilience 
suffer. Methods have now been disclosed whereby polyester fibre 
fabrics are subjected to a caustic soda bath which makes the 
fabrics more opaque. This method, besides being of a discontinuous type, 
entails the problem that all the fibres forming the fabric 
undergo that bath of caustic soda. This fact does not allow mixed fabrics to be produced with 
mercerised polyester fibres and non-mercerised polyester 
fibres so as to achieve particular required aesthetic 
effects. The present applicants are not aware of methods or 
relative plants for the continuous mercerisation of 
polyester fibres in the form of threads. The present applicants have investigated, tested and 
obtained this invention to overcome the shortcomings of the 
state of the art and to achieve further advantages. The invention is set forth and characterised in the 
respective main claims,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Continuous mercerisation method which is suitable to 
carry out mercerisation treatment of a plurality of threads 

(11) of polyester fibres being unwound independently, 
continuously and parallel to each other from one (12) or 

more (112-212) feeder beams, the method being characterised 
in that the plurality of threads (11) undergoes the 

following operational steps in succession: 

impregnation (13) by immersion in at least one tank (22) 
containing heated caustic soda lye; 
first drying (14) in an oven (31a) with a circulation of 
hot air; 
steam treatment (15); 
neutralisation with hot washing, the neutralisation 
comprising a first stage of washing in hot water (16) by 

immersion in at least one tank (22) containing a bath of 
hot water, a second stage of actual neutralisation (17) by 

immersion in at least one tank (22) containing acid liquor 
and a third stage of rinsing (18) by immersion in at least 

one tank (22) containing cold water; 
a second and final drying (19) in an oven (31b) with a 
circulation of hot air; 
 
the threads (11) leaving the second and final drying (19) 

being wound on at least one take-up beam (39). 
Method as in Claim 1, in which the temperature of the 
bath in the step of impregnation (13) in caustic soda is 

about 70-75°C. 
Method as in Claim 1 or 2, in which the temperature of 
the bath in the hot-water washing step (16) is about 70-80°C. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the 
temperature of the bath in the neutralisation step (17) is 

about 20°C. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the 
temperature of the bath in the cold-water rinsing step (18) 

is about 20°C. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the bath 
of the neutralisation assembly (36) contains acetic acid. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the 
threads (11) are washed in a current flowing in the opposite 

direction to their direction of feed in the washing and 
rinsing (16-18) and neutralisation (17) steps. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the wash 
water leaving the washing and rinsing steps (16-18) is 

treated to recover caustic soda. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the 
thermal energy made available by the recovery of caustic 

soda is used in one or more steps of the method itself. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the air 
temperature is kept in the range of 90 to 120°C during the 

first and second drying steps (14-19). 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the 
mercerisation speed is at least 75 metres per minute. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which the 
threads (11) being unwound from the feeder beam (12) or 

beams (112-212) are connected together crosswise at pre-set 
intervals. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, in which each step 
of the mercerisation method (10) is governed by a central 

data processing unit controlling and regulating the 
processing parameters. 
Method as in any claim hereinbefore, which comprises a 
monitoring system to check all the physical magnitudes of 

the treatment. 
Continuous mercerisation plant which is suitable to 
carry out mercerisation treatment of a plurality of threads 

 
(11) of polyester fibres being unwound continuously and 

parallel to each other from one (12) or more (112-212) 
feeder beams, the plant (20) employing the method (10) of 

the claims hereinbefore and being characterised in that it 
comprises the following operational assemblies positioned in 

succession: 

an impregnation assembly (29) comprising at least one tank 
(22); 
a first drying assembly (30) comprising an oven (31a) 
working with hot air; 
a steaming assembly (34); 
a hot water washing assembly (35) comprising at least one 
tank (22); 
a neutralisation assembly (36) comprising at least one 
tank (22); 
a cold water rinsing assembly (37) comprising at least one 
tank (22); 
a second and final drying assembly (38) comprising an oven 
(31b) working with hot air; and 
a thread (11) take-up assembly comprising at least one 
take-up beam (39). 
Plant (20) as in Claim 15, in which the impregnation 
assembly (29) comprises two tanks (22), one placed 

downstream of the other. 
Plant (20) as in Claim 15 or 16, in which the hot water 
washing assembly (35) comprises two tanks (22), one placed 

downstream of the other. 
Plant (20) as in any of Claims 15 to 17 inclusive, in 
which the neutralisation assembly (36) comprises two tanks 

(22), one placed downstream of the other. 
Plant (20) as in any of Claims 15 to 18 inclusive, in 
which the cold water rinsing assembly (37) comprises two 

tanks (22), one placed downstream of the other. 
Plant (20) as in any of Claims 15 to 19 inclusive, in 
which the upper (24), lower (25) and intermediate 

transmission (26) transverse rolls respectively feeding the 
bundle of threads (11) and positioned in the tanks (22) are 

supported as cantilevers. 
Plant (20) as in any of Claims 15 to 20, inclusive, in 
which the upper rolls (24) of the tanks (22) cooperate with 

means (27) applying pressure to the threads (11). 
Plant (20) as in any of Claims 15 to 21, inclusive, in 
which the impregnation assembly (29) is connected to a 

supplementary means that heats the caustic soda. 
Plant (20) as in any of Claims 15 to 22, inclusive, 
which is connected to a central data processing system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
