<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619845</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOLID METAL-CARBON MATRIX OF METALLOFULLERITES AND METHOD OF FORMING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B3100	C01B3102	C21D100	C21D100	C22C100	C22C100	C22C1400	C22C1400	C22C1900	C22C1900	C22C2100	C22C2100	C22C2600	C22C2600	C22C3300	C22C3300	C22C3700	C22C3700	C22C3800	C22C3800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	C01B	C21D	C21D	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B31	C01B31	C21D1	C21D1	C22C1	C22C1	C22C14	C22C14	C22C19	C22C19	C22C21	C22C21	C22C26	C22C26	C22C33	C22C33	C22C37	C22C37	C22C38	C22C38	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROMET TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROMET TECHNOLOGY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOB ROBERT CLINTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOB, ROBERT, CLINTON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SOLID METAL-CARBON MATRIX OF METALLOFULLERITES AND METHOD OF FORMING SAMEField of the InventionThe present invention relates to metals and metal alloys such as ferro-carbon steels, and in particular relates to a novel crystalline structure for a steel or steel-like material in which the carbon is present in the form of fullerene molecules and forms a etallofullerite lattice with the iron.Back round of the Invention Steel is the term used to refer to alloys of iron and small percentages of carbon. In some nomenclatures, steel refers to any alloy in which carbon is present in amounts of between about 0.02 and 1.5% carbon by weight, but in other uses refers to alloys containing up to 2.25% or more carbon. Although the exact percentage borderline may differ depending upon the nomenclature, alloys with higher carbon contents are usually referred to as "cast iron" rather than as steel.As is known to those generally familiar with steels, the iron and carbon are present in two main constituents, ferrite (iron) and cementite, an iron carbide compound having the general chemical formula Fe3C. Most steels will also contain additional elements such as manganese, silicon, phosphorous, sulfur, oxygen, and traces of others. Other steels contain considerable percentages of elements such as nickel, chromium, molybdenum, vanadium or titanium which give the resulting steel various appropriate or desired properties.As known to those skilled in a variety of arts, steel is used in construction, ship hulls, auto bodies, machinery and machine parts, cables, abrasives, chemical equipment, and numerous other uses such as belts for tire reinforcement and the like. Within these uses, steel desirably should exhibit a number of metallic properties including compressive strength, tensile strength, ductility, hardness, and other related properties that are advantageously characteristic of useful metals."Fullerenes" is a term given to a recently postulated 

 and discovered form of molecular carbon in which the carbon atoms are joined to form spheres, or sphere-like structures. Because of the resemblance between the structure of these molecules and the geodesic domes designed and championed by the architect Buck inster Fuller, such molecules have been designated as "fullerenes", and the basic and most stable molecule, a sphere having 60 carbon atoms, has been designated "buckminsterf llerene". For the same reasons, fullerenes have also been referred to as "buckyballs." The best available evidence indicates that fullerene molecules
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS :
1. A metallic solid comprising a metal-carbon matrix, characterized in that said metallic solid is a matrix of an allotropic metal and metallofullerites of the allotropic metal.
2. A metallic solid according to Claim 1 wherein the allotropic metal is selected from the group consisting of: aluminum, chromium, cobalt, copper, iron, molybdenum, nickel, platinum, titanium, tungsten, and vanadium.
3. A metallic solid according to Claim 1 wherein said metallofullerites include fullerenes having 60 and 70 carbon atoms in a molecule.
4. A metallic solid comprising a ferro-carbon matrix of iron and iron-carbon fullerites.
5. A metallic solid according to Claim 4 comprising between about 0.35 and 7.0 percent carbon by weight.
6. A metallic solid according to Claim 4 comprising a cast, formed structural product.
7. A metallic solid characterized by exceptional metallic properties even in the absence of alloying, said solid comprising: a ferro-carbon matrix of iron and iron-carbon fullerites in which carbon is present in an amount of between about 0.35 and 7.0 percent by weight; and wherein the iron fullerites have structures selected from the group consisting of: individual iron atoms encapsulated in fullerene molecules; chains of fullerene molecules wrapped around a plurality of iron atoms; fullerene molecules in crystal lattices with iron atoms; and combinations of the same.
8. A method of forming a ferro-carbon steel having exceptional characteristics of wear, ductility combined with hardenability, and self-healing, 


 characterized by forming a metallic solid comprising a ferro- carbon matrix of iron and iron-carbon fullerites by interrupting and temporarily holding an iron-carbon melt, for a sufficient period of time for the carbon to form a metallofullerite phase, at a point through the cooling curve at which the solidifying metal passes through the allotropic transformation stage for the metal defined by the overall proportion of iron and carbon in the melt.
9. A method of forming metallofullerites in allotropic metals to produce metals having exceptional characteristics of wear, ductility combined with hardenability, and self-healing, characterized in that the method comprises forming fullerenes in a mixture of a high carbon allotropic metallic constituent and a low carbon allotropic metallic constituent of the same allotropic metal in an amount sufficient for the mixture to have a desired carbon content; heating the mixture to a temperature at which the high carbon constituent would be liquidus and below the temperature at which the lower carbon constituent would be liquidus; and forming fullerenes in the mixture by further heating the mixture to and temporarily holding the mixture at a temperature within the temperature range of allotropic transformation for the mixture with the desired carbon content for a time sufficient for the carbon present to form fullerenes.
10. A method according to Claim 9 wherein the the step of heating the mixture is characterized by: heating the mixture of a high carbon allotropic metallic constituent and a low carbon allotropic metallic constituent of the same allotropic metal in an amount sufficient to form a mixture with a desired carbon content to a temperature at which the high carbon constituent would be liquidus and below the temperature at which the lower carbon constituent would be liquidus.
11. A method according to Claim 10, characterized by the further step of: mixing a high carbon allotropic metallic constituent and 


 a low carbon allotropic metallic constituent of the same allotropic metal in an amount sufficient to form a mixture with a desired carbon content; prior to the step of heating the mixture to a temperature at which the high carbon constituent would be liquidus and below the temperature at which the lower carbon constituent would be liquidus.
12. A method according to Claim 11 characterized by the further step of: cooling the mixture to a metallic solid form; following the step of forming fullerenes in the mixture by further heating the mixture to, and temporarily holding the temperature within, the temperature range of allotropic transformation for the mixture with the desired carbon content for a time sufficient for the carbon present to form fullerenes.
13. A method according to Claim 11 wherein the step of mixing a high carbon allotropic metallic constituent and a low carbon allotropic metallic constituent comprises mixing constituents in which the allotropic metal is selected from the group consisting of: aluminum, chromium, cobalt, copper, iron, molybdenum, nickel, platinum, titanium, tungsten, and vanadium.
14. A method according to Claim 11 wherein the step of heating the mixture comprises: heating the mixture to a temperature at which the higher carbon constituent would be liquidus, but at which the lower carbon constituent would be solid and at which temperature a solid defined by the mixture would remain solid until the mixture equilibrates at that temperature; and heating the mixture to a higher temperature at which the mixture is partially liquidus and partially allotropic solid.
15. A method according to Claim 11 wherein the step of forming fullerenes comprises adding heat as necessary to temporarily hold the temperature within the temperature range of allotropic transformation for the mixture with the desired carbon 


 content.
16. A method according to Claim 11 wherein: the step of mixing a high carbon allotropic metallic constituent and a low carbon allotropic metallic constituent comprises mixing constituents in which the allotrophic metal is iron; the step of heating the mixture comprises heating the mixture to a first temperature above the temperature in the iron-carbon equilibrium at which the higher carbon constituent becomes totally liquidus, while below the temperature at which either the lower carbon constituent or the mixture become liquidus; and the step of forming fullerenes comprises heating and then temporarily holding the mixture at a temperature in the iron carbon equilibrium at which iron having a composition defined by the mixture is present as a mixture of one of its allotropic forms and a liquidus.
17. A method according to Claim 16 wherein the step of heating the mixture comprises heating the mixture to the range of 2280 to 2750°.
18. A method according to Claim 16 wherein the step of temporarily holding the mixture comprises temporarily holding the mixture in the temperature range of 2280 to 2750°.
19. A method of forming a ferro-carbon metallic solid having exceptional characteristics of wear, ductility combined with hardenability, and self-healing, characterized by: forming a mixture by introducing a low carbon iron component as a solid into a liquidus melt of a high carbon iron component in which the components are present in respective amounts sufficient to form a mixture with a desired carbon concentration; forming fullerenes by temporarily holding the mixture at a temperature at which the allotropic phase transformation begins for the mixture for a time sufficient for the carbon present to form fullerenes.
20. A method according to Claim 19 wherein the step of forming a mixture by introducing a low carbon iron component as a 


 solid into a liquidus melt of a high carbon iron component in which the components are present in respective amounts sufficient to form a mixture with a desired carbon concentration, is further characterized by: introducing a low carbon iron component as a solid into a liquidus melt of a high carbon iron component in which the components are present in respective amounts sufficient to form a mixture with a desired carbon concentration, while temporarily holding the temperature lower than the temperature at which the low carbon component becomes liquidus.
21. A method according to Claim 20 and further comprising the step of: melting a high carbon iron component to total liquidus, prior to the step of introducing a low carbon iron component as a solid into the high carbon iron component liquidus in an amount sufficient to form a mixture with a desired carbon concentration while temporarily holding the temperature lower than the temperature at which the low carbon iron component becomes liquidus.
22. A method according to Claim 21 and further comprising a final step of cooling the mixture to a metallic solid form. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
