<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Drag device in spinning reel for fishing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K89027	A01K8900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K89	A01K89	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention concerns a arrangement for a spinning 
reel, which enables to make a reel body compact without 

decreasing the length of a spool stroke and facilitate 
assembling work by simplifying a switch mechanism in 

construction. The switching mechanism is used to switch the 
drag actuating mode of a spool to its free rotational mode. A 

transmission gear (7) which rotates in combination with a spool 
shaft (1) which reciprocates back and forth is provided. A 

linking shaft (9) incorporating a driven gear (6) meshing with 
the transmission gear (7) is supported in the rear part of a 

reel body (2). A brake cylinder (11) having a friction brake 
member (10) is fitted in the rear part of the linking shaft (9) 

and a mating cylinder (12) provided in the front part of the 
brake cylinder (11) is made releasable by an operating lever 

(14) to set the spool to the drag actuating mode while it is 
mated therewith and to the free rotation mode while it is 

released therefrom. The switch mechanism is provided for the 
linking shaft which is arranged separately from the spool shaft 

(1). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAIWA SEIKO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAGUCHI, AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an improvement for a
drag mechanism which is installed in a spinning reel for
fishing to apply braking force to a spool.The drag mechanism of a spinning reel for fishing is
normally adapted to regulate drag force (i.e. braking force
against rotation of a spool) by turning a drag regulating knob
so that the drag force is gradually increased or decreased.
However, the actual operation during fishing may require
quickly switching of the drag force from the drag actuating
mode to the spool free rotational mode so as to prevent a
fishing line from being cut, prevent the lips of the fish that
has been caught from being broken, leading fish to cram a bait
into its mouth and so forth, and may also require to hold the
spool in the free rotational mode and then switch the spool to
its drag actuating mode immediately after fish is caught to
land it. In order to deal with the aforementioned fishing
operations required, there have been proposed, for instance, by
Japanese Patent Laid Kokai Publication No. Sho. 61-274638 and
No. Hei. 2-405, a drag mechanism which can set for the spool
the drag actuating mode and switch the spool into the spool
free rotational mode by releasing the former mode.In the prior art arrangements, however, the mechanism
for reversibly switching the actuating mode of the drag 
mechanism to its non-actuating mode is provided in the rear
part of a spool shaft, so that spool sliding, braking and
switching mechanisms are concentrated on the spool shaft.
Thus, there arise various problems, that is, restricting the
longitudinal stroke of a spool, making a reel body longer in
length, and making the construction of a reel complicated.
These problems result in making troublesome not only the work
of assembling the required components into the reel but also
the maintenance work while the reel is in use. Further, the
resultant fishing reel may totally be unbalanced.A drag device as explained hereinbefore and having a second drag
mechanism on a support shaft is known from US-A-4 591 108. The present invention is intended to obviate the
foregoing drawbacks, and a primary object of the invention is
to provide a drag device in a spinning reel for fishing, which
enables effective utilization of a limited space of the reel,
has a simple construction and allows improved performance
facilitating the handling of the fishing reel. Said objective is performed by a drag device having the features
of claim 1.Preferred embodiments of the present invention are laid down in
the further
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A drag device used in a spinning reel for fishing having
a reel main body (2), a spool shaft (1) supported on

said reel main body to be reciprocated in linking with
rotation of a handle shaft (3) and a spool provided on a

front part of said spool shaft, said drag device
comprising:


first spool brake means (10) for braking the rotation of
said spool with respect to said reel main body;
a linking shaft (9) coupled to said spool shaft through
gear means (7,8) to rotate in linking with rotation of

said spool shaft; and
switch means (14) provided on said linking shaft for
switching said spool between a drag actuating mode

wherein the rotation of said spool is braked by said
first spool brake means and a free rotational mode wherein

said spool is free from said first spool brake means,
characterized in that
said linking shaft (9) coupled to said spool shaft
through said gear means (7,8) is arranged to rotate in

linking with rotation of said spool shaft; and
said switch means (14) is adapted to be moved either
fully forwardly or backwardly with respect to said reel

body by the dead point action of an urging means (13),
to enable an immediate switching of said linking shaft 

to either said drag actuating mode or said free
rotational mode.
A drag device according to claim 1, wherein said
linking shaft is supported parallel to said spool shaft.
A drag device according to claim 1, wherein said
linking shaft is inclined with respect to said spool shaft.
A drag device according to claim 1, wherein said
linking shaft is orthogonal to said spool shaft.
A drag device according to claim 1, wherein said
brake means is provided on a rear part of said linking shaft,

and said brake means is selectively engaged with and disengaged
from said linking shaft by said switch means. 
A drag device according to claim 1, wherein said
brake means is provided on a front part of said spool shaft,

and said linking shaft is selectively engaged with and
disengaged from said reel main body by said switch means.
A drag device according to claim 1, further
comprising:


reset means for returning said spool from said free
rotational mode to said drag actuating mode in linking with

rotation of said handle shaft.
A drag device according to claim 1, wherein said
linking shaft is located vertically opposite, with respect to

said spool shaft, from a traverse cam shaft for reciprocating
said spool shaft back and forth.
A drag mechanism according to claim 1, wherein
said linking shaft is fitted on said handle shaft.
A drag mechanism according to claim 1, further
comprising:


second spool brake means for braking the rotation of
said spool with respect to said reel main body when said spool

is switched to said free rotational mode.
A drag device as claimed in claim 1, wherein
a traverse cam shaft for reciprocating

said spool shaft in linking with rotation of said traverse cam
shaft is provided. 
A drag device according to claim 11, wherein said
gear means includes an intermediate gear slidably and non-rotatably

mounted on said spool shaft and a linking gear fixed
to said linking shaft and kept meshing with said intermediate

gear.
A drag device according to claim 11, wherein said
braking means includes a plurality of friction plates fitted on

said linking shaft and an adjusting knob movably fitted on a
portion of said reel main body to depress said friction plates

to each other.
A drag device according to claim 11, wherein said
linking shaft is located just above said spool shaft, and said

traverse cam shaft is located at an obliquely downward position
with respect to said spool shaft.
A drag device according to claim 11, wherein said
gear means includes an intermediate shaft rotatably supported

on said reel main body for coupling said linking shaft to said
spool shaft therethrough.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
