<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637895</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Dynamic reallocation of spectral capacity in cellular communication systems.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B7185	H04B7185	H04W1600	H04W1606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04W16	H04W16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cellular telecommunication system (10) featuring 
dynamic reallocation of frequencies (44) and time slots (42) 

among cells ((34)) is disclosed. When a particular cell (110) is 
at or near its capacity because of a high demand for services, 

or is projected to be at or near capacity (162), spectral 
capacity is reallocated from nearby cells (111 - 116) to meet 

the increase in demand. The reallocation in capacity is based 
on both real time cell loading data and historical cell loading 

information (175) based on previous experiences. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNUDSEN JOHN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNUDSEN, JOHN T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to communication 
systems. More specifically, the present invention relates to 
systems that divide an area within which communications are 
to take place into cells and which dynamically allocates 
limited spectral resources among the cells. Conventional cellular communication systems adopt a 
frequency reuse plan. Generally speaking, system antennas are 
erected at spaced apart locations. Each system antenna, along 
with transmitter power, receiver sensitivity, and geographical 
features, defines a cell. A cell is a geographical area on the 
surface of the earth within which communications may take 
place via a subscriber unit having predetermined operating 
characteristics and via the cell's antenna. In a cellular system 
that efficiently uses the spectrum allocated to it, system 
antennas are located to minimize overlap between their 
respective cells and to reduce gaps between the cells. The spectrum allocated to a conventional cellular system 
is divided into a few discrete portions, typically frequency 
bands. Each cell is allocated only one of the discrete portions 
of the spectrum, and each cell is preferably surrounded by cells 
that use other discrete portions of the spectrum. 
Communications within a cell use only the discrete portion of 
the spectrum allocated to the cell, and interference between 
communications taking place in other nearby cells is minimized 
because communications in such nearby cells use different 
portions of the spectrum. Co-channel cells are cells that reuse 
the same discrete portion of spectrum. To minimize 
interference, the frequency reuse plan spaces co-channel cells 
a predetermined distance apart.  Communication systems almost always have a goal of 
efficiently using the electromagnetic spectrum allocated to 
them. In order to satisfy this goal, communication systems 
limit the opportunities for interference. Signals with 
significantly different frequency or timing parameters do not 
interfere and may easily be distinguished from one another. 
Likewise, a strong signal may be distinguished from a 
relatively weak signal having similar frequency and timing 
parameters. However, when generally equal strength signals 
having similar parameters are present, interference is 
possible. To reduce the likelihood of interference, a 
communication system often employs constraints which 
prevent the simultaneous presence of two substantially equal 
strength signals having substantially the same frequency 
within the system's area
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for operating a cellular communication system 
(10) having a service area divided into a plurality of 

cells (34), each cell of said plurality having a spectral 
capacity and a demand for communication services 

associated therewith, said method comprising the 
steps of: 

   monitoring (161) said demand for communication services 
within a cell (34) of said plurality; 

   comparing (162) a predetermined service capacity of said 
cell (34) with said demand for communication 

services to determine if said cell (34) is at or near 
said predetermined service capacity; and 

   assigning (169) spectral capacity from a nearby cell of 
said plurality to said cell (34) in response to said 

demand for communication services determined in said 
monitoring step. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 whereby said comparing 
step additionally comprises the step of determining (163) a 

forecasted demand for communication services of said cell (34) 
by using historical cell loading information (62) stored in said 

communication system, and whereby said assigning step (169) 
additionally includes the step of assigning spectral capacity 

from said nearby cell (111) in response to said forecasted 
demand. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said comparing 
step further comprises the step of determining (161)an amount 

of spectral capacity required by said cell (34) to meet said 
demand for communication services. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 additionally comprising 
the steps of: 

   locating (164) all nearby cells; and
 

   identifying (164) an unused spectral capacity for each of 
said nearby cells. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the step of 
assigning additionally comprises the step of allocating said 

unused spectral capacity of said nearby cells such that all of 
said nearby cells are below said predetermined service 

capacity as a result of said allocating step. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the the step of 
allocating unused spectral capacity further comprises the step 

of notifying a system operator when said unused capacity of 
said nearby cells is insufficient to meet said demand for 

communication services of said cell. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein said identifying 
step further comprises the steps of: 

   identifying said unused spectral capacity in frequencies 
and time slots for each cell of said nearby cells; 

   verifying for each cell of said nearby cells that no 
interference will be created should said identified 

unused capacity be allocated to said cell; and 
   allocating at least some of said identified unused spectral 

capacity of at least one of said nearby cells to said 
cell. 
A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said step of 
allocating at least some of said identified unused 

spectral capacity further comprises the steps of: 
   comparing said identified unused spectral capacity of said 

nearby cells to locate a first least utilized nearby 
cell; 

   reducing said identified unused spectral capacity of said 
least utilized nearby cell; 

   locating a next least utilized nearby cell; 
   reducing said next least utilized nearby cell; and 

   repeating said locating step and said second reducing step 
until said demand for communication services is 

satisfied or no more identified unused spectral 
capacity exists in said identified nearby cells. 
A cellular communication system (10) having a plurality 
of cells (34), each cell (34) of said plurality of cells 

having a demand for communication services 
associated therewith, said cellular communication 

system (10) comprising; 
   a subscriber antenna (82) associated with a portion of 

said plurality of cells (34); 
   a multi-channel transceiver 80 coupled to said subscriber 

antenna (82), said multi-channel transceiver (80) 
capable of transmitting and receiving orthogonal 

channel sets; 
   a processor (84) linked to said multi-channel transceiver 

(80); 
   a storage medium (86) linked to said processor (84), said 

processor (84) and said storage medium 86 for: 
measuring said demand for communication services 

within said first cell (34); 

   comparing said predetermined service capacity of said 
first cell (110) with said demand for 

communication services to determine if said first 
cell (110) is at or near said predetermined service 

capacity; 
   identifying a second cell (111) having a second channel 

set associated therewith, said second channel set 
being orthogonal to said first channel set; 

   determining an unused spectral capacity in said second 
cell by comparing a demand for communication 

services within said second cell with said 
predetermined spectral capacity of said second cell; 

and 
   assigning said unused spectral capacity from said 

second cell to said first cell by switching off a 
portion of said second channel set in said second 

cell and switching on a portion of said second 
channel set in said first cell. 
A cellular communication system (10) having a plurality 
of cells (34) and a demand for communication services 

associated with each cell (34) of said plurality, said 
cellular communication system (10) comprising: 

   a subscriber antenna (82) associated with a portion of 
said plurality of cells (34); 

   a multi-channel transceiver (80) coupled to said 
subscriber antenna, said multi-channel (80) 

transceiver capable of transmitting and receiving 
orthogonal channel sets from within said plurality of 

cells; 
   a processor (84) linked to said multi-channel transceiver 

(80); 
   a storage medium (86) linked to said processor 84, said 

storage medium (86) for pre-assigning said orthogonal 
channel sets from a least one cell (34) of said 

plurality to a cell having a predetermined high demand 
for communication services. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
