<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0905985</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for digital communication
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N500	H04N500	H04N752	H04N724	H04N752	H04N724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital broadcasting system capable of quickly
acquiring long term program information. An SI generating

part SG2 generates a long term program information
S_EIT which is multiplexed in a transport stream TS2 only.

The SI generating part SG2 gives information on whether the
long term program information S_EIT is present or not for

each service to other SI generating parts SG1 and SG3. The
SI generating parts SG1 and SG3 multiplex the given

presence information in transport streams TS1 and TS3. In
this way, the presence information is multiplexed in all

the transport streams. Therefore, the presence information
may be acquired whichever transport stream is being

received. If the presence information is retained
beforehand, the information may be quickly used as required.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI TSUTOMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAYASHI, TSUTOMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to digital communication such as satellite broadcasting and, more particularly, to increasing the information acquiring process speed for long term programs.FIG. 22 schematically illustrates a state of sending satellite broadcasting radio waves as a simplified conceptual chart. Radio waves from a ground station 2 are sent through a broadcasting satellite 4 to the ground. From the broadcasting satellite 4 are sent out a plural number of transport streams (transmission routes determined by frequency, plane of polarization, etc.) TS1, TS2, and TS3. Furthermore, a plural number of services SV11, SV12, SV13, and SV14 (corresponding to channels in the ground wave broadcasting) are multiplexed by time division in packets in the transport stream TS1. Similarly, services SV21, SV22, SV23, and SV24 are multiplexed in the transport stream TS2, and services SV31, SV32, SV33, and SV34 are multiplexed in the transport stream TS3. To the transport streams are also sent out program information and control data associated with the packeting or the like in addition to video data and audio data for respective services.
While FIG. 22 shows only three transport streams, much more transport streams are actually sent out. Furthermore, while FIG. 22 shows four services multiplexed for each transport stream, in actuality much more services are multiplexed.FIG. 23 shows video data, audio data, control data, and program information multiplexed in the transport streams TS1, TS2, and TS3. In the transport stream TS1 are multiplexed: audio data ES(A)11 and video data ES(V)11 of the service SV11; audio data ES(A)12 and video data ES(V)12 of the service SV12; ... , and audio data ES (A) 14 and video data ES(V)14 of the service SV14. For each of the services SV11, SV12, SV13, and SV14 are also multiplexed currently broadcast program information P_EIT11, P_EIT12, P EIT13, and P_EIT14, and information F_EIT11, F_EIT12, F_ EIT13, and F_EIT14 of programs to be broadcast next. Furthermore, an SDT1 describing the details of the service multiplexed in the transport stream TS1, an SDT2 describing the details of the service multiplexed in the transport stream TS2, and an SDT3 describing the details of the service multiplexed in the transport stream TS3 are also multiplexed and transmitted.Incidentally, audio data, video data, and program data are multiplexed also in other transport streams TS2 and TS3. However, for the long-term program information S_ EIT11, S_EIT12, ... , S_EIT14, S_EIT21, S_EIT22, ... , S_ EIT24,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital broadcasting system comprising a transmitter (4) for sending a plural number of transport streams (TSI-TS3), and a receiver (18-28) for selecting and receiving services (SV11-SV34) in said transport streams, each transport stream carrying a respective number of services,

said transmitter comprising:

long term program information multiplexing means (MX2) for making at least one transport stream (TS2) a specified transport stream and for multiplexing long term program information (S_EIT11-S_EIT34) for each service in said specified transport stream, said long term program information defining a future broadcasting schedule for some but not all of the services, and
presence information multiplexing means (MX1-MX3) for multiplexing presence information for each service representative of whether said long term program information is multiplexed or not in said specified transport stream; and
said receiver comprising:
presence information retaining means (26) for acquiring and retaining said presence information, and
long term program information acquiring means (28) for determining whether said long term program
 information for said service in question is present or not on the basis of said presence information retained in said presence information retaining means, said long term program information acquiring means being operable to acquire said long term program information for only those transport streams in which said long term program information is present;
characterised in that
 said presence information multiplexing means is operable to multiplex the presence information for each service in all of said transport streams including at least one service and 
in that
 the presence information retaining means is operable to acquire the presence information multiplexed in whichever transport stream is currently being received.
A digital broadcasting system of claim 1, wherein said presence information multiplexing means is operable to multiplex said presence information also in all said transport streams that do not include services.
A transmitter (4) for use in a system as claimed in claim 1 for sending a plural number of transport streams (TS1-TS3), comprising:

long term program information multiplexing means
 (MX2) for making at least one transport stream a specified transport stream (TS2), said long term program information multiplexing means being operable to multiplex long term program information in said specified transport stream, said long term program information defining a future broadcasting schedule for some but not all of the services, and
presence information multiplexing means (MX1-MX3) for multiplexing, for each service, presence information representative of whether said long term program information is multiplexed or not in said specified transport stream;
characterised in that
 the presence information multiplexing means is operable to multiplex the presence information in all said transport streams including at least one service.
A transmitter of claim 3, wherein said presence information multiplexing means is further operable to multiplex the presence information in all said transport streams that do not include services.
A receiver (18-24) for use in a system as claimed in claim 1 for selecting and receiving services (SV11-SV34) in a plural number of transport streams (TS1-TS3), comprising:
presence information retaining means (26) for acquiring and retaining said presence information on each service, and
long term program information acquiring means (28) for determining whether said long term program information about the service in question is present or not whenever it is necessary to acquire said long term program information about a service, said long term program information acquiring means being operable to perform said long term program information acquiring process for only those services for which said long term program information is present;
characterised in that
 the presence information retaining means is operable to acquire the presence information multiplexed in all of the transport streams including at least one service by acquiring the presence information from whichever one of the transport streams is currently being received.
A receiver of claim 5, wherein said long term program information acquiring means is operable to acquire said long term program information without changing said transport stream to be received if said transport stream currently being received is a specified transport stream, and to acquire said long term program information after changing said transport
 stream to be received into said specified transport stream if said transport stream currently being received is not a specified transport stream.
A receiver of claim 5, wherein said presence information retaining means is operable to acquire and retain said presence information for all said services at specified time intervals during said receiving operation.
A receiver of claim 5, wherein said presence information retaining means is operable to acquire and retain said presence information for all said services when said power supply is turned off.
A receiver of claim 5, further comprising:

long term program information memory means for storing said long term program information acquired with said long term program information acquiring means,
search receiving means for receiving search instruction for program information, and
search execution means for searching long term program information stored in said long term program information memory means according to said search instruction, and outputting search results,
wherein said long term program information acquiring means is operable to start its process by receiving said search instruction and to store said long term program information in said long term program information memory means, and
wherein said search execution means is operable to start its process after said long term program information is stored in said long term program information memory means by said long term program information acquiring means.
A receiver as claimed in claim 5, comprising:

a transport stream selecting part for selecting and receiving a transport stream according to an instruction from a processing part,
a separating part for separating and acquiring desired data from said transport stream selected with said transport stream selecting part according to said instruction from said processing part,
a processing part for controlling the operation of said transport stream selecting part and said separating part,
a program recording part for storing the program for determining the process contents of said processing part, and
a data recording part for recording data,
wherein said program causes a computer to execute the following processes:
while a desired transport stream is being received in said separating part, to acquire said presence information on said long term program information for each service multiplexed in said transport stream in question and record it in said data recording part,
upon receiving an instruction to acquire said long term program information about a service, to determine whether said long term program information about the service is present or not from said presence information recorded in said data recording part,
not to perform an acquiring process for those where no long term program information is present, and
for those where said long term program information is present, to control said transport stream selecting part to receive said transport stream in which said long term program information is multiplexed, control said separating part to separate and acquire said long term program information from said transport stream in question.
A digital communication method for sending a plural number of transport streams, each transport stream carrying a respective number of services,
 wherein, at a transmitter (4), at least one transport stream (TS2) is made a specified transport stream and long term program information (S_EIT11-S_EIT34) is multiplexed in said specified transport stream, said long term program information defining a future broadcasting schedule for some but not all of the services, and

for each service, presence information representative of whether said long term program information is multiplexed or not in said specified transport stream is multiplexed also in transport streams other than said specified transport stream.
A digital communication method of claim 11, wherein said presence information is multiplexed in all said transport streams including at least one service.
A digital communication method of claim 12, wherein said presence information is multiplexed also in all said transport streams that do not include services.
A digital communication method of claim 11, wherein said present information is described in a service description table.
A digital communication method of claim 14, wherein said presence information is described in a descriptor area of said service description table.
A digital communication method of claim 11, wherein said presence information is described in a network information table.
A digital communication method of claim 16 wherein said presence information is described in a description loop for each transport stream in said network information table.
A method of processing received signals transmitted according to a method as claimed in claim 11, wherein;

presence information on each service multiplexed in said transport stream currently being received is acquired and stored (S36), the presence information multiplexed in all of the transport streams is acquired by acquiring the presence information from whichever one of the transport streams is currently being received, and

whether said long term program information on the service in question is present or not is determined from said stored presence information whenever it is necessary to learn whether said long term program information is present or not for the service.
A digital broadcasting method of claim 18, wherein said presence information is further multiplexed in all said transport streams that do not include services.
A carrier medium carrying processor implementable instructions for controlling a processor of a transmitter to carry out the method of any one of claims 11 to 17.
A carrier medium carrying processor implementable instructions for controlling a processor of a receiver to carry out all of the steps of a method as claimed in any one of claims 18 and 19.
A signal broadcast using the method of any one of claims 11 to 17.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
