<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649504</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GEAR MOUNTING SYSTEM FOR DIFFERENTIAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H4800	F16H4810	F16H4820	F16H4828	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16H	F16H	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H48	F16H48	F16H48	F16H48	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A new gear mounting system for a parallel-axis gear differential includes three pedestals (14) that are spaced apart between an equal number of pairs of planet gears (32 and 34). Each of the pedestals includes two bearing surfaces (52 and 54) for rotationally supporting outside cylinder surfaces of the planet gear members (32 and 34) of adjacent pairs. Similar pedestals (74) can be made pivotable for increasing frictional resistance to differentiation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEXEL TORSEN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZEXEL TORSEN INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CILANO JOSEPH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CILANO, JOSEPH, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GEAR MOUNTING SYSTEM FOR DIFFERENTIALFIELD OF INVENTIONThe invention relates to automotive differentials having planetary gears mounted within housings and to arrangements of bearing surfaces for supporting the planetary gears within the housings.BACKGROUNDA typical automotive differential includes a compound planetary gear set mounted within a housing. The planetary gear set interconnects a pair of output shafts for rotation in opposite directions with respect to the housing. Engine power rotates the housing about a common axis of rotation shared by the output shafts.The planetary gear set is generally arranged to permit the output shafts to rotate by equal amounts but in opposite directions with respect to the housing. Accord¬ ingly, the housing rotates about the common axis of the output shafts at the average speed of the two output shafts. Drive torque is distributed between the two relatively rotating output shafts in accordance with the efficiency of the planetary set.Sun gear members of the planetary set, also referred to as "side gears", are coupled to inner ends of the output shafts. Planet gear members of the same set operatively connect the two side gears for rotation in opposite directions. Ordinarily, the sun gear members are bevel gears, and the planet gear members are bevel pinions that mesh with both side gears. 

 However, such bevel gear planetary gear sets are relatively efficient (i.e., only small torque differences can be supported between the output shafts) , and this limits the total amount of drive torque that can be delivered to the drive shafts under uneven traction conditions. For example, if drive wheels coupled to the output shafts have uneven amounts of traction, the total drive torque is limited to a little more than two times the amount of drive torque that can be delivered to the drive wheel having less traction.A wide variety of differential modifications and alternative differential designs have been proposed to make better use of the total traction available to both drive wheels. For example, spring-loaded clutch packs have been used to provide a predetermined minimum resistance to relative rotation between drive shafts (i.e., differen¬ tiation) . However, the minimum resistance opposes differentiation even when no drive torque is being delivered to the output shafts and yet may provide too little resistance to differentiation when more drive torque is delivered.Worm gearing has been used in gear differentials to develop considerable frictional resistance to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
/ CLAIM:
1. A gear differential comprising: a housing rotatable about a common axis of a pair of drive shafts; a pair of side gears positioned within said housing for rotation with the drive shafts; pairs of planet gears positioned within said housing in engagement with said side gears for rotation about respective axes; pedestals forming portions of said housing in positions that are spaced apart from each other between said pairs of planet gears; and each of said pedestals having a first bearing surface rotationally supporting a circumference of a first member of said planet gear pairs and a second bearing surface rotationally supporting a circumference of a second member of an adjacent planet gear pair.
2. The differential of claim 1 in which said first and second bearing surfaces encompass less than one-half of said circumferences of the planet gear members.
3. The differential of claim 2 in which said first and second bearing surfaces contact said circumferences of the planet gears in positions that produce reactionary forces that are angularly inclined to directions of planet gear movement apart from said side gears.
4. The differential of claim 1 in which each of said first and second bearing surfaces includes two different centers of curvature for supporting said circumferences of the planet gear members in predetermined positions.
5. The differential of claim 4 in which said centers of curvature are positioned for urging said planet gear members into positions of zero backlash in response to directions of planet gear movement induced by their respective meshes. 


 6. The differential of claim 1 in which said pedestals are pivotable about respective axes that extend parallel to said planet gear axes.
7. The differential of claim 6 in which said pedestals are pivotable in directions that move said first and second planet gear members of each pair into mesh with each other at zero backlash.
8. The differential of claim 7 in which said pedestals are pivotable in directions that move one of said first and second planet gear members of each pair into mesh with one of said side gears at zero backlash.
9. The differential of claim 6 in which said pedestals are formed with individually pivotable legs for separately engaging said first and second planet gear members.
10. The differential of claim 9 in which said first and second bearing surfaces are separately supported by said individually pivotable legs, and each of said first and second bearing surfaces includes two different centers of curvature for supporting said circumferences of the planet gear members in predetermined positions.
11. The differential of claim 1 in which said housing includes a middle section and two end sections, and said pedestals are formed within said middle section for transmitting power between said planet gears and said housing.
12. The differential of claim 11 in which said pedestals and said two end sections are made of different materials for increasing wear resistance of said pedestals.
13. The differential of claim 11 in which said middle section also includes a casing surrounding said pedestals having a cylindrical bearing for further rotationally 


supporting said circumferences of the first and second planet gear members.
14. The differential of claim 13 in which said pedestals are pivotable about respective pivot axes that extend parallel to said planet gear axes, and clearance spaces between said pedestals and said cylindrical bearing surface of said casing limit angular movements of said pedestals about said pivot axes.
15. The differential of claim 14 in which said cylindrical bearing surface of said casing and said two end sections are made of different materials for increasing wear resistance of said cylindrical bearing surface.
16. A parallel-axis gear differential assembly comprising: a housing rotatable about a common axis of a pair of drive shafts; a pair of side gears positioned within said housing for rotation with the drive shafts; pairs of planet gears positioned within said housing in engagement with said side gears for rotation about respective axes that extend parallel to said common axis of rotation; pedestals having respective bearing surfaces for rotationally supporting circumferences of said planet gears; and a casing portion of said housing surrounding said pedestals having a cylindrical bearing surface for further rotationally supporting said circumferences of the planet gears.
17. The assembly of claim 16 in which said pedestals are pivotable about respective axes that also extend parallel to said common axis.
18. The assembly of claim 17 in which said pedestals are pivotable in directions that move the planet gear members 


of each of said pairs into mesh with each other at zero backlash.
19. The assembly of claim 18 in which said pedestals are pivotable in directions that move one of said planet gear members of each pair against said cylindrical bearing surface of the casing portion.
20. The assembly of claim 19 in which said pedestals are pivotable in directions that move the other of said planet gear members of each pair into mesh with one of said side gears at zero backlash.
21. The assembly of claim 17 in which said pedestals are formed with individually pivotable legs having respective bearing surfaces for separately supporting said circum¬ ferences of the planet gear members of each pair.
22. The assembly of claim 21 in which each of said respective bearing surfaces of the individually pivotable legs includes two different centers of curvature for supporting said circumferences of the planet gear members in predetermined positions.
23. A gear mounting system for increasing bias ratio in a differential comprising: a housing rotatable about a common axis of a pair of drive shafts; a pair of side gears mounted within said housing for rotation with the drive shafts; pairs of planet gears mounted within said housing in engagement with said side gears for rotation about respective axes; pedestals having respective bearing surfaces for rotationally supporting circumferences of said planet gears; and said respective bearing surfaces encompassing limited portions of said planet gear circumferences for producing 


reactionary forces that are angularly inclined to directions of planet gear movement apart from said side gears.
24. The system of claim 23 in which said reactionary forces urge the planet gear members of each of said pairs into positions of zero backlash.
25. The system of claim 24 in which said respective bearing surfaces encompass less than one-half of said planet gear circumferences.
26. The system of claim 25 in which said pedestals are formed in said housing in positions that are spaced apart from each other between said pairs of planet gears.
27. The system of claim 26 in which said pedestals are spaced apart through openings in said housing that provide access for lubricant to said respective bearing surfaces.
28. The system of claim 27 in which said pedestals are fixed against rotation with respect to said housing.
29. The system of claim 23 in which said pedestals are pivotable about respective axes that extend parallel to said planet gear axes.
30. The system of claim 29 in which said pedestals are pivotable in directions that move the planet gear members of each of said pairs into mesh with each other at zero backlash.
31. The system of claim 30 in which said pedestals are formed with individually pivotable legs for separately engaging the planet gear members of each pair. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
