<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656115</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED DETECTION AND THERAPY OF LESIONS WITH BIOTIN/AVIDIN CONJUGATES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31415	A61K31415	A61K3170	A61K3170	A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K39395	A61K39395	A61K4500	A61K4500	A61K4748	A61K4748	A61K4900	A61K4900	A61K5100	A61K5100	A61K5102	A61K5110	A61P900	A61P900	A61P2900	A61P2900	A61P3100	A61P3104	A61P3500	A61P3500	A61P3502	C12Q100	C12Q100	G01N3350	G01N3350	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33531	G01N33531	G01N33532	G01N33532	G01N33534	G01N33534	G01N33544	G01N33547	G01N33563	G01N33563	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K38	A61K38	A61K39	A61K39	A61K45	A61K45	A61K47	A61K47	A61K49	A61K49	A61K51	A61K51	A61K51	A61K51	A61P9	A61P9	A61P29	A61P29	A61P31	A61P31	A61P35	A61P35	A61P35	C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Uses of compositions in methods for detecting and/or treating targeted lesions in a patient are provided. The compositions used are comprised of a targeting composition comprising a biotin and targeting protein conjugate or an avidin and targeting protein conjugate; optionally, a clearing composition comprised of avidin, when the targeting composition is a biotin conjugate, or biotin, when the targeting composition is an avidin conjugate; a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin or biotin with a targeting protein and detection or therapeutic agent; and, optionally, another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin or biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent. The compositions, methods of use, and kits for use are also provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMMUNOMEDICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMMUNOMEDICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDENBERG DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDENBERG, DAVID, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED DETECTION AND THERAPY OF LESIONS WITH BIOTIN/AVIDIN CONJUGATESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1- Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to improved uses of compositions containing biotin and avidin in methods for detecting and treating pathological conditions with a multi-step process.2- Description of the Prior ArtAntibodies against different determinants associated with pathological and normal cells, as well as associated with pathogenic microorganisms, have been used for the detection and treatment of a wide variety of pathological conditions, or lesions. The targeting antibody is conjugated to an appropriate detecting or therapeutic agent according to processes well known and readily available to one of ordinary skill in the art, as described, for example, in Hansen et al., U.S. Patent No. 3,927,193 and Goldenberg, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,331,647, 4,348,376, 4,361,544, 4,468,457, 4,444,744, 4,460,459, 4,460,561, 4,624,846 and 4,818,709.When detecting a lesion, a high signal-to-background ratio needs to be achieved. Therapy also requires a high absolute accretion of the therapeutic agent in the lesion, as well as a reasonably long duration of uptake and binding. High background levels of non-targeting antibody have long been recognized as a major impediment to high target: background ratios being achieved. To overcome this impediment, various methods have been developed, such as those described in the above- 

referenced Goldenberg patents.Still other methods have been developed to increase the target:background ratios of the detection or therapeutic agents, such as pre-targeting and biotin/avidin approaches, as described, for example, in Goodwin et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,863,713; Goodwin et al., J. Nucl. Hed. 29:226, 1988; Hnatowich et al., J. Nucl. Med. 28:1294, 1987; Oehr et al., J. Nucl. Med. 29:728, 1988; Klibanov et al.> J. Nucl. Med. 29:1951, 1988; Sinitsyn et al. , J. Nucl. Med. 30:66, 1989; Kalofonos et al., J. Nucl. Med. 31:1791, 1990; Schechter et al.. Int. J. Cancer 48:167, 1991; Paganelli et al.. Cancer Res. 51:5960, 1991; Paganelli et al., Nucl. Med. Commun. 12:211, 1991; Stickney et al.. Cancer Res. 51:6650, 1991; and Yuan et al.. Cancer Res. 51:3119, 1991.Avidin, found in egg whites, has a very high binding affinity for biotin, which is a B-complex vitamin (Wilcheck et al.. Anal. Biochem, 171:1, 1988). Streptavidin, derived from Streptomyces avidinii , is similar to avidin, but has lower non-specific tissue binding, and therefore often is used in place of avidin. Both
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Use of a composition comprising:
(A) a targeting composition comprising (i) a biotin-protein conjugate or (ii) an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion;
(B) optionally, a clearing composition comprising (i) avidin, when the targeting composition is a biotin-protein conjugate, or
(ii) biotin, when the targeting composition is a avidin-protein conjugate;
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprising a conjugate of
(i) avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, or
(ii) biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; and
(D) optionally, another detection or therapeutic composition comprising
(i) avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, or
(ii)biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; in a method of detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is injected parenterally with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, optionally, clearing composition (B) , and said composition is allowed to substantially clear the 


targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) either prior or subsequent to composition (C) , detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and the conjugate of said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; wherein
(i) step (d) is optional if a clearing composition
(B) has been administered,
(ii) the detection or therapeutic compositions (C) and (D) of steps (c) and (d) containing avidin are administered as the next step after the administration of a composition containing biotin or of a clearing composition containing avidin, and (iii) the detection or therapeutic compositions (C) and (D) of steps (c) and (d) containing biotin are administered as the next step after the administration of a composition containing avidin or of a clearing composition containing biotin.
2. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising a biotin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion; (B) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; and
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the 


protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is injected parenterally with: (a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, detection or therapeutic composition (B) , and the conjugate of said composition (B) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
3. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprised of a biotin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion; (B) a clearing composition comprised of avidin;
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; and
(D) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is injected parenterally wjth:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the 


targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and the conjugate of said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
4. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising a biotin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion;
(B) a clearing composition comprised of avidin;
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; and
(D) another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, a patient is injected parenterally with
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , 


and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and the conjugate of said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
5. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising a biotin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion;
(B) a clearing composition comprised of avidin;
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; and
(D) another detecting or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, a patient is injected parenterally with: (a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and the conjugate of said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the 


targeted lesion.
6. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising a biotin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced or associated with the targeted lesion;
(B) a clearing composition comprised of avidin; and
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is parenterally injected with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion; and
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
7. The use of a composition according to claim l, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising a biotin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion; (B) a clearing composition comprised of avidin; 


 (C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; and
(D) another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is injected parenterally with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and the conjugate of said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
8. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising an avidin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion;
(B) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; and
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or 


therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is parenterally injected with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, detection or therapeutic composition (B) , and the conjugate of said composition (B) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
9. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising an avidin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion;
(B) a clearing composition comprised of biotin;
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; and
(D) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is parenterally injected with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to 


preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and the conjugate of said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and (d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
10. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises: (A) a targeting composition comprising an avidin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion;
(B) a clearing composition comprised of biotin; (C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; and
(D) another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is parenterally injected with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion; (b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind 


to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and the conjugate of said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
11. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising an avidin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion; (B) a clearing composition comprised of biotin;
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; and
(D) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is parenterally injected with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and the conjugate of said composition (C) is allowed to 


accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
12. The use of a composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising an avidin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion;
(B) a clearing composition comprised of biotin; and
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is parenterally injected with:
(a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion; and
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
13. The use of a composition according to claim l, wherein the composition comprises:
(A) a targeting composition comprising an avidin- protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated 


with a targeted lesion;
(B) a clearing composition comprised of biotin;
(C) a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition (A) ; and
(D) another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent; in a method for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, wherein, in the method, the patient is parenterally injected with: (a) targeting composition (A) , and the protein conjugate of said composition (A) is allowed to preferentially accrete at the targeted lesion;
(b) then, clearing composition (B) , and said composition (B) is allowed to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at the targeted lesion;
(c) then, detection or therapeutic composition (C) , and said composition (C) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion; and
(d) then, detection or therapeutic composition (D) , and the conjugate of said composition (D) is allowed to accrete at the targeted lesion.
14. A method of detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of
(i) a biotin-protein conjugate or (ii) an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to 


preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, optionally, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of
(i) avidin, when the targeting composition is a biotin-protein conjugate, or
(ii) biotin, when the targeting composition is a avidin-protein conjugate, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non- targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion;
(c) parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of
(i) avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, or
(ii) biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion;
(d) parenterally injecting, either prior or subsequent to the composition of (c) , another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of
(i) avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, or
(ii)biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion; wherein
(i) step (d) is optional if a clearing composition has been administered,
(ii) the detection or therapeutic compositions of steps (c) and (d) containing avidin are administered as the next step after the 


 administration of a composition containing biotin or of a clearing composition containing avidin,
(iii) the detection or therapeutic compositions of steps (c) and (d) containing biotin are administered as the next step after the administration of a composition containing avidin or of a clearing composition containing biotin.
15. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of a biotin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion; and
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing the composition to accrete at said targeted lesion.
16. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of a biotin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker 


substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of avidin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion;
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion; and
(d) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion.
17. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of: (a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of a biotin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of avidin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion;
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of 


biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing the composition to accrete at said targeted lesion; and
(d) then, parenterally injecting another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion.
18. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of a biotin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion; (b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of avidin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion; (c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion; and
(d) then, parenterally injecting a detecting or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detecting or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion. 


19. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targetd lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of a biotin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion; (b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of avidin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion; and
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing the composition to accrete at said targeted lesion.
20. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of a biotin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of avidin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion; 



 (c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion; and (d) then, parenterally injecting another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion.
21. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion; and
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing the composition to accrete at said targeted lesion.
22. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting 


composition comprised of an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of biotin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion;
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion; and (d) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion.
23. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially --.ccrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of biotin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion; 


 (c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at the targeted lesion; and (d) then, parenterally injecting another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion.
24. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of biotin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion;
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion; and
(d) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said 


targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion.
25. The method of claim 1 for detecting or treating targeted lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing composition comprised of biotin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion; and
(c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion.
26. The method of claim 14 for detecting or treating lesions in a patient, the method comprising the steps of: (a) parenterally injecting a subject with a targeting composition comprised of an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion, and allowing the protein conjugate to preferentially accrete at said targeted lesion;
(b) then, parenterally injecting a clearing 


composition comprised of biotin, and allowing said clearing composition to substantially clear the targeting composition from non-targeted sites and to bind to the targeting composition accreted at said targeted lesion; (c) then, parenterally injecting a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with said targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of said targeting composition, and allowing said detection or therapeutic composition to accrete at said targeted lesion; and
(d) then, parenterally injecting another detection or therapeutic composition comprised of avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, and allowing the conjugate to accrete at said targeted lesion.
27. The use or method of any of claims 1 or 14, wherein the lesion is cancerous, cardiovascular, infectious or inflammatory.
28. The use or method of claim 27, wherein the cardiovascular lesion is a thrombus, embolus, infarct or atherosclerotic plaque.
29. The use or method of claim 27, wherein the cancerous lesion is a carcinoma, melanoma, sarcoma, neuroblastoma, leukemia, lymphoma, glioma or myeloma.
30. The use or method of claim 27, wherein the lesion is infectious or inflammatory.
31. The use or method of any of claims 1 or 14, wherein the protein is a peptide, polypeptide, hormone, lymphokine, growth factor, albumin, cytokine, enzyme, immune modulator, receptor protein, antibody or antibody fragment. 


32. This use or method of any of claims 1 or 14, wherein the protein of the targeting composition and the detection or therapeutic composition are the same.
33. The use or method of any of claims 1 or 14, wherein the protein of the targeting composition and the detection or therapeutic composition are different.
34. The use or method of claim 33, wherein the different proteins preferentially bind to differing epitopes or molecules of the same marker substance.
35. The use or method of claim 31, wherein the protein is a monoclonal antibody, or a specific binding fragment thereof.
36. The use or method of claim 35, wherein the fragment is a Fv, single chain antibody. Fab, Fab', F(ab)
2
 or
F(ab')
2
.
37. The use or method of claim 36, wherein the fragment is Fab, Fab', F(ab)
2
 or F(ab')
2
.
38. The use or method of claim 35, wherein the antibody is multispecific.
39. The use or method of claim 38, wherein the antibody is multispecific to differing epitopes or molecules of a marker substance.
40. The use or method of claim 31, wherein the protein has a specific immunoreactivity to a marker substance of at least 60% and a cross-reactivity to other antigens or non-target substances of less than 35%.
41. The use or method of any of claims 1 or 14, wherein the method is for detection of a lesion. 


42. The use or method of claim 41, wherein the method further comprises external imaging or internal detection.
43. The use or method of claim 42, wherein internal detection is during an operative, intravascular or endoscopic procedure.
44. The use or method of claim 41, wherein the detection agent is a radionuclide, mri enhancing agent, photoactivated dye or differentiation agent.
45. The use or method of claim 44, wherein the radionuclide is a gamma-, positron-, x-ray or fluorescence-emitter.
46. The use or method of claim 44, wherein the differentiation agent is a vitamin, cytokine, autocrine, hormone or drug.
47. The use or method of claim 44, wherein the radionuclide has an energy between 10 and 5000 keV.
48. The use or method of claim 47, wherein the radionuclide has an energy between 50 and 500 keV.
49. The use or method of claim 44, wherein the radionuclide used for imaging is Iodine-123, Iodine-131,
Indium-Ill, Gallium-67, Ruthenium-97, Technetium-99m, Cobalt-57, Cobalt-58, Chromium-51, Iron-59, Selenium-75, Thallium-201, or Ytterbium-169.
50. The use or method of claim 43, wherein the radionuclide used is Iodine-125, Iodine-123, Iodine-131,
Indium-Ill, Technetium-99m or Gallium-67.
51. The use or method of claim 44, wherein the mri enhancing agent is a species of Gadolinium, Iron, Manganese, Rhenium, Europium, Lanthanium, Holmium, or 


Ferbium.
52. The use or method of any of claims l or 14, wherein the method is for treating a lesion.
53. The use or method of claim 52, wherein the therapeutic agent is an isotope, drug, toxin, fluorescent dye activated by nonionizing radiation, hormone, hormone antagonist, receptor antagonist, autocrine or cytokine.
54. The use or method of claim 52, wherein the therapeutic agent is an electron- or neutron-capturing agent.
55. The use or method of claim 53, wherein the isotope is Iodine-125, Iodine-131, Rhenium-186, Rhenium-188, Silver-Ill, Platinum-197, Palladium-109, Copper-67, Phosphorus-32, Phosphorus-33, Yttrium-90, Scandium-47, Samarium-153, Lutetium-177, Rhodium-105, Praseodymium- 142, Praseodymium-143, Terbium-161, Holmium-166, or Gold- 199.
56. The use or method of claim 52, wherein the therapeutic agent is an anti-DNA, anti-RNA, anti-protein or anti-chromatin cytotoxic or antimicrobial agent.
57. The use or method of claim 53, wherein the drug is taxol, mechlorethamine, cyclophosphamide, melphalan, uracil mustard, chlorambucil, thiotepa, busulfan, carmustine, lo ustine, semustine, streptozocin, dacarbazine, ethotrexate, fluorouracil, cytarabine, azaribine, mercaptopurine, thioguanine, vinblastine, vincristine, dacti omycin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, bleomycin, mithramycin, mitomycin, L-asparaginase, cisplatin, hydroxyurea, procarbazine, mitotane, prednisone, hydroxyprogesterone caproate, medroprogesterone acetate, diethylstilbestrol, ethinyl estradiol, tamoxifen, and testosterone propionate or 


fluoxymesterone.
58. The use or method of claim 53, wherein the toxin is abrin, alpha toxin, diphtheria toxin, exotoxin, gelonin, pokeweed antiviral protein, ricin, or saporin.
59. The use or method of claim 53, wherein the drug is puromycin, cycloheximide or ribonuclease.
60. A composition for use in a method for reducing immunogenicity of avidin, wherein the composition comprises avidin coupled with a carbohydrate polymer or polyol groups, which makes the parenterally injected composition less immunogenic.
61. The composition of claim 60, wherein the carbohydrate polymer or polyol groups are dextran, polysaccharides, or polyethylene glycol (PEG) .
62. The use or method of any of claims 1 or 14, wherein the immunogenicity of avidin or of the therapeutic agent conjugate is reduced by coupling the avidin or therapeutic moiety of the conjugate with carbohydrate polymer or polyol groups.
63. The use or method of any of claims 1 or 14, wherein the immunogenicity of the targeting composition is reduced by coupling with a carbohydrate polymer or polyol groups.
64. A sterile injectable composition for human use comprising a detection or therapeutic composition comprised of a conjugate of
(i) avidin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, or
(ii) biotin, protein and a detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker 



substance produced by or associated with a targeted lesion.
65. A kit suitable for use in a method of detecting or treating targeted lesions in a human, the kit comprising: (a) a vial containing a sterile injectable preparation of a targeting composition comprised of
(i) a biotin-protein conjugate, or (ii) an avidin-protein conjugate, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced or associated with the targeted lesion;
(b) optionally, a vial containing a sterile injectable preparation of a clearing composition comprised of (i) avidin, when the targeting composition is a biotin-protein conjugate, or (ii) biotin, when the targeting composition is a avidin-protein conjugate;
(c) a vial containing a sterile injectable preparation of a detection or therapeutic composition which when administered to the human is comprised of a conjugate of
(i) avidin, protein and detection or therapeutic agent, or (ii) biotin, protein and detection or therapeutic agent, wherein the protein preferentially binds to a marker substance produced by or associated with the targeted lesion and may be the same as the protein of the targeting composition; and
(d) optionally, a vial containing a sterile injectable preparation containing another detection or therapeutic composition which when administered to the human is comprised of (i) avidin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent, or 


(ii)biotin conjugated to a detection or therapeutic agent. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
