<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621114</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tamper indicating closure, apparatus and method for meeting the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26D900	B26D900	B26F100	B26F118	B26F120	B65D4134	B65D4134	B65D5502	B65D5502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26D	B26D	B26F	B26F	B26F	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26D9	B26D9	B26F1	B26F1	B26F1	B65D41	B65D41	B65D55	B65D55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A tamper indicating closure comprising a base wall 
and a peripheral skirt having an internal thread adapted to 

engage the threads of a container wherein a tamper indicating 
band is provided on the skirt by a plurality of circumferentially 

spaced bridges (29). The band includes portions adapted to engage 
an annular bead on the container. The bridges (29) are formed by 

using a primary knife (35) having an interrupted cutting edge (36) to 
produce a circumferential score (28) in the side wall of the closure 

leaving spaced connectors or bridges (29) followed by using a 
secondary knife (40) having a continuous cutting edge (41) to provide a 

continuous external score line and an accurately dimensional 
radial thickness of the bridges. In a preferred method and 

apparatus, the closures engage the successive primary and 
secondary knives and are moved such that the closures roll 

relative to the knives. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWENS ILLINOIS CLOSURE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWENS-ILLINOIS CLOSURE INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOWAL TIMOTHY B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOWAL, TIMOTHY B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In one type of tamper indicating closure, it is 
conventional to mold circumferentially spaced bridges in order 
to define a tamper indicating band on the closure. Such 
construction requires costly more complex molds which also 
require maintenance. Typical patents showing such tamper 
indicating closures comprise United States Patents 4,613,052, 
4,721,218, 4,801,031, 5,090,246 and 5,090,788. Another type of tamper indicating closure comprises 
utilizing an interrupted edged knife to produce bridges such 
as shown in United States patent 4,322,009. In another type of tamper indicating closure, 
circumferentially spaced axial bridges are provided on the 
internal surface of the skirt of the closure and a continuous 
edged knife is applied from the exterior surface cutting through 
the wall of the closure and into the bridges. Such a construction 
also requires costly complex molds that require maintenance and 
necessitates relatively thin walls on the closures. A typical 
patent showing such a construction comprises United States 
patent 4,545,496. Among the objectives of the present invention are to 
provide a tamper indicating closure on a molded plastic closure 
which does not require molded bridges; which can be made by  
 
relatively simple less costly molds; wherein the precise 
configuration of the bridges can be adjusted as desired; and 
wherein the bridges can be made at relatively high speeds and 
the desired configuration and strength of the bridges can be 
maintained; and wherein an improved method and apparatus insure 
accurately dimensional bridges. In accordance with the invention, a tamper indicating 
closure comprises a base wall and a peripheral skirt having an 
internal thread adapted to engage the threads of a container 
wherein a tamper indicating band is provided on the skirt by a 
plurality of circumferentially spaced bridges. The band includes 
portions adapted to engage an annular bead on the container. 
The bridges are formed by using a primary knife having an 
interrupted cutting edge to produce a circumferential score in 
the side wall of the closure leaving spaced connectors or bridges 
followed by using a secondary knife having a continuous cutting 
edge to provide a continuous external score line and an accurately 
dimensional radial thickness of the bridges. In a preferred 
method and apparatus, the closures engage the successive primary 
and secondary knives and are moved such that the closures roll 
relative to the knives.  FIG. 1 is a fragmentary perspective view of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plastic tamper indicating closure comprising 
   a base wall and a peripheral skirt having interengaging 

means thereon adapted to engage interengaging means on a 
container, 

   said closure including a tamper indicating band 
provided on the skirt by a plurality of circumferentially spaced 

integral bridges, 
   said band including interengaging means adapted to 

engage an annular bead on a container, 
   said bridges having a predetermined cross section 

formed first by using a primary knife having an interrupted 
edge to produce a circumferential score in the peripheral skirt 

of the closure providing spaced bridges which are accurately 
dimensioned accurately in a circumferential direction and 

followed by using a continuous edge secondary knife to provide 
a continuous external score line and an accurately dimensioned 

radial thickness of the bridges. 
The plastic tamper indicating closure set forth in 
claim 1 wherein said bridges are rectangular in cross section. 
The plastic tamper indicating closure set forth in 
claim 2 wherein each said bridge has a circumferential width 

greater than the radial thickness thereof. 
The plastic tamper indicating closure set forth in 
claim 3 wherein said interengaging means comprise integral 

threads on said skirt of said closure. 
The plastic tamper indicating closure set forth in 
claim 4 including a container having an external thread engaging 

the thread on the closure and interengaging means engaging said 
interangaging means said tamper indicating band on said closure. 
A method of forming a tamper indicating closure from 
a plastic closure having a base wall and a peripheral skirt 

which comprising 
   forming a circumferential score in the peripheral skirt 

of the closure to define a plurality of circumferentially 
spaced bridges, and

 
   providing a continuous score along said circumferential 

score to reduce the thickness of the bridges to a 
predetermined amount. 
The method set forth in claim 6 wherein the step of 
forming the interrupted score comprises utilizing a primary 

knife having an interrupted edge. 
The method set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of 
forming the circumferential score is provided by utilizing a 

secondary knife having a continuous edge. 
The method set forth in claim 8 including the step 
of moving the closure successively past said knives while 

rotating the closure such that the closure moves relatively 
along said successive knives and simultaneously is in rolling 

cutting contact with the successive knives. 
The method set forth in claim 9 wherein said knives 
successively engage said closure from the periphery radially 

inwardly of the closure. 
The method set forth in claim 10 including the step 
of moving said closure in an arcuate Path past said knives and 

said primary and secondary knives have arcuate cutting edges. 
The method set forth in claim 11 including the steps 
of positioning said knives radially outwardly of said arcuate 

path of said closure, providing edges on said knives which are 
concave and rotating said closure as it is moved into engagement 

with said knives in a direction opposite to the movement in 
said arcuate path such that the closure has a rolling action 

relative to said knives. 
The method set forth in claim 12 including the steps 
of positioning said knives radially inwardly of the arcuate 

path of said closure, providing edges on said knives which are 
convex and rotating said closure, as it is moved into engagement 

with said knives in the same direction as the movement in said 
arcuate path such that the closure has a rolling action relative 

to said knives. 
The method set forth in claim 10 herein said closure 
is moved in a straight path past said knives and said primary 

and secondary knives have straight cutting edges. 
The method set forth in any one of claims 1-14 including 
successively moving closures in a path past said successive 

primary and secondary knives. 
An apparatus for forming a tamper indicating closure 
from a plastic closure having a base wall and a peripheral skirt 

comprising 
   a primary cutting knife having an interrupted edge, 

   a secondary cutting knife having a continuous edge, 
   means for moving the peripheral skirt of a plastic 

closure into contact with said primary knife to form 
circumferentially spaced bridges which are accurately 

dimensioned in a circumferential direction, and for thereafter 
moving said peripheral skirt of said closure into contact with 

said secondary knife to provide a continuous score line and to 
accurately dimension the radial thickness of said bridges. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 16 wherein said means 
for moving said closure is constructed and arranged to move 

closures successively past said primary knife and said secondary 
knife. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 17 including means 
for rotating said closure as it is moved past said primary knife 

and secondary knife. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 16 wherein said means 
for moving said closures is constructed and arranged t
o move 
said closures in an arcuate path and said primary and secondary 

knives have arcuate cutting edges which conform to said path. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 19 wherein said means 
for moving said closures comprises a turret, a plurality of 

mandrels mounted for movement on said turret in a closed path, 
each mandrel being adapted to engage a closure for moving the 

closure successively past said knives. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 20 including means 
for rotating each mandrel as it moves a closure past said primary 

and secondary knives. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 21 wherein said 
primary and secondary knives are positioned radially outwardly 

of said path of the mandrels and said knives have concave cutting 
edges. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 22 wherein said means 
for rotating each mandrel comprises a pinion gear on each said 

mandrel and a gear having internal teeth engaged by said pinion 
gear such that when the turret is moved in one direction to 

move the mandrels and the closures thereon past said knives, 
the mandrels and the closures are rotated in an opposite direction 

such that the closures roll relative to said knives. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 21 wherein said 
primary and secondary knives are positioned radially inwardly 

of said path of said mandrels and said knives have convex cutting 
edges. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 24 wherein said means 
for rotating each mandrel comprises a pinion gear on each said 

mandrel and a gear having external teeth engaged by said pinion 
gear such that when the turret is moved in one direction to 

move mandrels and in the closures thereon past said knives, the 
mandrels and the closures are rotated in the same direction 

such that the closures roll relative to said knives. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 18 wherein said means 
for moving said closures is constructed and arranged to move 

said closures in a straight path and said primary and secondary 
knives have straight cutting edges. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 26 wherein said means 
for moving said closures comprises a plurality of mandrels, 

each mandrel being adapted to engage a closure for moving the 
closure past the knives. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 27 wherein said means 
for rotating said closures comprises a pinion gear on each 

mandrel and a straight rack gear engaging said pinion. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
