<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615645</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-MEMORY ELECTRONIC IDENTIFICATION TAG
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K700	G08B1324	G06K700	G06K1907	G06K1907	G08B1324	A01K1100	A01K1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G08B	G06K	G06K	G06K	G08B	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G08B13	G06K7	G06K19	G06K19	G08B13	A01K11	A01K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVID IDENTIFICATION SYST INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVID IDENTIFICATION SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEIGEL MICHAEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEIGEL, MICHAEL, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to cooperative, electronic identification
systems in which the identifying agency and the object to
be identified cooperate in the identification process
according to a prearranged scheme. More specifically, the
invention relates to systems consisting generically of an
interrogator-responsor (or "reader") inductively coupled to
a transponder (or "tag") where the reader is associated
with the identifying agency and the tag is associated with
the object to be identified.Such systems are known from GB-A-2 082 816, disclosing a data carrier
with memory element. They are being used or have the potential of
being used for identifying fish, birds, animals, or
inanimate objects such as credit cards. Some of the more
interesting applications involve objects of small size
which means that the transponder must be minute. In many
cases it is desirable to permanently attach the tag to the
object which means implantation of the device in the
tissues of living things and somewhere beneath the surfaces
of inanimate objects.In most cases, implantation of the tag within the
object forecloses the use of conventional power sources for
powering the tag. Sunlight will usually not penetrate the
surface of the object. Chemical sources such as batteries
wear out and cannot easily be replaced. Radioactive
sources might present unacceptable risks to the object
subject to identification.One approach to powering the tag that has been
successfully practiced for many years is to supply the tag
with power from the reader by means of an alternating
magnetic field generated by the reader. This approach
results in a small, highly-reliable tag of indefinite life
and is currently the approach of choice.Tags typically use programmable read-only memories
(PROMs) for the storage of identification data to be
communicated to readers. The PROMs are programmed either 
by the manufacturer of the tags at the time of manufacture
or by the user prior to implantation in the objects to be
identified. Once the PROMS are programmed and the tags are
implanted, the PROMs usually cannot be reprogrammed. Thus,
tampering with the information stored in a tag is
essentially impossible.There are situations, however, where the user would
like to reprogram the tag PROMS in situ because the
identification scheme has become known to unauthorized
individuals or organizations or certain data associated
with the object to be identified needs to be revised or
updated. The utilization of reprogrammable PROMS in tags
would permit the user to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic identification system comprising a
reader (100) and at least one tag (200), said tag comprising:


a means (258) for permanently storing data in an unalterable
fashion, said data being known as unalterable data;
a means (252) for permanently storing data in an alterable
fashion, said data being known as alterable data;
a means (254) for altering said alterable data;
a means (246, 248) for receiving an interrogation signal and a
data transmission signal carrying data to be substituted

for said alterable data by said altering means (254);
means (242) for discriminating between a non-modulated
interrogation signal and a modulated data transmission

signal;
a means (10) for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to an electronic identification reader

in response to a non-modulated interrogation signal;

said reader (100) comprising:

a means (355) for receiving data from a user to be
substituted for said alterable data stored in said

alterable storage means (252) in said tag (200); and
a means (170, 350) for communicating said received data from the
user to said tag (200).
The electronic identification system of claim 1, further comprising:

means for detecting an interrogation signal;
and
a means for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to the electronic identification reader (100)

upon detection of a non-modulated signal.
The electronic identification system of claim 1, wherein
said

alterability being subject to permanent disablement; and further
comprising


a means for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to the electronic identification reader (100).
The electronic identification system of claim 1, further comprising:

a means for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to the electronic identification reader (100);

and
means for confirming that a predetermined
interrogatio
n signal has been transmitted by the reader (100) and
for subsequently enabling said means for communication upon

confirmation of said predetermined interrogation signal.
The electronic identification system of claim 1, wherein
said

alterability being subject to permanent disablement; and further
comprising


a means for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to the electronic identification reader (100);
a means (254) for altering said alterable data; and
a means for receiving data to be substituted for said
alterable data by said altering means (254).
The electronic identification system of claim 1, further comprising:

a means for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to the electronic identification reader (100)

upon receipt of an interrogation signal and for
subsequently determining whether said interrogation signal

is carrying data.
The electronic identification system of claim 1, further comprising:

means for decoding a password from a received signal
and for subsequently allowing programming of said means (252) for

permanently storing data.
The electronic identification system of claim 1, further comprising:

a means for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to the electronic identification reader (100),

said means for communicating including a coil (210) in
combination with circuitry (230) for varying the load on said

coil (210).
The electronic identification system of claim 1, further comprising:

a means for communicating said unalterable data and
said alterable data to the electronic identification reader (100),

said means for communicating including a clock timer (240) and
delay circuitry for counting a predeterminable number of

clock cycles before initiating communication of said data.
The electronic identification system of claim 1, wherein
said

alterability being subject to permanent disablement; and further
comprising


a means (259) for temporarily storing data, said data being
known as temporary data, said communicating means being

capable of communicating said temporary data as well as
said unalterable and alterable data to the electronic

identification reader (100).
The identification system of any of claim 1 - 10
wherein said unalterable storage means (258) is a laser

programmable read-only memory (laser PROM).
The identification system of any of claims 1 - 10
wherein said alterable storage means (252) is an electrically-erasable

programmable read-only memory (EEPROM).
The identification system of any of claim 1 - 10,
further comprising:


means for causing the tag (200) to transmit data immediately
upon receipt of a signal and to subsequently determine

whether the signal was an interrogation or a programming
signal by determining whether the signal remained on and

was modulated.
The identification system of any of claim 1 - 10,
further comprising:


means for extracting data carried by a modulated
signal and for reprogramming said alterable memory (252).
The identification system of any of claims 1 - 10,
further comprising:


controller means (245) for delaying enablement of the tag
functions for a predetermined amount of time following

receipt of an interrogation signal.
The identification system of claims 3 or 10, wherein the tag (200) further
comprises:


a means (259) for temporarily storing data, said data being
known as temporary data, said communicating means being

capable of communicating said temporary data as well as
said unalterable and alterable data to the electronic

identification reader (100).
The electronic identification system of any of claims 1 to 16, further comprising an apparatus for altering data in the memory of the
tag (200), the apparatus having a

data entry mode and a data transmission mode, the apparatus
comprising:


a data entry device (355) that enables a user by physical
interactions with said data entry device (355) to enter data into

said apparatus when said apparatus is in the data entry
mode;
a means for communicating data entered into said
apparatus by said user to said tag (200) when said apparatus is

in the data transmission mode, the communication process
being initiated by a start signal;
a transmit control means that enables the user by
physical interactions with said transmit control means to

generate said start signal; and
a mode control means that places said apparatus in
either the data entry mode or the data transmission mode as

a result of the user's physical interactions with said
apparatus.
The system of claim 17 wherein said
communicating means comprises:


a means for generating a reversing magnetic field (10);
a means (345) for modulating said reversing magnetic field (10)
in accordance with said user-supplied data.
The system of claim 18 wherein said magnetic
field generating means comprises a coil (110, 310), a first capacitor

connected to an end of said coil, and a second capacitor
connected to the other end of said coil, said coil and

capacitors (120, 320) having an alternating voltage impressed across
the series combination, the frequency of said alternating

voltage being the resonant frequency of said series
combination. 
The system of claim 17 further comprising an
electronic identification tag (200) having a memory (252) wherein the

data stored in said memory is alterable, the alterability
of the stored data being subject to permanent disablement.
The system of claim 20 wherein the electronic
identification tag (200) comprises:


a means for altering said alterable data; and
a means for receiving data to be substituted for said
alterable data by said altering means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
