<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0349295</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SODIUM-SULPHUR CELL, METHOD OF OPERATING SAME AND METHOD OF LOAD LEVELLING USING THE SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M818	H01M1039	H01M1036	H01M818	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M8	H01M10	H01M10	H01M8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a sodium-sulphur cell, liquid sodium (2) is 
anodic reactant, sulphur and sodium polysulphide are 

cathodic reactants (12,13) and sodium ions are 
conducted by a solid electrolyte (1). To increase cell 

capacity and improve safety, a storage region for 

cathodic reactants is provided away from said solid 
electrolyte (1) and containing said cathodic reactants 

in the form of two contacting layers (12,13) of 
immiscible liquids formed by gravitational separation. 

Liquid sulphur being stored does not contact the solid 
electrolyte. The sodium may also be stored out of 

contact with the electrolyte (1). Capillary-action 
means for feeding the sodium polysulphide from the two 

liquid layers to the cathode reaction, and for feeding 
sodium to the anode reaction are included. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOUMA, HISASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOKOI, HIROMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATAHIKI, NAOHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to sodium-sulphur cells and 
methods of operating them. While sodium-sulphur cells have 
many possible applications, they are considered 
particularly suitable for use in storing electrical power 
to provide load levelling, e.g. charging during off peak 
power demand periods and discharging during peak demand 
periods, and in electric vehicles. Considerable efforts have been made in recent 
years to develop sodium-sulphur batteries, which have a 
high theoretical specific energy of 760 Whkg-¹, though in 
practice at present the aim is to achieve an actual 
specific energy of 100 to 150 Whkg-¹. A sodium-sulphur 
cell has advantages that it does not undergo self-discharge 
and is particularly suitable for large scale energy storage. Several sodium-sulphur cells are proposed in 
US-A-3951689. One form of cell disclosed in this patent is 
shown in Fig. 2 of the present drawings. This cell has a 
ceramic solid electrolyte made of β″-alumina 1 enclosing 
liquid sodium 2 which is the anodic reactant. The anode 
lead 3 is inserted into the sodium 2. Outside the tubular  
 
electrolyte 1 is a cathodic reaction region 4 formed of 
porous graphite felt which includes a wider region at the 
base of the cell. The cathodic reactants are sulphur and 
sodium polysulphide. The sodium polysulphide is present in 
the felt. The sulphur 7 is kept in a separate compartment 
at the periphery of the cell defined by an internal wall 5 
and the peripheral external wall 6. The external walls 
6,10 act as the cathode. A heater indicated at 8 surrounds 
the cell. During discharge operation of this cell, the 
sulphur store 7 is maintained at higher temperature than 
the cathodic reaction region 4, so that stored sulphur is 
vaporised and condenses in the cathodic reaction region 4 
to cause a cell reaction. During charging, on the other 
hand, the sulphur in the store 7 is kept cooler than the 
cathodic reaction region 4, so that sulphur in the cathodic 
reaction region is vaporised and condenses in the store 7. This cell attempts to remove the perceived defect 
of the prior conventional sodium sulphur cell in which both 
liquid sulphur and liquid polysulphide are present in the 
felt of the cathodic reaction region 4. This defect is 
that the polysulphide becomes saturated with sulphur so 
that the formation of further elemental sulphur in the 
cathodic reaction during charging limits the recharging 
operation. The cell of Fig. 2 removes the sulphur to a 
remote store. In another embodiment illustrated in 
US-A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sodium-sulphur cell in which liquid sodium 
(2) is anodic reactant, sulphur and sodium polysulphide 

are cathodic reactants (12,13) and sodium ions are 
conducted by a solid electrolyte (1), there being a 

storage region for cathodic reactants (12,13) away from 
said solid electrolyte containing said cathodic 

reactants in the form of two contacting layers of 
immiscible liquids formed by gravitational separation, 

the upper of said layers being of sulphur, whereby 
liquid sulphur being stored does not contact the solid 

electrolyte,
 
characterized in that said storage region is below the 

level of the solid electrolyte (1), capillary action 
means (14) which move liquid sodium polysulphide 

preferentially compared with liquid sulphur are 
provided for feeding sodium polysulphide (13) to and 

fro between the cathodic reaction zone (4) and the 
storage region, and vapour of the liquid sulphur (12) 

in the storage region has access to the cathode. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 1, 
wherein said storage region and said cathodic reaction 

zone are connected by a vertically extending zone up 
which sulphur vapour passes to reach the cathodic 

reaction zone from the storage region. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 1 or  
 

claim 2 wherein said capillary-action means (14) is 
mesh. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 3 
wherein said mesh (14) is a metal mesh. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to any one of 
claims 1 to 4, further having a storage region for said 

sodium (2) away from the anodic reaction zone, whereby 
stored sodium (2) is maintained out of contact with 

said anodic reaction zone, and means (17) for feeding 
liquid sodium to said anodic reaction zone. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 5, 
wherein both said storage regions are below the level 

of both said reaction zones. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 5 or 
claim 6 wherein said sodium feeding means (17) 

comprises capillary-action means by which liquid sodium 
from said sodium storage region moves to the anodic 

reaction zone. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 7, 
wherein said capillary-action means (17) for sodium is 

metal mesh. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to any one of 
claims 1 to 8, wherein to improve safety in the event 

of fracture of the solid electrolyte, shutter means 
(20,21) are provided which are operable to isolate the 

liquid sodium (2) from the cathodic reactants (12,13)  
 

to prevent accidental mixing. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 9 
further having vibration-sensing means (27) arranged to 

operate said shutter means (20,21) to effect isolation 
of the reactants when a vibration level beyond a 

predetermined threshold level is detected. 
Sodium-sulphur cell according to claim 9 or 
claim 10 wherein both said liquid sodium (2) and said 

cathodic reactants (12,13) are stored away from said 
solid electrolyte (1) and two said shutter means 

(20,21) are located to isolate respectively said 
liquid sodium and said cathodic reactants from said 

solid electrolyte. 
Method of operating a sodium-sulphur cell 
according to any one of claims 1 to 11 comprising the 

operations of 

a) providing liquid sodium at the anodic reaction 
zone, 
b) storing liquid sulphur and liquid sodium 
polysulphide at the cathodic reactant storage location 

away from said cathodic reaction zone in the form of 
two contacting liquid layers of immiscible liquids,said 

cathodic reactant storage location being below the 
level of the solid electrolyte, 
c) permitting sulphur vapour to pass to the 
cathodic reaction zone from the storage location as  

 
required by the cell operating mode, 
d) providing transfer of liquid sulphur from the 
cathodic reaction zone to said storage location as 

required by the cell operating mode, 
e) providing transfer of liquid polysulphide to 
and fro between said storage location and said cathodic 

reaction zone by said capillary action means as 

required by the cell operating mode, and 
f) preventing said liquid sulphur from passing to 
said cathodic reaction zone. 
Method according to claim 12, wherein said 
operation (a) is performed by the operations of 


i) storing liquid sodium at a sodium storage 
location away from said anodic reaction zone, and 
ii) providing transfer of the liquid sodium to and 
fro between said sodium storage location and said 

anodic reaction zone as required by the cell operating 
mode. 
Method according to claim 12 or claim 13 
including maintaining the anodic and cathodic reaction 

zones and the cathodic reactant storage location at 
substantially the same temperature at any time. 
Use of a sodium-sulphur cell according to any 
one of the preceding claims to store electrical power 

to provide load levelling, comprising charging the 
sodium-sulphur cell during a first portion of a given  

 
twenty-four hour period and discharging said cell 

during a subsequent portion of said twenty-four hour 
period. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
