<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638225</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FEEDTHROUGH VIA CONNECTION METHOD AND APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K102	H05K100	H05K344	H05K100	H05K330	H05K105	H05K330	H05K111	H05K105	H05K336	H05K340	H05K336	H05K102	H05K334	H05K340	H05K300	H05K344	H05K111	H05K300	H05K334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K3	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for constructing a feedthrough via connection and a corresponding apparatus includes a metallic plate (101). A solderable contact area (103), is located on the plate (101). Next, an electrically insulating adhesive layer (105) is disposed onto the plate (101). This adhesive layer (105) has a feedthrough via (106) disposed therethrough aligned with the contact area (103). Then, a substrate (109) is disposed onto the adhesive layer (105). This flexible substrate (109) has a via (110) disposed therethrough with a solderable area (111) disposed thereon. A quantity of solder (113) is disposed onto the solderable area (111), and the assembly (100) is heated so that the solder (113) flows into the vias (106) and (110), thereby providing an electrical connection including the solderable area (111) of the via (110), the solder (113), and the contact area (103). During this reflow step, the structure of the adhesive layer (105) acts as a soldermask preventing the solder (113) from flowing outside of an area defined by the via (106).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OCKEN ALFRED G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSTREM FRED E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OCKEN, ALFRED, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSTREM, FRED, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electronic module assemblies,
and particularly to the type of module assembly that includes a
substrate both electrically and mechanically connected to a
heatsink, see e.g. EP-A-0 405 828.In the field of packaging of electronic components onto a
substrate, it is frequently desirable to provide an electrical
connection between some of these components and a heatsink.
This may be to facilitate the conduction of a significant current, or
for using the heatsink as an electromagnetic interference shield.
Typically, the components are mounted onto a substrate that is
disposed onto the heatsink. Prior art schemes have been devised
to electrically connect the pertinent electrical components located
on the substrate and the heatsink.One scheme relies on electrically connecting certain electrical
components located on the substrate with the heatsink using
aluminum wire bonds. This requires the disposal of a bonding
pad onto the substrate. Then an aluminum wire is ultrasonically
bonded between the heatsink and the bonding pad. This
connection scheme is undesirably expensive and difficult to
manufacture. Also, it has undesirable electrical performance
because of the wire bond's electrical performance at high
frequencies. Further, it is unreliable in applications with a severe
vibration environment.Another prior art scheme applies a metal post inserted into a
metal baseplate and extending through a solderable feedthrough 
via in a substrate. In this scheme it is difficult to reliably solder the
pin to the solderable via, is costly because of a separate post, and is
generally difficult to manufacture.A connection approach that is reliable, easily assembled, and
less expensive is clearly needed.FIG. 1 is a cross-sectional diagram of an improved structure, in
accordance with the invention.In FIG. 1 a cross-sectional diagram of a circuit substrate
disposed onto an aluminum substrate is shown. An assembly
method to manufacture this structure will be detailed as follows.
This assembly includes a metallic plate, or rigidizer, 101. This plate
101, may be used as a heatsink. In this case, an aluminum material
is used. Of course any other electrically conductive, heat spreading
material, may be substituted for the aluminum if desired.
Preferably, the aluminum plate 101 is substantially planar.A copper layer, or other solderable metal, is disposed onto a
top surface 104 of the aluminum plate 101, confined to selective
areas, forming solderable contact areas 103. These selective areas
103
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A feedthrough via connection apparatus comprising:

a metallic plate (101) having a solderable contact area (103);
an electrically insulating adhesive layer (105) disposed onto said
metallic plate, said electrically insulating adhesive layer having a

feedthrough via (106) disposed therethrough, the feedthrough via
positioned aligned with and exposing the solderable contact area (103) of

said metallic plate;
a substrate (109) having a solderable via (110) disposed therethrough
extending from a first side to a second side, said substrate disposed

onto said electrically insulating adhesive layer (105), wherein the
solderable via is positioned aligned with the solderable contact

area of said metallic plate, and wherein said electrically insulating
adhesive layer bonds said substrate to said metallic plate; and
solder (113) disposed extending from the solderable via, captivated
within the feedthrough via of said electrically insulating adhesive

layer, and extending to the solderable contact area of said metallic
plate, thereby electrically connecting the solderable via of said

substrate to the solderable contact area of said metallic plate, the
electrically insulating adhesive layer confining the solder (113) within

the solderable contact area.
An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein
said substrate has a multiplicity of separated conductive traces

disposed on at least the second side, said multiplicity of separated
conductive traces electrically isolated from said metallic plate by

said electrically insulating adhesive layer.
An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein
said solder comprises reflowed solder paste.
An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein
said substrate comprises a flexible substrate. 
A feedthrough via connection apparatus comprising:

a substantially planar aluminum rigidizer (101) having a top
surface;
a plasma sprayed copper layer selectively disposed onto the
top surface of said substantially planar aluminum rigidizer

forming a contact area having a predetermined size;
an electrically insulating adhesive layer (105) disposed onto the top
surface of said substantially planar aluminum rigidizer (101), wherein

said electrically insulating adhesive layer has a feedthrough via
disposed therethrough, said feedthrough via having a

predetermined size smaller than the predetermined size of the
contact area of the selectively disposed plasma sprayed copper

layer, said feedthrough via positioned aligned with and outwardly
exposing a portion of the contact area of said plasma sprayed

copper layer;
an electrically insulating coverlay (108) disposed onto said
electrically insulating adhesive layer, said electrically insulating

coverlay having a second feedthrough via disposed therethrough
positioned aligned with the feed through via of said electrically

insulating adhesive layer (105);
a substrate disposed onto said electrically insulating coverlay (108),
said substrate having a via disposed therethrough extending from

a first side to a second side, said via having a solderable area
disposed thereon extending from the first side of said substrate,

along a surface of the via, to the second side of said substrate, and
wherein the via is positioned aligned with the contact area of said

plasma sprayed copper layer; and
solder (113) disposed into the solderable via of said substrate,
extending through the second feedthrough via of said electrically

insulating coverlay, contained within the feedthrough via of said
electrically insulating adhesive layer (105) and extending to the contact

area of the selectively disposed plasma sprayed copper layer,
thereby electrically connecting the solderable via of said substrate 

to the contact area of the selectively disposed plasma sprayed
copper layer of said substantially planar aluminum rigidizer (111),

wherein the electrically insulating adhesive layer confining the
solder within the solderable contact area.
An apparatus in accordance with claim 5 wherein
said two sided substrate has a multiplicity of separated conductive

traces disposed on at least the second side which is electrically
isolated from said substantially planar aluminum rigidizer by said

electrically insulating coverlay.
An apparatus in accordance with claim 6 wherein
said solder comprises reflowed solder paste.
An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein
said substrate comprises a flexible substrate. 
A method for constructing a feedthrough via
connection apparatus comprising the steps of:


providing a substantially planar metallic plate having a
solderable contact area disposed thereon;
disposing an electrically insulating adhesive layer onto said
substantially planar metallic plate, said electrically insulating

adhesive layer having a feed through via disposed therethrough,
the feed through via positioned aligned with and exposing the

solderable contact area of said substantially planar metallic plate;
disposing a substrate onto said electrically insulating adhesive
layer, said substrate having a solderable via disposed therethrough

extending from a first side to a second side, wherein the solderable
via is positioned aligned with the solderable contact area of said

substantially planar metallic plate, and wherein said electrically
insulating adhesive layer bonds said substrate to said substantially

planar metallic plate; and
reflowing solder paste into the solderable via of said substrate,
thereby forming a soldered connection extending from the

solderable via of said substrate captivated within the feedthrough
via in said electrically insulating adhesive layer to the solderable

contact area of said substantially planar metallic plate, thereby
electrically connecting the solderable via of said substrate to the

solderable contact area of said substantially planar metallic plate,
wherein the electrically insulating adhesive layer confines the

solder within the solderable contact area.
A method for constructing a feedthrough via
connection apparatus comprising the steps of:


providing a metallic rigidizer;
selectively disposing a solderable contact area onto said
metallic rigidizer;
disposing an electrically insulating adhesive layer onto said
metallic rigidizer, wherein said electrically insulating layer has a

feedthrough via disposed therethrough positioned aligned with
and exposing the solderable contact area of said metallic rigidizer;
disposing a flexible substrate onto said electrically insulating
adhesive layer, said flexible substrate having a via disposed

therethrough extending from a first side to a second side, said via
having a solderable area disposed thereon extending from the first

side, along a surface of the via, to the second side of said flexible
substrate, and wherein the via is positioned aligned with the

solderable contact area of said metallic rigidizer;
disposing solder paste into the via of said flexible substrate;
and
reflowing said solder paste, thereby forming a soldered
connection extending from the first side of said flexible substrate,

along the solderable area of the via, along the second side of said
substrate, captivated within the feedthrough via in said electrically

insulating adhesive layer, to the solderable contact area of said
metallic rigidizer, thereby electrically connecting the solderable

area of the via of said substrate to the solderable contact area of said
metallic plate, wherein the electrically insulating adhesive layer

confines the solder within the solderable contact area.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
