<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619084</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Athletic shoe sole assembly with flexible arches.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B1314	A43B1314	A43B1318	A43B1318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43B	A43B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B13	A43B13	A43B13	A43B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An athletic shoe (10) is provided with a sole assembly which 
includes a plurality of arch portions (25,26) below the principal 

weight-bearing areas of the foot, namely, the heel (16), metatarsals 
(18), 

and toes (19). Each arch portion (25,26) includes at least a pair of base 
portions (29,30,32,33) and a downwardly facing concave arch surface 

(31,34) which 
extends between the base portions (29,30,32,33). A generally flat 

outer sole (13) 
extends beneath the base portions (29,30,32,33) and is attached thereto. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILSON SPORTING GOODS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WILSON SPORTING GOODS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRISCOLL DENNIS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRISCOLL, DENNIS R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to athletic shoes, and, more 
particularly, to a sole assembly for athletic shoes which 
includes flexible arch portions. The design of athletic shoes requires consideration of 
a number of complex biomechanical principles regarding proper 
foot support and weight bearing structure. Such shoes are 
required to function properly even while the user is engaged in 
strenuous athletic activity which severely stresses the shoes. 
The shoes should not only provide proper foot support, but it is 
advantageous if the shoes also absorb shocks and provide for 
energy return to the user. The shoes should achieve the 
foregoing objectives while remaining flexible and lightweight. 
It is not easy to satisfy all of these somewhat competing 
factors in a single shoe design. The invention provides a sole assembly for an athletic 
shoe which absorbs shocks and returns energy to the foot while 
remaining flexible and lightweight. The sole includes a midsole 
which is provided with flexing arches in the weight bearing 
areas of the foot, namely, the heel, metatarsals, and toes. An 
outer sole is attached to the arches, and the bottom surface of 
the outer sole is provided with a skid-resistant tread. Sole 
material is substantially eliminated between the arches to 
reduce weight. The arches provide a spring-like function when 
force is applied by the foot which absorbs shocks and returns 
energy to the foot when the applied force decreases. If 
desired, a wedge-shaped cut or some other form of relief can be 
provided in the bottom surface of the crest of each arch to 
create a hinge effect which will facilitate flexing of the arch 
without movement of the legs of the arch.  The invention will be explained in conjunction with 
illustrative embodiments shown in the accompanying drawing, in 
which -- 
Fig. 1 is an exploded perspective view of a court shoe 
for the right foot which is formed in accordance with the 
invention; Fig. 2 is an exploded view of the sole assembly of Fig. 
1; Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the bottom of a midsole 
for the left foot; Fig. 4 is a top plan view of an outer sole for the left 
foot; Fig. 5 is a bottom plan view of the outer sole of Fig. 
4; Fig. 6 is a side elevational view of the outer sole of 
Fig. 5; Fig. 7 is a perspective view of the top of a midsole 
for a flat shoe for the right foot; Fig. 8 is a top plan view of an outer sole for the 
right foot; Fig. 9 is a perspective view of a midsole for a flat 
shoe for the right foot; Fig. 10 is a top plan view of an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sole assembly for a shoe comprising an elongated 
body adapted to be positioned below a foot and having a heel 

portion, an arch portion, a metatarsal portion, and a toe 
portion, a top surface extending from the heel portion to the 

toe portion, and a pair of side edge portions which extend 
between the heel portion and the toe portion, an arch member on 

the body which extends below the side edges thereof and which 
includes a pair of laterally spaced base portions and an 

upwardly spaced arch surface which extends laterally between the 
base portions, and an outer sole attached to the base portions. 
A sole assembly for a shoe comprising: 
   an elongated body adapted to be positioned below a foot 

and having a heel portion, an arch portion, a metatarsal 
portion, and a toe portion, a top surface extending from the 

heel portion to the toe portion, and a pair of side edge 
portions which extend between the heel portion and the toe 

portion, 
   a heel arch on 
the heel portion of the body which 
extends between the side edges, 

   a metatarsal arch on the metatarsal portion of the body 
which extends between the side edges, 

   a toe arch on the toe portion of the body which extends 
between the side edges, 

each of said arch members having a pair of base portions and an 
upwardly spaced arch surface which extends between the base 

portions. 
The sole assembly of claim 2 including an outer 
sole having top and bottom surfaces, the top surface of the 

outer sole being attached to said arches and the bottom surface 
of the outer sole having a skid-resistant tread. 
The sole assembly of claim 3 including a pair of 
longitudinally extending ribs which extend between the heel arch 

and the metatarsal arch adjacent the side edges of the body. 
The sole assembly of claim 2 including a pair of 
longitudinally extending ribs which extend between the heel arch 

and the metatarsal arch adjacent the side edges of the body. 
The sole assembly of claim 2 in which the heel arch 
includes first and second longitudinally spaced arch portions. 
The sole assembly of claim 2 in which the toe arch 
includes a pair of laterally spaced downwardly facing concave 

arch surfaces. 
The sole assembly of claim 2 in which the toe arch 
includes a side base portion adjacent each of said side edge 

portions of the body, an intermediate base portion positioned 
between the side base portions, a first downwardly facing 

concave arch surface between one of the side base portions and 
the intermediate base portions, and a second downwardly facing 

concave arch surface between the other of the side base portions 
and the intermediate base portion. 
The sole assembly of claim 2 in which the 
metatarsal arch includes a pair of longitudinally spaced base 

portions adjacent one of the side edge portions of the body and 
generally below the portion of the body which is adapted to 

support the ball of a foot and a third base portion adjacent the 
other side edge portion of the body. 
The sole assembly of claim 2 in which the heel 
arch includes first and second longitudinally spaced pairs of 

laterally spaced base portion, each of the base portions being 
adjacent one of the side edge portions of the body, a first 

downwardly facing concave arch surface extending between the 
first pair of base portions, and a second downwardly facing 

concave arch surface extending between the second pair of the 
base portions. 
A sole assembly for a shoe comprising: 
   an elongated body adapted to be positioned below a foot 

and having a heel portion, an arch portion, a metatarsal 
portion, and a toe portion, a top surface extending from the 

heel portion to the toe portion, and a pair of side edge 
portions which extend between the heel portion and the toe 

portion, 
   a heel arch portion on the heel portion of the body 

having a pair of base portions adjacent the side edge portions 
of the body and an upwardly spaced arch surface which extends 

between the base portions, 
   a metatarsal arch portion having a pair of 

longitudinally spaced base portions adjacent one of the side 
edge portions of the body and generally below the portion of the 

body which is adapted to support the ball of a foot and a third 
base portion adjacent the other side edge portion of the body 

and an upwardly spaced arch surface extending between the base 
portions,   a toe arch portion on the toe portion of the body 

having a pair of side base portions adjacent the side edge 
portions of the body and an intermediate base portion positioned 

between the base portions, a first upwardly spaced arch 
surface between one of the side base portions and the 

intermediate base portion, and a second upwardly spaced arch 
surface between the other side base portion and the intermediate 

base portion, and 
   an outer sole having top and bottom surfaces, the top 

surface of the outer sole being attached to said base portions. 
the bottom surface of the outer sole having a skid-resistant 

tread. 
The sole assembly of claim 11 including a pair of 
longitudinally extending ribs which extend between the heel arch 

and the metatarsal arch adjacent the side edges of the body. 
The sole assembly of claim 12 including a 
laterally extending rib which extends laterally between the 

longitudinally extending ribs. 
The sole assembly of claim 11 in which said outer 
sole includes a plurality of ridge portions which extend 

upwardly from the top surface of the outer sole and which extend 
around said base portions. 
The sole assembly of claim 11 including a second 
heel arch portion on the heel portion of the body which is 

longitudinally spaced from the first-mentioned heel arch 
portion, the second heel arch portion having a pair of base 

portions adjacent the side edge portions of the body and an 
upwardly spaced arch surface extending between the base 

portions. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
