<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628685</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cabinet drawer lock
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B6544	E05B6546	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B65	E05B65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lock system for a container having a first 
side wall (6) and a second side wall (8). The lock system comprises 

a first component (4) supported on a first track which 
defines a path for the first component (4) to move from a 

closed position to an open position. The lock system 
comprises a first locking bar (24) movable from a first position 

to a second position allowing the first component (4) to 
move along the first track to the open position. The 

lock system comprises a second component (5) supported on a 
second track defining a path for the second component to 

move from a closed position to an open position. A second 
locking bar (46) is movable from a first position to a 

second position allowing the second component (5) to move 
along the second track to the open position. The lock 

system further comprises a locking mechanism (78) movable 
along a ramp (92) to a locking position preventing the first 

locking bar (24) from moving from the first position to the 
second position and preventing the second locking bar (46) 

from moving from the first position to the second position 
so that the first (4) and second (5) components are each 

locked in the closed position. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MILLER HERMAN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HERMAN MILLER, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAME PAUL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLUNG DUANE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAME, PAUL G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLUNG, DUANE G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a lock system
for a container and finds particular expression in a
cabinet drawer lock for locking all drawers other than
a drawer that is open. The lock system of the
invention also relates to a cabinet drawer lock for
locking all of the drawers of a cabinet at once.It is common to have a plurality of drawers or
shelves in a cabinet or desk. It is often desirable to
prevent selected drawers or shelves from being opened
while a single drawer is opened. The prevention of the
selected drawers or shelves from being opened helps prevent
the accidental opening of those drawers or shelves
which can lead to the tipping of the cabinet. It is
common to use an interlock system between the selected
drawers to prevent their opening, such as described in
U.S. Patent No. 3,404,929 to Wright et al., U.S. Patent
No. 3,866,993 to Dean et al., and U.S. Patent No.
3,881,793 to Anderson.Another example may be found in US-A-4,966,423
which discloses a lock system according to the
preamble of claim 1. In this document there is
described a cabinet drawer interlock comprising an
actuator on each drawer which is engaged by a separate
sprocket rotor. A number of locking bars are arranged
in end contacting relation and each locking bar has a
slot. First and second pawls on each rotor are
inserted between the ends of a pair of adjacent
locking bars and within a locking bar, respectively,
when a first drawer is opened rotating the rotor for
that drawer. The remaining closed drawers cannot be
opened since the associated locking bars contact the
pawl ends on attempted rotor rotation. It is an object of the present invention to
provide a more efficient and less complicated cabinet
locking system for locking selected drawers or cabinets.It is also desirable to lock all of the drawers
or shelves in their closed position to secure the contents
thereof from unauthorized personnel. It is common
to use a locking system to lock all of the drawers.
However, such locking systems usually involve complicated
structures and a plurality of moving elements.It is an object of the present invention to
provide a locking system which is able to lock all of the
drawers or shelves of a cabinet in a more efficient manner.According to a first aspect of the present
invention there is provided a lock system for a
container having a first side wall and a second side
wall, said lock system comprising: a first component;
a first track attached in use to said side walls and
supporting said first component, said first track
definin
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lock system for a container (2) having a first
side wall (6) and a second side wall (8), said lock

system comprising: a first component (4); a first
track attached in use to said side walls (7,8) and

supporting said first component (4), said first track
defining a path for said first component (4) to move

from a closed position to an open position; a first
locking bar (24) movable from a first position in

which said first component (4) is prevented from
moving along said first track from said closed

position to a second position in which said first
component (4) is permitted to move along said first

track to said open position; a second component (5); a
second track attached in use to said side walls (7,8)

and supporting said second component (5), said second
track defining a path for said second component (5) to

move from a closed position to an open position; and a
second locking bar (46) movable from a first position

in which said second component (5) is prevented from
moving along said second track from said closed

position to a second position in which said second
component (5) is permitted to move along said second

track to said open position; the lock system further
comprising a movement mechanism (92) and a locking

mechanism (78), said locking mechanism (78) being
engaged by a ramped surface (98) of the movement

mechanism (92) to move the locking mechanism (78) to a
locking position (D) in which said first locking bar

(24) is prevented from moving from said first position
to said second position and said second locking bar

(46) is prevented from moving from said first position
to said second position thereby locking said first and

second components (4,5) in said closed positions, 
characterised in that the ramped surface (98) is

rotatable about an axis and upon engagement with the
locking mechanism (78) causes the locking mechanism

(78) to move in a direction parallel to said axis.
The lock system of claim 1, wherein one or both
of said first and second components (4,5) comprises a

drawer.
The lock system of claim 1, wherein one or both
of said first and second components (4,5) comprises a

shelf.
The lock system of claim 1, wherein, upon
engagement with the ramped surface (98), said locking

mechanism (78) moves translationally a distance which
is less than the distance travelled by said locking

mechanism (78) on the ramped surface (98).
The lock system of claim 1, wherein said locking
mechanism (78) moves in a direction approximately at

right angles with respect to the direction of movement
of said first locking bar (24).
The lock system of claim 5, wherein said locking
mechanism (78) is moveable from an unlocked position

(C) to said locking position (D), and in said unlocked
position (C) said locking mechanism (78) allows said

first locking bar (24) to move from said first
position to said second position so that said first

component (4) may move to said open position.
The lock system of claim 6, wherein said locking
mechanism (78) comprises a tab (88) to engage said

first locking bar (24) when said locking mechanism 
(78) is in said locking position (D) preventing said

first locking bar (24) from moving from said first
position to said second position and thereby locking

said first and second components (4,5) in said closed
positions.
The lock system of claim 7, wherein said locking
mechanism (78) comprises a notch (90) allowing said

first locking bar (24) to move from said first
position to said second position when said loc
king
mechanism (78) is in said unlocked position (C).
The lock system of any preceding claim wherein
said movement mechanism (92) comprises a helical cam

activator.
A method of using the lock system of claim 1
comprising the step of engaging said locking mechanism

(78) with the rotating ramped surface (98) of said
movement mechanism (92) so that the ramped surface

(98) causes said locking mechanism (78) to move to
said locking position (D) in a direction parallel to

the axis of rotation of said ramped surface (98).
The method of use of claim 10, wherein the step
of moving said locking mechanism (78) includes moving

said locking mechanism (78) translationally a distance
which is less than the distance travelled by said

locking mechanism (78) on the ramped surface (98).
The method of use of claim 10, wherein the step
of moving said locking mechanism (78) includes moving

said locking mechanism (78) in a direction
approximately at right angles with respect to the

direction of movement of said first locking bar (24). 
The method of use of claim 10, wherein the step
of moving said locking mechanism (78) includes moving

said locking mechanism (78) from an unlocked position
(C) to said locking position (D), such that when said

locking mechanism (78) is in said unlocked position
(C) said locking mechanism (78) allows said first

locking bar (24) to move from said first position to
said second position enabling said first component (4)

to move to said open position.
The method of use of any of claims 10 to 13 and
comprising the step of activating a helical cam

activator (92) to move said locking mechanism (78).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
