<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629105</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
X-ray examination apparatus and visible image detection system for an X-ray examination apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05G164	H05G136	H05G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05G	H05G	H05G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05G1	H05G1	H05G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An x-ray examination apparatus in accordance with the invention is 
provided with an auxiliary light-detection system for performing brightness control of a 

visible image produced on the exit screen of the x-ray image intensifier. The light-detection 
system comprises a photosensor having a wide dynamic range and a 

photodetector having a multitude of photosensitive elements so as to provide spatial 
resolving power. In particular the photodetector is a charge-coupled device (CCD-detector) 

having an inherently limited dynamic range. Brightness-control, notably 
avoiding overexposure in certain regions, is carried out by assembling relevant pixel-values 

of parts of the image into a control signal. The sensitivity of the CCD-sensor is 
adjusted by employing of the signal of the photosensor and a sensitivity-control device. 

Therefore, the sensitivity of the light-detection system is made to match the dynamic 
range of images due to a collection of x-ray exposures. In order to obtain a control 

signal that is optimised to relevant parts of the visible image and being independent of 
average brightness over the entire area of an image, the signal produced by the CCD-detector, 

that is reciprocal to the average brightness, is multiplied by the signal of the 
photosensor, that is proportional to the average brightness. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOOSTEN JOHANNES HENRICUS MARI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOOSTEN, JOHANNES HENRICUS MARIA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention pertains to an x-ray examination apparatus comprising an x-ray
source for forming an image carrying x-ray beam by irradiating an object, an x-ray
image intensifier for converting an x-ray image into a visible image and an image
detection device for detecting said visible image, the image detection device being
provided with an auxiliary light-detection system for performing brightness-control for
said visible image, said
auxiliary light-detection
system comprising a photodetector having a plurality of
photosensitive elements for generating a photodetector signal. The invention further
relates to said visible image detection system.An x-ray examination apparatus and visible image detection system of said kind is known from the European
Patent Application EP 0 217 456.The known x-ray examination apparatus is fitted with an auxiliary light-detection
system having a photodetector being a charge-coupled device (CCD-detector).
Brightness-values in the visible image are converted into an electronic photodetector
signal by the photodetector. An advantage of providing the auxiliary light detection
system with a CCD-detector that has a multitude of photosensitive elements, is that a
CCD-detector has spatial resolving power, so that brightness control is carried out using
spatial information acquired by an auxiliary light-detection system as described in the
cited reference. The auxiliary light-detection system employs the CCD-detector for
producing an exposure-control signal for controlling exposure in the visible image ,e.g.
by adjusting the x-ray source. A CCD-detector, as incorporated in the known auxiliary
light-detection system, however, inherently has a comparatively limited dynamic range
of brightness for which it operates adequately. Within a single x-ray image the
brightness-values may have a range of typically 15 dB, that is sufficiently limited for 
employing a CCD-detector in the auxiliary light-detection system. Within a single x-ray
image the dynamic range remains limited due to reduction of contrast by scattering
processes in the x-ray image intensifier. Among various x-ray images in a collection of
x-ray images the average brightness-values appear to vary over a much wider range,
typically 50 dB in practical examinations. Such a collection is formed e.g. either by
making a sequence of x-ray exposures or by x-ray exposures made during various x-ray
examinations each of them being performed at a different x-ray dose rate. Therefore,
the use of a CCD-detector per se as a photodetector
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An x-ray examination apparatus comprising an x-ray source (1) for forming
an image carrying x-ray beam by irradiating an object, an x-ray image intensifier (4) for

converting an x-ray image into a visible image and an image detection device for
detecting said visible image, the image detection device being provided with an

auxiliary light-detection system (22) for performing brightness-control for said visible image,
said system comprising a photodetector (24) having a plurality of photo-sensitive elements (27)

for generating a photodetector signal, characterised in that the auxiliary light detection
system incorporates a photosensor (32) for generating a photosensor signal being

representative of an average brightness of the visible image, and a sensitivity-control
device (34) for converting said photosensor signal into a sensitivity-control signal for

adjusting the sensitivitv of the photodetector (24).
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in
that the auxiliary light-detection system comprises an image processor for converting

said photodetector signal into a primary control signal for performing said brightness-control
by performing imaging adjustments.
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding
Claims, characterised in that the sensitivity-control device incorporates a voltage-to-frequency

converter and a timing generator.
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 2 or 3,
characterised in that the auxiliary light-detection system comprises multiplication means

for forming an exposure-control signal for performing said brightness control, said
exposure-control signal being formed by multiplying said primary control signal by said

photosensor signal.
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in Claim 4, characterised in
that said multiplication means incorporates a digital-to-analog converter for converting

said primary control signal into an analog control signal, and a voltage-to-frequency
converter having a first input to which said analog control signal is taken, having a 

second input to which said photosensor signal is taken, having an output from which
said exposure-control signal for performing brightness control is supplied.
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding
Claims, characterised in that said apparatus is provided with a user-interface for

supplying a field-selection signal to the auxiliary light-detection system.
An x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 2-6,
characterised in that the image processor is arranged for supplying image-control

signals.
A visible image detection system

suitable for use in an x-ray examination apparatus as claimed in any one of the
preceding Claims

comprising
an image detection device (18) and

an auxiliary light-detection system (22)
, the auxiliary light detection system comprising a

photodetector (24) generating a photodetector signal
characterised in that the auxiliary light detection system incorporates

a photosensor (32) for generating a photosensor signal
being representative of an average brightness of the visible image

and a sensitivity-control device for
converting said photosensor signal into a sensitivity-control signal for adjusting the

sensitivity of the photodetector.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
