<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616515</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STEERABLE FOUR WHEEL DRIVE VEHICLE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G500	A61G504	B60K700	B60K700	B60K1734	B60K17356	B62D706	B62D708	B62D714	B62D714	B62D900	B62D900	B62D4900	B62D4906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	B60K	B60K	B60K	B60K	B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G5	A61G5	B60K7	B60K7	B60K17	B60K17	B62D7	B62D7	B62D7	B62D7	B62D9	B62D9	B62D49	B62D49	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A four wheel drive vehicle (10) which is suitable for use as a wheelchair or the like. The vehicle (10) has a steering arrangement which allows the vehicule to be steered merely by selectively driving the left and right wheels. The steering arrangement (18, 19, 22, 23) requires at least one of the front and rear pairs of wheels (12, 13) to be castor mounted so as to be freely pivotal around respective pivot pins (18), with the pair of castor mounted wheels (12, 13) being linked (22, 23) so that they pivot generally in unison. Preferably, each of the castor mounted wheels (12, 13) rotate in a vertical plane which is laterally spaced from the pivot pins (18).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STEERABLE FOUR WHEEL DRIVE VEHICLE Technical FieldThe present invention relates to a steerable four wheel drive vehicle and in particular to the use of such a vehicle as a wheelchair.Background ArtIt is known to provide a wheelchair with drive to each of its four wheels. Such vehicles are conventionally steered by the skid steer principle or by providing that some or all of the wheels are steered by a positive steering mechanism. The skid steer principle provides a high degree of manoeuvrability to a four wheel drive vehicle and is for this reason used in tractors, armoured personnel carriers and the like. This system is not satisfactory for wheelchairs which are likely to be used indoors as the skid steering of the wheelchair would damage flooring surfaces such as carpets. The provision of positive steering mechanisms on wheelchairs adds to the weight, complexity and cost of wheelchairs. The present invention is directed to a four wheel drive vehicle incorporating an alternative steering mechanism. Disclosure of the InventionThe present invention consists in a vehicle having a frame, a pair of front wheels and a pair of rear wheels mounted on the frame, a steering means wherein at least one of the pairs of wheels are castor mounted on the frame so that each wheel of that pair freely pivots about a respective vertical axis, the steering means further comprising a linkage means connecting the pair of castor mounted wheels so that the castor mounted wheels pivot generally in unison , a motor drivably connected to each wheel for rotating that wheel in its vertical plane, and control means to control power to be independently delivered to each one of at least one of the pairs of wheels. 

 Preferably, each castor mounted wheel is rotatable in a generally vertical plane which is laterally spaced from the vertical pivotal axis of that wheel.Preferably, the linkage means is a rigid elongate bar pivotably connected to the castor mounting of each one of the pair of castor mounted wheels to thereby interconnect the pair of castor mounted wheels, the pivotal connections of the elongate bar being in each case about another vertical axis laterally spaced from the vertical pivotal axis of the respective castor mounted wheelsIn a preferred embodiment of the invention the vehicle is a wheelchair having a chair mounted on the frame. The control means are preferably mounted on an arm of the chair but may be mounted remotely of it. The vehicle is preferably an electric vehicle using a battery or batteries to drive an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:-
1. A vehicle having a frame, a pair of front wheels and a pair of rear wheels mounted on the frame, a steering means wherein at least one of the pairs of wheels are castor mounted on the frame so that each wheel of that pair freely pivots about a respective vertical axis, the steering means further comprising a linkage means connecting the pair of castor mounted wheels so that the castor mounted wheels pivot generally in unison , a motor drivably connected to each wheel for rotating that wheel in its vertical plane, and control means to control power to be independently delivered to each one of at least one of the pairs of wheels.
2. A vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein each castor mounted wheel is rotatable in a generally vertical plane which is laterally spaced from the vertical pivotal axis of that wheel.
3. A vehicle as claimed in claim 2 wherein the linkage means is a rigid elongate bar pivotally connected to the castor mounting of each one of the pair of castor mounted wheels , the pivotal connections of the elongate bar being in each case about a second vertical axis which is laterally spaced from the vertical pivotal axis of the respective castor mounted wheel. 4. A vehicle as claimed in claim 3 wherein the vertical pivotal axes of the or each pair of castor mounted wheels lie in a plane which is generally normal to the longitudinal extent of the frame, and wherein the second vertical axes of the pair of castor mounted wheels are each on the same side of that plane.
5. A vehicle as claimed in claim 4 wherein the rigid elongate bar is generally parallel to that plane, and wherein a spacing between the second vertical axes is smaller than a spacing between the respective vertical pivotal axes of the pair of castor mounted wheels. 


 6. The vehicle as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the pivotal movement of the pair of castor mounted wheels is limited by a stop means between a full left lock position and a full right lock position to prevent either one of the castor mounted wheels from contacting the frame or any other part of the vehicle during operation of the steering means.
7. The vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the front wheels only of the vehicle are castor mounted , and the rear wheels are fixed against pivoting relative to the frame.
8. The vehicle as claimed in claim 7 wherein there is a further wheel retractably mounted on the frame near the front wheels or the rear wheels, the further wheel being movable between a retracted position spaced from a surface on which the front and rear wheels are supported, and an extended position bearing against the surface and supporting the wheelchair so that the front wheels or the rear wheels are spaced from the surface, the further wheel being castor mounted so as to be freely pivotal about a further vertical axis and freely rotatable about a horizontal axis.
9. The vehicle as claimed in claim 6 or 7 wherein the front wheels are selectively lockable against pivotal movement when orientated in a straight forward position relative to the frame.
10. The vehicle as claimed in claim 9 when appended to claim 8 wherein there is provided a switch means operatively interconnecting the operation of the further wheel, the motors driving the rear wheels, and the steering means of the front wheels so that when the further wheel is in the retracted position, the rear wheels remain drivably connected to the respective motors and the steering means of the front wheels is freely pivotal about the respective vertical axes, and when the 


 further wheel is moved into the extended position, the front wheels or the rear wheels are operatively disconnected from the respective motors and the steering means of the front wheels is caused to be locked in the straight forward position relative to the frame.
11. The vehicle as defined in claim 1 wherein both the front and the rear wheels are castor mounted and are operatively linked for synchronised pivotal movement, whereby either both the front and rear wheels pivot in the same direction relative to the frame towards the left or right full lock positions for crab-like movement of the vehicle, or the front wheels pivot to the left whilst the rear wheels pivot to the right, or vice versa, for circling movement of the vehicle. 12. The vehicle as claimed in claim 11 wherein the left front wheel and the left rear wheel are operatively linked so as to be driven together, and the right front wheel and the right rear wheel are operatively linked so as to be driven together to effect the crab-like movement of the vehicle, or alternatively the left front wheel and the right rear wheel, and also the also the left rear wheel and the right front wheel, respectively, are operatively linked to effect the circling movement of the vehicle.
13. The vehicle as claimed in claim 12 wherein the linking between the front and rear wheels provides both for crab-like movement of the vehicle and for circling movement of the vehicle.
14. The vehicle as claimed in claim 1 or claim 11 further comprising a seat and footrest mounted to the frame for use as a wheelchair.
15. The vehicle as claimed in claim 14 wherein the frame comprises a slender, longitudinally extending intermediate portion connecting laterally projecting front and rear end portions at respective opposite ends thereof, wherein the footrest is mounted to the frame so as to project 


forwardly away from the forward end portion of the frame and has a width which is greater than that of the intermediate portion of the frame; and wherein each one of the castor mounted front wheels has a positive trail with a horizontal axis about which the wheel rotates being spaced from and on a rear side of the vertical pivotal axis about which it pivots so as to maximize the pivotal movement of the front wheels whilst not allowing the wheels to interfere with the footrest or the frame. 16. The vehicle as claimed in claim 15 wherein the spacing between the horizontal axis and the respective vertical axis is less than a diameter of the wheel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
