<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647354</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR MANUFACTURING AN ACTIVE MATRIX DISPLAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L2177	H01L2184	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is an improved method for fabricating an active matrix liquid crystal display device having enhanced pixel capacitance for improved display performance. The improved method provides for the use of fewer mask and etch steps, thus simplifying the manufacturing process. The inventive method also provides for protecting the channel region (40) of the thin film transistor switch at each picture element (38) from the harsh processing environment.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED TECH INCUBATOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY INCUBATOR, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINKENSTEIN MIKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLUCK JOACHIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUDER ERNST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINKENSTEIN, MIKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLUCK, JOACHIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUDER, ERNST
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR MANUFACTURING AN ACTIVE MATRIX DISPLAYFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe invention relates generally to the field of thin film transistor driven active matrix displays, and more particularly to the field of manufacturing processes for fabricating thin film transistor driven active matrix displays. The invention most particularly relates an improved process for fabricating thin film transistor driven active matrix liquid crystal display devices having a pixel capacitance in parallel to the pixel. The inventive process also provides enhanced protection to the channel region of the transistors, thus improving transistor performance.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn the field of liquid crystal displays, and in particular in the field of active matrix liquid crystal displays, major international electronics companies have, for the last decade, expended hundreds of millions of dollars for the development of large area, high resolution displays. In addition to being large area, liquid crystal displays also must be able to display information at video speed rates, and be able to illustrate images in a wide variety of colors.Fabricating a color LCD is a highly sophisticated endeavor, merging the sciences of chemistry, photography, microelectronic engineering and precision manufacturing techniques. These combined processes are as complex as producing a large scale semiconductor. The basic design principles of LCD's are in fact closely coupled with semiconductor manufacturing technology.The active matrix color LCD used in, for example, a "notebook" computer has an average of 307,200 picture elements ("pixels"). Each pixel contains red, green, and blue 

 elements. In order to address each element of each pixel at video rate speeds, a separate transistor must be provided at each element. That translates into 921,600 transistors. A comparable 14 inch diagonal LCD display would therefore require approximately 1,232,000 transistors. Essentially, each screen is a large microchip.If a transistor fails or is defective, the pixel will not operate. It will be fused ineither the "on" or "off* condition. As screen size increases, so does the probability of defective pixel transistors. Many manufacturers will reject any display in which more than 25 (out of 921,600) transistors malfunction. Depending upon the application for the display, failure rates of much fewer than 25 pixels may be necessary. Even at the level of 25 defects per display, world leaders in producing color LCD's are achieving display manufacturing yields of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method of fabricating a subassembly for an active matrix liquid crystal
display including at least a first pixel electrode, first and second address means, a storage capacitor and at least one thin film transistor including a gate region, a source region, and a drain region, said method including the steps of: providing a transparent substrate member having a first layer of electrically conductive material deposited thereon; patterning said layer of electrically conductive material to form said first address means and at least one of said gate regions; depositing a layer of electrically insulating material over said layer of electrically conductive material and said substrate; depositing a body of semiconductor material atop said layer of electrically insulating material; providing a second layer of electrically conductive material atop said body of semiconductor material, said second layer of electrically conductive material being photolithographically patterned and etched so as to form said second address means intersecting said first address means, source and drain contact regions above said gate region, and said storage capacitor atop said first address means; selectively removing areas of the body of semiconductor material not underlying said second layer of electrically conductive material; depositing a layer of transparent conductive material atop said electrically conductive material and said electrically insulating material, said transparent 


 conductive layer being photolithographically patterned and etched to cover said second address line and said source contact region, and forming said first pixel electrode and electrically communicating with said drain contact region and said storage capacitor; and selectively removing the area of electrically conducting material between said source region and said drain region.
2. A method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the layer of transparent conductive material is a layer of indium tin oxide which functions as the mask for removing said layer of electrically conducting material between said source region and said drain region.
3. A method as recited in Claim 2, including the further step of depositing a layer of passivating material over said subassembly.
4. A method as recited in Claim 3, wherein said passivating material is selected form the group of materials consisting of silicon nitrite, sihcon oxide, and silicon carbide.
5. A method as recited in Claim 1, wherein said substrate is a transparent substrate selected from the group of materials consisting of glass, quartz, and plastic.
6. A method as recited in Claim 1, wherein said first and second layers of electrically conductive material are metallic materials selected from the group of materials consisting of aluminum, chromium, silver, tungsten, tantalum, molybdenum, and combinations thereof.
7. A method as recited in Claim 1, wherein said layer of electrically insulating material is selected from the group of materials consisting of silicon nitride, silicon carbide, silicon oxide, and combinations thereof. 


 8. A method as recited in Claim 1, wherein the step depositing the layer of semiconductor material includes the further steps: depositing a first layer of semiconductor material being an amorphous, intrinsic layer of silicon; and
depositing a second layer of semiconductor material, the second layer comprising a layer of n-doped amorphous sihcon material.
9. A method as recited in Claim 1, wherein said layer of transparent conductive material is a layer of transparent conductive oxide selected from the group of indium tin oxide, indium oxide, tin oxide, cadmium stannate, lead oxide, and combinations thereof.
10. A method of fabricating at least one field effect, thin film transistor device having a gate region, a source region, and a drain region, said method comprising the steps of: providing a substrate; depositing a first layer of electrically conducted material on said substrate, and patterning said layer to form said gate region; depositing a layer of electrically insulating material atop said gate region in said substrate; depositing a layer of semiconductor material atop said layer of electrically insulating material; depositing a second layer of electrically conducting material atop said layer of semiconductor material, and patterning said second layer to form a source contact and a drain contact above said gate region; 


 removing the areas of semiconductor material not lying beneath said patterned, second layer of electrically conductive material; providing a layer of transparent conductive material atop at least said source contact and said drain contact to form said source region and said drain region; and removing the area of second electrically conductive material not underlying said layer of transparent conductive material.
11. A method as recited in Claim 10, wherein said substrate is a transparent substrate selected from the group of materials consisting of glass, quartz, and plastic. 12. A method as recited in Claim 10, wherein said first and second layers of electrically conductive material are metallic materials selected from the group of materials consisting of aluminum, chromium, silver, tungsten, tantalum, molybdenum, and combinations thereof.
13. A method as recited in Claim 10, wherein said layer of electrically insulating material is selected from the group of materials consisting of sihcon nitride, silicon carbide, silicon oxide, and combinations thereof.
14. A method as recited in Claim 10, wherein the step depositing the layer of semiconductor material includes the further steps: depositing a first layer of semiconductor material being an amorphous, intrinsic layer of silicon; and depositing a second layer of semiconductor material, the second layer comprising a layer of n-doped amorphous silicon material.
15. A method as recited in Claim 10, wherein said layer of transparent conductive material is a layer of transparent conductive oxide selected from the group 


of indium tin oxide, indium oxide, tin oxide, cadmium stannate, lead oxide, and combinations thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
