<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635544</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Granular vinyl chloride resin composition and process for its production
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08J312	C08J312	C08K300	C08K300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08J	C08J	C08K	C08K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08J3	C08J3	C08K3	C08K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A granular vinyl chloride resin composition in the 
form of spherical or cylindrical granules having a size 

of from 0.05 to 20 mm made of a mixture comprising, as 
the main components, 100 parts by weight of vinyl 

chloride resin particles having a particle size of from 
0.01 to 3 µm (hereinafter referred to as fine vinyl 

chloride resin particles) and from 10 to 400 parts by 
weight of a filler. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI CHEM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI CHEMICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORO YUKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NORO, YUKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a granular vinyl 
chloride resin composition containing a filler, which is 
less likely to undergo dusting during its handling and 
excellent in the powder flowability and which is useful 
as a paste resin, and a process for its production. It has been attempted to granulate a paste making 
vinyl chloride resin in order to make automatic weighing 
possible or to prevent dusting of a vinyl chloride resin 
for a paste which is fine powder. For example, Japanese 
Unexamined Patent Publications No. 133409/1990 and 
133410/1990 disclose a process which comprises drying an 
aqueous dispersion of a vinyl chloride resin for a paste 
by means of a spray dryer using a rotary disk type 
atomizer and producing a granulated vinyl chloride resin 
by adjusting the number of rotation of the rotary disk at 
the time of drying and the temperature and humidity of 
the drying air. However, in order to attain a large size 
for granules by this process, it is usually necessary to  
 
reduce the number of rotation of the rotary disk, and in 
such a case, no adequate drying can be accomplished 
unless the drying temperature is set at a high level. 
However, a granular resin dried at a high temperature 
tends to be hard and cannot be readily dispersed in a 
plasticizer. Accordingly, it tends to be difficult to 
prepare a plastisol for the preparation of a paste, or 
the viscosity of the plastisol is likely to be high. Further, Japanese Examined Patent Publication No. 
23180/1973 discloses a process for producing a granular 
vinyl chloride resin, which comprises adding a liquid 
flocculating agent to fine powder of a vinyl chloride 
resin for paste, followed by granulation by an extruder 
and then drying the obtained granules by a fluidized 
dryer. Probably because the drying temperature is as 
high as 80°C, the granular vinyl chloride resin obtained 
by this process is required to be pulverized for a long 
period of time by e.g. a pulverizer to prepare a 
plastisol, and it is in many cases difficult to prepare a 
plastisol by a usual apparatus for the preparation of a 
sol, such as a blender or dissolver. U.S. Patent 4,002,702 discloses a process for 
producing a vinyl chloride resin for a paste excellent in 
the powder flowability, which comprises adding a dried 
resin for forming nuclei to a dispersion (latex) 
containing fine vinyl chloride resin particles, followed 
by drying. However, even if the granular resin obtained  
 
by this process is employed, the effect for improving the 
working
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A granular vinyl chloride resin composition in the 
form of spherical or cylindrical granules having a size 

of from 0.05 to 20 mm made of a mixture comprising, as 
the main components, 100 parts by weight of vinyl 

chloride resin particles having a particle size of from 
0.01 to 3 µm (hereinafter referred to as fine vinyl 

chloride resin particles) and from 10 to 400 parts by 
weight of a filler. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to Claim 1, wherein said mixture further 

contains vinyl chloride resin particles having a particle 
size of from 5 to 65 µm (hereinafter referred to as 

coarse vinyl chloride resin particles) in an amount of at 
most 100 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the 

fine vinyl chloride resin particles. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to Claim 2, wherein the particle size of the 

coarse vinyl chloride resin particles is from 20 to 40 
µm. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to Claim 2 or 3, wherein the coarse vinyl 

chloride resin particles are those obtained by spray-drying 
a vinyl chloride polymer latex obtained by 

emulsion polymerization or fine suspension 
polymerization, by means of a double fluid nozzle. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition  
 

according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the 
particle size of the filler is from 0.01 to 100 µm. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the 

particle size of the filler is from 0.05 to 20 µm. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the amount 

of the filler is from 30 to 200 parts by weight per 100 
parts by weight of the fine vinyl chloride resin 

particles. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the filler 

is an inorganic filler. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the filler 

is calcium carbonate powder. 
The granular vinyl chloride resin composition 
according to any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the 

cylindrical granules have a diameter of from 0.1 to 3 mm 
and a length of from 3 to 10 mm. 
A process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to claim 1, which comprises adding and mixing a 

filler to a vinyl chloride polymer latex (hereinafter 
sometimes referred to as the latex) containing fine vinyl 

chloride resin particles obtained by emulsion 
polymerization or fine suspension polymerization, in an 

amount of from 10 to 400 parts by weight per 100 parts by  
 

weight of the fine vinyl chloride resin particles, and 
then shaping the mixture into spherical or cylindrical 

granules having a size of from 0.05 to 20 mm. 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to Claim 11, which comprises 

adding and mixing the filler and at most 100 parts by 
weight, per 100 parts by weight of the fine vinyl 

chloride resin particles, of coarse vinyl chloride resin 
particles to the latex, and then shaping the mixture into 

spherical or cylindrical granules having a size of from 
0.05 to 20 mm. 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to Claim 12, wherein the 

coarse vinyl chloride resin particles are those obtained 
by spray-drying a vinyl chloride polymer latex obtained 

by emulsion polymerization or fine suspension 
polymerization, by means of a double fluid nozzle. 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin compositio
n according to any one of Claims 11 to 
13, wherein the particle size of the filler is from 0.01 

to 100 µm. 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to any one of Claims 11 to 

14, wherein the mixture obtained by mixing the filler 
and, if necessary, the coarse vinyl chloride resin 

particles to the latex, is extrusion-granulated into a 
cylindrical shape, followed by drying.  

 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to Claim 15, wherein the 

drying is conducted at a temperature within a range of 
from 10 to 50°C. 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to any one of Claims 11 to 

16, wherein in order to extrusion-granulate the mixture 
obtained by mixing the filler and, if necessary, the 

coarse vinyl chloride resin particles to the latex, the 
water content of said mixture is adjusted to from 5 to 

45% by weight, and then, the mixture is extrusion-granulated 
into a cylindrical shape at a temperature 

within a range of from 10 to 50°C. 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to any one of Claims 11 to 

14, wherein the mixture obtained by mixing the filler 
and, if necessary, the coarse vinyl chloride resin 

particles to the latex, is spray-dried for shaping. 
The process for producing a granular vinyl chloride 
resin composition according to Claim 18, wherein the 

spray-drying is conducted so that the temperature of the 
gas stream outlet of the spray drying apparatus will be 

within a range of from 30 to 80°C. 
A plastisol composition obtained by blending a 
plasticizer to the granular vinyl chloride resin 

composition as defined in Claim 1, in an amount of from 
30 to 400 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the  

 
vinyl chloride resin in the granular vinyl chloride resin 

composition. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
