<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615684</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hydroponics method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01G3102	A01G3102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01G	A01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01G31	A01G31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydroponics method for sizably enhancing the growth 
of a plant by activation for supply of rich oxygen to 

microbes in plant's roots and/or in a culture solution and 
thereby improving their activity comprising a step of 

preparing a bed (12), a step of placing a planting panel (36) planted 
with a plant plantings freely removable, a step of storing 

in the bed a culture solution containing microbes effective 
for growing plants, a step of suspending a botanical powdery 

charcoal and cray minerals as microbe holders as good 
housing for microbes in the culture solution in the bed, a 

step of waving (50) the culture solution to suspend microbe 
holders in the culture solution with simultaneous exposure 

of the plant's roots in the culture solution to the air 
periodically and a step of putting in the culture solution 

in the bed natural organic matter such as animal and 
vegetable matter manure. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YANOHARA YOSHITAMI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YANOHARA, YOSHITAMI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANOHARA YOSHITAMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YANOHARA, YOSHITAMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to hydroponics method, 
and more particularly, to a hydroponics method for 
cultivation of green vegetables such as a Welsh(spring) 
onion, Chrysanthemum coronarium, Brassica Rapa var. 
pervidis, a honewort and lettuce, rootcrops such as a 
Japanese radish, a carrot and a burdock, fruits and 
vegetables such as an eggplant, a cucumber, an Oriental 
melon , a tomato, a strawberry and a melon, and flowering 
such as a carnation, a chrysanthemum and a tulip. As a conventional hydroponics method providing the 
background for the present invention may be cited, for 
instance, what is based on a circulation pump system. In 
this hydroponics method based on the circulation pump 
system, service water from a water source is stored in a 
tank and fertilizer salts et cetera are dissolved in it to 
prepare a culture solution. The prepared culture solation 
is pumped up, and through a pipe tube, the culture solution 
is fed into the bed interiorly. In this case, a given 
amount of the culture solution overflows through the drain  
 
port, and through a pipe tube naturally falls into the tank. 
In this hydroponics method have been used many alternative 
aeration systems for supplying a large amount of oxygen to 
the culture solution circulation route such as aerator, 
sprayer and natural falling system. With any variation of this hydroponics method, however, 
various complicated apparatuses and devices were required 
for keeping oxygen in the air dissolved into the culture 
solution and high initial and running cost were bound to be 
quite high. By such aeration systems, however, the amount of oxygen 
dissolved in the culture solution was insufficient. That is 
to say, the amount of oxygen possibly fed from the culture 
solution to the roots of a plant was insufficient. Hence, 
it could not be desired to have plant's growth largely 
accelerated by any of the conventional hydroponics methods. Therefore, a principal object of the present invention 
is to provde a hydroponics method for sizable improvement of 
plant's growth simply at a reasonable cost. The present invention is directed to a hydroponics 
method for sizably enhancing the growth of a plant by 
activation for feeding of rich oxygen to microbes in plant's 
roots and/or a culture solution and thereby improve their 
activities comprising a step of preparing a bed, a step of  
 
providing a planting panel for planting a plant freely 
removably in the bed, a step of storing a culture solution 
containing microbes useful for growth
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hydroponics method comprising: 
   a step of preparing a bed; 

   a step of removably place a planting panel with planted 
of a plant on said bed; 

   a step of storing in said bed a culture solution 

containing microbe known to be effective for enhancing the 
growth of said plant; 

   a step of putting into said culture solution in said 
bed a microbe holder providing housing for said microbe; 

   a step of waving said culture solution for suspending 
said microbe holder in said culture solution and further 

expose said roots of said plant periodically to the air from 
said culture solution ; 

   a step of putting natural organic matter into said 
culture solution in said bed. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 1, wherein 
said microbe include a decomposable microbe can decompose 

organic matter. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 2, wherein 
said microbe holder include at least one of botanical 

charcoal and clay mineral. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 3, wherein 
said natural organic matter is formed of animal and 

vegetable matter manure. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 4, further 
comprising a step of causing ebb and flow of said culture 

solution in said bed by moving up and down the level of the 
culture solution in said bed periodically and expose said 

roots of said plant periodically to the air from said 
culture solution. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 5, 
comprising a step of inorganizing said natural organic 

matter by means of said microbes in said culture solution. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 6, wherein 
said step of waving said culture solution for suspending 

said microbe holder in said culture solution and further 
expose said roots of said plant periodically to the air from 

said culture solution, and said step of putting natural 
organic matter into said culture solution in said bed , are 

practiced simultaneously. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 7, 
comprising a step of circulating residues of said microbe 

holder and said natural organic matter in said culture 
solution collecting on the bottom of said bed. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 1, wherein 
said microbe include photosynthesis bacteria. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 1, wherein 
said microbe holder comprising more than one of natural 

stones or ceramics. 
A hydroponics method according to claim 3, wherein 
said botanical charcoal includes carbonized seaweeds. 
A hydroponic apparatus comprising a bed, a planting 
panel for planting of a plant which mounted above said bed 

and a culture solution for growth of said plant is stored in 
said bed so as to submerging the tip of roots of said plant 

and further comprising: 
   a tide tub provided at least part of said bed; 

   a cubic body disposed above said tide tub; and 
   a displacement means for displacing vertical the water 

level of said culture solution in said bed by means of 
periodically taking said cubic body in and out of said tide 

tub; and 
   the roots of said plant are exposed periodically to the 

air from said culture solution with said displacement means 
for displacing. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein said displacement means include: 

   a supporting body disposed to said bed beside; 
   a revolving shaft supported by said supporting body 

free to rotate; 
   a means for revolving said revolving shaft; 

   an elevator plate formed to be capable of producing 
movement or displacement along the axial position of said 

revolving shaft by means of said revolving shaft revolves ; 
 

and 
   an arm member supporting to be disposed said cubic body 

above said tide tub and connected with said elevator plate. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 13, 
wherein said revolving shaft has a male screw portion, said 

elevator plate is secured to a socket member having a mating 
female screw portion and said elevator plate includes a 

guide rod against rotation of said elevator plate. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 14, 
further comprising a sensor for regulating the upper and 

lower limit positions for said elevator plate. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein said displacement means comprising: 

   a shaft disposed above said tide tub free to rotate; 
   a means for rotating said shaft; 

   a crank member formed at one axial end of said shaft; 
   an operating member supported by said crank member free 

to rotate and vertically reciprocable; and 
   a supporting member held by said operating member for 

holding said cubic body and supporting said cubic body above 
said tide tub. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein said displacement means comprising: 

   a U-shape supporting frame positioned on both sides of 
said tide tub;

 
   an arm member supported on top of said supporting frame 

on a pivot free to rotate; 
   a pull member formed at one end of said arm member and 

is capable of vertically displacing the other end of said 
arm member with said pivot as fulcrum; 

   a crank member connected to one end of said pull member 
free to rotate; 

   a means connected to said crank member for rotating for 
rotating said crank member; and 

   a supporting member attached to the other end of said 
arm member for supporting said cubic body to be disposed 

above said tide tub. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein said displacement means comprising: 

   a pinion formed on one side of said tub of said bed to 
be free to rotate; 

   a means for rotating said pinion; 
   a rack in engagement with said pinion and moves 

vertically as said pinion rotates; and 
   a supporting member provided with said rack so as to 

dispose said cubic body above said tide tub. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein a net-like cabinet part for holding said natural 

organic matter is mounted to said cubic body. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
 

wherein an ejection pipe is provided for taking out residues 
of said microbe holder and said natural organic matter 

collecting on the bottom of said bed, and said ejection pipe 
is connected with a circulating pump for circulating said 

residue and said residue is returned to said culture 
solution. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 20, 
wherein an ejection tub is formed in the bottom of said bed 

for taking out the residue of said microbes holder and of 
said natural organic matter in said culture solution which 

collect on the bottom of said bed. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein a slope is formed to decrease the risk of said 

residues of said microbe holder and said natural organic 
matter collecting on the bottom of said bed. 
A hydroponic apparatus according to claim 12, 
wherein said tide tub is formed at the center of said bed 

and at least either end of said bed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
