<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619384</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for forming structures by chemical vapor deposition
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1600	C23C1644	C23C16458	C23C1601	C23C1644	C23C16458	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and device are provided for reducing the 
loss of CVD manufactured parts (74) due to cracking caused 

by mechanical stresses resulting from the mismatch of the 
coefficient of thermal expansion between the chemical vapor 

deposed part and the mandrel plate. The method and device 
provide a removable mandrel support (54) which is removed 

after the chemical vapor deposition but prior to the 
cooling of the CVD part and the mandrel plates. This 

permits the CVD part to contract upon cooling without 
mechanical restriction, thus reduce cracking caused by 

contraction of the CVD part against a mold which does not 
contract substantially. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CVD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CVD INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDONALD JAMES C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEVEROVSKY ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCDONALD, JAMES C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEVEROVSKY, ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process using chemical vapor 
deposition for the manufacture of multi-site curved surfaces, such 
as domes. In particular, this invention relates to an improvement 
in the process to reduce loss due to cracking caused by mechanical 
stresses resulting from the mismatch of the coefficients of thermal 
expansion (CTE) between the product and the mandrel plate. Stress cracking of chemical vapor deposited CVD curved parts, 
such as domes, is due in part to the mismatch of the coefficients 
of thermal expansion (CTE) between the graphite forms and ZnS or 
ZnSe parts. Such cracking, if not prevented results in substantial 
loss (30% to 35%) due to damage to the manufactured parts. In the manufacture of ZnS or ZnSe parts by chemical vapor 
deposition (CVD), a number of mandrel plates 10 are bolted 
together, as shown in Fig. 1. Typically four mandrel plates 10 are 
arranged in the form of a rectangular box. The mandrel plates 10 
are normally made from graphite. A CVD furnace is charged with a 
zinc metal and the mandrel plates are placed in a CVD furnace. The 
furnace is then covered, sealed, and vacuum connections are 
attached in preparation for operation of the CVD process. The 
furnace is then heated to operating temperature (649-704°C or 1200-1300°F) and 
a flow of reaction gas, H2S or H2Se, and an inert carrier gas, such 
as argon, is initiated. The CVD process continues until a  
 
sufficient depth of material is deposited, after which the furnace 
is cooled (approximately 24 hours) and the mandrel plates 10 
containing the CVD deposited parts are unbolted and the parts are 
removed from the furnace. The parts are examined for cracks and 
the general appearance. Parts which are not within specification 
are discarded. During the cooling process the graphite mandrel plates 10 
change dimension only slightly, while the CVD deposited ZnS and 
ZnSe change dimensions to a greater degree. For example, the 
coefficient of thermal expansion for ZnS and ZnSe is approximately 
three times that of graphite. The difference in the change in 
dimension due to the difference in the coefficients of thermal 
expansion (CTE) results in mechanical stresses in the ZnS and ZnSe 
parts. These stresses are most apparent in the manufacture of 
curved surfaces such as domes or bowls. As shown in Fig 1a; CVD 
domes 12 are deposited on a graphite mandrel plate 10. The domes 
12 engage the female section 14 of the mandrel plate 10. Bridges 
16 of chemical vapor deposited material cover the male
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the manufacture of chemical vapor 
deposited structures (74) comprising the steps of: 


placement of a plurality of mandrel plates (10) in 
a chemical vapor deposition furnace (20), said mandrel 

plates made from a material suitable for use in a chemical 
vapor deposition furnace (20), said furnace having a 

plurality of side walls (22), a top cover (24) and a bottom 
cover, each of said mandrel plates having a top end (50), a 

bottom end, and side edges (80); 
placement of each of said bottom ends of said 
mandrel plates in a base member (48), said base member 

retaining said mandrel plates in a substantially rigid 
position; 
securing each said mandrel plates with a removable 
support means (52, 54) which maintains each of said mandrel 

plates in a first form position (30); 
heating the chemical vapor deposition furnace to 
the operating temperature, thereby moving said mandrel 

plates into a second form position (32) due to thermal 
expansion of the material from which the mandrel plates are 

manufactured, said second form position being intermediate 
between said first form position and a third form position 

(72); 
depositing material on said mandrel plates by 
chemical vapor deposition; 
providing a second support means (46, 76, 78) which 
permits limited movement of said top ends of said mandrel 

plates to a third form position; and  
 
at the completion of said deposition, removing said 
removable support means (52, 54) thus permitting said 

mandrel plates to move from said second form position to 
said third form position, such that they are free from said 

chemical vapor deposited material, thereby permitting said 
deposited material to contract without mechanical 

restriction. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein upon 
securing said top ends (50) of said mandrel plates (10) 

with a removable support means (52, 54) which maintains 
each of said mandrel plates in a first form position (30) 

and a second form position (32), said side edges of each of 
said mandrel plates forms are retained in close proximity 

to one another. 
A method according to claim 2 wherein said 
removable support means comprises a movable top plate (54) 

which moves from a first position securing said top ends 
(50) in said first and second form positions, and a second 

position which permits said top ends of said mandrel plates 
to move freely to a third form position (72). 
A method according to claim 2 wherein said 
removable support means comprises a rupturable fastener 

means (90) which secures said top ends (50) of said mandrel 
plates (10) in a 
first form position (30) when said mandrel 
plates are cool and a second form position (32) when said 

mandrel plates are heated, wherein said mandrel plates are 
retained in close proximity to one another, and wherein 

upon the application of a sufficient amount of force said 
rupturable fastener means breaks, thereby removing said 

removable support means and permitting said top ends (50) 
of the mandrel plates to move freely to a third mandrel 

plate position (72).  
 
A device for the manufacture of chemical vapor 
deposited structures (74) comprising: 


a plurality of mandrel plates (10) in a chemical 
vapor deposition furnace (20), said mandrel plates being 

made from a material suitable for use in a chemical vapor 
deposition furnace, said furnace having a plurality of side 

walls (22), a top cover (24) and a bottom cover, each of 
said mandrel plates having a top end (50), a bottom end, 

and side edges (80); 
a base member (48)for placement of the bottom ends 
of said mandrel plates to retain them in substantially 

rigid placement; 
a removable means (52, 54) for securing said top 
ends (50) of said mandrel plates to maintain each of them 

in a first form position (30) when the plates are cool and 
in a second form position (32) when they are heated, 

wherein said side edges (80) of each of said mandrel plates 
are retained in close proximity to one another; 
a second support means (46, 76, 78) permitting 
limited movement of said top ends of the mandrel plates to 

a third form position (72); 
wherein said removable support means (52, 54), 
after a structure (74) has been deposited by chemical vapor 

deposition is arranged to permit said mandrel plates to 
move from said second form position (32) to said third form 

position (72) clear of said chemical vapor deposited 
material, thereby permitting said material to contract 

without mechanical restriction. 
A device according to claim 5 wherein said 
removable support means comprises a movable plate (54)  

 
which moves from a first position securing said top ends 

(50) in a first form position (30) when said mandrel plates 
(10) are cool and a second form position (32) when said 

mandrel plates are heated, wherein said mandrel plates are 
retained in close proximity to one another, and a second 

position which permits said top ends of the mandrel plates 
to move freely to a third form position (72). 
A device according to claim 5 wherein said 
removable support means comprises a rupturable fastener 

means (90) which secures said top ends (50) of the mandrel 
plates in a first form position (30) when said mandrel 

plates are cool and in a second form position (30) when 
they are heated, wherein said mandrel plates are retained 

in close proximity to one another, so that the application 
of a sufficient amount of force causes said rupturable 

fastener means to break thereby removing said removable 
support means and permitting said top ends of the mandrel 

plates to move freely to a third form position (72). 
A device according to any one of claims 5 to 7 
wherein said second support means comprises a flexible 

attachment means (78) attached between respective side 
edges (80) of adjacent mandrel plates. 
A device according to any one of claims 5 to 8 
wherein said second support means comprises a continuous 

band (76) which encircles said mandrel plates. 
A device according to any one of claims 5 to 9 
wherein said second support means comprises a plurality of 

support posts (46) attached to said base member (48). 
A device according to claim 10 wherein each of 
the support posts (46) are attached to the bottom cover of 

the furnace. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
