<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617294</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System using induced current for contactless testing of wiring networks
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R31305	G01R3126	H01L2166	G01R3126	G01R3128	G01R3102	G01R3128	H01L2166	G01R3102	G01Q3002	G01Q3000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	H01L	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	H01L	G01R	G01Q	G01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R31	G01R31	H01L21	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	H01L21	G01R31	G01Q30	G01Q30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for measuring electrical characteristics of an 
electrical device having a conductive structure associated 

therewith involves the sequence of steps as follows: 
First, employ a low energy electron beam to charge all 

conductors on the surface of the device. Expose individual 
conductors to a focussed low energy electron beam serially. 

Make measurements of an induced current signal when 
individual conductors are exposed to the focussed electron 

beam. Analyze induced current measurements derived from the 
individual conductors. Then determine electrical 

characteristics of the device based on the analysis. A 
charge storage method and three capacitive test methods for 

defect detection and methods for shorts delineation are 
described. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to apparatus and methods for the
contactless testing of conducting networks on an insulating
body, and more particularly testing for electrical opens
between network elements which should be electrically
connected, testing for electrical shorts between networks
which should be isolated, and for the measurement of network
capacitance.In the production of multi-chip modules (MCM's) it is
important to test the component parts of the modules for
defects before assembly to minimize the cost of repairing such
defects and to maximize the yield of operable devices. One
aspect of component testing is the detection of opens and
shorts in the conductor networks of the substrate on which the
integrated circuits are mounted. Prior art opens/shorts
testers can be divided into two classes; those which contact
the substrate nodes mechanically, and those which are
contactless testers.Mechanical probe systems too often damage substrates, add
particulate contamination, have limited throughput, are not
applicable to feature sizes below approximately 25 micrometers,
or to small features recessed into insulators.
However, the capacitive defect detection technique used by
some probe testers is relevant to the present invention.
These systems work by physically and electrically contacting
each of the network nodes serially and measuring the node 
capacitance relative to an internal or an external conductive
plane. Measured capacitances are compared to those obtained
from a known good part or by other means such as theoretical
calculations. A short between nets will change the
capacitance of one net (the one with the smaller capacitance)
by at least a factor of two. Similarly an open will change
the capacitance of at least one node of the net (that part
connected to the smaller net fragment) by at least a factor of
1/2.Contactless test systems are of interest because of the
limitations and difficulties of mechanical probe systems.
There are two classes of contactless testers, voltage contrast
testers and induced current testers.A number of contactless substrate testing systems have
been described heretofore, which include as follows:Pfeiffer et al., "A Practical E-Beam System for High
Speed Continuity Testing of Conductor Networks," Proc. XIth
Int. Cong. on Electron Microscopy, Kyoto, pp 185-188 (1986).Chang et al., "Tri-Potential Method for Testing
Electrical Opens and Shorts in Multilayer Ceramic Modules,"
IBM Tech. Bull., Vol. 24, llA, pp 5388-5390 (Apr.,1982).Brunner et al., "CAD-Based Electron Beam
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for measuring electrical characteristics of an
electrical device having a conductive structure made of

at least one network of a plurality of nodes electrically
interconnected by conductors associated therewith, said

method involving the sequence of steps as follows:

a) (300) apply a bias potential on a grid above said
device,
b) (303) employ an electron beam to charge all
conductors on the surface of said device to an

initial equilibrium potential while said bias
potential is on said grid,
c) (301) turn said electron beam off and change said
grid to a different potentiel,
d) (304) expose individual conductors to a focussed
electron beam serially,
e) (305) make measurements of an induced current signal
produced when individual conductors are exposed to

said focussed electron beam,
f) (305) analyze induced current signal measurements derived
from said individual conductors and provide an

analysis, and
g) (306) determine electrical characteristics of said
device based on the analysis, said electrical

characteristics comprising electrical opens and
electrical shorts.
The method of claim 1 wherein said analysis of induced
current signals is made by comparison of a feature of

said induced current signals with a predetermined
standard.
The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said induced current signal
is induced in a conductive structure external to said

device. 
The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said measurements of an
induced current signal are made on internal metallization in said

device.
The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein said measurements of an
induced current signal are made by a current amplifier.
The method of anyone of claims 1 to 5 wherein said
conductive structure comprises at least one network of a

plurality of nodes electrically interconnected by said
conductors.
The method of claim 6 wherein said measurements are
analyzed to determine an electrical characteristic of a

particular node to be tested on said device.
The method of claim 6 wherein a numerical integration of
said measurements is calculated to determine an

electrical characteristic of a particular node to be
tested on said device.
The method of claim 6 wherein said measurements are
fitted by a function to determine an electrical

characteristic of a particular node to be tested on said
device.
The method of claim 9 wherein said function for fitting
said measurements is exponential.
The method of anyone of claims 6 to 10 including the
steps as follows:


h) select a particular element of a network on said
device,
i) direct said focussed electron beam at said element
for a time required for said induced current signal

to change in amplitude by a predetermined amount, 
j) direct said focussed electron beam at different
nodes in the same network to be tested as said

particular element for a predetermined interval, and
k) measure the induced current signal from each of said

nodes to determine whether electrical continuity
exists.
A system for measuring electrical characteristics of an
electrical device (36) having a conductive structure of

conductors (68) associated therewith, said system
comprising:


a) means (50) for applying a bias potential on a grid
(48,49) above said device,
b) means (42,138) for employing an electron beam to
charge all conductors (68) on the surface of said

device to an initial equilibrium potential while
said bias potential is on said grid,
c) means (18) for turning said electron beam off and
means (38) for changing said grid to a different

potential,
d) means (14) for exposing individual conductors to a
focussed electron beam serially,
e) means (45) for making measurements of an induced
current signal produced when individual conductors

are exposed to said focussed electron beam,
f) means (46) for analyzing induced current signal
measurements derived from said individual conductors

and means (38) for providing an analysis, and
g) means (38) for determining electrical
characteristics of said device based on the

analysis, said electrical characteristics comprising
electrical opens and electrical shorts.
The system of claim 12 wherein said analysis of induced
current signals is made by comparison of a feature of

said induced current signals with a predetermined
standard.
The system of claim 12 or 13 wherein said induced current signal
is induced in a conductive structure (59) external to

said device.
The system of claim 12 or 13 wherein said measurements of an
induced current signal are made on internal metallization (43)

in said device.
The system of claim 12 or 13 wherein said measurements of an
induced current signal are made by a current amplifier (65).
The system of anyone of claims 12 to 16 wherein said
conductive structure comprises at least one network

(68,94,98) of a plurality of nodes (94,98) electrically
interconnected by said conductors (68).
The system of claim 17 wherein the measurements are
analyzed to determine an electrical characteristic of a

particular node to be tested on said device.
The system of claim 17 wherein a numerical integration
of said measurements is calculated to determine an

electrical characteristic of a particular node to be
tested on said device.
The system of claim 17 wherein said measurements are
fitted by a function to determine an electrical

characteristic of a particular node to be tested on said
device. 
The system of claim 20 wherein said function for fitting
said measurements is exponential.
The system of anyone of claims 12 to 21 further
including:


h) means for selecting a particular element of a
network on said device,
i) means for directing said focussed electron beam at
said element for a time required for the induced

current signal to change in amplitude by a
predetermined amount,
j) means for directing said focussed electron beam at
different nodes in the same network to be tested as

said particular element for a predetermined
interval, and
k) means for measuring the induced current signal from
each of said nodes to determine whether electrical

continuity exists.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
