<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659044</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MECHANICAL DRIVE CENTER PIVOT MOWER CONDITIONER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01D6700	A01D6700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01D	A01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01D67	A01D67	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAY 
&
 FORAGE IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAY 
&
 FORAGE INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASE CECIL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARRISON H KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUITT MARTIN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CASE, CECIL, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARRISON, H., KEITH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRUITT, MARTIN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MECHANICAL DRIVE CENTER PIVOT MOWER CONDITIONERTechnical FieldThis invention relates to crop harvesting equipment and, more particularly, to pull-type mowers or mower/conditioners having a pulling tongue which is hydraulically swingable from side-to-side as the machine is being advanced across a field so that the lateral position of the machine relative to the towing tractor can be adjusted on-the-go from the tractor seat. More particularly, the present invention involves a swing tongue harvester of the aforementioned type wherein provision is made for driving the operating components of the harvesting header, such as the crop severing mecha- nism and the conditioner rolls, through mechanical means coupled with the power takeoff shaft of the towing vehicle, rather than through a hydraulic drive system.Background Swing-tongue harvesters have become extremely popular over the years due in part to their ability to be quickly and easily maneuvered from the tractor seat around obstacles, through right angle turns, and other¬ wise operated in a manner previously reserved only for self-propelled vehicles. In the case of "center-pivot" swing-tongue harvesters in which the tongue is pivoted at or near the transverse center of the machine, the machine is capable of being used to cut back and forth across a field in subsequent passes as it is shifted first to the right during one pass and then out to the left on the return pass.Having a pulling tongue which is shifted between relatively sharp angular positions, however, creates problems in the delivery of driving power from the tractor to operating components of the machine. One 

way to accomplish such power delivery is through the use of. a remote hydraulic motor back on the machine which is coupled with the tractor hydraulics in such a way that hydraulic power is supplied to the motor through long flexible lines leading from the tractor back to the motor. By positioning the hydraulic motor back on the harvester itself, there is no need to have mechanical drive lines extending between the tractor and the harvester which would become subjected to the ongoing angular movements and turns between the harvester and the tractor. The hydraulic hoses can instead flex to the extent necessary to accomplish such angulations, and it is only necessary to have a mechanical drive line system leading from the hydraulic motor down to the components to be driven.However, a hydraulic drive system of this type is expensive and has certain power limitations, as well as other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In the Claims
1. In a pull-type crop harvesting machine, the improvement comprising: a mobile frame; a pull-tongue pivotally coupled with the frame for horizontal adjusting movement about a first upright axis between a number of angular positions relative to the path of travel of the machine for varying the lateral position of the machine relative to a towing vehicle; a harvesting header supported by the frame in a position for performing harvesting operations on a crop as the machine is towed across a field, said header having driveable operating components associated therewith; a mechanical drive line extending along and rota- tably supported by the tongue for supplying driving power to said operating components in said angular positions of the tongue; a junction box on the header having an input shaft and an output shaft rotatably supported by the box and operably intercoupled in fixed angular relation to one another within the box, said input shaft being operably connected with said drive line for receiving driving power there¬ from and said output shaft being operably connected to said operating components for driving the same, said box being pivotally mounted on the header for swinging movement about a second upright axis spaced horizontally from the first axis; and 


 steering structure connected between the junction box and the tongue for causing the junction box to swing responsively about said second axis with the tongue when the latter is pivoted about said first axis between its various angular positions.
2. In a pull-type crop harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 1, said output shaft being disposed for rotation about said second axis.
3. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 2, said output shaft projecting downwardly from the junction box.
4. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 3, said output shaft having sheave means fixed thereto for rotation therewith, said sheave means being entrained by belt means which are operably coupled with the operating components.
5. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 4, said operating components including cutter means for severing the crop from the ground.
6. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 5, said cutter means comprising a horizontal series of rotary cutters. 


 7. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 5, said operating components further including condi¬ tioner apparatus for conditioning the crop severed from the ground by said cutter means.
8. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 1, said mechanical drive line including a telescoping section supported at opposite fore-and-aft ends thereof by the tongue and the input shaft of the junction box respectively.
9. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 8, said telescoping section having a universal joint coupling at each of said opposite fore-and-aft ends.
10. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 9, said steering structure including telescoping linkage having a front pivotal connection with the tongue at a point which is at least approx- imately equidistant from said opposite ends of the telescopic section.
11. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 10, said telescoping linkage having a rear connection with the junction box tht includes horizontal pivot means for up-and-down swinging of the linkage relative to the junction box, said front connection of the linkage including a universal pivot. 


 12. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 11, said output shaft projecting downwardly from the junction box in coaxial relationship with said second pivot axis, said output shaft having sheave means fixed thereto for rotation therewith, said sheave means being entrained by belt means which are operably coupled with the operating components.
13. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 12, said operating components including cutter means for severing the crop from the ground.
14. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 13, said cutter means comprising a horizontal series of rotary cutters.
15. In a pull-type harvesting machine as claimed in Claim 13, said operating components further including condi- tioner apparatus for conditioning the crop severed from the ground by said cutter means. 

16. In a rotary mowing machine having a horizontal series of rotary cutter units supported for rotation about individual upright axes and disposed to deliver cut crop to a discharge opening behind the units, the opposite end units in the series having knives which move laterally inwardly and rearwardly along the inboard extremities of the end units with respect to the path of travel of the machine, the improvement comprising: at least one of said end units having an impeller plate rotatable therewith in a plane slightly above the plane of the knives for assisting in delivering cut crop to the discharge opening.
17. In a rotary mowing machine as claimed in Claim 16, both of said end units having an impeller plate.
18. In a rotary mowing machine as claimed in Claim 16, each of said cutter units including an elongated, generally flat carrier having a pair of said knives located at opposite, longitudinal ends thereof, each adjacent pair of cutter units in the series being approximately 90° out of phase with one another so that the longitudinal axis of one carrier is projecting fore-and-aft while the longitudinal axis of the next adjacent carrier is projecting side-to-side, said impeller plate on said one end unit being elongated and oriented such that its longitudi¬ nal axis extends at right angles to the longi¬ tudinal axis of the carrier with which it is associated. 


 19. In a rotary mowing machine as claimed in Claim 18, said impeller plate being configured to present a pair of diametrically oppositely extending longitudinal lobes, each of said lobes being asymmetrical with respect to said longitudinal axis of the plate and presenting an outermost tip that is in a retarded position with respect to said axis, each lobe having a straight trailing edge that leads outwardly to the tip in parallel relation with the longitudinal axis of the plate and a curved leading edge that leads arcuately outwardly to the tip about an axis of curvature spaced laterally from said longitudinal axis on the trailing side thereof.
20. In a rotary mowing machine as claimed in Claim 19, said impeller plate having overall length and width dimensions corresponding at least generally with the carriers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
