<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615254</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reactor pressure vessel vented head.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21C900	G21C900	G21C1300	G21C1300	G21C1306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	G21C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21C9	G21C9	G21C13	G21C13	G21C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A head (28) for closing a nuclear reactor 
pressure vessel shell (24) includes an arcuate dome 

having an integral head flange (38) which includes 
a mating surface (44) for sealingly mating with the 

shell upon assembly therewith. The head flange (38) 
includes an internal passage (52) extending 

therethrough with a first port (52a) being 
disposed on the head mating surface (44). A vent line (30) 

includes a proximal end (30a) disposed in flow 
communication with the head internal passage (52), 

and a distal end (30b) disposed in flow communication 
with the inside of the dome for channeling 

a fluid therethrough. The vent line (30) is fixedly 
joined to the dome and is carried therewith 

when the head (28) is assembled to and disassembled from the shell (24). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAWABE JAMES KEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAWABE, JAMES KEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to boiling water nuclear reactors. and, more 
specifically, to a removable reactor pressure vessel head. A boiling water nuclear reactor (BWR) includes a pressure vessel containing a 
nuclear reactor core and water which is boiled thereby for generating steam for producing 
power such as by driving a turbine-generator for producing electrical power. The pressure 
vessel typically includes a cylindrical shell having a removable head at the top, and an 
integral head at the bottom thereof. The top head typically includes an arcuate dome 
having an integral mounting flange which mates with a complementary supporting flange 
on the shell. A plurality of circumferentially spaced apart bolts extend through the head 
flange into the shell supporting flange for bolting the upper head to the shell to form a 
pressure vessel capable of withstanding the relatively high pressures generated within the 
pressure vessel during operation of the reactor core. The upper head typically includes an integral nozzle at the top center thereof which 
is conventionally joined to a vent line, or a spray line, or both. The vent line communicates 
with the head nozzle for releasing or venting non-condensable gases such as nitrogen before 
startup of the reactor core, for example. And, the spray line communicates with the nozzle 
for injecting or spraying water therein for cooling purposes, for example. In both 
configurations, the vent and spray lines must be disconnected from the upper head prior to 
removing the upper head from the shell during a maintenance operation. This increases the 
complexity and time for accomplishing routine maintenance and increases the duration of 
radiation exposure to maintenance personnel.  A head for closing a nuclear reactor pressure vessel shell includes an arcuate dome 
having an integral head flange which includes a mating surface for sealingly mating with the 
shell upon assembly therewith. The head flange includes an internal passage extending 
therethrough with a first port being disposed on the head mating surface. A vent line 
includes a proximal end disposed in flow communication with the head internal passage, 
and a distal end disposed in flow communication with the inside of the dome for channeling 
a fluid therethrough. The vent line is fixedly joined to the dome and is carried therewith 
when the head is assembled to and disassembled from the shell. The invention, in accordance with preferred and exemplary embodiments, together 
with further
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A head for closing a nuclear reactor pressure vessel shell comprising: 
   an arcuate dome having a convex outer surface and a concave inner surface, and 

including an integral annular head flange extending around a perimeter thereof, said head 
flange having an annular head mating surface for sealingly mating with said shell upon 

assembly therewith and a head internal passage extending through said head flange with 
a first port on said head mating surface; and 

   a vent line having a proximal end disposed in flow communication with said head 
internal passage, and a distal end disposed in flow communication with an inside of said 

dome for channeling a fluid therebetween, said vent line being fixedly joined to said dome 
and carried therewith when said head is assembled and disassembled from said shell. 
A head according to claim 1 wherein said vent line is disposed externally of said 
dome and extends along said dome outer surface. 
A head according to claim 2 wherein: 
   said head flange further includes a top surface spaced above said head mounting 

surface, and said head internal passage includes a second port thereon; 
   said dome includes a nozzle extending therethrough from said outer surface to said 

inner surface; and 
   said vent line extends between said top surface 
and said nozzle, with said proximal 
end being disposed in flow communication with said second port at said top surface, and 

said distal end being disposed in flow communication with said dome nozzle. 
A head according to claim 3 in combination with said shell to define a pressure 
vessel, said shell further comprising: 

   an integral annular shell flange extending around a perimeter thereof, said shell 
flange having an annular shell mating surface sealingly mating with said head mating 

surface, a shell outer surface disposed perpendicularly to said shell mating surface, and a 
shell internal passage extending through said shell flange with a shell first port on said shell 

mating surface disposed in flow communication with said head first port, and a shell second 
port disposed on said shell outer surface. 
A pressure vessel according to claim 4 further including an annular vent seal 
disposed between said head and shell mating surfaces around said respective first ports 

thereof for restricting leakage of said fluid from said vent line and between said head and 
 

shell flanges. 
A pressure vessel according to claim 5 further including at least one annular head 
seal disposed between said head and shell mating surfaces and spaced radially outwardly 

from said vent seal. 
A head according to claim 1 wherein said vent line is disposed internally of said 
dome and extends along said dome inner surface. 
A head according to claim 7 wherein: 
   said head flange further includes an inside surface facing radially inwardly above 

said head mating surface, and said head internal passage includes a second port thereon; 
and 

   said vent line extends from said flange inside surface along said dome inner surface, 
with said proximal end being disposed in flow communication with said head second port 

at said flange inside surface, and said distal end being open inside said dome in flow 
communication therewith. 
A head according to claim 8 in combination with said shell to define a pressure 
vessel, said shell further comprising: 

   an integral annular shell flange extending around a perimeter thereof, said shell 
flange having an annular shell mating surface sealingly mating with said head mating 

surface, a shell outer surface disposed perpendicularly to said shell mating surface, and a 
shell internal passage extending through said shell flange with a shell first port on said shell 

mating surface disposed in flow communication with said head first port, and a shell second 
port disposed on said shell outer surface. 
A pressure vessel according to claim 9 further including an annular vent seal 
disposed between said head and shell mating surfaces around said respective first ports 

thereof for restricting leakage of said fluid from said vent line and between said head and 
shell flanges. 
A pressure vessel according to claim 10 further including at least one annular head 
seal disposed between said head and shell mating surfaces and spaced radially outwardly 

from said vent seal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
