<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623744</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Slant plate type compressor with variable displacement mechanism
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04B2714	F04B2708	F04B2710	F04B2710	F04B2714	F04B2708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04B27	F04B27	F04B27	F04B27	F04B27	F04B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A slant plate type compressor with a variable displacement mechanism is 
disclosed. The compressor includes a compressor housing having a cylinder block 

provided with a plurality of cylinders and a crank chamber. A piston is slidably fitted 
within each of the cylinders and is reciprocated by a drive mechanism. The drive 

mechanism includes a drive shaft rotatably supported by the compressor housing, a cam 
rotor fixed on the drive shaft, and a slant plate having a surface with an adjustable 

incline angle. The incline angle is varied in accordance with the pressure in the crank 
chamber. A wobble plate is disposed adjacent the slant plate to convert the rotating 

motion of the drive shaft, the rotor, and the slant plate into the reciprocating motion of 
the pistons which are coupled to the wobble plate through corresponding connecting 

rods. A hinged joint mechanism hingedly connects an arm portion of the slant plate to 
an arm portion of the rotor to permit variations in the incline angle of the slant plate. 

An abrasion preventing mechanism formed of a metal is disposed between the arm 
portion of the cam rotor and the arm portion of the slant plate to effectively reduce 

abnormal abrasion on the frictional surface of the arm portion of the rotor. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANDEN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AZAMI HITOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMIZU HIDEHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAI KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AZAMI, HITOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHIMIZU, HIDEHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAI, KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to refrigerant compressors 
and, more particularly to a slant plate-type compressor 
as defined in the first part of claim 1. Such a compressor is 
suitable for use in an automotive air conditioning system and 
disclosed in EP-A-0 318 976 on which the preamble of claim 1 is based. Moreover, a slant plate-type compressor 
with an abrasion preventing member of steel disposed 
between an arm portion of the cam rotor and an arm portion of the 
slant plate is disclosed in EP-A-0 547 812 published after the 
priority date of the present application. A slant plate-type refrigerant compressor with a variable 
displacement mechanism suitable for use in an automotive air 
conditioning system is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,963,074 to 
Sanuki et al. As disclosed therein, the compression ratio of the 
compressor may be controlled by changing the slant angle of the 
sloping surface of the wobble plate. The slant angle of the 
wobble plate is adjusted, so as to maintian a constant suction 
pressure in response to a change in the pressure differential 
between the suction chamber and the crank chamber. Referring to Fig. 1, compressor 10 comprises cylinder housing 
assembly 20 having cylinder block 21, front end plate 23 disposed 
at one end of cylinder block 21, crank chamber 22 formed between 
cylinder block 21 and front end plate 23, and rear end plate 24 
attached to the other end of cylinder block 21. Front end plate 
23 is secured to one end of cylinder block 21 by a plurality of 
bolts 101. Rear end plate 24 is secured to the other end of 
cylinder block 21 by a plurality of bolts 102. Valve plate 25 is 
disposed between rear end plate 24 and cylinder block 21. Opening 
231 is centrally formed in front end plate 23 for rotatably supporting 
drive shaft 26 through bearing 30 disposed therein. The 
rear end portion of drive shaft 26 is rotatably supported by 
bearing 31 disposed within central bore 210 of cylinder block 21. 
Bore 210 extends to a rearward (to the right in Fig. 1) end surface 
of cylinder block 21 and houses valve control mechanism 19.  
 Cam rotor 40 is fixed on drive shaft 26 by pin member 261 and rotates therewith. 
Thrust needle bearing 32 is disposed between the rear end surface of front end plate 23 
and the adjacent axial end surface of cam rotor 40. Slant plate 50 is disposed adjacent 
cam rotor 40 and has opening 53 through which drive shaft 26 passes. Referring to Figs. 2 and 3, a hinged joint mechanism, which couples cam rotor 
40 and slant plate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A slant plate compressor comprising: 

a compressor housing having a cylinder block (21) including a 
plurality of cylinders (70), a crank chamber (22) adjacent to said 

cylinder block on one side thereof and a suction chamber (241) on the other side thereof; 
a drive shaft (26) rotatably supported in said compressor housing; 

a cam rotor (40) fixed on said drive shaft and connected to a slant 
plate (50) by means of a hinged joint mechanism for varying the 

inclination of said slant plate with respect to said drive 
shaft, said hinged joint mechanism comprising: 


a first arm portion (41) extending from said cam rotor; 
a second arm portion (51) extending from said slant plate, 
said second arm portion including an elongated slot (52,62,72) through 

which passes a pin member 42 fixedly connected to said first arm 
portion; 
a wobble plate (60) adjacent to said slant plate for converting 
rotational motion of said slant plate into nutating motion of 

said wobble plate; 
a plurality of pistons (71) coupled to said wobble plate, each 
piston reciprocally fitted within one of said cylinders, 

whereby a stroke volume is changed in accordance with the 
varying inclination of said slant plate; 
a passageway (210,195) formed in said housing and placing said crank 
chamber and said suction chamber in fluid communication; and  

 
capacity control means (193) coupled to said passageway for ad
justing 
a capacity of said compressor by varying the inclination 

of said slant plate, characterized in that 
an abrasion reducing means (45,46,47,48) is loosely mounted about said pin 

member and loosely received in said elongated slot for 
reducing abrasion of contact surfaces between said cam rotor 

and said slant plate, said abrasion reducing means including 
at least one surface portion slidably contacting a surface (53,63,73) of 

said elongated slot. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 1, wherein said 
elongated slot includes a radial inner wall, said pin member 

sliding within said radial inner wall, said elongated slot 
further comprising a radial section having a first long wall 

portion (53a) on a side of said elongated slot nearest said cylinders, 
a second long wall portion (53b) opposite said first long wall 

portion, and a pair of short wall portions (53c, 53d) linking said first 
long wall portion and said second long wall portion, said 

first long wall portion and said second long wall portion each 
having a radius of curvature and being concentric with each 

other, so as to non-linearly increase a capacity of said 
compressor from minimum to maximum, the center of said radius 

of curvature for both said first long wall portion and said 
second long wall portion being on said cylinder side; and 

wherein said abrasion reducing means includes at least one 
surface portion 45c,46c,46d formed on a peripheral surface thereof, said 

at least one surface portion slidably contacting a surface of 
said radial inner wall. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 1, wherein said 
elongated slot includes a radial inner wall, through which 

said pin member slides, said elongated slot further comprising 
a radial section having a first long wall portion (63a) on a side of 

said elongated slot nearest said cylinders, a second long wall 
portion (63b), on a side opposite said first long wall portion, and 

a pair of short wall portions (63c,63d) linking said first long wall 
portion and said second long wall portion, said first long 

wall portion and said second long wall portion each having a 
radius of curvature and being concentric with each other, so 

as to non-linearly increase a capacity of said compressor from 
minimum to maximum, each of said radii of curvature of said 

first long wall portion and second long wall portion having a 
center of curvature opposite said cylinder side; and 

wherein said abrasion reducing means includes at least one 
surface portion (47c) formed on a peripheral surface thereof, said  

 
surface portion slidably contacting a surface of said radial 

inner wall of said elongated slot. 
The slant plate-type compressor of one of claims 1 to 3, 
wherein said at least one surface portion of said abrasion 

reducing means includes a radial section (45c,46c,47c) which is formed as a 
curved line having a single radius of curvature being 

preferably about equal to or less than said radius of 
curvature of said first long wall portion. 
The slant plate-type compressor of one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said abrasion reducing means is an annular cylindrical 

member. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 5 if dependent on 
claim 2, wherein said at least one surface portion of said 

cylindrical member includes a radial section which is a curved 
line having a single radius of curvature being preferably 

about equal to or greater than said radius of curvature of 
said first long wall portion. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 5 if dependent on 
claim 3, wherein said at least one surface portion of said 

cylindrical member includes a radial section (47c) which is a curved 
line having a single radius of curvature being preferably 

about equal to or less than said radius of curvature of said 
first long wall portion. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 5, wherein said at 
least one surface portion of said cylindrical member comprises 

a pair of surface (46c,46d) portions formed on opposite sides of said 
cylindrical member. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 8 if dependent on 
claim 3, wherein each of said pair of surface portions 

includes a radial section which is a curved line having a 
single radius of curvature, such that said single radii are 

about equal to or less than said radii of curvature of said  
 

first long wall portion and said second long wall portion, 
respectively. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 8 if dependent on 
claim 2, wherein each of said pair of surface portions 

includes a radial section which is a curved line having a 
single radius of curvature, such that each of said single 

radii is about equal to or greater than each of said radii of 
curvature of said first long wall portion, and said second 

long wall portion, respectively. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 1, wherein said 
elongated slot includes a radial inner wall, said pin member 

sliding through said radial inner wall, said elongated slot 
further comprising a radial section having a pair of straight 

lines (73a,73b) on opposite sides and a pair of wall portions (73c,73d) linking 
said pair of straight lines, so as to linearly increase a 

capacity of said compressor from minimum to maximum; and 
wherein said abrasion reducing means includes at least one 

surface portion (48c) formed on a peripheral surface thereof, said 
at least one surface portion slidably contacting a surface of 

said radial inner wall. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 11, wherein said at 
least one surface portion of said abrasion reducing means is a 

pair of surface portions formed opposite each other on a 
peripheral surface of said abrasion reducing means. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 11 or 12, wherein 
said at least one surface portion or said pair of surface 

portions of said abrasion reducing means include(s) radial 
sections which is a straight line/are straight lines. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 11, wherein said 
abrasion reducing means is an annular cylindrical member.  

 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 14, wherein said at 
least one surface portion of said cylindrical member is a pair 

of surface portions formed opposite each other on a peripheral 
surface of said cylindrical member. 
The slant plate-type compressor of claim 14 or 15, wherein 
said at least one surface portion or said pair of surface 

portions of said cylindrical member include(s) radial sections 
which is a straight line/are straight lines. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
