<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613404</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A SPRAY HEAD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B114	B05B114	B05B130	B05B130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B1	B05B1	B05B1	B05B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spray head (1) comprising a tubular body (2) with an inlet (4) and an outlet (8). A collar (3) is located at the inlet (4). A cap (7) fits over the outlet (8) and has an end (9) with a number of spray forming nozzles (11) positioned in front of the outlet (8). The body (2) has a protrusion (16) having a button (17) located on its free end (18). The protrusion (16) is resiliently movable in a radial direction relative to the tubular body (2). The cap (7) has a partial helical slot (20) into which the button (17) is receivable. The engagement of the button (17) and slot (20) converts rotational movement of the cap (7) into longitudinal movement thereof, which adjusts the position of the nozzles (11) relative to the outlet (8). The cap (7) is releasable from the tubular body (2) by radial depression of the button (17) and disengagement thereof from the slot (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXELL TRADING PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EXELL TRADING PTY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD NOEL SYDNEY DAVIDSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOOD, NOEL, SYDNEY, DAVIDSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A SPRAY HEADThe present invention relates to spray heads having nozzles, and in particular, to a spray head which is used for a horticultural sprayer.BACKGROUND ARTThere are many known types of spray heads which can be used for horticultural sprays and the like. Different types of nozzles provide a different type of spray emanating therefrom. Most nozzles provide a spray having the shape of a cone whereby the water or liquid being sprayed forms the outside surface of the cone only. Most nozzles are adjustable to provide for finer or coarse droplets of spray as required. Even though such described nozzles are used widely, one major disadvantage is that the spray only forms the outside periphery of a cone. Therefore when spraying the water or liquid, centre target area, is left almost dry.One known type of spray head as described in EPA353984 by Yap Yoen Cheng, provides a spray which has an even distribution of droplets throughout the middle of the cone. This particular nozzle of this spray head uses an outer disc having a plurality of nozzle holes in order to produce the even type spray.Three disadvantages of this spray head are that it is complicated to manufacture, difficult to adjust the cone angle of the spray without wetting the fingers and the nozzle disc must be rotated numerous times to effect adjustment of the spray cone angle.OBJECT OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide an improved spray head which substantially overcomes or ameliorates the above mentioned disadvantages.DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTIONAccording to one aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a spray head comprising a tubular body having an inlet and an outlet, a cap rotatably and slidably mounted on said body, covering said outlet and having at least one spray forming nozzle therein, and a protrusion fixed on said tubular body and resiliently movable in a radial direction relative to said tubular body, said cap having a partial helical slot therein into which said protrusion is receivable, engagement of said protrusion and slot converting rotational movement of said cap into longitudinal movement thereof to adjust the position of said spray forming nozzle(s) relative to said outlet, and said cap being releasable from said tubular body by radial depression of said protrusion and disengagement thereof from said slot. 

 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSTwo embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the drawings in whichFig. 1 is a side view of the spray head of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 1. A spray head comprising a tubular body having an inlet and an outlet, a cap rotatably and slidably mounted on said body, covering said outlet and having at least one spray forming nozzle therein, and a protrusion fixed on said tubular body and resiliently movable in a radial direction relative to said tubular body, said cap having a partial helical slot therein into which said protrusion is receivable, engagement of said protrusion and slot converting rotational movement of said cap into longitudinal movement thereof to adjust the position of said spray forming nozzle(s) relative to said outlet, and said cap being releasable from said tubular body by radial depression of said protrusion and disengagement thereof from said slot.
2. A spray head according to claim 1 wherein each said nozzle opens into a first corresponding substantially circular depression on outside surface of said cap.
3. A spray head according to claim 2 wherein a second corresponding circular depression is located on inside surface of said cap opposite said outlet, each said nozzle being connected to the second corresponding circular depression by a corresponding groove.
4. A spray head according to claim 3 wherein said cap has at its said outside surface an annular rim.
5. A spray head according to claim 4 wherein said cap has four nozzles.
6. A spray head according to claim 1 wherein said protrusion extends from a flange at the outlet end of said tubul r body in a cantilevered way towards to inlet end of said tubular body.
7- A spray head according to cl im 6 wherein said protrusion has a button located at the free end of said protrusion, said button protruding outwardly in a radial direction and being portion of said protrusion receivable in said slot.
8. A spray head according to claim 1 wherein said tubular body has at least one annular rib at its end nearest said inlet, said annular rib(s) supporting said cap.
9. A spray head substantially as described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
10. A multiple head spray head including at least two spray heads as claimed in claim 1. 


 [received by the International Bureau on 26 March 1993 (26.03.93); new claims 11-20 added; other claims unchanged (1 page)]
11. A spray head comprising a tubular body having an inlet and an outlet, and a cap rotatably and slidably mounted on said body covering said body and having at least one spray forming nozzle therein, wherein said outlet has an end flange with an O-ring means located around the periphery of said flange, and said O-ring means co-operates with said cap to provide a seal as the cap is rotatably and slidably moved.
12. A spray head according to claim 11 wherein, said cap has a partial helical slot therein into which a protrusion is receivable, engagement of said protrusion and slot converting rotational movement of said cap into longitudinal movement thereof to adjust the position of said spray forming nozzle(s) relative to said outlet, and said cap being releasable from said tubular body by radial depression of said protrusion and disengagement thereof from said slot.
13. A spray head according to claims 11 or 12 wherein each said nozzle opens into a first corresponding substantially circular depression on an outside surface of said cap.
14. A spray head according to claim 13 wherein a second corresponding circular depression is located on an inside surface of said cap opposite said outlet, each said nozzle being connected to the second corresponding circular depression by a corresponding aperture.
15. A spray head according to claim 14 wherein said outside surface of said cap comprises a substantially circular end surrounded by an annular rim.
16. A spray head according to claim 15 wherein said cap has four nozzles.
17. A spray head according to claim 12 wherein said protrusion comprises the free end of a cantilever which extends from said flange at the outlet end of said tubular body towards the inlet end of said tubular body.
18. A spray head according to claim 17 wherein said free end comprises a button located at said free end, said button projecting outwardly in a radial direction and being received in said slot.
19. A spray head according to claim 12 wherein said tubular body has at least one annular rib at its end nearest said inlet, said annular rib(s) supporting said cap.
20. A spray head according to claim 11 wherein said cap has a shoulder and a main sleeve portion, said shoulder co-operating with said O-ring. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
