<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645575</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pipe fitting.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L4108	F16L4108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L41	F16L41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pipe fitting for installation in a pre-drilled hole (9) in a pipe 
(2) comprises a tubular body (13) which has an outwardly flared bottom 

end (14). A radially outwardly extending annular flange (15) is 
provided at the widest edge of the flared end (14). A deformable 

tubular collar (16), formed preferably from a plastics material such as 
polyethylene, is disposed around a central cylindrical portion of the 

tubular body (13) and is slidable with respect thereto. The collar (16) 
defines an outwardly extending flange (17) at its end nearest the 

flared end (14) of the tubular member (13). The collar (16) and the 
flared end (14) of the tubular member (13) are dimensioned such that 

the collar (16) is radially expanded when it is slid onto the flared end 
(14) and assumes a diameter which is a close fit in the hole (9) in the 

pipe (2). For installation, the fitting is first pushed through the 
hole (9) so that the flared end (14) of the tubular member (13) and a 

substantial portion of the collar (16) are received within the pipe (2). 
The collar (16) is then forced over the flared end of the tubular 

member (13) to expand it. The fitting is then pulled up through the 
hole (2) until the collar flange (17) is pressed tightly against the 

inner wall of the pipe (2) by the flange (15). This forms a good 
pressure seal between the pipe (2) and the fitting on the internal 

surface of the pipe (2). The fitting is particular suited for use with 
internally lined pipes in which it is essential that the seal covers the 

cut edge of the lining around the rim of the hole. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WASK RMF LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WASK-RMF LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REDMAN GORDON PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH TREVOR REGINALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REDMAN, GORDON PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, TREVOR REGINALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a pipe fitting for installation into a 
pre-drilled hole in a wall of a fluid container. Particularly, but not 
exclusively, the invention relates to a pipe fitting intended for use 
with lined containers, for instance lined pipes. The invention also 
provides a method and apparatus for the installation of the pipe 
fitting. A requirement often arises in pipeline networks to provide a 
service line connection to a main pipe, or to replace a faulty fitting 
already in place. In both cases the fitting is inserted into a hole 
drilled in the pipe wall and some form of sealing means must be 
employed to ensure a tight seal between the pipe fitting and the pipe. 
For example, the hole in the pipe wall could simply be tapped and the 
fitting screwed into the pipe, or alternatively some form of sealing 
gasket could be located between the fitting and the rim of the hole. Such an arrangement is described in British Patent No. 956,591 
which discloses a branch pipe fitting which is screwed into a tapped 
hole in a pipe wall. Sealing is provided by a resilient sealing gasket 
which fits around the branch pipe where it emerges from the main 
pipe, and bears against the external surface of the main pipe around 
the edge of the hole. A pressure collar and locking nut are provided 
to compress the sealing gasket around the connection of the main pipe 
and branch pipe to create a good gas tight seal. British Patent No. 1574038 describes a tubular pipe fitting which 
is inserted into an unthreaded hole drilled in a pipe wall. An 
elastomeric deformable packing sleeve is positioned between the rim 
of the hole in the pipe wall and the tubular fitting. The end of the 
sleeve which extends from the external surface of the pipe wall has 
a radially extending annular flange. Means are provided to deform the 
sleeve in the region of the flange to provide a tight seal between the 
rim of the hole and the tubular fitting. British Patent Application No. 2051991A discloses an alternative 
arrangement for sealing a tubular pipe fitting within an unthreaded 
hole in a pipe wall. In this arrangement a flexible sleeve member is 
disposed between the rim of the hole and the pipe fitting, the sleeve  
 
being initially a loose fit within the hole. The pipe fitting has a 
flared end which is then drawn up into the sleeve causing it to 
expand and form a tight seal with the wall of the hole in the pipe. Each of the above three described arrangements works 
satisfactorily when used in conjunction with pipes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A pipe fitting for installation in an aperture defined by a wall, 
the pipe fitting comprising a substantially tubular body defining an 

outwardly flared end portion insertable through the aperture, and a 
deformable collar slidably disposed around the tubular member, the 

flared end portion and the collar being dimensioned so that the collar 
may be outwardly expanded by sliding it onto the flared end portion, 

the collar in its unexpanded state being insertable through the 
aperture and in its expanded state having a maximum diameter greater 

than the diameter of the aperture. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 1, wherein the collar comprises 
a generally tubular section which supports an outwardly extending 

flange at an end thereof adjacent the flared end portion of the 
tubular member. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 2, wherein when the collar is 
in its free state it defines a tapered body section which narrows 

towards the flanged end. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 3, wherein the angle of taper 
of the flared end of the tubular body is substantially the same as 

the angle of taper of the body section of the collar such that when 
the collar is expanded on the flared end the outside surface of the 

body section is substantially cylindrical. 
A pipe fitting according to any preceding claim, wherein the 
length of the flared portion of the tubular body and the length of 

the collar are substantially equal. 
A pipe fitting according to any preceding claim, wherein the 

tubular body defines a radially outwardly extending annular flange 
adjacent the widest part of the flared end. 
A pipe fitting according to any preceding claim, wherein the 
collar is formed from a plastics material. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 7, wherein the collar is formed 
from polyethylene. 
A pipe fitting according to any one of claims 2 to 8, wherein an 
elastomeric sealing member is disposed around the collar adjacent the 

flange of said collar. 
A pipe fitting according to any preceding claim, wherein the 
tubular body defines an aperture in the wall thereof near to its end 

remote from the flared end. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 10, wherein the end of the 
tubular body remote from said flared end is sealed by a plug in screw 

threaded engagement with an internal surface of the tubular body. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 11, wherein said plug is 
moveable between a first position in which it seals the said aperture 

and the end of the tubular body and a second position in which the 
said aperture is in fluid communication with the aperture in the wall. 
A pipe fitting according to any preceding claim, comprising 
means for forcing the collar onto the flared end of the tubular body. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 13, wherein said forcing means 
comprises a nut in screw threaded engagement with the tubular body 

between the collar and the end of the tubular member remote from the 
flared end. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 14, wherein said forcing means 
further comprises a tubular sleeve disposed around the tubular 

member between the collar and the nut and moveable with respect to 
the tubular body. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 15, wherein said sleeve defines 
a flange at the end thereof nearest the nut. 
A pipe fitting according to any preceding claim, comprising 
means for supporting the tubular body within the aperture defined 

in the wall with the collar bearing against an inner surface of the 
wall around the periphery of the aperture. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 17, wherein the means for 
supporting the tubular body comprises a substantially cup shaped 

member defining an annular rim intended to abut against an outer 
surface of the wall around said aperture. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 18, wherein the supporting 
means is in loose engagement with the tubular sleeve. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 19, further comprising a nut 
in screw threaded engagement with the tubular sleeve disposed 

between the supporting means and the end of the sleeve remote from 
the collar. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 6 or any claim dependant upon 
claim 6, wherein a deformable washer is slidably disposed around the 

tubular member between the collar and the outwardly extending 
annular flange of the tubular body, the deformable washer being 

slidable along the tubular body onto the flared end portion as the 
collar is slid onto the flared end portion, and the deformable washer 

being dimensioned such that it is outwardly expanded as it is slid 
onto the flared end portion to a maximum diameter greater than the 

maximum diameter of the annular flange of the tubular body. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 21, wherein the washer is 
circumferentially corrugated when in its unexpanded state and is 

substantially planar when in its expanded state. 
A pipe fitting according to claim 21, wherein the washer is split 
so as to define two circumferential ends, the two ends overlapping 

when the washer is in its unexpanded state. 
Apparatus for installing a pipe fitting according to any 
preceding claim in an aperture in a container wall, comprising means 

for pushing said fitting through the aperture with the collar 
supported on the central portion of the tubular body such that the 

flared end of the tubular body and at least a portion of the collar are 
received within the interior of the container, means for forcing the 

collar onto the flared end of the tubular body to expand the collar, 
and means for partially drawing the fitting back through the aperture 

such that at least a portion of the collar is pressed against the inner 
wall of the container around the aperture. 
Apparatus according to claim 24 for installing a pipe fitting, the 
pipe fitting including a collar which comprises a body section which 

supports an outwardly extending flange at an end thereof adjacent the 
flared end portion of the tubular member, wherein said means for 

partially drawing the fitting back through the aperture draws the 
fitting back through the aperture such that a portion of the body 

section of the collar is received within the aperture and the collar 
flange is pressed against the inner wall of the container. 
Apparatus according to claim 24 or 25, comprising a housing 
mounted on the container around the location of the aperture. 
Apparatus according to claim 26, wherein the said means for 
pushing the pipe fitting through the aperture in the container wall 

comprises a first elongate member supported by the housing so that 
its longitudinal axis extends substantially perpendicularly to the 

container wall concentric with the aperture, the first elongate member 
being moveable along its longitudinal axis. 
Apparatus according to claim 27, wherein the first elongate 
member defines a screw threaded spigot extending axially from one end 

thereof, said spigot being adapted to be received in an internally 
screw threaded socket defined by the pipe fitting. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 25 to 28, wherein said 
means for forcing the collar onto the flared end of the tubular body 

 
comprises a drive member which acts upon the end of the collar 

remote from the flared end, and means for urging said drive member 
and the flared end together in a direction parallel to the axis of the 

tubular body and collar. 
Apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the said drive member 
comprises a tubular sleeve disposed around the tubular member of the 

pipe fitting. 
Apparatus according to claim 29 or 30, wherein said means for 
urging the drive member and the flared end axially together comprises 

a first hollow generally cylindrical member supported within the 
housing and disposed coaxially with the axis of said first elongate 

member and the tubular body and in abutment with the drive member, 
and means to prevent axial movement of the drive member whilst the 

tubular body is moved along its axis by means of the first elongate 
member. 
Apparatus according to claim 31, wherein said means to prevent 
axial movement of the drive member comprises a second hollow 

elongate member supported within the housing and coaxially disposed 
around the first elongate member and in abutment with the said first 

cylindrical member, and means for preventing axial movement of the 
hollow elongate member relative to the housing. 
Apparatus according to claim 32, wherein the first cylindrical 
member and the second hollow elongate member are defined by two 

portions of a single member. 
Apparatus according to either of claims 32 or 33, wherein a 
portion of the external surface of the first elongate member is screw 

threaded, and a first nut is in screw threaded engagement with said 
portion and bears against the top edge of the second hollow elongate 

member, whereby rotation of said first nut causes relative axial 
movement between the first elongate member and the second hollow 

elongate member. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 24 to 34, wherein said 
means for partially drawing said fitting up through the aperture 

comprises a third hollow elongate member supported by the housing 
and disposed coaxially around the second hollow elongate member, a 

second hollow cylindrical member disposed around the tubular body, 
the drive member and the aperture, one end of said second cylindrical 

member bearing, directly or indirectly, against the container wall and 
the other end being fixed to the third hollow elongate member, and a 

second nut in screw threaded engagement with the second hollow 
elongate member and abutting the end of the third hollow elongate 

member remote from the second cylindrical member, whereby rotation 
of said second nut with respect to both hollow elongate members 

causes the second hollow elongate member to move axially up through 
the third hollow elongate member. 
A method of installing a pipe fitting according to any one of 
claims 1 to 23 in a pre-drilled aperture in a container, comprising 

pushing the pipe fitting through the aperture so that the flared end 
of the tubular body and at least a portion of the collar are received 

within the container, forcing the collar onto the flared end of the 
tubular body so that the collar is expanded, and drawing the fitting 

back up through the aperture so that at a least a portion of the 
collar is pressed against the internal wall of the container. 
A method according to claim 36, in which the pipe fitting 
includes a collar which comprises a body section which supports an 

outwardly extending flange at an end thereof adjacent the flared end 
portion of the tubular member, wherein the fitting is drawn back up 

through the aperture so that a portion of the body section of the 
collar is received within the aperture and the collar flange is pressed 

against the internal wall of the container. 
A method as claimed in claim 36 or 37, wherein the step of 
forcing the collar onto the flared end of the tubular body comprises 

holding the collar in a fixed position relative to the container and 
drawing the tubular body up through the collar so that the flared end 

is received within the collar. 
A method according to claim 37 or claim 38, wherein on 
completion of the step of pushing the fitting through the aperture, 

the end of the collar remote from the collar flange remains within the 
hole in abutment with the rim of the hole. 
A pipe fitting substantially as hereinbefore described with 
reference to Figs. 1 to 7, 8 to 9, and 10 of the accompanying drawings. 
Apparatus for installing a pipe fitting in a pre-drilled aperture 
in a container substantially as hereinbefore described with reference 

to Figs. 1 to 7, 8 to 9, and 10 of the accompanying drawings. 
A method of installing a pipe fitting in a pre-drilled aperture 
in a container substantially as hereinbefore described with reference 

to Figs. 1 to 7, 8 to 9, and 10 of the accompanying drawings. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
