<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628215</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BIPOLAR JUNCTION TRANSISTOR EXHIBITING SUPPRESSED KIRK EFFECT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L21331	H01L2170	H01L218249	H01L2902	H01L2908	H01L2966	H01L2973	H01L29732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bipolar junction transistor (BJT) which exhibits a suppressed Kirk Effect comprises a lightly-doped n-type collector region (11) formed above a more heavily-doped n+ layer (12). Directly above the collector is a p-type base which has an extrinsic region (17) disposed laterally about an intrinsic region (18). An n+ emitter (20) is positioned directly above the intrinsic base region. The BJT also includes a localized n+ region (15) disposed directly beneath the intrinsic base region which significantly increases the current handling capabilities of the transistor.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATTHEWS JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BIPOLAR JUNCTION TRANSISTOR EXHIBITING SUPPRESSED KIRK EFFECTΠELP OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to the field of semiconductor devices; more specifically, to bipolar junction transistors and to methods for fabricating such transistors.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONSince its invention, the bipolar junction transistor (BJT) has had an enormous impact on virtual every area of modern life. Since this time, researchers have been working diligently to ever expand the limits of its performance. For example, much effort have been focused on the fabrication of high frequency transistors having extremely small device sizes. In such devices, it is important to keep the emitter, base, and collector resistances at a minimum when considering the design of a high frequency device since the effective resistance associated with each area affects the various RC charging times.Consider the doping profile of a typical prior art bipolar junction transistor as shown in Figure 1. As can be seen, the emitter doping concentration is extremely high - on the order of 1020_io21 atoms/cm2. The doping concentration in the base region typically ranges from 1017- 1018 atoms/cm2. The collector region is normally the most lightly-doped region of the bipolar junction transistor.As shown in Figure 1, the collector region usually comprises an n-type epitaxial layer which is doped to approximately 1015 atoms/cm2. It is worth noting that the collector doping profile is intentionally kept flat from the base collector junction (e.g., point A) extending down to the more heavily doped n+ buried layer region (e.g., beginning at point B). Minimizing base- collector capacitance is one of the chief reasons why the doping level in the epitaxial collector region is kept at a minimum.One of the common problems associated with the standard bipolar junction transistor is that 

the performance of the device is limited at high current densities. This limitation arises because of the so-called "Kiik Effect". The Kirk Effect ~ also frequently referred to as current-induced base push-out — occurs at very high injection levels and very high current densities. In modem B JTs having a lightly-doped epitaxial collection region, the current gain is direcdy affected by the relocation of the high-field region from point A to point B (see Figure 1) under high-current conditions. This high field phenomena (i.e., the Kiik Effect) effectively increases the base width from Wβ to (Wβ+Wc). Increasing the effective base width in this manner also
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
C AIMS
What is claimed is: 1. A bipolar junction transistor (BJT) formed in a semiconductor substrate comprising: a collector disposed in said substrate, said collector including a lightly doped region disposed above a more heavily doped layer, a base disposed above said collector region, said base comprising an extrinsic region disposed laterally about an intrinsic region; an emitter disposed above said intrinsic base region; and said BJT including a locahzed region disposed in said collector directly beneath said intrinsic base region, said localized region having a higher doping concentration than said lightly- doped collector region so as to increase the current handling capabilities of said BJT.
2. The BJT of claim 1 wherein said localized region and said intrinsic base region have doping concentrations which are on the same order level of magnitude.
3. The BJT of claim 2 wherein said localized region is confined substantially beneath said intrinsic base region, and not beneath said extrinsic region, thereby minimizing collector-base capacitance.
4. The BJT of claim 3 wherein said base region comprises boron atoms and said localized region comprises phosphorous atoms. 


 5. The BJT of claim 4 wherein said collector further comprises a heavily-doped buried layer disposed beneath said lightiy-doped region.
6. The BJT of claim 5 wherein said emitter is formed by diffusion of a dopant from a polysilicon layer into said substrate.
7. The BJT of claim 6 wherein said dopant comprises arsenic.
8. . An npn bipolar junction transistor (BJT) having increased current handling capability, said BJT being formed in a silicon substrate and comprising: an n-type emitter disposed beneath the surface of said substrate; a p-type intrinsic base region disposed beneath said emitter, a p-type extrinsic base region disposed laterally about said intrinsic base region and said emitter, an n-type collector comprising a heavily-doped, locahzed n-type region disposed substantially beneath said intrinsic base region, but not beneath said extrinsic base region, and a lightly-doped region disposed beneath said locahzed region and said extrinsic base region, said localized region suppressing current-induced increases in the effective base width.
9. The BJT of claim 8 wherein said localized region and said intrinsic base region both have doping concentrations on the same order of magnitude.
10. The BJT of claim 9 wherein said intrinsic base region comprises boron atoms and said 


localized region comprises phosphorous atoms.
11. The BJT of claim 10 wherein said collector further comprises a heavily-doped buried layer disposed beneath said lightly-doped region.
12. The BJT of claim 11 wherein said emitter is formed by diffusion of a dopant from a polysilicon layer into said substrate.
13. The BJT of claim 12 wherein said dopant comprises arsenic.
14. A method of fabricating a bipolar junction transistor (BJT) in a silicon substrate comprising the steps of: defining an active area for said BJT in a portion of said substrate having a first conductivity type, said portion comprising the collector of said BJT; forming field oxide regions on the surface of said substrate bordering said active area; implanting a dopant of said first conductivity type into a locahzed region of said active area; forming a base region of a second conductivity type opposite to that of said first conductivity type, said base having intrinsic and extrinsic regions with said intrinsic region being disposed above, and forming a pn junction with, said locahzed region; and forming an emitter of said first conductivity type above said intrinsic base region.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein said first conductivity type is n-type and said second conductivity type is p-type. 


 16. The method of claim 14 wherein first conductivity type is p-type and said second conductivity type is n-type.
17. The method of either claim 15 or 16 wherein said implanting step creates a doping concentration in said locahzed region which is substantially higher than that of said portion of said substrate.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein said implanting step creates a doping concentration in said locahzed region which is on the same order of magnitude as that of said extrinsic base region.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein said extrinsic region is disposed laterally to said intrinsic region.
20. A method of claim 19 wherein said implanting step also implants said dopant through selected areas of said field oxide regions to establish the field threshold for said BJT.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein said selected areas are disposed a predetermined distance away from said active area.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein said field oxide regions are approximately 1000 A thick. 


 23. The method of claim 14 wherein said dopant comprises phosphorous and said implanting step is performed at approximately 150KeV.
24. In a process for forming a bipolar junction transistor (BJT) and a field-effect transistor (FET) in the same sihcon substrate, said BJT having an emitter, a base, and a collector, a method of fabrication which suppresses the Kirk Effect in said BJT comprising the steps of:
(a) providing a first well region in said substrate for said FET and a second well region which comprises said collector of said BJT;
(b) patterning a masking layer formed on said substrate to define active areas for said FET and said BJT;
(c) forming field oxide regions on said substrate alongside said active areas;
(d) implanting a dopant into said active areas of said FET and said BJT, said dopant forming a punchthrough stop in said FET and a heavily-doped, localized region in said collector of said BJT; (e) forming said base of said BJT, said base having an intrinsic region disposed directly above, and forming a PN junction with said localized region, and an extrinsic region disposed laterally about said intrinsic region;
(f) forming said emitter of said BJT disposed above said intrinsic base region.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein said implanting step creates a doping concentration in said localized region which is from the same order of magnitude as that of said intrinsic base region. 


 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said implanting step also implants said dopant through selected areas of said field oxide regions to establish the field threshold for said BJT.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein said implanting step also establishes the field threshold for said FET.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein said selected areas are disposed a predetermined distance away from said active areas.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein said dopant comprises phosphorous and said implanting step is performed at approximately.
30. The method of claim 29 wherein said field oxide regions are approximately lOOOA thick. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
