<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622775</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for clock generation for a display apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G320	G09G518	G09G518	G09G536	H03L716	H03L706	H03L706	H03L718	G09G336	G09G336	G09G320	G09G536	G09G500	G09G500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G5	G09G5	G09G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a video display control, a phase locked loop (PLL) 
circuit generates a multiplied frequency signal from a 

reference signal. The stability of the PLL circuit is 
maintained even when the reference signal has different 

frequencies by providing a number of multiplication values 
corresponding to the number of different reference signal 

frequencies and switching the multiplication value when a 
change in frequency is detected to stabilize the PLL 

circuit. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to display control 
apparatus and, in particular, to display control apparatus 
which performs display control by generating a multiple 
frequency from the frequency of a reference signal. Conventionally, to generate a multiple frequency from 
the frequency of a reference signal, oscillator circuits 
controlled by a phase difference signal, i.e., PLL (phase 
locked loop) have been used. Among such oscillator circuits 
is a VCO (voltage control oscillator) type oscillator for 
generating basic clock pulses. An output signal of this 
voltage control oscillator is divided by a predetermined 
division value (a preset value), and then a reference signal 
is compared in phase with the divided frequency to effect 
locking. However, the above oscillator presents the problem that 
only one preset value can be set, so that, when the 
reference signal has different frequencies, the display  
 
control apparatus constituting the PLL does not operate in a 
normal manner. As a result, the amount of jitter increases 
or the PLL itself does not lock. See US-A-5 068 731 for a description of the prior art. It is an object of the present invention to provide a 
display control apparatus which, even when a reference 
signal has a plurality of frequencies, enables the PLL to 
operate in a stable manner due to a plurality of preset 
values being provided. The number of values corresponds to 
the number of the frequencies of the reference signal. The invention is directed to display control in which a 
dot clock signal is produced in response to a synchronous 
signal to effect control of a video signal display. The 
synchronous signal is compared with a multiplication signal 
obtained from a multiplication value and the dot clock 
signal and the dot clock signal is generated according to 
the comparison result. In accordance with the present invention, there is 
provided a display control apparatus as defined in claims 1 and 4 and a corresponding method as defined in claims 7 and 8.  
 In the above constructions, when there is a change in 
the synchronous signal, the multiplied value is altered to 
operate the PLL in a stable manner.  
 Fig. 1 is a block diagram showing an information 
processing system having a display control apparatus 
according to a first embodiment of the present invention; Fig. 2 is a block diagram showing a PLL circuit; Fig. 3 is a block diagram showing the first embodiment 
of the present invention; Fig. 4 is a timing chart according to the first 
embodiment of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display control apparatus for generating a dot 
clock signal for display a video signal in response to a 

synchronous signal, said display control apparatus 
comprising: 


comparison means for comparing a synchronizing signal 
with a multiplied signal; 
clock generation means for generating a dot clock 
signal for display according to the results obtained by said 

comparison means; 
storage means for storing a multiplier value of said 
dot clock signal for display; 
multiplied signal generation means for generating 
said multiplied signal from said multiplier value and 

said dot clock signal for display; 
detection means for detecting a change in said 
synchronizing signal; and 
alteration means for altering said multiplier value 
stored in the storage means when a change in said 

synchronizing signal is detected by said detection means. 
A display control apparatus according to Claim 1, 
wherein said synchronizing signal comprises at least one of a 

horizontal synchronizing signal and a vertical synchronizing 
signal. 
A display control apparatus according to Claim 2,  
 

wherein said detection means detects a change in said 
vertical synchronizing signal. 
A display control apparatus for generating a dot 
clock signal to display a video signal in response to a 

synchronizing signal, said display control apparatus 
comprising: 


comparison means for comparing a synchronizing signal 
with a multiplied signal; 
clock generation means for generating a dot clock 
signal for display according to results obtained by said 

comparison means; 
storage means for storing first and second multiplier 
values of said dot clock signal for display; 
multiplied signal generation means for generating 
said multiplied signal from said multiplier values and 

said dot clock signal for display; 
detection means for detecting a change in said 
synchronizing signal; and 
selection means for selecting the first or the second 
multiplier value stored in said storage means in accordance 

with a change in the synchronizing signal detected by said 
detection means. 
A display control apparatus according to Claim 4, 
wherein said synchronizing signal comprises at least one of a 

horizontal synchronizing signal and a vertical synchronizing  
 

signal. 
A display control apparatus according to Claim 5, 
wherein said detection means detects a change in said 

vertical synchronizing signal. 
A display control method for generating a dot clock 
signal in response to a synchronizing signal to control a 

video display, comprising the steps of: 

comparing the synchronizing signal with a multiplied 
signal; 
generating a dot clock signal for display responsive to 
a result of said comparison; 
storing a multiplier value of the dot clock signal; 
generating the multiplied signal from the 
multiplier value and the dot clock signal; 
detecting a change in the synchronizing signal; and 
altering the stored multiplier value in response to a 

detected change in the synchronizing signal. 
A display control method for generating a dot clock 
signal in response to a synchronizing signal to control a 

video display, comprising the steps of: 

comparing the synchronizing signal with a multiplied 
signal; 
generating a dot clock signal for display responsive to 
a result of said comparison; 
storing first and second multiplier values of the dot  
 

signal; 
generating the multiplied signal from the 
multiplier values and the dot clock signal; 
detecting a change in the synchronizing signal; and 
selecting the stored first or second multiplier value 
in response to a detected change in the synchronizing signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
