<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631115</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Loss-in-weight weighing with bulk density determination using level sensing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G1108	G01G1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	G01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G11	G01G11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved system and method for gravimetrically feeding 
material at a controlled rate. The material to be fed, which can 

be either a dry solid or a liquid, is maintained in a supply 
vessel. A probe disposed in the supply vessel detects the level 

of the material, sending a high level signal to a controller. A 
scale weighs the material in the supply vessel, sending a weight 

signal to the controller. The controller then calculates the 
density of the material in the supply vessel based on the weight 

and density of the material. The calculated density is used to 
affect the feed rate to achieve an operator-input set rate. 

During refill of the supply vessel, the probe detects material at 
a high level, sending a signal to the controller which, in turn, 

sends a signal to a refill valve, stopping refill. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACRISON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACRISON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICCIARDI RONALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICCIARDI, RONALD J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of material
feeding systems, particularly, weight-loss type feeding systems
having a periodic refill requirement.Precise metering of liquids and dry solids, such as
amorphous powders, is an important but difficult task in many
industrial applications and processes. Whenever such materials
are continuously fed into a process, the feed rate at which
material is delivered to the process must be controlled, just as
with any other material used as an ingredient or additive in a
continuous or batch process.Types of material feeding systems include volumetric feeding
systems and gravimetric feeding systems. As the name implies,
volumetric feeding systems dispense material by volume. They 
employ a displacement mechanism of some sort (for example, an
auger mounted below a supply vessel and feeding a fixed volume of
material per auger rotation) operating at a set speed. This
results in feeding a known volume of material. The weight of
material fed can generally be determined based on the material's
bulk density. Volumetric systems cannot always be relied on to
produce good results because actual conditions, such as the
density, flow and handling characteristics of the material,
change during the feeding process.Where a high degree of accuracy is required, gravimetric
feeding systems are employed. These systems monitor their own
feeding performance and automatically correct for variations from
the desired or set feed rate regardless of product
characteristics. Gravimetric systems control the feeding of
material by weight, thereby compensating for changes in density
and/or irregular product density, flow or handling
characteristics. For this reason, these systems can provide much
higher accuracy than volumetric feeding systems.For weigh feeding of materials, there are various types of
gravimetric systems used. Two typical types are weigh-belt and
loss-in-weight feeding systems. Typical weigh-belt gravimetric
feeding systems measure the weight of the material passing across
the weigh-belt during operation, that is, while the belt is
dispensing material. This measured weight is compared to an
expected or "set" weight, causing the generation of a control
signal. The control signal either increases, decreases or
maintains the speed of the motor driving the belt to achieve a 
desired feed rate. While such weigh-belt systems offer good
accuracy for many uses, material sometimes accumulates on the
belt or other critical components and thereby causes the control
system to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating a loss-in-weight feeding system for feeding material (3)
at a controllable feed rate, comprising the steps of:


1.1 filling a supply vessel (2) with material (3) to be fed;
1.2 weighing at least the material (3) in the supply vessel (2);
1.3 sensing the level of the material (3) in the supply vessel (2);
1.4 calculating the present bulk density of the material (3) based on the level of the
material (3) and the weight of the material (3);
1.5 feeding material (3) from the supply vessel (2) at a controllable feed rate based
at least in part on the present bulk density of the material (3).
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of feeding material (3) comprises rotating
an auger (15) at a rotation rate within a metering system at a controllable rotation rate

wherein the auger (15) is capable of displacing a volume of material (3).
The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of calculating the feed rate
based, at least in part, on the rotation rate.
The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of determining the weight of the
material (3) fed based on the volume of material (3) displaced and the bulk density of

the material (3).
The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of calculating the volume of
material (3) in the supply vessel (2) based on the weight of the material (3) and the

present bulk density of the material (3).
The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of displaying the volume of
material (3) in the supply vessel (2).
The method of claim 1 further comprising refilling the supply vessel (2) when a
pre-determined amount of 
material (3) remains in the supply vessel (2).
The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of stopping refill when a pre-determined 
level of material (3) is sensed.
The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of

9.1 generating a high level signal corresponding to the level of material (3);
9.2 transmitting the high level signal to a controller (12);
9.3 weighing the feeding system and generating a weight signal corresponding at
least to the weight of material (3) in the supply vessel (2);
9.4 transmitting the weight signal to a controller (12);
9.5 calculating a maximum feed rate based in part on the high level signal and the
weight signal; and
9.6 controlling the feed rate based in part on the maximum feed rate by generating
and transmitting a control signal from the controller (12) to the motor (13) so

that the motor (13) runs at a desired speed.
The method of claim 9 wherein the desired speed is determined by multiplying
the maximum speed of the motor (13) by the ratio of the selected feed rate and the

maximum feed rate.
The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of refilling the supply vessel
(2) when a pre-determined amount of material (3) remains in the supply vessel (2).
The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of

12.1 placing material (3) to be fed having a bulk density into the supply vessel (2);
12.2 releasing material (3) from the supply vessel (2) into a feeding mechanism (10);
12.3 displacing material (3) from the feeding mechanism (10) at a controllable
displacement rate;
12.4 refilling the supply vessel (2) with new material when a pre-determined amount
of material (3) remains in the supply vessel (2);
12.5 weighing at least the material (3) in the supply vessel (2) wherein the steps of
weighing and level sensing are performed on the same material (3); and
12.6 calculating the bulk density of the new material (3) in the supply vessel (2)
based at least in part on the weight of the new material (3) in the supply vessel

(2) and the level of the new material (3) in the supply vessel (2).
The method of claim 12 further comprising the steps of stopping refill when the 
material (3) reaches a pre-determined level.
Device for carrying out the method of one or more of the preceding claims,
comprising:


a) a material supply vessel (2)
b) a discharge mechanism or feeding assembly (10) at the bottom of said supply
vessel (2)
c) a refill supply source (20) positioned above the supply vessel (2)
d) a refill valve (21) disposed at a bottom outlet aperture (23) of said refill supply
source (20)
e) a weighing mechanism or scale (11) disposed adjacent to said feeding assembly
(10)
f) a high level probe (30)
g) a low level probe (40)
h) a controller (12) operatively engaged to the high level probe (30), to the low
level probe (40), to the weighing mechanism or scale (11) and to the feeding

assembly (10), the controller (12) being equipped in such a manner that it
calculates the present bulk density of the material (3) based on the level of

the material (3) and the weight of the material (3).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
