<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635035</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A HIGH PERFORMANCE EPOXY BASED LAMINATING ADHESIVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B1508	B32B1508	C08G1800	C08G1840	C08G1883	C09J16300	C09J16300	C09J17504	C09J17504	C09J17506	C09J17506	C09J20100	C09J20100	C09J20102	H05K338	H05K338	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	C08G	C08G	C08G	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	C09J	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B15	B32B15	C08G18	C08G18	C08G18	C09J163	C09J163	C09J175	C09J175	C09J175	C09J175	C09J201	C09J201	C09J201	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for producing an improved three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material comprises: (1) reacting a starting polymer containing an active hydrogen or hydroxy function with a polyfunctional nucleophile to form an adduct product; and (2) reacting the adduct product with a polyelectrophile to generate a three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material. Preferably, the starting polymer is a high molecular weight polyester, the polyfunctional nucleophile is a polyisocyanate, and the polyelectrophile is at least one polyepoxide. The present invention also encompasses processes for bonding at least two substrates by generating the adhesive material between them, as well as the adhesive material itself. The invention is particularly suitable for bonding electronic components such as printed circuit boards.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COURTAULDS PERFORMANCE FILMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COURTAULDS PERFORMANCE FILMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARDESKI THOMAS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVAK DIANE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARDESKI, THOMAS, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NOVAK, DIANE, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A HIGH PERFORMANCE EPOXY BASED LAMINATING ADHESIVECROSS-REFERENCESThis application is a continuation-in-part of Application Serial No. 07/483,266, by Thomas F. Gardeski and Diane G. Novak, filed February 15, 1990, which is, in turn, a continuation of Application Serial No. 07/153,141, by Thomas F. Gardeski and Diane G. Novak, filed February 8, 1988, and now abandoned, both of which are also entitled "A High Performance Epoxy Based Laminating Adhesive." These two applications are hereby incorporated in their entirety by this reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention is directed to three-dimensional polymeric adhesive materials and methods for producing such materials.During the past quarter century, the rapid growth of the electronic circuits industry has resulted in the development of higher performance construction materials. However, the development of high performance adhesive materials and systems to bond the construction materials together has not kept pace. This lack of higher performance adhesive materials is particularly 

felt in the assembly of electronic components for use in severe environmental conditions, such as under-the-hood automotive and military applications. Adhesive materials and systems that are currently available meet some of the requirements for such properties as peel strength, chemical resistance, moisture resistance, high temperature stability, dimensional stability, especially in the Z-axis direction, and ease of processing. However, these materials and systems typically fail to meet one or more of these requirements. Therefore, a need exists for an adhesive material that meets all of the requirements for use under severe environmental conditions while retaining ease of application.SUMMARYWe have developed a three-dimensional adhesive material and a process for preparing it that meets these needs and provides an improved adhesive for use under severe environmental conditions, particularly in the assembly of electronic components.One aspect of the present invention is a process for producing a three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material. The process comprises:(1) reacting a starting polymer containing an active hydrogen or hydroxy function with a polyfunctional nucleophile to form an adduct product; and 

 (2) reacting the adduct product with a polyelectrophile to generate a three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material.The starting polymer can contain an active hydrogen and have a maximum acid value of 2. Such a starting polymer can be selected from the group
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A process for producing a three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material comprising:
(a) reacting a starting polymer containing an active hydrogen or hydroxy function with a polyfunctional nucleophile to form an adduct product; and
(b) reacting the adduct product with a polyelectrophile to generate a three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material.
2. The process of claim 1 wherein the starting polymer contains an active hydrogen and has a maximum acid value of 2.
3. The process of claim 2 wherein the starting polymer is selected from the group consisting of polycarboxylic acids,, polyesters, polyamides, polyacrylics, polyfunctional phenolic resins, and mixtures thereof.
4. The process of claim 3 wherein the starting polymer comprises a high molecular weight polyester.
5. The process of claim 1 wherein the starting polymer is a polyfunctional hydroxy-containing polymer having a hydroxy number of at least 10. 


 6. The process of claim 5 where the polyfunctional hydroxy-containing polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyols, polyesters, polyurethanes, and mixtures thereof.
7. The process of claim 6 where the polyfunctional hydroxy-containing polymer is a polyester.
8. The process of claim 1 wherein the polyfunctional nucleophile is a polyfunctional nitrogen- containing compound.
9. The process of claim 8 wherein the polyfunctional nitrogen-containing compound is selected from the group consisting of polyamines, polyaziridines, polyisocyanates, and mixtures thereof.
10. The process of claim 9 wherein the polyfunctional nitrogen-containing compound is a polyisocyanate.
11. The process of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrophile comprises at least one polyepoxide.
12. The process of claim 11 wherein the polyepoxide is selected from the group consisting of bisphenol A-epichlorohydrin epoxies, novolac epoxies, and mixtures thereof. 


 13. The process of claim 12 wherein the polyexpoxide comprises a mixture of bisphenol A- epichlorohydrin epoxies and novolac epoxies.
14. A process for producing a three- dimensional polymeric adhesive material comprising:
(a) reacting a starting polymer comprising a high molecular weight polyester with a polyisocyanate to form an adduct product; and (b) reacting the adduct product with at least one polyepoxide selected from the group consisting of bisphenol A-epichlorohydrin epoxies, novolac epoxies, and mixtures thereof, to generate a three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material.
15. The process of claim 14 wherein the high molecular weight polyester comprises from about 50% to about 90% by weight of the three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material and the polyepoxide comprises from about 10% to about 50% by weight of the three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material.
16. The process of claim 14 wherein the polyepoxide comprises a mixture of bisphenol A- epichlorohydrin epoxies and novolac epoxies.
17. The process of claim 14 wherein the step of reacting the adduct product with the at least one 


 polyepoxide comprises heating a mixture of the adduct product and the at least one polyepoxide to a temperature between about 250°F and about 400°F.
5 18. A process for bonding at least two substrates comprising the steps of:
(a) reacting a starting polymer containing an active hydrogen or hydroxy function with a polyfunctional nucleophile to form an adduct product; 10 (b) mixing the adduct product with a polyelectrophile to generate a bonding precursor,-
(c) applying the bonding precursor between the substrates prior to the reaction between the adduct product and the polyelectrophile; and 15 (d)- reacting the adduct product with the polyelectrophile to generate a three-dimensional polymer adhesive material between the substrates, thereby bonding the substrates.
20 19. The process of claim 18 wherein the substrates are selected from the group consisting of film substrates, foil substrates, and hardboard substrates.
20. The process of claim 18 wherein the p
25 starting polymer is selected from the group consisting of * polycarboxylic acids, polyesters, polyamides, polyacrylics, polyfunctional phenolic resins, and mixtures thereof. 


 21. The process of claim 20 wherein the starting polymer comprises a high molecular weight polyester.
22. The process of claim 18 wherein the polyfunctional nucleophile is a polyfunctional nitrogen- containing compound selected from the group consisting of polyamines, polyaziridines, polyisocyanates, and mixtures thereof.
23. The process of claim 22 wherein the polyfunctional nitrogen-containing compound is a polyisocyanate.
24. The process of claim 18 wherein the polyelectrophile comprises at least one polyepoxide selected from the group consisting of bisphenol A- epichlorohydrin epoxies, novolac epoxies, and mixtures thereof.
25. The process of claim 24 wherein the polyepoxide comprises a mixture of bisphenol A epichlorohydrin epoxies and novolac epoxies.
26. A three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material comprising:
(a) at least two linear urethane linked polymer moieties, each moiety comprising a hydroxy- 


terminated polyester linked in urethane linkage by an aromatic isocyanate; and
(b) cross— links between the nitrogens of the urethane linked polymer moieties, each cross-link comprising a phenyl-containing polymer linked to the nitrogen atoms of the polyurethanes by — CH2— CHOH — linkages, with the methylene groups of the linkages being bonded directly to the nitrogen atoms such that the cross-links form a three-dimensional polymeric structure.
27. The polymeric adhesive material of claim
26 wherein the cross— links comprise at least one polyepoxide selected from the group consisting of bisphenol A-epichlorohydrin epoxies, novolac epoxies, and mixtures thereof.
28. The polymeric adhesive material of claim
27 wherein the polyepoxide comprises a mixture of bisphenol A— epichlorohydrin epoxies having the formula
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 and novolac epoxies having the formula
wherein n is an integer from 1 to about 20, n being independently chosen for the bisphenol A— epichlorohydrin epoxies and for the novolac epoxies.
29. A three-dimensional polymeric adhesive material comprising:
(a)
"
 at least two linear polymer moieties, each moiety comprising a polymer containing nucleophilic nitrogen atoms capable of reaction with an electrophile; and
(b) cross— links between the nitrogens of the polymer moieties, each cross— link comprising a polymer linked to the nitrogen atoms of the polymer moieties through reaction of an electrophile with the nitrogen atoms.
30. The polymer adhesive material of claim 29 wherein the linear polymer moieties are selected from the group consisting of polycarboxylic acids, polyesters, polyamides, polyacrylics, polyfunctional phenolic resins, and mixtures thereof.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 31. The polymer adhesive material of claim 30 wherein the linear polymer moieties are formed by reaction of a hydroxy-containing polymer with a polyfunctional nitrogen-containing nucleophile.
5
32. The polymer adhesive material of claim 31 wherein the polyfunctional nitrogen-containing nucleophile is selected from the group consisting of polyammes, polyaziridmes, polyisocyanates, and mixtures
10 thereof.
33. A composite structure comprising:
(a) at least two bondable substrates; and
(b) a three-dimensional polymeric adhesive
15 material in adhesive contact with each of the substrates such that each of the substrates is bonded to at least one other substrate by the adhesive material, the adhesive material comprising:
(i) at least two linear polymer moieties,
20 each moiety comprising a polymer containing nucleophilic nitrogen atoms capable of reaction with an electrophile; and
(ii) cross-links between the nitrogens of the polymer moieties, each cross-link comprising a t
25 polymer linked to the nitrogen atoms of the polymer
* moieties through reaction of an electrophile with the nitrogen atoms. 


 34. The composite material of claim 33 wherein the bondable substrates are selected from the group consisting of film substrates, foil substrates, and hardboard substrates. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
