<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616725</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRICAL ISOLATION IN INTEGRATED CIRCUITS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L2176	H01L21822	H01L218234	H01L2702	H01L2702	H01L2704	H01L2704	H01L27085	H01L27088	H01L27092	H03K190185	H03K190185	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H01L27	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A back biasing technique is provided for increasing the field inversion voltage between adjacent MOS transistors and for reducing parasitic capacitances in an integrated circuit. The use of a charge pump is avoided by connecting the body portion (11) of the MOS transistors to ground and the sources (22) of the MOS transistors to the anode (27) of a diode, the cathode (26) of which are connected to a reference voltage such as to ground. In this manner, the sources are back biased relative to the material in which they are formed by a diode forward voltage drop. This technique is particularly applicable to CMOS circuits operating form a 3.3 volt supply, with p-well (15) doping densities in excess of 1x10
<
17
>
 atoms/cm
<
3
>
.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANDARD MICROSYST SMC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANDARD MICROSYST SMC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANLASS FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANLASS FRANK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTRICAL ISOLATION IN INTEGRATED CIRCUITSBACKGROUND OF THE PRESENT INVENTIONField of the present inventionThe present invention relates to semiconductor integrated circuit (IC) devices, and, more particularly, to a simplified design and process for providing appropriate electrical isolation between adjacent transistors and reduced parasitic capacitances in such devices.Description of the Prior ArtA continuing trend in the design of ICs, particularly CMOS ICs, is toward lower operating voltages, shorter channel lengths, and thinner gate dielectrics. For example, the presently standard 5 volt power supply for CMOS logic and memory circuits is being replaced by a 3.3 volt supply, and there are predictions that future ICs, with even shorter channel lengths, much less than 1.0 micron, will operate at 2 volts or less.For CMOS ICs having effective channel lengths of about 1.0 micron or less, it is conventional to use a twin well approach, with both wells having a surface doping concentration in the range of lxio17 atoms/cm3 to 4xl017 atoms/cm3, the lesser concentration being useful for effective channel lengths down to about 0.6 micron, and the greater concentration being useful for effective channel lengths, between about 0.6 micron and 0.3 micron. The nMOS transistors are fabricated in the P-doped well (p-well) , and the pMOS transistors are fabricated in the N-doped well (n- well) . Each p-well functions as a common body connection for all of the nMOS transistors in that p-well, and often is connected to the most negative supply voltage. Each n-well functions as a common body connection for all of the p-MOS 

transistors in that n-well, and often is connected to the most positive of the supply voltages.Typically, the field oxide between adjacent transistors is at least 5000 Angstroms thick to avoid field inversion and provide good electrical isolation. In addition to this relatively thick oxide, it is common practice to selectively implant with boron those portions of the p-well silicon surface under the field oxide to even larger doping levels than the original p-well doping levels. These larger doping levels aid in achieving a sufficiently large field inversion voltage between adjacent nMOS transistors, to ensure adequate electrical isolation. This extra implant usually is necessary only for the p-well because a P-type surface tends toward inversion, whereas an N-type surface tends toward enhancement. As is well known, this tendency for a p-well surface to invert is primarily due to some amount of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An integrated circuit device formed on a semiconductor chip including a first plurality of nMOS transistors which are electrically isolated from one another and comprising: 
•
» an internal circuit portion including a second plurality of nMOS transistors included within said first plurality of nMOS transistors; and an input/output portion for receiving and sending electrical signals onto and from the chip and for receiving a power supply voltage and a reference voltage onto the chip; said internal circuit portion including controllable conductive means having a forward voltage drop and including a first terminal for connection to the reference voltage and a second terminal coupled to the sources of said second plurality of MOS transistors that would normally be coupled to the reference voltage, whereby the application of a power supply voltage and reference voltage to the chip allows said internal circuit portion to operate between the power supply voltage and another voltage which is at least one said forward voltage drop above the reference voltage.
2. The integrated circuit device as claimed in claim 1, in which said controllable conductive means comprises a diode having a cathode for connection to the reference voltage and an anode coupled to said sources of said second plurality of nMOS transistors.
3. The integrated circuit device of claim 2, in which the reference voltage is ground.
4. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 1, wherein the majority of the circuitry on the chip is included in said internal circuit portion. 


 5. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 3, further including a second diode coupled in series with the first diode between the sources of said second plurality of nMOS transistor and the reference voltage.
6. The integrated circuit device"as recited in Claim 5, wherein said diode is a PN diode.
7. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 1, wherein said second plurality of nMOS transistors are formed in one or more p-wells, each of which is coupled to the reference voltage.
8. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 5, further including at least one nMOS transistor having a source not connected to the anode of said diode, but which is operatively connected in the circuit such that, in operation, its source and drain are maintained at a voltage level at least as great as the voltage level of the anode of said diode.
9. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 1, further including level shifting circuitry to provide voltage compatibility with other integrated circuit devices.
10. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 7, wherein the device is a CMOS device which further includes a plurality of pMOS transistors.
11. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 7, wherein the device is a CMOS device which further includes a plurality of pMOS transistors in the internal circuit portion, and which further includes a second diode having the anode thereof coupled to a terminal adapted for connection to the power supply voltage and the cathode thereof coupled to the sources of the pMOS transistors that would normally 


be coupled to the power supply voltage, such that, with a power supply voltage and ground reference voltage applied to the chip, the internal circuit portion operates between a first voltage, which is at least one diode forward voltage drop below the power supply voltage, and another voltage, which is at least one diode forward voltage drop above the ground reference voltage.
12. The integrated circuit device as recited in Claim 11, wherein the pMOS transistors in said internal circuit portion are formed in one or more n-wells, each of which is electrically coupled for connection to the power supply voltage.
13. An integrated circuit device formed on a semiconductor chip including a first plurality of pMOS transistors which are electrically isolated from one another and comprising:
an internal circuit portion including a second plurality of pMOS transistors included within said first plurality of pMOS transistors;
an input/output portion for receiving and sending electrical signals onto and from the chip and for receiving a power supply voltage and a reference voltage onto the chip;
said internal circuit including controllable conductive means having a forward voltage drop and including a first terminal for connection to the power supply voltage and a second terminal coupled to the sources of said second plurality of pMOS transistors that would normally be coupled to the power supply voltage, whereby the application of a power supply voltage and reference voltage to the chip allows said internal circuit portion to operate between the 


reference voltage and another voltage which is at least one said forward voltage drop below the power suply voltage.
14. The integrated circuit of Claim 13, in which said reference voltage is ground.
15. The integrated circuit of Claim 14, in which said controllable conductive means comprises a diode.
16. An integrated circuit device including a back biasing circuit for a plurality of nMOS transistors, said circuit including a diode, the body connections of said MOS transistors being coupled to a reference voltage, the sources of said nMOS transistors being coupled to the anode of said diode, the cathode of said diode being coupled to the reference voltage, wherein the leakage currents in the device are sufficient, in response to an applied power supply voltage, to provide sufficient forward current flow through said diode to keep its anode at approximately 0.5 volts or greater.
17. The integrated circuit device of claim 16, wherein said diode is a silicon PN diode.
18. The integrated circuit device of claim 16, in which the reference voltage is ground.
19. The integrated circuit device of claim 18, wherein each nMOS transistor is disposed in a p-well that is the body of the transistor and which is doped sufficiently such that a body-to-source back bias of -0.5 volts causes a field threshold increase of approximately 2 volts or greater, for a field oxide thickness of 2000A.
20. The integrated circuit device of claim 19, wherein the body of said nMOS transistors includes a p-well doped to 


a concentration of between 5xl0
16
 and 5xl0
17
 atoms/cm
3
.
21. The integrated circuit device of claim 20, wherein the field inversion voltage surrounding said nMOS transistors is greater than 4 volts for a body-to-source back bias of 0.5 volts.
22. The integrated circuit device of claim 21, further including at least one additional diode in parallel with said first diode, both of said diodes being operatively connected to supply a positive source voltage to two or more of said nMOS transistors with common sources.
23. The device of claim 18, further including at least one nMOS transistor operatively connected as a portion of a series/parallel network of nMOS transistors in which the source of said at least one of said nMOS transistor is not connected directly to the anode of the diode, and the sources of said nMOS transistors that would normally be connected to ground are connected to said anode.
24. The integrated circuit device of Claim 18, further including a second diode operatively connected in series with the first diode such that the sources of the nMOS transistors are maintained at approximately at least two diode forward voltage drops above the ground reference voltage.
25. The integrated circuit device of claim 24, wherein the body of the nMOS transistor including a p-well is doped sufficiently that a body-to-source back bias of -1.0 volts causes a field threshold increase of approximately 4 volts or greater, for a field oxide thickness of 2000A.
26. A method of providing electrical isolation between adjacent nMOS transistors formed in an integrated circuit device, comprising the steps of: 


 disposing a diode between a reference voltage and the sources of the nMOS transistors that would normally be coupled to the reference voltage, such that the cathode of said diode is coupled to the reference voltage and the anode of said diode is coupled to the sources of said nMOS transistors;
applying a reference voltage to the body portion and to the cathode of the diode; and
applying to the integrated circuit device a power supply voltage of a polarity to cause the voltage on the drains of the MOS transistors to be more positive than the sources thereof by an amount sufficient to cause leakage currents through the transistors in an amount sufficient to cause the diode to be forward biased, thereby producing a back bias between both the sources of the MOS transistors and the body portion and the drains of the MOS transistors and the body portion.
27. The method of claim 26, in which the reference voltage is ground.
28. The method of claim 27, in which said diode is a PN diode. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
