<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR SELECTIVELY ETCHING DIAMOND.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2104	H01L21265	H01L21302	H01L213065	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for selectively etching a diamond substrate comprising the steps of forming a graphitic area within a diamond substrate and selectively etching the diamond substrate with a gaseous reactant under conditions sufficient to convert the graphitic area to a gaseous product, preferably while substantially avoiding reacting with the diamond of the diamond substrate. The technique can be used to form a single crystal diamond layer, for example, using a lift-off technique.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV NORTH CAROLINA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHAPEL HILL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNN JOHN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH NALIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUNN, JOHN, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARIKH, NALIN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR SELECTIVELY ETCHING DIAMONDThe inventors acknowledge that they were partially supported by funds administered by the Office of Naval Research under Contract No. N00014-92-C-0081. The government may have certain rights to the invention.Field of the InventionThis invention generally relates to an etching technique for use in making electronic devices such as semiconductor devices, and more particularly to a process of selectively etching diamond.Background of the InventionDiamond is a preferred material for semiconductor devices because it has semiconductor properties that are better than traditionally used silicon (Si) , germanium (Ge) or gallium arsenide(GaAs) . Diamond provides a higher energy band gap, a higher breakdown voltage and a greater saturation velocity than these traditional semiconductor materials. These properties of diamond yield a substantial increase in projected cutoff frequency and maximum operating voltage compared to devices fabricated using Si, Ge, or GaAs. Si is typically not 

used at temperatures higher than about 200"C and GaAs is not typically used above 300"C. These temperature limitations are caused, in part, because of the relatively small energy band gaps for Si (1.12 eV at ambient temperature) and GaAs (1.42 eV at ambient temperature) . Diamond, in contrast, has a large band gap of 5.47 eV at ambient temperature, and is thermally stable up to about 1400"C.Diamond has the highest thermal conductivity of any solid at room temperature and exhibits good thermal conductivity over a wide temperature range. The high thermal conductivity of diamond may be advantageously used to remove waste heat from an integrated circuit, particularly as integration densities increase.Because of the advantages of diamond as a material for semiconductor devices, there is at present an interest in the growth and processes for etching diamond. There has been particular interest in the growth and etching of single crystal diamond thin films. Diamond thin films have been successfully grown by a variety of low pressure and low temperature chemical vapor deposition (CVD) methods, such as filament assisted CVD, plasma CVD, and combustion flames. See Devaries, Ann. Rev. Mater. Sci. 17, 161 (1987); Masumoto et al, J. Mat. Sci. 18, 1823 (1988). In these methods, typically a mixture of hydrocarbons such as CH4 and C2H2 and hydrogen (98-99.5% by volume) is passed over heated (700-1000°C) substrates such as silicon, nickel, copper, tungsten, and silicon carbide. During the process, both diamond
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 That Which Is Claimed Is:
1. A process for selectively etching a diamond substrate comprising the steps of:
(a) forming one or more graphitic areas within a diamond substrate and (b) selectively etching the diamond substrate with a gaseous reactant under conditions sufficient to convert the graphitic area to a gaseous product.
2. The process according to Claim 1 wherein the step of forming one or more graphitic areas of step
(a) includes implanting the diamond substrate with ions capable of graphitizing diamond to predetermined depths within the diamond substrate to form graphitic areas at the predetermined depths.
3. The process according to Claim 2 wherein the conditions sufficient to convert the graphitic area to a gaseous product include substantially avoiding reacting with the diamond of the diamond substrate.
4. The process according to Claim 2 wherein the ions are carbon ions.
5. The process according to Claim 2 wherein the step of forming one or more graphitic areas of step (a) includes annealing the diamond substrate at a temperature of about 500°C to 650°C for about 10 minutes to 1.5 hours.
6. The process according to Claim 2 wherein the ions are oxygen ions. 


 7. The process according to Claim 2 wherein the implanting of ions comprises ion implantation at a dose of about lxlO
16
 to lxlO
18
 ions cm
2
 and an energy of about 1 to 5 MeV.
8. The process according to Claim 1 wherein the gaseous reactant is molecular oxygen.
9. A process according to Claim 1 wherein the substrate is two or more single crystal diamond substrates placed in contacting relationship with each other with the crystal directions thereof aligned substantially the same.
10. A process according to Claim 1 wherein the diamond substrate is formed from diamond selected from the group consisting of natural single crystal diamond, synthetic single crystal diamond, homoepitaxial diamond, heteroepitaxial diamond and polycrystalline diamond.
11. A process according to Claim 2 wherein the implanting of the diamond substrate with ions is patterned.
12. A product produced by the process of Claim 2.
13. A process for selectively etching a single crystal diamond substrate comprising the steps of:
(a) implanting a single crystal diamond layer with ions to a predetermined depth within the single crystal diamond substrate to form one or more graphitic areas at the predetermined depth and 


 (b) selectively etching the diamond substrate with molecular oxygen under conditions sufficient to oxidize the graphitic area while substantially avoiding reacting with the diamond of the the single crystal diamond substrate.
14. The process according to Claim 13 wherein the ions are carbon ions.
15. The process according to Claim 14 wherein the step of forming a graphitic area includes annealing the single crystal diamond substrate at a temperature of about 500°C to 650°C for about 10 minutes to 1.5 hours.
16. The process according to Claim 13 wherein the ions are oxygen ions.
17. The process according to Claim 13 wherein the implanting of ions comprises ion implantation at a dose of about lxlO
16
 to lxlO
18
 ions cm
2
 and an energy of about 1 to 5 MeV.
18. A process according to Claim 13 wherein the substrate is two or more single crystal diamond substrates placed in contacting relationship with each other with the crystal directions thereof aligned substantially the same.
19. A process according to Claim 13 wherein the single crystal diamond substrate includes a homoepitaxial diamond film deposited thereon.
20. A product produced by the process of Claim 13. 


 21. A process for forming a diamond layer having a predetermined thickness comprising the steps of:
(a) forming a graphitic layer within a diamond substrate at a predetermined depth, the graphitic layer dividing the diamond substrate into an upper portion above the graphitic layer and a lower portion beneath the graphitic layer;
(b) selectively etching the diamond substrate with a gaseous reactant under conditions sufficient to convert the graphitic layer to a gaseous product and to form an interface at the predetermined depth between the upper and lower portions of the diamond substrate substantially avoiding reacting with the diamond of the upper and lower portions of the diamond substrate; and
(c) lifting off the upper portion of the diamond substrate from the lower portion of the diamond substrate at the interface to provide a diamond layer having a predetermined thickness substantially equal to the predetermined depth of the interface.
22. The process according to Claim 21 wherein the step of forming a graphitic area includes implanting the diamond substrate with ions capable of graphitizing diamond to a predetermined depth within the diamond substrate to form the graphitic layer at the predetermined depth.
23. The process according to Claim 21 wherein the conditions sufficient to convert the graphitic layer to a gaseous product includes substantially avoiding reacting with the diamond of the upper and lower portions of the diamond substrate. 


 24. The process according to Claim 21 wherein step (b) and step (c) are substantially simultaneous.
25. A process according to Claim 22 wherein the implanting of the diamond substrate with ions is patterned.
26. The process according to Claim 22 wherein the ions are carbon ions.
27. The process according to Claim 26 wherein the step of forming a graphitic area includes annealing the diamond substrate at a temperature of about 500"C to 650°C for about 10 minutes to 1.5 hours.
28. The process according to Claim 22 wherein the ions are oxygen ions.
29. The process according to Claim 22 wherein the implanting of ions comprises ion implantation at a dose of about lxlO
16
 to lxlO
18
 ions cm
2
 and an energy of about 1 to 5 MeV.
30. The process according to Claim 21 wherein the gaseous reactant is molecular oxygen.
31. A process according to Claim 21 wherein the substrate is two or more single diamond substrates placed in contacting relationship with each other with the crystal directions thereof aligned substantially the same. 


 32. A process according to Claim 21 wherein the diamond substrate is formed from diamond selected from the group consisting of natural single crystal diamond, synthetic single crystal diamond, homoepitaxial diamond, heteroepitaxial diamond and polycrystalline diamond.
33. A product produced by the process of Claim 21. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
