<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650304</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A frequency hopping control channel in a radio communication system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1713	H04B169	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A communication system having a frequency hopping scheme 
which provides an improved initial synchronization in mobile 

stations of control channels. Special synchronization bursts 
are inserted into the hop sequence of the control channels 

which, when decoded, give the mobile station the hop sequence 
to follow for the control channel. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERIKSSON HAKAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUDMUNDSON BJOERN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSSON BENGT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAITH KRISTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERIKSSON, HAKAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUDMUNDSON, BJOERN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSSON, BENGT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAITH, KRISTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to cellular mobile
radio communication. More specifically, the invention
relates to methods and systems for efficient and flexible use
of the frequency spectrum available for communication in a
mobile radio communication system.Many mobile radio telephone systems of various kinds are
known and in use. In all of these systems, the frequency
band available for connections limits the number of possible
simultaneous connections, or capacity, of the system. Two
base stations or mobile stations transmitting on the same
radio channel of an frequency division multiple access (FDMA)
system or on the same time slot of the same radio channel in
a time division multiple access (TDMA) system may interfere
with each other. This kind of interference is sometimes
called co-channel interference because the interference comes
from the same radio channel. If the signal strength of the
signals relating to one of the connections is not
sufficiently strong relative to the strength of the
interfering signals, the information on the first connection
will then be more or less unintelligible. If the interfering
mobiles or base stations are sufficiently distant from each
other, however, the signals relating to the connection will
be sufficiently stronger than the interference signals and
the information of the connections will be received and
properly decoded.In order to be able to use the same radio channel in FDMA
systems, or the same time slot of a radio channel in TDMA 
systems, for more than one connection, some mobile radio
systems are set up as cellular systems. The geographical area
to be covered by such a system is divided into smaller areas,
called cells, and mobiles in a cell communicate with a base
station for that cell. Some or all of the available radio
channels are distributed among the cells according to a
frequency plan.A conventional frequency plan provides that different radio
channels are allotted to a cluster of adjacent or neighboring
cells. No two cells in the same cluster can use the same radio
channel at the same time. Each radio channel used by the base
station or a mobile station of one cell in a cluster, is
different from every channel used by a base or mobile in
another cell in the same cluster. However, cells in different
clusters may use the same radio channels. Thus there can be
simultaneous multiple use of a radio channel. Such multiple
use is sometimes called channel or frequency re-use. The
distance between cells using the same radio channel is known
as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A frequency hopping cellular radio communication system comprising:

at least one first base station (B1-B10) and at least one mobile station (M1-M9),
the base station (B1-B10) using a frequency hop sequence for transmitting a

least one first control channel;
means, disposed in said base station (B1-B10), for inserting special
synchronization bursts into said frequency hop sequence, wherein at least one of said

special synchronization bursts comprise a synchronization word and information data
defining said frequency hop sequence;
characterised by

   means for inserting into said information data a base station identification code
(BSIC), at least one pointer field (NEXT) indicating the carrier for the next special

synchronization burst, a flag indicating the start of a message block (SOB), and a data field (DATA) for forming a
message block containing said frequency hop sequence, wherein said

message block consisting of the data fields from a number
of special synchronization bursts comprises a frame number data field (FN), a hop sequence number

data field (HSN), and at least one frequency allocation data field (FA1 and/or FA2).
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said inserting
means for inserting special synchronization bursts is arranged to insert said special

synchronization bursts periodically into said frequency hop sequence.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said inserting
means for inserting special synchronization bursts is arranged to insert said special

synchronization bursts randomly into said frequency hop sequence.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said frequency
hop sequence is defined as one of a set of predetermined frequency hop sequences. 
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said special
synchronization bursts further comprise at least one pointer indicating at least a

frequency for at least a next synchronization burst.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, further comprising:

means, disposed in said mobile station (M1-M9), for receiving said special
synchronization bursts and for determining said frequency hop sequence from said

frequency hop sequence information.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said at least one
base station (B1-B10) and at least one mobile station (M1-M9) have means for

communicating with one another using time-hopping TDMA and first time hop
sequences, whereby time slots comprising at least one channel change from frame to

frame.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 7, wherein said first time
hop sequences are designed such that said time slots of said control channel do not

always coincide with time slots of any particular traffic channel.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 7, also comprising:

at least one second base station in an adjacent cell having means for using a
second time hop se
quence for transmitting at least one second control channel,
wherein said hop sequences are designed such that time slots of said control channel

do not always coincide with time slots of any particular traffic channel of said at least
one first base station (B1-B10).
The cellular radio communication system of claim 9, wherein said control
channels do not time hop. 
The cellular radio communication system of claim 9, wherein said traffic
channels do not time hop.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein frequency hop
sequences used at said at least one first base station (B1-B10) are orthogonal to each

other but pseudo-random to frequency hop sequences used at other base stations (B1-B10).
The cellular radio communication system of claim 7, wherein combined
frequency and time hop sequences used at said at least one first base station (B1-B10)

are orthogonal to each other but pseudo-random to frequency hop sequences used at
other base stations (B1-B10).
The cellular radio communication system of claim 7, wherein said first time
hop sequences are determined such that a spacing between any two time slots in

adjacent frames used by any particular traffic channel is at least a predetermined
number of time slots.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said base station
identification code (BSIC) is used by the mobile station (M1-M9) to identify the base

station (B1-B10).
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said message
block (DATA) is blocked together with said frame number (FN), said hop sequence

number (HSN), and said frequency allocation fields (FA1 and FA2) from a number of
synchronization bursts to form a repeated sequence of message blocks. 
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said frame
number field (FN) provides a hop cycle of a set number of frames.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said hop
sequence number data field (HSN) gives different independent hop sequences.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 1, wherein said frequency
allocation field (FA1 and/or FA2) is used for identifying a range within a specified

number of available frequencies.
The cellular radio communication system of claim 7, wherein said at least one
pointer field indicates the slot for the next special synchronization burst (NEXT).
A method for frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system
comprising the steps of:


transmitting from at least one first base station (B1-B10) to at least one mobile
station (M1-M9) at least one first control channel wherein the base station (B1-B10)

uses a frequency hop sequence for transmitting said at least one first control channel;
inserting, by said base station (B1-B10), special synchronization bursts into
said frequency hop sequence, wherein at least one of said special synchronization

bursts comprise a synchronization word and information data defining said frequency
hop sequence;
characterised by

   inserting into said information data a base station (B1-B10) identification code
(BSIC), at least one pointer field indicating the carrier for the next special

synchronization burst (NEXT), a flag indicating the start of a message block (SOB),
and a data field (DATA) for forming a message block containing said frequency hop sequence, wherein said message block

consisting of the data fields from a number of special synchronization bursts
comprises a frame number data field (FN), a hop sequence number

data field (HSN), and at least one frequency allocation data field (FA1 and/or FA2). 
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said special synchronization bursts are inserted periodically into

said frequency hop sequence.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said special synchronization bursts are inserted randomly into said

frequency hop sequence.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said frequency hop sequence is defined as one of a set of

predetermined frequency hop sequences.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said special synchronization bursts further comprise at least one

pointer indicating at least a frequency for at least a next synchronization burst.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, further comprising the steps of:


receiving, in said mobile station (M1-M9), said special synchronization bursts;
and
determining said frequency hop sequence from said frequency hop sequence
information.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said at least one base station (B1-B10) and at least one mobile

station (M1-M9) communicate with one another using time-hopping TDMA and first
time hop sequences, whereby time slots comprising at least one channel change from

frame to frame. 
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 27, wherein said first time hop sequences are designed such that said time slots

of said control channel do not always coincide with time slots of any particular traffic
channel.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 27, also comprising the steps of:


transmitting at least one second control channel using a second time hop
sequence in at least one second base station (B1-B10) in an adjacent cell, wherein said

hop sequences are designed such that time slots of said control channel do not always
coincide with time slots of any particular traffic channel of said at least one first base

station (B1-B10).
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 29, wherein said control channels do not time hop.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 29, wherein said traffic channels do not time hop.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein frequency hop sequences used at said at least one first base station

(B1-B10) are orthogonal to each other but pseudo-random to frequency hop sequences
used at other base stations (B1-B10).
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 27, wherein combined frequency and time hop sequences used at said at least

one first base station (B1-B10) are orthogonal to each other but pseudo-random to
frequency hop sequences used at other base stations (B1-B10). 
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 27, wherein said first time hop sequences are determine
d such that a spacing
between any two time slots in adjacent frames used by any particular traffic channel is

at least a predetermined number of time slots.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said base station (B1-B10) identification code is used by the mobile

station (M1-M9) to identify the base station (B1-B10).
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said message block is blocked together with said frame number

(FN), said hop sequence number (HSN), and said frequency allocation fields (FA1
and FA2) from a number of synchronization bursts to form a repeated sequence of

message blocks.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said frame number field (FN) provides a hop cycle of a set number

of frames.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said hop sequence number data field (HSN) gives different

independent hop sequences.
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said frequency allocation field (FA1 and/or FA2) is used for

identifying a range within a specified number of available frequencies. 
The method of frequency hopping in a cellular radio communication system of
claim 21, wherein said at least one pointer field indicates the slot for the next special

synchronization burst (NEXT).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
