<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648294</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REVETMENT UNIT AND METHOD FOR PROTECTING SHORELINE OR WATERWAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02B314	E02B314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02B	E02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02B3	E02B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A revetment unit (36) for protecting shoreline or waterway embankments from erosion comprising a generally L-shaped web having first and second arm portions converging at an apex and forming a 90  right angle. Each of the first and second arm portions terminate at end portions. Identical cylinder members (46, 48) are associated with the web and extend above and below the plane of the web. The cylinder members have a height substantially less than their width and a single cylinder member is positioned at each of the end portions and at the apex. The web has a width slightly less than the diameter of the cylinder members yet greater than the radius of the cylinder members. The end portion cylinders are equally spaced from the apex cylinder (42, 64, 66) a distance between about 0.10 to about 0.25 of the diameter of the cylinders. The units are configured so that when at least five of the units (36, 38, 40, 42, 44) are assembled in an interacted relation, at least three of the five will face in a direction opposite to that of the remaining two units.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMFIELD FREDERICK E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAMFIELD, FREDERICK E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMFIELD FREDERICK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMFIELD, FREDERICK E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 REVETMENT UNIT AND METHOD FOR PROTECTING SHORELINE OR WATERWAYFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a device for protec- ting shorelines or waterway embankments from erosion caused by water waves or currents and, more particularly, a revet¬ ment unit or element configured for interconnection with identical revetment units thereby providing an extensive matrix of shoreline protection.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe erosion of sediment from shorelines and waterways is a longstanding problem common to beaches, lakeshore , riverbanks , canals and other artificial waterways. Wave action, currents and tides all tend to wear away and destroy shorelines. This destruction occurs either gradually, over long periods of time or suddenly as in the event of a strong storm or hurricane.In view of the destructive effects such erosion has upon property values as well as public construction pro- jects , a variety of approaches have been developed over the years to preserve shorelines and reduce the effects of erosion. Piers, jetties and breakwalls have all been em¬ ployed in varying ways and with limited success.When dealing with sloping banks and shorelines , revet- ent is a commonly used means for protection. The type of revetment used can vary from simply positioning closely laid stone or boulders along the bank to a more permanent and complex approach including the placement of prefabricated steel or concrete units along the shoreline. More recently, revetment networks have been developed which provide a number of uniquely designed and similarly sized units or bodies of prefabricated concrete or other heavy material. The units are transported to a jobsite and placed in an interconnected manner to form a matrix network havinσ enhanced cohesion and resistance to wave action. 

 Typical of such devices is U.S. Pat. No. 4,083,190 (Pey) which discloses a breakwater composed of a network of interconnected elements all of which have a similar size and configuration. Each element consists of a triangular or circular body with three posts extending from the body so that when plural bodies are arranged in layers , the posts interlink within the open portions of adjacent bodies to form a connected, protected network.The prior art devices and in particular the unit as taught by the Pey patent fail to provide effective shoreline protection in a number of respects. The unit contains sharp corners, edges and projecting legs which make it more sus¬ ceptible to breakage. In addition, the interlock arrange¬ ment
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A revetment unit for protecting shoreline or water¬ way embankments from erosion comprising: a) a generally L-shaped web having top and bottom surfaces and first and second arm portions converging at an apex and forming a 90° right angle; b) each of said first and second arm portions terminat¬ ing at end portions; c) identical cylinder members associated with said web and extending above and below the plane of said web, said cylinder members having a height substantially less than its width; d) one of said cylinder members positioned at each of said end portions and said apex; e) said web having a width slightly less than the diameter of said cylinder members and greater than the radius of said cylinder members; f) said end portion cylinders members equally spaced from said apex cylinder member a distance between about 0.10 to about 0.25 of the diameter of said cylinder member; and, g) said unit being configured so that when at least five of said units are assembled in an interacted relation, at least three of said five will face in a direction oppo¬ site to that of the remaining two units.
2. A revetment unit as in claim 1 characterized in that said end portion cylinder members of said remaining two units have their axes lying in a plane transverse to said units L-shaped web top surface.
3. A revetment unit as in claim 2 characterized in that said end portion cylinder members of only two of said three units have their axes lying in a plane transverse to said units L-shaped web top surface. 


 4. A revetment unit as in claim 2 characterized in that said apex cylinder members of said three units have their axes lying in a serpentine plane transverse to the axes of said units L-shaped web top surface.
5. A revetment unit as in claim 1 characterized in that said units are configured so that when any four of said cylinder members are in abutting contact, their axes form a trapezium or parallelogram having an open space therebe¬ tween.
6. A revetment unit as in claim 1 characterized in that said cylinder members are integral with said web.
7. A revetment unit as in claim 1 characterized in that each of said cylinder members has a diameter about two times that of its height.
8. A revetment unit as recited in claim 1 character¬ ized in that said web having a height of about 1/3 to about 2/3 the height of said cylinder.
9. A revetment unit as recited in claim 1 character¬ ized in that each of said cylinder members has a uniform radius.
10. A revetment unit as recited in claim 1 character¬ ized in that said unit is made from cast concrete.
11. A revetment unit as recited in claim 1 character¬ ized in that said unit is made from cast iron. 


 12. A method for providing a protective covering against erosion of a shoreline or waterway embankment com¬ prising the steps of: a) providing a number of identical units, each of which comprises a generally L-shaped web having top and bottom surfaces and first and second arm members converging at an apex and forming a 90° right angle, said arm portions termi¬ nating at end portions, identical cylinder members having first and second surfaces, said cylinder members positioned at each of said end portions and at said apex, said web having a width slightly less than the diameter of said cylinder members, said end portions cylinder members equally spaced from said apex cylinder member at a distance between about 0.10 to about 0.25 of the diameter of said cylinders; b) placing at least five of said units against an embankment surface; c) assembling said at least five of said units into an interacted relation so that at least three of said five will face in a direction opposite to that of the remaining two units; and d) repeating the above steps with additional units until the embankment is sufficiently covered.
13. A method as recited in claim 12 characterized in that said end portion cylinder members of said remaining two units have their axes lying in a plane transverse to said units L-shaped web top surface.
14. A method as recited in claim 13 characterized in that said end portions cylinder members of only two of said three units have their axes lying in a plane transverse to said units L-shaped web top surface.
15. A method as recited in claim 13 characterized in that said apex cylinder members have their axes lying in a serpentine plane transverse to the axes of said units L-shaped web top surface. 


 16. A method as recited in claim 12 characterized in that said units assembled cylinder members are in abutting contact, with their axes forming a trapezium or parallelo¬ gram having an open space therebetween.
17. A method as recited in claim 12, further including a step of covering the embankment with a layer of bedding material prior to placing of said at least five of said units against the embankment.
18. A method as recited in claim 17 characterized in that said bedding material is a sheet of woven filter mate¬ rial.
19. A method as recited in claim 12 characterized in that said web has a height about one third to about two thirds the height of said cylinder members. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
