<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647795</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Piston for air springs, particularly for vehicle suspensions.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60G1126	B60G1128	F16F902	F16F905	F16F932	F16F942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60G	B60G	F16F	F16F	F16F	F16F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60G11	B60G11	F16F9	F16F9	F16F9	F16F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air spring comprises a piston (1) whose main body (9) 
has a working portion (12) tightly and circumferentially 

engaging a flexible membrane (6) and a base portion (10) 
secured to a structure (3a) of the vehicle.

 
The working (12) and base (10) portions are 

interconnected by a substantially cylindrical connection 
wall (11). An auxiliary wall (13) defining a rolling 

surface (13a) for a circumferential lobe (8) of the 
membrane (6) extends from the working portion (12) in a 

position spaced from the connection wall (11).
 

A hollow space (15) for the thermal exchange 
communicating with the outside is defined between the 

auxiliary wall (13) and the connection wall (11).
 

The main body (9), made of plastic material,is connected 
to the structure (3a) of the vehicle by means of an 

anchor plate (18) secured to the connection wall (11) 
portion (10) through a forced inserting at the base . 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PSA SIST ANTIVIBRANTI SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PSA SISTEMI ANTIVIBRANTI S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UGAZIO PIERANGELO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UGAZIO, PIERANGELO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a piston for air 
springs. More particularly, the present invention relates 
to a piston for air springs suitable for vehicle 
suspensions, comprising a main body having; a base 
portion rigidly engageable to a vehicle structure to 
which said suspension is associated; a working portion 
opposite to said base portion and tightly engaging 
circumferentially an end edge of a flexible membrane 
filled with a fluid compressible under pressure; a 
connection wall extending between the base portion and 
the working portion; a hermetic seal wall engaged with 
the connection wall along the perimeter; a shaped rolling 
surface facing externally the main body and arranged to 
act as a biassing surface with a circumferential lobe 
formed by said membrane around the main body itself. As known, the air springs for vehicle suspensions in 
general comprise essentially a flexible membrane whose 
opposite ends are tightly engaged with a connection 
device and a so-called piston, respectively; on their 
turn, these latter are secured to corresponding vehicle 
structures which, mostly are associated to a suspended 
mass and an earthed mass, respectively, mutually 
connected by the suspension. More particularly, the piston consists essentially of a 
main body having in the upper part a working portion to 
which the corresponding end edge of the membrane is 
tightly engaged. Said working portion is joined in one 
piece, through a connection wall of suitable shape and  
 
axial extension, with a base portion at which, the 
connection of the piston itself with the corresponding 
vehicle structure takes place through treaded elements or 
equivalent securing means. Inside the membrane there is a closed space, hermetically 
insulated from the outside, in which there is air or 
other compressible operative fluid which is kept under 
pressure so as to elastically oppose the vertical loads 
transmitted by the suspended mass through the connection 
device. Therefore the above said vertical loads are 
transmitted to the piston and, through this latter, to 
the earthed mass, under the effect of the pressure acting 
on the surfaces of the piston itself. Therefore it is necessary that the piston, being 
constantly subjected to all the vertical loads 
transmitted by the suspended mass to the earthed mass, 
has a considerable structural resistance to the axial 
loads. In this connection it is to be noted that in a lot 
of applications, as for example in the suspensions for 
railway carriages, trailers and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A piston for air springs, particulary for vehicle 
suspensions, comprising a main body (9) having: 


a base portion (10) rigidly engaged to a structure 
(3a) of a vehicle to which said suspension (2) is 

associated; 
a working portion (12) opposed to said base portion 
(10) and circumferentially engaging with tight the 

end edge (6b) of a flexible membrane (6) filled 
with a compressible fluid under pressure; 
a connection wall (11) extending between the base 
portion (10) and the working portion (12); 
a hermetic seal wall (14) engaging with the 
connection wall (11) along the perimeter; 
a shaped rolling surface (13a) facing externally 
the main body (9) and arranged to act as a biassing 

surface with a circumferential lobe (8) formed by 
the membrane (6) around the main body itself; 

characterized by the fact that: 
a) said shaped rolling surface (13a) is defined 
externally to an auxiliary wall (13) coaxially extending 

from the working portion (12) in a position spaced from 
said connection wall (11); and 
b) at least a hollow space for a thermal exchange with 
the outside is defined between said auxiliary wall (13) 

and said connection wall (11). 
The piston according to claim 1, characterized in 
that said main body (9) and said auxiliary wall (13) are 

obtained in one piece of plastic material moulded by 
injection. 
The piston according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that it comprises moreover an anchor 

 
plate (18) secured to the base portion (10) of the main 

body (9) and bearing means (18a) for engaging with the 
vehicle structure (3a). 
The piston according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that it comprises 

an anchor plate (18) secured to the base portion (10) and 
bearing elastic gripping means (18a) the auxiliary wall 

(13) extending according to a perimetric development 
encircling externally said anchor plate (18). 
The piston according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that it comprises an anchor plate (18) 

secured to the base portion (10) and bearing elastic 
gripping means (18a). The auxiliary wall (13) extending 

axially beyond the base portion (10) and the anchor plate 
(18). 
The piston according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the anchor plate (18) 

secured to the base portion (10) and bearing elastic 
gripping means (18a) is provided with a plurality of 

restraining teeth (20) distributed along the perimeter 
and arranged to hold the main body (9) through respective 

end portions (21) turned up radially toward the center of 
the anchor plate itself. 
The piston according to claim 6 characterized in 
that the main body (9) is associated to the anchor plate 

(18) by inserting in a forced manner the base portion 
(10) between the restrainig teeth (20), so that a 

mechanical interference of the restraining teeth 
themselves is produced on said connection wall (11). 
The piston according to anyone of the preceding 
 

claims, characterized in that said anchor plate (18) is 
made of metallic material. 
The piston according to claim 6, characterized in 
that the end portions (21) of the restraining teeth (20) 

define, in the free condition. a clutch slot having a 
diameter smaller than the outer diameter of the 

connection wall (11) according to a size comprised 
between 80 and 240 mm. 
The piston according to claim 6, charaterized in 
that the end portions (21) of the restraining teeth (20) 

act on the connection wall (11) at a distance from the 
end edge (10) of said base portion (10) comprised between 

20% and 70% of the total axial extension of the 
connection wall itself. 
The piston according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it comprises moreover first 

radial reinforcing ribs (16) circumferentially 
distributed and effectively engaged between said 

auxiliary wall (13) and said connection wall (11). 
The piston according to claim 11, characterized 
in that it comprises moreover second reinforcing ribs 

(17) radially oriented and circumferentially distributed 
inside the connection wall (11). 
The piston according to claim 12, characterized 
in that said first ribs (16) are twice the second ribs 

(17) and each of said second ribs (17) are oriented 
according to a direction coincindig with a median radius 

comprised between two of said first ribs (16). 
The piston according to claim 6, characterized in 
 

that each restraining tooth (20) is at least partially 
interposed between the first reinforcing ribs (16) 

extending radially between the auxiliary wall (13) and 
the connection wall (11). 
The piston according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the hermetic seal wall (14) 

extends diametrally near said working portion (12). 
The piston according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the hermetic seal wall (14) 

extends diametrally near said base portion (10). 
The piston according to anyone of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said hermetic seal wall 

(14) is associated with an abutment rod (22) arranged to 
coaxially act on one end of the engaging means (18a). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
