<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634945</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTUBATION STYLET.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1604	A61M1604	A61M3700	A61M3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M16	A61M16	A61M37	A61M37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stylet (12) for use in both oral and nasal endotracheal intubation comprises a flexible member (14), a collar (18) slidably mounted thereon, a handle (16) mounted at one end of and along the longitudinal axis of the flexible member (14) and a fixed-length filament (20) attached to a distal end (24) of the flexible member (14) and the collar (18). A portion of the stylet (12) is telescopically received within an endotracheal tube (30). The user may selectively deflect or induce curvature to the endotracheal tube (30) by applying force to the handle (16) along the axis of the flexible member (14) and inducing movement of the handle (16) with respect to the collar (18) when the filament (20) is under tension. Alternatively, the user may selectively deflect the endotracheal tube (30) by inducing movement of the collar (18) with respect to the handle (16) when the filament (20) is under tension.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAUGHERTY STEPHEN M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAUGHERTY STEPHEN M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHROEDER MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHROEDER MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTUBATION STYLET BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThis invention relates to intubation devices and more particularly to a stylet and method of use for both oral and nasal intubation of an endotracheal tube. Description of Related ArtEndotracheal tubes are utilized in a wide variety of medical procedures to provide an unobstructed air passage to a patient's trachea. In many emergency situations it is necessary to intubate a patient as quickly as possible to provide a secure airway to the patient's lungs or permit forced ventilation thereof while preventing introduction of gastric contents. Failure to quickly supply oxygen to the lungs can result in brain damage or death of the patient.Endotracheal tubes are used orally and nasally to establish an open airway. Intubation is often difficult because of the contours and obstacles encountered in the patient's airway. Perhaps the most difficult step in intubating a patient is maneuvering the tube into the patient's trachea rather than the patient's esophagus.Endotracheal tubes are generally formed of a soft, pliable plastic materials. Most endotracheal tubes do not have sufficient strength or rigidity to permit intubation without the aid of a stylet or other manipulating device. Making the endotracheal tube out of a stiffer material is not an acceptable alternative because it would cause excessive trauma to the nasal or throat tissue. The accepted solution has been the use of a stylet telescopically received within the endotracheal tube.The stylet which has gained the most acceptance for oral intubation is a "pre-bend" stylet made of a rigid, malleable material such as rubber-coated metal. To intubate a patient with any stylet, the patient must first be hyper-ventilated for approximately three to four minutes. Next, the user inserts the stylet into the tube 

and folds one end of the stylet around the outboard end of the endotracheal tube. The user grasps the tube and the stylet and bends the tube to approximate what the user believes the contour of the patient's throat to be. With the help of a laryngoscope, the user inserts the stylet and endotracheal tube into the patient's mouth and throat until it reaches the patient's trachea. Unfortunately, without years of experience, it is dif icult for a user to obtain the proper pre-bend in the malleable stylet and successfully insert the endotracheal tube into the patient's trachea. To complicate this further, each patient's airway is different.If the user fails to intubate the patient on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMB
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A stylet for endotracheal intubation comprising; an elongated flexible member having a proximal end and a distal end and adapted to fit within the length of an endotracheal tube; a handle mounted along the longitudinal axis of said flexible member on the proximal end thereof; a fixed-length filament having a first end attached to said distal end of said flexible member and a second end adjacent said handle; and a collar mounted on the second end of the fixed-length filament, said filament having an effective length sufficiently less than the length of said flexible member so that said flexible member is deformed to a curved condition in response to squeezing the handle and the collar together.
2. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein said elongated flexible member is tapered such that the cross- sectional area of proximal end is greater than the cross- sectional area of the distal end.
3. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein said collar has a slot formed thereon for mounting said collar on said flexible member.
4. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member, handle, collar and fixed-length filament are integrally molded as a single unit.
5. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member is hexagonal in cross section, the hexagonal shape helping to bias the curvature of the flexible member. 


 6. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member is square in cross section and further comprising a pair of laterally extending flanges, the flanges biasing the curvature of the flexible member.
7. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein said first end of said filament is received in a second aperture of said collar.
8. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein said second end of said filament is received in an aperture of said distal end of the flexible member.
9. A stylet according to claim 1 wherein the filament is oval in cross-sectional shape.
10. A stylet according to claim 1 further comprising a stop mounted to the flexible member to limit the length of the flexible member which can be inserted into an endotracheal tube.
11. A stylet according to claim 10 further comprising a groove formed in said stop being adapted to permit sliding movement of the filament through said groove.
12. An endotracheal tube assembly comprising an endotracheal tube having a distal end and a proximal end, said tube being made from a soft pliable material, a stylet according to claim 1 mounted in the endotracheal tube with the distal end of the flexible member adjacent the distal end of the endotracheal tube and the collar mounted adjacent the proximal end of the tube for movement between the proximal end of the tube and the handle. 


 13. An endotracheal tube assembly comprising an endotracheal tube having a distal end and a proximal end, said tube being made from a soft pliable material, a stylet according to claim 1 mounted in the endotracheal tube with the distal end of the flexible member adjacent the distal end of the endotracheal tube and the handle mounted a spaced distance from the proximal end of the tube for movement between said spaced distance of the proximal end of the tube and the collar.
14. A method for mounting an endotracheal tube in a patient's airway comprising the steps of; providing an endotracheal tube assembly according to claim 13; grasping the handle and collar of the stylet with one hand; inserting the distal end of the endotracheal tube and stylet into one of the patient's mouth or nose; selectively deforming the endotracheal tube and stylet to induce curvature of the tube and stylet by squeezing the handle and the collar together to conform the shape of the endotracheal tube to the patient's airway; inserting the endotracheal tube distal end into the patient's tracheal opening; and removing the stylet from the endotracheal tube.
15. A method according to claim 14 further comprising the step of first removing the stylet and endotracheal tube from sterile packaging.
16. A method according to claim 14 further comprising the step of mounting a ventilating apparatus to the proximal end of the endotracheal tube. 



 17. A stylet for endotracheal intubation comprising; an elongated flexible member having a proximal end and a distal end; a handle integrally molded to the proximal end of said flexible member; a fixed-length filament having a distal end and a proximal end, said distal end of the filament being integrally molded to the distal end of said flexible member; and mounting means mounted to said proximal end of said fixed-length filament whereby said flexible member is deformed to a curved condition in response to squeezing the handle and mounting means.
18. A stylet according to claim 17 wherein said elongated flexible member is tapered such that the cross-sectional area of proximal end is greater than the cross-sectional area of the distal end.
19. A stylet according to claim 17 wherein said mounting means comprises a collar and the collar has a slot formed thereon for mounting said collar on said flexible member.
20. A stylet according to claim 17 further comprising a stop mounted to the flexible member to limit the length of the flexible member which can be inserted into an endotracheal tube.
21. A stylet according to claim 17 wherein said mounting means comprises a hook formed on the proximal end of the filament, the hook being adapted to engage one end of an endotracheal tube.
22. An endotracheal tube assembly comprising an endotracheal tube having a distal end and a proximal 


end, said tube being made from a soft pliable material, a stylet according to claim 17 mounted in the endotracheal tube with the distal end of the flexible member adjacent the distal end of the endotracheal tube and the collar mounted adjacent the proximal end of the tube for movement between the proximal end of the tube and the handle.
23. An endotracheal tube assembly comprising an endotracheal tube having a distal end and a proximal end, said tube being made from a soft pliable material, a stylet according to claim 17 mounted in the endotracheal tube with the distal end of the flexible member adjacent the distal end of the endotracheal tube and the handle mounted a spaced distance from the proximal end of the tube for movement between said spaced distance of the proximal end of the tube and the collar.
24. A stylet according to claim 17 wherein the flexible member is hexagonal in cross sectional shape.
25. A stylet according to claim 17 wherein the flexible member has a top surface, a bottom surface, two opposed side surfaces and is square in cross section and further comprising a pair of longitudinal flanges mounted to and extending outwardly from the opposed sides of the stylet.
26. A stylet according to claim 17 wherein the fixed length filament is oval in cross sectional shape.
27. A sytlet according to claim 17 wherein the flexible member is a flat oval in cross section, the oval comprising a planar top surface, a planar bottom surface and a pair of arcuate side surfaces. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
