<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649495</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTARY POWER DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B7502	F02B7532	F01B1302	F04B2706	F02B7532	F02B7528	F02B7502	F02B7500	F04B2700	F01B1306	F01B300	F01B1300	F01B304	F01B300	F02B5700	F02B5700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F01B	F04B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F04B	F01B	F01B	F01B	F01B	F01B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B75	F02B75	F01B13	F04B27	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	F04B27	F01B13	F01B3	F01B13	F01B3	F01B3	F02B57	F02B57	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotary power device consists of an open ended stationary housing (13) defining an interior having a sinusoidal cam track (52) disposed therein and end walls (16) closing each open end of the housing. At least one fluid inlet port (60) and one fluid outlet port (62) is provided in the end walls. A rotor assembly (26) is disposed in the interior of the housing. The rotor assembly includes a central shaft (28) extending axially through the interior of the housing. At least a pair of heat conducting disks (32) are mounted on the shaft adjacent each of the end walls. Each disk has at least two openings (34) equiangularly located with respect to one another and aligned with corresponding equiangularly disposed openings (34) in the other disk for mounting open ended tubular cylinder elements (36) which extend between the disks parallel to the axis of the shaft. An elongated piston (40) is slidingly disposed in each cylinder element.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAUL EDDIE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PAUL, EDDIE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAUL EDDIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAUL, EDDIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to rotary power devices and more 
particularly to rotary internal combustion engines, pumps and 
compressors. It is an object of the present invention to provide a 
rotary power device both as an internal combustion engine and 
for compressing and pumping fluids. Another object of the invention is to provide an improved 
rotary air compressor which maximizes output as compared to 
conventional pumps and compressors. Another object of the invention is to provide in a single 
unit an engine and a compressor. Another object of the invention a rotary power device 
which is readily convertible between an internal combustion 
engine and a compressor. Another object of the invention is to provide a rotary 
power device having relatively few parts. Still another object of the invention is to provide a 
rotary power device having valveless ports which are 
substantially equal in diameter to the diameter of the pistons 
of the rotary device so as to reduce resistance to fluid 
inflow and outflow. Yet another object of the invention is to provide an 
improved means for air cooling the rotary power device. 
These and other objects and advantages of the present 
invention will be apparent from the following detailed 
description and from the recital of the appended claims, 
particularly when read in conjunction with the accompanying 
drawings. FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a rotary compressor 
designed in accordance with the present invention and having 
a portion of the outer housing cut away for purposes of illustration;  
 FIG. 2 is a perspective view of the rotor assembly of the 
compressor of FIG. 1; FIG. 3 is a side sectional view taken along line 3-3 of 
FIG. 1; FIG. 4 is an end view of the compressor of FIG. 1; FIG. 5 is a top sectional view of the compressor of FIG. 
1; FIG. 6 is a side sectional view of a rotary internal 
combustion engine and compressor designed in accordance with 
the present invention; and FIG. 7 is an end view of the engine side of the device of 
FIG. 6. In the accompanying drawings, for the purposes of 
illustrating the principals of this invention, there is 
disclosed an air compressor. It will be understood, however, 
that various features of this invention, particularly the 
input and output of the reciprocating pistons and the 
translation of reciprocating motion to rotary motion and vice 
versa, have utility and may be successfully employed with 
other devices than air compressors, as for example, with 
pumps, steam engines, internal combustion engines,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotary power device comprising: 

a. an open ended stationary housing defining an 
interior; 
b. a sinusoidal cam track disposed in said interior 
of said stationary housing; 
c. an end wall closing each said open end of said 
housing; 
d. at least one fluid inlet port and one fluid 
outlet port in one of said end walls for fluid 

communication between said housing interior and the 
exterior of said end wall; 
e. a rotor assembly disposed in said interior of 

said housing, said rotor assembly including a central shaft 
extending axially through said interior of said housing, 

said shaft being rotatably carried by each of said end 
walls, at least one heat conducting disk mounted on said 

shaft adjacent each of said end walls for rotation with 
said shaft, each said disk having at least two openings 

equiangularly located with respect to one another and 
aligned with corresponding equiangularly disposed openings 

in said other disk, said openings being radially located 
from the center of said disks for intermittent alignment 

with said ports of said end walls as said rotor assembly 
rotates, said aligned openings carrying end portions of 

open ended tubular cylinder elements which extend between 
said disks parallel to the axis of said shaft, said open 

ends of each said cylinder element being located 
immediately adjacent to a corresponding end wall for 

intermittent communication with said ports as said rotor 
assembly rotates, an elongated piston including a piston 

head slidingly disposed in each said cylinder element for 
reciprocal movement parallel to the axis of said shaft, 

said piston including a normally projecting follower which 
extends through an axial slot in said cylinder element and 

the extending end thereof being received in said sinusoidal 
track in said housing; 
f. means for collecting and conducting fluid from  
 

said outlet port and means for conducting fluid to said 
inlet port; 
 
   whereby said pistons reciprocate in their respective 

cylinder elements in an intake and an exhaust cycle 
responsive to the rotation of said rotor assembly through 

the action of said follower in said sinusoidal track to 
draw in, compress and output a fluid. 
The rotary power device of claim 1 wherein both said 
end walls include at least an inlet port and an outlet 

port, said inlet port and said outlet port of one said end 
wall being disposed with respect to the axis of said shaft 

so as to be axially out of alignment with said inlet port 
and said outlet port of said other end wall whereby direct 

communication between the exterior of one end wall through 
said interior of said housing to the exterior of said other 

end wall is prevented. 
The rotary power device of claim 1 wherein each of 
said end walls are provided with four ports which define a 

four port configuration in which each of said ports with 
respect to the axis of said shaft are equiangularly spaced 

from adjacent ports. 
The rotary power device of claim 3 wherein each port 
of said four port configuration is disposed at a 90 degree 

angle with respect to the axis of said shaft from adjacent 
ports. 
The rotary power device of claim 3 including four of 
said cylinder elements, the axis of each of said cylinder 

elements extending parallel to the other cylinder elements 
and parallel to the axis of said shaft, each said cylinder 

element being equiangularly disposed from adjacent cylinder 
elements on said rotor assembly about the axis of said 

shaft and being radially spaced from the axis of said shaft 
for intermittent alignment of the open ends thereof with 

said ports as said rotor assembly rotates.  
 
The rotary power device of claim 1 further including 
a plurality of said heat conducting disks mounted in two 

groups on said shaft, a group being located adjacent each 
said end wall and said disks of each group being spaced 

apart to provide for air flow therebetween, said disks are 
each provided with four aligned openings which are spaced 

apart 90 degrees and radially located from the center of 
said disk for intermittent alignment with said ports of 

said end walls as the disks and shaft rotate. 
The rotary power device of claim 1 wherein at least 
one of said end walls includes fuel injection means for the 

delivery of a fuel to said cylinder element adjacent said 
piston head and means for initiating ignition of an air 

fuel mixture within said cylinder element. 
The rotary power device of claim 7 wherein said means 
for initiating ignition comprises a glow plug electrically 

connected to a source of electrical power. 
The rotary power device of claim 2 wherein the 
opposite end portions of each of said elongated pistons 

define a piston head having sealing means about the 
circumference thereof for a fluid tight seal between the 

circumference of said piston head and the inner wall of 
said cylinder element while said piston is reciprocating, 

wherein each end of said piston undergoes an intake and an 
exhaust stroke cycle, the cycle at one end of said piston 

being opposite to the cycle at the opposite end. 
The rotary power device of claim 1 further including 
means for circulating a cooling fluid through said interior 

of said housing. 
The rotary power device of claim 1 wherein said 
housing comprises two cylindrical elements having 

complimentary open inner ends opposite said end walls, said  
 

inner ends defining corresponding wave forms and spaced 
apart to form said sinusoidal track. 
A rotary compressor comprising: 

a. an open ended stationary housing defining an 
interior; 
b. a sinusoidal cam track disposed in said interior 
of said stationary housing; 
c. an end wall closing each said open end of said 
housing, each of said end walls provided with four ports 

which define a four port configuration in which each of 
said ports with respect to the axis of said shaft are 

equiangularly spaced from adjacent ports; 
d. a rotor assembly disposed in said interior of 
said housing, said rotor assembly including a central shaft 

extending axially through said interior of said housing, 
said shaft being rotatably journaled by bearing means in 

each of said end walls, at least one cooling disk mounted 
on said shaft adjacent each of said end walls, four open 

ended cylinder elements axially extending through said 
housing and carried by said disks, the axis of each of said 

cylinder elements extending parallel to the other cylinder 
elements and parallel to the axis of said shaft, each said 

cylinder element being equiangularly disposed from adjacent 
cylinder elements about the axis of said shaft and being 

radially spaced from the axis of said shaft for 
intermittent alignment of the open ends thereof with said 

ports as said rotor assembly rotates, an elongated piston 
including a piston head at each end thereof slidingly 

disposed in each said cylinder element for reciprocal 
movement parallel to the axis of said shaft, said piston 

including a normally extending follower which extends from 
said piston through an axial slot in said cylinder element 

and the extending end thereof being received in said 
sinusoidal track; 
e. means for collecting and conducting compressed 
fluid from said outlet ports to a use point; and  

 
f. means for providing rotational force to said 
shaft to cause said rotor assembly to rotate in said 

housing. 
An internal combustion engine comprising: 

a. an open ended stationary housing defining an 
interior; 
b. a sinusoidal cam track disposed in said interior 
of said stationary housing; 
c. an end wall closing each said open end of said 
housing, each of said end walls provided with an inlet and 

an outlet port and fuel injection means; 
d. a rotor assembly disposed in said interior of 

said housing, said rotor assembly including a central shaft 
extending axially through said interior of said housing, 

said shaft being rotatably journaled by bearing means in 
each of said end walls, at least one cooling disk mounted 

on said shaft adjacent each of said end walls, four open 
ended cylinder elements axially extending through said 

housing and carried by said disks, the axis of each of said 
cylinder elements extending parallel to the other cylinder 

elements and parallel to the axis of said shaft, each said 
cylinder element being equiangularly disposed from adjacent 

cylinder elements about the axis of said shaft and being 
radially spaced from the axis of said shaft for 

intermittent alignment of the open ends thereof with said 
ports as said rotor assembly rotates, an elongated piston 

including a piston head at each end thereof slidingly 
disposed in each said cylinder element for reciprocal 

movement parallel to the axis of said shaft, each end of 
said piston operating in respective four stroke cycles, 

said piston including a normally extending follower which 
extends from said piston through an axial slot in said 

cylinder element and the extending end thereof being 
received in said sinusoidal track; 
e. fuel injection means at said intake port for the 
delivery of a fuel to said open ends of said cylinder  

 
elements as they rotate into alignment therewith; 
f. means for initiating ignition of said air fuel 
mixture after it is compressed within said cylinder 

element; and 
g. an exhaust manifold communicating with each of 
said outlet ports for receiving combustion products from 

said cylinder elements during the exhaust stroke of said 
piston. 
A combination rotary internal combustion engine and 
compressor comprising: 


a. an open ended stationary housing defining an 
interior; 
b. a sinusoidal cam track disposed in said interior 
of said stationary housing; 
c. a first end wall closing one open end of said 
housing to define the engine side of said device, said 

first end wall provided with an inlet and an outlet port, 
said first end wall further including a fuel injection 

nozzle in communication with said inlet port for the 
delivery of an air/fuel mixture to said inlet port and 

means for initiating ignition of said air fuel mixture 
after it has been compressed within said cylinder element; 
d. a second end wall closing said other end of said 
housing to define the compressor side of said device, said 

second end wall having four ports which with respect to the 
axis of said shaft are equiangularly spaced from adjacent 

ports, two of said ports being fluid inlet ports and two of 
said ports being outlet ports for compressed fluid; 
e. a rotor assembly disposed in said interior of 
said housing, said rotor assembly including a central shaft 

extending axially through said interior of said housing, 
said shaft being rotatably journaled by bearing means in 

each of said end walls, at least one cooling disk mounted 
on said shaft adjacent each of said end walls, four open 

ended cylinder elements axially extending through said 
housing and carried by said disks, the axis of each of said  

 
cylinder elements extending parallel to the other cylinder 

elements and parallel to the axis of said shaft, each said 
cylinder element being equiangularly disposed from adjacent 

cylinder elements about the axis of said shaft and being 
radially spaced from the axis of said shaft for 

intermittent alignment of the open ends thereof with said 
ports in said end walls as said rotor assembly rotates, an 

elongated piston including a piston head at each end 
thereof slidingly disposed in each said cylinder element 

for reciprocal movement parallel to the axis of said shaft, 
said piston including a normally extending follower which 

extends from said piston through an axial slot in said 
cylinder element, the extending end of said follower being 

received in said sinusoidal track, said piston head of said 
pistons adjacent said first end wall reciprocating in said 

cylinder element in a four stroke engine cycle during each 
revolution of said rotor assembly, said piston heads of 

said pistons adjacent said second end wall reciprocating in 
two intake and compression cycles during each revolution of 

said rotor assembly; and 
f. an exhaust manifold communicating with each of 
said outlet ports for receiving combustion products from 

said cylinder elements during the exhaust stroke of said 
piston. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
