<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636035</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED FLUID DELIVERY APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M500	A61M5168	A61M5142	A61M100	A61M5152	A61M5168	A61M514	A61M514	B01J400	A61M500	A61M5145	B01J400	A61M5142	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B01J	A61M	A61M	B01J	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M1	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	B01J4	A61M5	A61M5	B01J4	A61M5	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for precisely mixing parenteral fluids with infusing agents into an ambulatory patient at specific rates over extended periods of time. The apparatus is of a compact, low profile, laminate construction and includes an elastic distendable membrane (209), or a membrane assemblage, which, in cooperation with a thin planar base (202), defines a fluid chamber (211) having a fluid outlet (214). In certain embodiments of the invention, a thin fluid permeable membrane (215) or membrane assemblage is disposed within the fluid chamber (211) to precisely control the rate of fluid flow through the fluid outlet (214).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENCE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCIENCE INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRIESEL MARSHALL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRIESEL, MARSHALL S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to fluid
delivery devices. More particularly, the invention concerns an
improved apparatus for infusing medicinal agents into an
ambulatory patient at specific rates over extended periods of
time.Many medicinal agents require an intravenous route for
administration thus bypassing the digestive system and
precluding degradation by the catalytic enzymes in the
digestive tract and the liver. The use of more potent
medications at elevated concentrations has also increased the
need for accuracy in controlling the delivery of such drugs.
The delivery device, while not an active pharmacologic agent,
may enhance the activity of the drug by mediating its
therapeutic effectiveness. Certain classes of new
pharmacologic agents possess a very narrow range of therapeutic
effectiveness, for instance, too small a dose results in no
effect, while too great a dose results in toxic reaction.In the past, prolonged infusion of fluids has generally
been accomplished using gravity flow methods, which typically
involve the use of intravenous administration sets and the
familiar bottle suspended above the patient. Such methods are
cumbersome, imprecise and require bed confinement of the
patient. Periodic monitoring of the apparatus by the nurse or
doctor is required to detect malfunctions of the infusion
apparatus.Devices from which liquid is expelled from a relatively
thick-walled bladder by internal stresses within the distended
bladder are well-known in the prior art. Such bladder, or
"balloon" type, devices are described in U.S. Patent No. 
3,469,578, issued to Bierman and in U.S. Patent No. 4,318,400,
issued to Perry. The devices of the aforementioned patents
also disclose the use of fluid flow restrictors external of the
bladder for regulating the rate of fluid flow from the bladder.The prior art bladder type infusion devices are not
without drawbacks. Generally, because of the very nature of
bladder or "balloon" configuration, the devices are unwieldy
and are difficult and expensive to manufacture and use.
Further, the devices are somewhat unreliable and their fluid
discharge rates are frequently imprecise.A much more sophisticated fluid delivery apparatus is
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,019,047 issued to the present
inventor. This device eliminates the bladder altogether and
makes use of recently developed elastomeric film laminates
which, in cooperation with a plate-like base define a fluid
chamber that contains the fluid which is to be dispensed. The
elastomeric film membrane
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for use in controllably infusing medicinal fluids into a patient
comprising:


(a) a base (300) having a width
(b) and dispensing means operably associated with a fluid outlet
(310) for dispensing fluid from the device,
(c) energy storage means for forming, in conjunction with said base,
a low profile fluid chamber (211) which includes a fluid outlet

(213),
characterized in that
(d) said energy storage means comprises a multi-layer construction
(318) having at least two distinct distendable membranes (320,

322) superimposed over said base (300), said distendable
membranes being distendable by the fluids to be infused,

thereby establishing internal stresses which tend to return said
members to a less distended configuration, said distendable

membranes acting to controllably urge fluid from said chamber
through said outlet.
A device as defined in claim 1 further including a flow control means is
disposed internally of said chamber for controlling a rate of flow of fluid

out of said device, said internal flow control means comprising at least
one thin permeable membrane superimposed over said base.
A device as defined in claims 1 or 2 further including an external flow
control means disposed intermediate said fluid outlet and said

dispensing means for controlling a rate of flow of fluid out of said
device. 
A device as defined in one of claims 1-3 in which at least one of said
planar-shaped, distendable membranes is permeable to gas.
A device as defined in claim 4 in which at least one of said distendable
membranes has a first permeability constant.
A device as defined in claim 5 in which at least one of said distendable
membranes has a second permeability constant.
A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said device is used for infusing
fluids into an ambulatory patient at a controlled rate wherein


(a) said base has said fluid inlet and said fluid outlet (310)
interconnected by a fluid flow path;
(b) said distendable membrane (320, 322) is constructed of an
elastic material which is fitted over said base (300) to define said

chamber and is in communication with said fluid inlet and said

fluid outlet (310), and wherein said device further includes:
(c) filling means for introducing fluid into said fluid inlet; and
(d) adding means disposed within said fluid flow path for adding an
additive to fluid flowing therethrough.
A device as defined in claim 7 in which said adding means comprises
an additive and an additive presentation means for presenting said

additive to the fluid, said additive presentation means being disposed
within said fluid flow path so that at least a part of said additive will be

added to said fluid introduced into said fluid inlet.
A device as defined in claim 7 in which said adding means comprises
an additive and an additive presentation means for presenting said

additive to the fluid, said additive presentation means having exposed 
surfaces, said additive being removably connected to said exposed

surfaces.
A device as defined in claim 7 in which said adding means comprises
a structural support having exposed surfaces and a beneficial agent

present on said exposed surfaces, said structural support being
disposed within said fluid flow path so that at least a portion of said

beneficial will be added to said fluid introduced into said fluid inlet.
A device as defined in claim 7 in which said adding means comprises
a polymer support and an additive carried by said polymer support,

said polymer support being disposed within said fluid flow path so that
at least a portion of said additive will be added to the fluid flowing

through said fluid flow path.
A device as defined in claim 7 in which said adding means comprises
a member having exposed surfaces and a biologically active material

present on said exposed surfaces, said member being disposed within
said fluid flow path so that said biologically active material will be

added to said fluid introduced into said fluid inlet.
A device as defined in claim 7 wherein said device is used for use in
infusing fluids into a patient at a controlled rate, further comprising:


a fluid passageway (420) interconnecting said fluid inlet and said fluid
outlet (310), whereby said chamber is in communication with said fluid

passageway (420) and fluid is introduced into said chamber under
pressure through said fluid passageway (420); and wherein
said adding means is mounted within said base, said adding means
comprising:


additive presentation means disposed within said fluid passageway for
presenting an additive to the fluid flowing therethrough; and 
an additive removably interconnected to said additive presentation
means, said additive comprising a beneficial agent.
A device as defined in claim 11 in which said distendable membrane
includes a surface in contact with the fluid introduced by said filling

means and in which said additive is removably interconnected with said
surface.
A device as defined in claim 13 in which said additive presentation
means comprises a flow rate control membrane disposed between said

fluid outlet of said base and said chamber, said flow rate control
membrane having exposed surfaces, said additive being removably

connected to said exposed surfaces.
A device as defined in claim 13 in which said additive presentation
means comprises a surface in said base, said additive being removably

connected to said surface.
A device as defined in claim 13 in which said adding means comprises
a vial assembly having said additive presentation means sealably

contained therein.
A device as defined in claim 17 in which said vial assembly comprises
a glass vial having first and second ends sealed by first and second

sealing members.
A device as defined in claim 18 in which said base includes a chamber
for receiving said glass vial.
A device as defined in claim 19 in which a hollow needle is mounted
within said chamber (211) for piercing said second sealing member, 

said hollow needle having a fluid passageway (520) in communication
with said fluid passageway of said base.
A device as defined in claim 7, wherein said device is disposed for
infusing fluids into an ambulatory patient and wherein


said base (501) has an upstanding portion (519) including a fluid inlet
passageway (520), said fluid outlet and said fluid inlet passageway

(520) being interconnected by said fluid flow path
and said filling means includes a filling check valve means for
controlling the flow of fluid into said fluid inlet passageway.
A device as defined in claim 19 in which said adding means comprises
an additive and an additive presentation means for presenting said

additive to the fluid, said additive presentation means being disposed
within said fluid inlet passageway (520) intermediate said fluid outlet

and said filling check valve means.
A device as defined in claim 19 in which said adding means comprises
an additive and an additive presentation means for presenting said

additive to the fluid, said additive being removable from said additive
presentation means using affinity chromographic techniques.
A device as defined in claim 23 in which said additive is removably
connected to said additive presentation means using aziactone

functional compounds.
A device as defined in claim 23 in which a ligand is connected to said
additive presentation means and a target molecule is connected to said

ligand. 
A device as defined in claim 25 in which a spacer is connected to said
support and in which enzymes are connected to said spacer.
A device as defined in claim 25 in which a spacer is connected to said
support and in which a protein is connected to said spacer.
A device as defined in claim 27 in which an antibody is bound to said
protein.
A device as defined in claim 7 wherein said device is used for infusing
fluids into an ambulatory patient at a controlled rate and wherein


said fluid outlet (608) is a fluid outlet passageway and a fluid
passageway interconnecting said fluid inlet and said fluid outlet

passageway, whereby said chamber (620) is in communication with
said fluid passageway and wherein
said adding means is disposed within said fluid outlet passageway for
adding an additive to fluid flowing therethrough, said adding means

comprising a support and an additive removably connected to said
support.
A device as defined in claim 29 in which said filling means comprises a
syringe assembly.
A device as defined in claim 29 in which an upstanding portion (626)
receiving said adding means extending transversely of the base

member (601) of the device.
A device as defined in claim 29 in which said upstanding portion (626)
extending longitudinally of said base member (601).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
