<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643854</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTI-COLLISION SYSTEM FOR VEHICLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60K3704	B60K3706	B60Q150	B60Q152	B60R2100	B60R2100	B60W3000	B60W3000	F02D2902	F02D2902	G01S704	G01S704	G01S1300	G01S1360	G01S1393	G08G116	G08G116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60K	B60K	B60Q	B60Q	B60R	B60R	B60W	B60W	F02D	F02D	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G08G	G08G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60K37	B60K37	B60Q1	B60Q1	B60R21	B60R21	B60W30	B60W30	F02D29	F02D29	G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	G01S13	G08G1	G08G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An anti-collision system for vehicles includes a speed sensor (12) for sensing the speed of the vehicle (2), a space sensor (8) for measuring the distance of the vehicle (2) from an object, a computer (4) for computing a danger-of-collision distance to the object, an alarm (46c, 48c, 54) actuated by the computer (4) when the sensed distance of the object is equal to or less than the danger-of-collision distance compared by the computer (4), and a brake light (24) actuated upon the actuation of said alarm (46c, 48c, 54). The system also includes a control panel (6) having parameter presetting means for presetting preselected parameters concerning the vehicle (2), the vehicle driver, and the environment, which are utilized by the computer (4) for computing the danger-of-collision distance to the object.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAVIDIAN DAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOR YITZCHAK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DAVIDIAN, DAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOR, YITZCHAK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDIAN DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIDIAN, DAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ANTI-COLLISION SYSTEM FOR VEHICLESFIELD AND BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an anti-collision system for vehicles. The invention is especially useful for passenger cars, taxis, trucks and buses, and is therefore described below particularly with respect to such vehicles, but the invention, or some aspects of the invention, could also advantageously be used for other types of vehicles, e.g., trains and aircraft.One of the most frequent causes of vehicle accidents is the failure of a vehicle to maintain an assured safe distance behind another vehicle to prevent a rear end collision should the front vehicle suddenly stop. The assured safe distance required to prevent such a rear-end collision depends on the reaction time of the vehicle driver before the brake pedal is actually depressed, and the braking distance traversed by the vehicle before it comes to a complete stop after the braking pedal has been depressed. Both of these factors vary according to the surrounding circumstances at the time of driving.In order to prevent collisions, many parameters, which are constantly changing during the year or even during a trip, may affect the stopping distance of the vehicle and therefore should be taken into account. These parameters include: the condition of the driver, such as the driver'sSUBSTITUTESHEET 

reaction time; the condition of the vehicle, such as the vehicle load, the tires pressure; and environmental conditions, such as road type, visibility, skidding condition.It is very important that the computer determines the danger-of-collision distance according to the specific conditions existing at the time the vehicle is being operated. Thus, if the determined danger-of-collision distance is too high for the specific operating conditions, there will be a high rate of "false alarms"; this will reduce the credibility of the system to the driver, which can result in a true collision condition being ignored. On the other hand, if the determined danger-of-collision distance is too low for the specific operating conditions, this could result in failure to actuate the alarm in time when there was truly a collision condition.Many anti-collision systems have been proposed, but insofar as I am aware, none has yet gained any widespread use, probably because the proposed systems have not taken into consideration the variable nature of the many parameters which influence the reaction time and/or the braking distance involved at any particular time for determining the assured safe
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An anti-collision system for vehicles, comprising: means for determining the speed of the vehicle; means for measuring the distance of the vehicle from an object; a computer for receiving a number of parameters, including the speed of the vehicle, and for computing from said parameters a danger-of-collision distance to said object; and a collision alarm actuated by said computer when the measured distance of said object is equal to or less than said danger-of-collision distance computed by the computer; characterized in that said system also includes a control panel having parameter presetting means for presetting preselected parameters which are utilized by said computer for computing said danger-of-collision distance to said object.
2. The system according to Claim 1 , wherein the system also includes a Safety alarm actuated by said computer, before actuating said Collision alarm, when said measured distance is equal to or less than said danger-of- collision distance multiplied by a predetermined safety factor.
3. The system according to Claim 2, wherein said control panel also includes distance presetting means for
S 


presetting a selected fixed distance from an object, said computer being effective to actuate one of said alarms when the distance to said object is equal to or less than said fixed distance.
4. The system according to Claim 1 , wherein said preselected parameters include: at least one vehicle parameter concerning a preselected condition of the vehicle; at least one driver parameter concerning a preselected condition of the vehicle driver; and at least one environmental parameter concerning a preselected condition of the environment.
5. The system according to Claim 4, wherein said driver parameter includes a selected one of a plurality of relative reaction times of the vehicle driver.
6. The system according to Claim 4, wherein said vehicle parameter includes a selected one of a plurality of relative load conditions of the vehicle.
7. The system according to Claim 4, wherein said environmental parameter includes a selected one indicative of the danger of the road to skidding.
8. The system according to Claim 4, wherein said environmental parameter includes a selected one indicative of the visibility condition at the time of driving.
9. The system according to Claim 4, wherein said environmental parameter includes a selected one indicative of the type of road over which the vehicle is travelling.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 10. The system according to Claim 4, wherein said environmental parameter includes a selected one indicative of whether or not it is daylight at the time of driving.
11. The system according to Claim 4, wherein said presetting means includes a plurality of depressible keys on said control panel.
12. The system according to Claim 1, wherein said vehicle includes a brake light indicator which is automatically actuated when said collision alarm is actuated.
13. The system according to Claim 12, wherein said vehicle includes a brake light indicator which is automatically actuated when said safety alarm is actuated.
14. The system according to Claim 1 , wherein said control panel includes presettable means for disabling said collision alarm when said measure distance, said determined speed, or the product of said measure distance and said determined speed is less than a predetermined minimum.
15. The system according to Claim 1 , further including a plurality of condition sensors for sensing any one of a plurality of selected conditions, and for automatically feeding to said computer information with respect to said sensed conditions, which information is also utilized by the computer for computing said danger-of- collision distance to said object.
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


 16. The system according to Claim 12, wherein said, condition sensors include a condition-of-driver sensor, comprising: a plurality of depressible keys; means for displaying a random sequence in which the latter keys are to be depressed; and means for comparing the actual sequence in which the keys are depressed with said displayed random sequence to provide a condition-of-driver parameter, which parameter is also utilized by the computer for enabling or disabling vehicle operation and/or for computing said danger-of-collision distance to said object.
17. The system according to Claim 1 , wherein said system further includes a sealed recording device which records all incidents in which said computer actuated said alarm.
18. The system according to Claim 1 , wherein said system further includes an actuator for automatically actuating a mechanical system of the vehicle at the time said collision alarm is actuated.
19. A condition-of-driver sensor, comprising: a plurality of depressible keys; means for displaying a random sequence in which the latter keys are to be depressed; and means for comparing the time taken by a driver for depressing the keys according to the displayed sequence with a reference time to provide a condition-of-driver
SUBSTITUTESHEET 


parameter.
20. The sensor according to Claim 19, further including means for disabling operation of the vehicle if the condition-of-driver is determined to be below a threshold value.
SUBSTITUTE HE 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
