<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633184</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Steering aid for steering a glider.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64C3100	B64C3102	B64D4300	B64D4300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64C	B64C	B64D	B64D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64C31	B64C31	B64D43	B64D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A steering aid (12) for aiding a glider pilot (10) to steer 
into an upwardly moving air current, the steering aid comprising channelling 

means (15, 16) for channelling therethrough a substantially non-turbulent 
air current and direction sensing means mounted in 

conjunction with the channelling means for sensing the air current and for 
producing respective first and second signals, depending on a direction of 

flow of the air current through the channelling means. An indication means 
is coupled to the direction sensing means and responsive to the 

first or second signal for producing respective indication signals. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARAN ENG DEV LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARAN ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAKAI AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAKAI, AVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a steering aid for aiding the pilot of 
airborne aircraft such as gliders and the like. In perfectly calm weather conditions, a glider proceeds along a 
downward-sloping path whose angle is dependent upon the ratio of drag to 
lift. Specifically, the greater the drag, the steeper is the slope of the flight 
path. Consequently, in calm weather conditions, the flight duration is 
a function of the gliding angle. However, the principal skill in gliding 
consists in finding and exploiting upward air currents which enable the 
glider pilot to soar higher, thereby extending the flight duration. A glider, 
though "heavier than air", can rise if the upward force due to the rising air 
exceeds the weight of the glider. Considerable skill is required to locate 
rising air currents and the skilled glider pilot will be assisted, for example, 
by birds soaring in the air without flapping their wings, thereby indicating 
that they, too, are being lifted by an upwardly moving air current.  Upwardly moving air currents may be caused by local heating of 
the air and typically develop on hillsides, over warm areas of land and under 
cloud formations. Since, as is known, warm air rises, such local heating of 
the air gives rise to the desired upwardly moving air currents. Upon entering such an upwardly moving air current, the glider 
pilot will immediately sense an uplift and, in order fully to exploit the rising 
air current, he will endeavor to steer the glider into the air current so that 
the whole of the glider is subjected to the upwardly moving air current and 
not merely the extremity of the aircraft which first entered the air current. 
No foolproof way has been suggested for steering into the air current and 
what has generally been done up till now has been to rely on guesswork 
combined with trial and error. Specifically, the glider pilot steers whichever 
way he feels is correct and if he experiences a greater lifting force, he 
knows that his guess was correct. If, to the contrary, the glider starts to 
descend, this indicates that he steered the wrong way and he must take such 
compensatory action as is called for. It would clearly be desirable to provide a steering aid which 
would indicate to the pilot of a glider aircraft into which direction he must 
steer the aircraft so as to take better advantage of a rising air current. It is an object of the invention to provide a steering aid for aiding 
a glider pilot to steer into an upwardly moving air current. According to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A steering aid (12, 42) for aiding a glider pilot (10, 40) to steer 
into an upwardly moving air current, the steering aid characterized by: 

   channelling means (15, 16, 43, 44) for channelling therethrough an air 
current, 

   direction sensing means (18, 47) mounted in conjunction with the 
channelling means for sensing the air current and for producing respective 

first and second signals, depending on a direction of flow of the air current 
through the channelling means, and 

   indication means (19, 20, 48) coupled to the direction sensing means 
and responsive to the first or second signal for producing respective 

indication signals. 
The steering aid according to Claim 1, wherein: 

   the channelling means includes a hollow tube (17, 46) mounted 
proximate the glider pilot, having at opposite ends thereof respective 

downwardly depending openings (15, 16, 43, 44) for admitting the upwardly 
moving air current therethrough, and 

   the direction sensing means (18, 47) is mounted inside the hollow tube 
so as to be subjected on opposite sides thereof to the respective air currents 

entering said openings. 
The steering aid according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the direction 
sensing means comprises: 

   a bridge network (23) having a pair of sensors (21, 22) therein such 
that when the sensors are exposed to a differential air flow a net voltage is 

developed across the bridge network, and 
   a comparator (30) having a pair of input terminals (28, 29) connected 

across the bridge network and responsive to said voltage being positive or 
negative for producing said first and second signals. 
The steering aid according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein 
each of the sensors is a thermistor responsive to a difference in air 

temperature at opposite ends of the channelling means for producing said net 
voltage. 
The steering aid according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein 
each of the sensors is a strain gauge responsive to a difference in air 

pressure at opposite ends of the channelling means for producing said net 
voltage. 
The steering aid according to any one of Claims 3 to 5, wherein 
the illumination means includes a pair of different colored LEDs (19, 20) in 

a common encapsulation, only one of said LEDs being illuminated when the 
bridge network is unbalanced and both of the LEDs being alternately 

illuminated when the bridge network is nominally balanced so as to produce 
a combination color distinct from the colors of the LEDs. 
The steering aid according to Claim 6, wherein the LEDs are red 
and green, respectively, and the combination color is close to yellow. 
The steering aid according to Claim 6 or 7, wherein the LEDs are 
each switchably coupled to an output of the comparator via a corresponding 

normally open switching means including an NPN (32) and a PNP (33) 
bipolar junction transistor, respectively, responsive to positive and negative 

base voltages respectively for changing from a normally open state to a 
closed state. 
The steering aid according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein 
the indication means comprises: 

   a pair of illumination means (34, 35) each switchably coupled to the 
direction sensing means via respective normally open switching means which 

are responsive to the first and second signals for closing. 
The steering aid according to Claim 9, wherein the respective 
switching means include an NPN (32) and a PNP (33) bipolar junction 

 
transistor responsive to positive and negative base voltages respectively for 

changing from open to closed states. 
The steering aid according to Claim 10, where the pair of 
illumination means are of different colors. 
The steering aid according to Claim 11, wherein the illumination 
means are LEDs. 
The steering aid according to Claim 2, wherein the hollow tube 
(47) is resilient. 
The steering aid according to Claim 2 or 13, wherein the hollow 
tube (17) is substantially U-shaped. 
The steering aid according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein 
the indication means (55) includes a plurality of illumination means (58) 

such that a different number of said illumination means is illuminated 
depending on a magnitude of the net voltage across the bridge network. 
The steering aid according to Claim 15, wherein the illumination 
means are LEDs. 
The steering aid according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein: 
   the illumination means is an LCD display (55) having a plurality of 

angularly spaced radial lines (57) of pixels (58), and 
   one of said lines of pixels is illuminated to indicate a direction of air 

flow. 
The steering aid according to Claim 17, wherein a different 
number of said pixels (58) is illuminated depending on a magnitude of the 

air flow. 
The steering aid according to Claim 1, wherein the direction 
sensing means comprises a strain gauge responsive to a difference in air 

pressure on opposite surfaces thereof so as to deform in a manner which is 
a function of the differential air pressure deriving from different air speeds 

on said surfaces. 
The steering aid according to Claim 1, wherein: 
   the direction sensing means comprises at least three non-collinear 

sensors each for producing a respective signal which is a function of the 
speed of the air striking the corresponding sensor; 

   thereby permitting determination of the direction of the center of the 
upwardly moving air current and its speed gradient. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
