<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617415</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for recording/reproducing information in a card.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K701	G06K7015	G11B700	G11B700	G11B70033	G11B708	G11B708	G11B7085	G11B7085	H02N200	H02N200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H02N	H02N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	G11B7	H02N2	H02N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An information recording/reproducing apparatus 
records and/or reproduces information with a card 

information recording medium in which a plurality of 
guide tracks are formed. The apparatus includes a 

recording/reproducing head for recording information 
along the guide tracks and/or for reproducing recorded 

information along the guide tracks, a head moving 
device for moving the recording/reproducing head to and 

from along the guide tracks, and a recording medium 
moving device for moving the recording medium in a 

direction perpendicular to the guide tracks. The 
recording medium moving device is an ultrasonic motor. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI KAZUNORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI KAZUNORI C O CANON KABU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relate to an information 
recording/reproducing apparatus for recording 
information in a card information recording medium 
and/or for reproducing information recorded in the 
recording medium. Information recording/reproducing apparatus 
employ either the magnetic method or the optical 
method. Among the two methods, the optical method is 
recently drawing attention. As information 
recording/reproducing apparatus using an optical beam, 
there are conventional apparatus employing CD of a disc 
recording medium being rotated, an optical disc for 
video disc, a magnetooptical disc, an optical card of a 
card recording medium being shuttled to and fro, and an 
optical tape. These apparatus are used depending upon the 
purpose, among which the optical card is now a focus of 
attention because of the convenience of portability. To use the optical card as an information 
recording medium, various suggestions have been made  
 
for such a method that an optical beam from a movable 
optical head is guided to illuminate an optical card, 
the optical card is linearly moved along an information 
track, and the optical head is moved in a direction 
perpendicular to the direction of the card linear 
motion, i.e., in a direction to cross information 
tracks on the optical card. Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 show a conventional example 
of this method as well known. In the drawings, C represents an optical card 
having a recording section Ca on the back face thereof, 
303 an optical card holding member (hereinafter 
referred to as a shuttle) for holding the optical card 
C moving to and fro in the directions of a 
double-headed arrow A, and 319 an optical head movable 
through an unrepresented drive mechanism in the 
directions of a double-headed arrow B perpendicular to 
the directions of the arrow A. The shuttle 303 has a stepped portion 310 into 
which the optical card C is inserted. A press plate 
spring 313 is provided on one side in the directions of 
the arrow B and urges the optical card C against an 
edge 310 a formed on the other side of the stepped 
portion 310. Also, the leading end of the optical card 
C inserted into the stepped portion 310 comes into 
contact with a stopper protrusion 314 to stop the 
optical card C at a predetermined position. Further,  
 
in order to control upward movement of the optical card 
C held in the stepped portion 310, optical card holding 
portions 311, 312 are formed on the both sides of the 
recording section Ca with a clearance to avoid a 
contact with the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information recording/reproducing 
apparatus for recording and/or reproducing information 

with a card information recording medium in which a 
plurality of guide tracks are formed, comprising: 

   a recording/reproducing head for recording 
information along said guide tracks and/or for 

reproducing recorded information along said guide 
tracks; 

   recording/reproducing head moving means for 
moving said recording/reproducing head to and fro along 

said guide tracks; and 
   recording medium moving means for moving said 

recording medium in a direction perpendicular to said 
guide tracks. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, further 
comprising holding means for holding said recording 

medium, wherein said recording medium moving means 
moves said holding means in the direction perpendicular 

to said guide tracks. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said recording medium moving means is an ultrasonic 

motor. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
 

said recording/reproducing head moving means is a voice 
coil motor. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein 
said recording/reproducing head is an optical head and 

said recording and/or reproducing of information is 
effected by irradiating an optical beam onto said 

recording medium. 
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein 
said optical head comprises a fixed optical head 

portion fixed to said apparatus and comprising a light 
source for emitting said optical beam and a sensor for 

receiving reflected light appearing when said optical 
beam is irradiated onto said recording medium, and a 

movable optical head portion in which at least an 
objective lens for focusing said optical beam on said 

recording medium is mounted, said movable optical head 
portion being moved along said guide tracks by said 

recording/reproducing head moving means. 
An information recording/reproducing 
apparatus for recording and/or reproducing information 

with a card information recording medium in which a 
plurality of guide tracks are formed, comprising: 

   a recording/reproducing head for recording 
information along said guide tracks and/or for 

 
reproducing recorded information along said guide 

tracks; 
   recording/reproducing head moving means for 

moving said recording/reproducing head to and fro along 
said guide tracks; 

   recording medium moving means for moving said 
recording medium in a direction perpendicular to said 

guide tracks; and 
   control means for controlling said recording 

medium moving means to move said recording/reproducing 
head to a desired guide track. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein 
said recording/reproducing head is an optical head and 

said recording and/or reproducing of information is 
effected by irradiating an optical beam onto said 

recording medium. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, further 
comprising relative positional deviation detecting 

means for detecting a relative positional deviation 
between said recording/reproducing head and said guide 

tracks and for outputting a signal indicating said 
relative positional deviation, wherein said control 

means controls movement of said recording/reproducing 
head based on said signal. 
An information recording and/or reproducing 
device, comprising: 

   a moving mechanism for moving an information 
recording medium substantially of a card, said moving 

mechanism having a vibration actuator as a drive 
source, wherein said information recording medium is 

moved by vibration of a vibration member in said 
vibration actuator in a direction substantially 

perpendicular to a direction of information tracks in 
said information recording medium. 
A device according to claim 10, wherein 
said vibration member is in press contact with a 

contact member, said contact member being held by a 
frictional force between the members in a non-operating 

state of said vibration actuator, whereby said 
information recording medium is also held. 
A device according to claim 10, wherein 
said information recording medium optically records 

and/or reproduces information with respect to said 
information tracks. 
A device according to claim 10, wherein 
said moving mechanism comprises a holding member for 

holding said information recording medium and said 
information recording medium moves when said holding 

 
member is moved by said vibration actuator as the drive 

source. 
A device according to claim 13, wherein 
said moving mechanism comprises a guide member for 

guiding said holding member as movable in said 
direction substantially perpendicular to the direction 

of said information tracks. 
A device according to claim 13, wherein 
said vibration member is mounted to said holding member 

and said vibration member moves with vibration thereof. 
A device according to claim 13, further 
comprising a second moving mechanism for moving said 

information recording medium to a predetermined 
position of said holding member, said second moving 

mechanism moving said information recording medium 
substantially in the direction of said information 

tracks. 
A device according to claim 14, further 
comprising a second moving mechanism for moving said 

information recording medium to a predetermined 
position of said holding member, said second moving 

mechanism moving said information recording medium 
substantially in the direction of said information 

 
tracks. 
A device according to claim 10, further 
comprising: 

   a head for recording and/or reproducing 
information in said information tracks in said 

information recording medium; and 
   a head moving mechanism for moving said head at 

least in the direction of said information tracks. 
A device according to claim 18, wherein 
said information recording medium optically records 

and/or reproduces information with respect to said 
information tracks. 
An information recording and/or reproducing 
device, comprising: 

   a first moving mechanism for carrying an 
information recording medium substantially of a card 

into the device, said first moving mechanism having a 
first vibration actuator as a drive source; and 

   a second moving mechanism for moving said 
information recordin
g medium in order to record and/or 
reproduce information, said second moving mechanism 

having a second vibration actuator as a drive source. 
A device according to claim 20, wherein a 
 

first vibration member in said first vibration actuator 
is in contact with said information recording medium, 

said information recording medium is moved by vibration 
of said first vibration member, and said information 

recording medium is held by press contact with said 
vibration member in a non-operating state of said 

vibration actuator. 
A device according to claim 21, wherein 
said first vibration actuator is set to move said 

information recording medium while urging said 
information recording medium against a reference 

member. 
A device according to claim 21, wherein 
said second moving mechanism comprises a holding member 

for holding said information recording medium and said 
information recording medium moves when said holding 

member is moved by said second vibration actuator as 
the drive source. 
A device according to claim 23, wherein 
said first moving mechanism moves said information 

recording medium to a predetermined position on said 
holding member. 
A device according to claim 24, wherein 
 

said second moving mechanism moves said holding member 
in a direction substantially perpendicular to a moving 

direction of said information recording medium by said 
first moving mechanism. 
An information recording and/or reproducing 
apparatus comprising recording medium moving means for 

moving a recording medium relative to a recording and/or 
reproducing head in the direction transverse to the 

recording track or tracks on the medium. 
An apparatus according to claim 26, in which 
the recording medium moving means is a vibration member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
