<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627095</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED SIMULATOR ARRANGEMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B2100	G03B2100	G03B2156	G03B2156	G09B900	G09B900	G09B902	G09B904	G09B905	G09B906	G09B932	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	G03B21	G09B9	G09B9	G09B9	G09B9	G09B9	G09B9	G09B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A screen simulator arrangement includes spaced apart screen (4) and one or more mirror means (5); said screen means (5) is formed with a plurality of spaced apart transparent portions (8) therein; said mirror means (5) is formed or provided with a plurality of holes or openings (10) therein; said screen (4) and said mirror means (5) are fixedly located relative to each other; the transparent portions (8) of said screen means (4) and the holes or openings (10) of said mirror means (5) are substantially out of register one with the other. An inner screen surface (7) of said screen means (4) and a reflective surface (5a) of said mirror means (5) generally face inwardly towards each other, said transparent portions (8) of said screen means (4) and said holes or openings (10) of said mirror means (5) being so out of register one with the other, such that screen portions (7a) of said screen means (4) are in substantial alignment/register with holes or openings (10) in said mirror means (5). The arrangement is such that projection means (20) spaced apart from an outer surface (5b) of said mirror means (5) projects images at said outer surfaces (5b) and through said holes or openings therein (10) so that imagery will appear on said screen portions (7a) of said screen means (4) in substantial alignment/register with said holes or openings (10) in said mirror means (5). The imagery is then reflected by reflective portions (5a) of said mirror means (5), so as to be viewable through said transparent portions (8) in said screen means (4) from a position spaced from an outer surface (9) of said screen means (4).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUTAN PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUTAN PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN DONALD LEWIS MAUNSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARTIN DONALD LEWIS MAUNSELL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED SIMULATOR ARRANGEMENTBACKGROUND OF THE PRESENT INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a screen simulator arrangement which sets out to provide a person or persons with a substantially realistic simulation of surr undings and/or happenings.Simulator arrangements are currently known which, generally speaking, comprise cabins, housings, cockpits, seats and the like, from which projected imagery of su oundings, happenings, rides, flights or other movement or surroundings is/are viewed. Often this is viewed in substantial synchronisation with inertial effects. For example, in many cases .such simulators are used for flight training and/or the training of motor vehicle drivers. This is however by way of example only. In various cases, however, simulator arrangemen are used for entertainment and amusement purposes.One of the important features of the screen simulator arrangements known up until this time is the screening system, whereby imagery is screened to a viewer or viewers, such as to give a realistic simulation of surroundings and/happenings. To a large extent, less sophisticated units previously known and available project imagery for viewing directly onto a video or film screen. On the other hand, more sophisticated arrangements attempt to present imagery at virtual infinity. Images shown at virtual infinity appear to be beyond framing borders of the screen; indeed, they appear to be outside the screen or capsule containing the screen.Many of the commercial type-virtual imagery simulator arrangements known up until this time suffer from practical limitations of size, weight and cost, in that the systems are often confined to small window simulators - for example, simulators of fighter-bomber windows; submarine periscopes, 

gunsights and the like. While adequate for these purposes, they are not approp iate/adequate for use in entertainment systems, where large capacity is required.Further, in entertainment systems, imagery is often viewed directly on screens such as to appear as flat imagery situated at the screen position. The extent to which realism can be contrived from directly viewed screens is limited and, generally speaking, of a poor quality.By way of example, screen simulator arrangements previously disclosed are known from international patent specification No WO 89/09431, United States patent speci ications Nos 2,132,904, 2,511,702, 3,198,066, 3,315,053, 3,480,346, 3,741,638, 4,167,311 and United Kingdom patent specifications Nos 147,404 and 167,340.It is an object of this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. A screen simulator arrangement including spaced apart screen and one or more mirror means; said screen means being formed with a plurality of spaced apart transparent portions therein; said mirror means being formed or provided with a plurality of holes or openings therein; said screen and said mirror means being fixedly located relative to each other; the transparent portions of said screen means and the holes or openings of said mirror means being substantially out of register one with the other; an inner screen surface of said screen means and a reflective surface of said mirror means generally facing inwardly towards each other; said transparent portions of said screen means and said holes or openings of said mirror means being so out of register one with the other, such that screen portions of said screen means are in substantial alignment/register with holes or openings in said mirror means; the arrangement being such that projection means spaced apart from an outer surface of said mirror means projects images at said outer surface thereof, and through said holes or openings therein, so that imagery will appear on said screen portions of said screen means in substantial alignment/register with said holes or openings in said mirror means; said imagery being so reflected by reflective portions of said mirror means, so as to be viewable through said transparent portions in said screen means, from a position spaced apart from an outer surface of said screen means.
2. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in claim 1
*
. wherein said screen means and said mirror means are spaced apart in parallel. 


3. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said mirror means includes at least one curved mirror.
4. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said mirror means includes at least one concave mirror means, having a concave surface facing inwardly towards the inner screen surface of said screen means.
5. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims 1 to 3, wherein said mirror means includes at least one substantiall -convex mirror means, having a convex surface facing inwardly towards said inner screen surface of said screen means.
6. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said mirror means includes a plurality of spaced apart mirrors.
7. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the transparent portions in the screen means and the holes or openings in said mirror means are substantially uniformly distributed.
8. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the transparent portions of said screen means are in the form of a plurality of holes or openings in said screen means.
9. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein a plurality of uniformly spaced apart transparent portions in said screen means, forms a plurality of screen pixels on an inwardly facing screen surface of said screen means; said transparent portions being 


of such a size as to be indiscernible to the eye, such that illumination of said transparent portions by mirror pixels of said mirror means, appears as a substantially single, coherent image from an outer side of said screen means.
10. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein said screen is a partial screen formed with a plurality of spaced apart screen pixels on an inner surface thereof.
11. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein said mirror is a partial mirror formed with a plurality of spaced apart reflective pixels on an inner surface thereof.
12. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said imagery, when viewed, encompasses an area within edges of said screen and said mirro (s) so that only said imagery can be seen within the screen.
13. A screen simulator arrangement as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said imagery, when viewed, totally encompasses an area within said edges of frames bounding said screen and said mirro (s) , so that nothing can be seen in said screen and within said frame but simulated imagery. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
