<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613554</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED RESOLUTION CONTINUOUS FLOW ZONE ELECTROPHORESIS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5702	B01D5702	G01N27447	G01N27447	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D57	B01D57	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method of continuous flow zone electrophoresis for separation of particulate or biological samples, including cells and sub-cellular components, in a separation chamber configured to enhance separation of the sample components. The peak-to-peak distance between sample components in a non-equilibrium continuous flow zone electrophoretic fractionator is amplified by selective manipulation of particle residence time within the separation zone. One embodiment of the invention comprises relocating the fraction collector (13) from the bottom of the apparatus (conventional position) to the side of the apparatus.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOSEPARATIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOSEPARATIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMMONS DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARNEZ RIZWAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAMMONS DAVID W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHARNEZ RIZWAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED RESOLUTION CONTINUOUS FLOW ZONE ELECTROPHORESISBackground of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to the separation of biological samples in a fluid flow introduced into a separation chamber in the presence of an applied field. More particularly, the present invention presents an apparatus and method of continuous flow zone electrophoresis for separation of particulate materials or biological samples, including cells and sub-cellular components, in a separation chamber configured to enhance separation of the sample components. The foregoing is accomplished by amplifying peak-to-peak distance between sample components in a non-equilibrium continuous flow zone electrophoretic fractionator by selective manipulation of particle residence time. The fractionator is provided with an axial fraction collector and a positive gradient along the applied field in particle residence time and/or particle deflection rate.In the approximately thirty years since its inception, continuous flow electrophoresis has emerged as a powerful method for separating cells and subcellular components. Because it is carrier free and gentle, continuous flow electrophoresis offers a fast and efficient alternative to centrifugation. In fact, since cellular function is more closely associated with surface charge than with volume or density, properties upon which centrifugation effectuates separation, continuous flow electrophoresis has greater potential for purifying functionally homogeneous cell populations. Moreover, because functional activity is substantially preserved and samples are efficiently recovered, continuous flow electrophoresis is particularly attractive for large scale purification.Barriolier, V.J., et al , Z. Naturforsch, 136:754 (1958) were the first group to reduce a continuous flow electrophoretic fractionator to purify biomolecules. The technique was further refined by Hannig, K. , Z. Anal. Chem. 

 181:244-254 (1961) and Strickler, A., et al , Annals N.Y. Acad. of Sci. , 209:497-514 (1973). Early applications of continuous flow electrophoresis were restricted to the separation of soluble components such as proteins and other biomolecules; the technology was extended to cells and subcellular components. Hjerten, S., Cell Separation Methods, Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier/North-Holland Biomedical Press, B.V,, Bloemendal, H. , ed. , 127 (1977).The principal of continuous flow electrophoresis entails establishing a conveying buffer flow in a first direction, either
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We Claim:
1. A method of continuous flow zone electrophoresis, comprising the steps of: a) flowing a sample containing at least two populations of charged components into a separator chamber in the presence of an applied field; b) selectively increasing a residence time of a faster charged component over a slower charged component within the chamber and separating said faster charged component from said slower charged component by: i) an increased flow velocity gradient; or ii) an increased applied field gradient.
2. The method according to Claim 1, further comprising the step of collecting said separated components in a fraction collector oriented axially with a direction of said flow of said sample.
3. The method according to Claim 2, wherein said separation chamber is a tapered chamber.
4. The method according to Claim 2, wherein said separation chamber is an annular chamber and said fraction collector resides within an annular opening of said annular chamber.
5. The method according to Claim 2, wherein said separation chamber further comprises a tapered electrode opposingly positioned to said fraction collector and forming a tapered collection chamber therebetween.
6. An apparatus for continuous flow zone electrophoresis, comprising: a fluid flow chamber having an upper and lower aspect thereof and side walls defining an interior fluid flow opening; 


 a fraction collector operably associated with a side wall and in close proximity to said lower aspect of said fluid flow chamber, said fraction collector being in fluid flow communication with said interior fluid flow opening; and means for generating a field across said fluid flow chamber.
7. The apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein said fluid flow chamber further comprises a generally quadrilateral cross-section.
8. The apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein said fluid flow chamber further comprises a generally tetrahedral cross-section.
9. The apparatus according to Claim 6, wherein said fluid flow chamber further comprises and annular cross- section.
10. The apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein said means for generating a field is oriented to generate a field across a longitudinal aspect of said fluid flow chamber.
11. A method of continuous flow zone electrophoresis, comprising the steps of: a) flowing a sample containing at least two populations of charged components into a chamber in the presence of an applied field; b) selectively increasing a residence time of a faster charged component over a slower charged component within the chamber and separating said faster charged component from said slower charged component.
12. The method according to Claim 11, wherein said step of selectively increasing a residence time further comprises the steps of orienting a fraction collector in axial alignment 


 with said flow of said sample and collecting said separated components said axially oriented fraction collector.
13. The method according to Claim 11, wherein said step of selectively increasing a residence time further comprises the step of reorienting said applied field such that said field is co-axial with a fluid flow velocity profile within the separation chamber.
14. The method according to Claim 11, wherein said step of flowing a sample further comprises the step of flowing said sample in a first direction.
15. The method according to Claim 14, wherein said step of flowing said sample in a first direction comprises flowing said sample transverse to a direction of said applied field.
16. The method according to Claim 11, further comprising the step of collecting said separated components in a fraction collector oriented axially with a direction of said flow of said sample.
17. The method according to Claim 16, wherein said separation chamber is a tapered chamber.
18. The method according to Claim 16, wherein said separation chamber is an annular chamber and said fraction collector resides within an annular opening of said annular chamber.
19. The method according to Claim 16, wherein said separation chamber further comprises a tapered electrode opposingly positioned to said fraction collector and forming a tapered collection chamber therebetween. 


 20. An apparatus for continuous flow zone electrophoresis, comprising: a fluid flow chamber having an upper and lower aspect thereof and defining an interior fluid flow opening, said interior fluid flow opening defining a first end thereof which is relatively wider than a second relatively narrower end thereof; a fraction collector operably associated said fluid flow chamber and in close proximity to said lower aspect of said fluid flow chamber, said fraction collector being in fluid flow communication with said second relatively narrower end of said interior fluid flow opening; and means for generating a field across said fluid flow chamber.
21. The apparatus according to Claim 20, wherein said fluid flow chamber further comprises a generally tetrahedral cross-section.
23. The apparatus according to Claim 20, wherein said fluid flow chamber further comprises and annular cross- section.
24. The apparatus according to Claim 20, wherein said means for generating a field is oriented to generate a field across a longitudinal aspect of said fluid flow chamber.
25. The apparatus according to Claim 20, wherein said means for generating a field is oriented to generate a field across a lateral aspect of said fluid flow chamber.
26. The apparatus according to Claim 23, wherein said means for generating a field is oriented to generate a radial field across said fluid flow chamber. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
