<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632594</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Latch controlled output driver
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C11409	G11C11417	H03K190175	G11C1606	H03K190175	H03K1900	G11C11409	H03K1900	G11C11417	G11C1700	G11C1700	G11C1606	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	H03K	G11C	H03K	H03K	G11C	H03K	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	G11C11	H03K19	G11C16	H03K19	H03K19	G11C11	H03K19	G11C11	G11C17	G11C17	G11C16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An output driver includes a pull-up and a pull-down 
transistor in series between an upper and a lower power 

supply voltage. Each transistor is controlled by a latch 
connected to its gate. Control transistors are cross-coupled 

between inputs to the latches and a power supply 
voltage to force at least one of the latches to be in a 

known state. This prevents both of the transistors from 
turning on simultaneously. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ST MICROELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STMICROELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE, DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of
microelectronics and in particular to digital
circuits. Still more particularly, the present
invention relates to output drivers in digital
circuits.In a digital circuit system, a common path is often
used to share and transfer data between various circuits
and devices in the system. A small set of shared lines,
a bus, may be used to provide the common path. In the
designing of digital circuit systems, some devices may
have an insufficient amount of maximum output current to
drive all of the lines connected to the devices. As a
result, a current amplifier, called a driver or a buffer,
is used to provide the needed currents.Latches are often used to control output drivers in
digital circuit systems. The state of these latches is
often critical during the power up phase of a digital
circuit system. For example, in an output driver circuit
having a pull up and pull down transistor and having two
latches controlling the pull up and pull down transistors,
forming the output driver, the individual latches may
power up in states that turn on both transistors at the
same time. Such a condition is known as a "crowbar"
condition. Frequently, parts that have differential data
bussed all the way to the output can see such effects. In some cases, a power-up reset circuit is used to force the
state of the latches to some preset state to avoid a crowbar
condition. Such a solution is not always sufficient. For
example, sometimes the state of the differential buses may not
be differentiated, leading to a crowbar condition during non-power-up
conditions. Also, a glitch in device operation or
external conditions such as a power supply may cause non-differentiation
during a non-power-up condition.In other cases, during testing of the device, a defective
memory cell may be accessed, rendering the differential buses
non-differentiated and creating a crowbar condition at the
outputs. In such a situation, the bad memory cell may be
replaced by redundant memory cells, but the testing of the bad
memory cell may have fused the power supplies or in some other
way rendered the device unusable.Therefore, it would be desirable to have an apparatus to
prevent a crowbar condition from occurring in a output driver
controlled by two or more latches.JP-A-02 243015 discloses a circuit for controlling a pull-up
transistor and a pull-down transistor. First and second latches are
provided at the control terminals of the pull- up and pull- down output transistors,
respectively. A crowbar condition
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control circuit for controlling a pull-up transistor as
a first output transistor and a pull-down transistor as a second

output transistor in a driver circuit comprising:

first and second latches (12,13; 14,15), each latch having
an output and an input, the first latch having an output

for connection to a gate of the first output transistor
(T1), and the second latch having an output for connection

to a gate of the second output transistor (T2);
a first gate (G1) having an output and an input, wherein
the output of the first gate is connected to said input of

the first latch and the input of the first gate is
connected to a first input point (GDT) ;
a second gate (G2) having an output and an input, wherein
the output of the second gate is connected to said input

of the second latch and the input of the second gate is
connected to a second input point (GDC);
a first transistor (P1) having a source connected to an
upper power supply voltage, a drain connected to said input

of the first latch circuit; and a gate connected to said
input of the second latch circuit; and
a second transistor (P2) having a source connected to the
upper power supply voltage, a drain connected to said input

of the second latch circuit, and a gate connected to said
input of the first latch circuit.
A latch controlled output driver circuit comprising:
the control circuit of claim 1 in combination with said pull-up

transistor (T1) and said pull-down transistor (T2). 
The latch controlled output driver circuit of claim 2,
wherein the pull-up transistor and the pull-down transistor are

n-channel MOSFETs.
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein the first input
point (GDT) is connected to a true data line and the second input

point (GDC) is connected to a complement data line.
A memory circuit comprising:

a plurality of memory groups (0-7) having a plurality of
outputs; and
a data bus circuit (106) having a plurality of inputs
connected to the plurality of outputs, the data bus circuit

having a latch controlled output driver circuit as claimed
in claims 2 or 3.
The memory circuit of claim 5, wherein the first input point
(GDT) is connected to a true data line and the second input point

(GDC) is connected to a complement data line.
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein the gates are
controlled by a clock signal.
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein the first latch
circuit includes a first inverter (12) and a second inverter

(13), the input of the first latch circuit being connected to an
input of the first inverter and an output of the second inverter

and the output of the first latch circuit being connected to the
output of the first inverter and the input of the second inverter

and wherein the second latch circuit includes a third inverter
(14) and a fourth inverter (15), the input of the second latch

circuit being connected to the input of the third inverter and
the output of the fourth inverter and the output of the second

latch circuit being connected to the output of the third inverter
and the input of the fourth inverter. 
The circuit of claim 8 wherein;

said first transistor (P1) is sized to overcome the feedback
from the second inverter (13) of said first latch and said second

transistor (P2) is sized to overcome the feedback from the fourth
inverter (15) of said second latch.
The circuit of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the first latch
circuit comprises a first inverter, a second inverter, a third

inverter, and a fourth inverter connected in series, wherein the
input of the first latch circuit is connected to an input of the

first inverter and an output of the fourth inverter and the
output of the first latch circuit being connected to an output

of the second inverter and an input of the third inverter.
The control circuit of any preceding claim, wherein the
first and second transistors are p-channel transistors.
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein the sources of
the first and second transistors are connected to a positive

upper power supply voltage.
The circuit of any preceding claim, wherein the first and
second gates are pass gates.
The circuit of claim 13 wherein, said first and second
transistors (P1;P2) are sized relative to the transistors of said

first and second gates (Gl; G2) respectively to overcome the
outputs of said first and second gates.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
