<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653854</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for reduction of optical communication system impairments
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1006	H04B1006	H04B10142	H04B10152	H04B1004	H04B1002	H04B1004	H04B1018	H01S310	H04B10152	H04B1002	H04B10142	H04B1018	H01S310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H01S3	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for reducing noise in optical communication 
systems (21,24,26,27,28) is effected by modulating or dithering the laser (21) output 

frequency at a relatively low rate. The laser (21) may be dithered by applying a low 
frequency sine wave (from 22) either to the resistive heater in the phase control 

section or to the laser's active section directly. By dithering the laser at a low 
frequency and at a sufficiently high amplitude to cause large optical frequency 

excursions, the noise caused by multipath interference will decrease without 
substantially increasing negative dispersion effects. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARCIE THOMAS EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOODWARD SHERYL LEIGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARCIE, THOMAS EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOODWARD, SHERYL LEIGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods of reducing a noise
level in an electrical signal which is modulated on an optical
carrier signal, and to systems for transmitting electrical
signals using a lightwave carrier signal.Community antenna television (CATV) signals used for
cable television transmission may be transmitted over
optical communication networks, using intensity-modulated
analog lightwave signals. Lasers are typically employed
to generate the light signals. A CATV signal generally
consists of several carrier signals representing different
television channels. The analog lightwave systems used
for transmitting these CATV signals have stringent
carrier-to-noise ratio (CNR) and distortion requirements.A source of noise referred to as interferometric
intensity noise (IIN) can degrade the CNR, thereby
compromising system performance. IIN is caused
predominantly by multipath interference (MPI), which is
interference that results from multiple reflections of the
lightwave signal in optical fiber. In particular, MPI is
detrimental to analog lightwave systems because it
converts source phase noise to lightwave intensity noise,
which increases the system noise level. For a further
discussion of MPI, see Judy, "Intensity Noise from Fiber
Rayleigh Backscatter and Mechanical Splices," Proc. 15th
European Conf. Optical Communications (Gothenburg, Sweden,
September 10, 1989). The spectrum of the noise caused by
IIN is strongly dependent on the optical spectrum of the
modulated laser. Lasers exhibiting relatively broad 
linewidths produce phase noise that falls within the CATV
signal band. Consequently, IIN in systems employing such
lasers can degrade signal quality.Interference noise may also be caused by single
reflections of bidirectional light transmission, referred
to herein as single reflection noise, which may occur in
interactive CATV applications. In bidirectional systems,
light travels in both directions along the optical fiber.
If light originating at one end of the system is
reflected, then the reflected light may interfere with the
light originating from the other end of the system.
Because of this interference, the optical frequency
differences between the light from the two sources are
converted to intensity noise. When the light sources'
optical frequencies are close this noise may fall within
the frequency band of interest, thereby degrading system
performance.MPI noise and single reflection noise within the CATV
band may be reduced by distributing the total noise
spectrum over a broader
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of reducing a noise level in an electrical signal which is
modulated on an optical carrier signal in an optical transmission system, said method

comprising:

effecting intensity or phase modulation of an optical carrier signal
generated by an optical signal generator (10,21) by applying a first electrical signal

within a first frequency range to the optical signal generator;
effecting frequency modulation of the optical carrier signal by applying a
second electrical signal to the optical signal generator, said second electrical signal

having a low frequency relative to the frequency of said first electrical signal and within
a second frequency range wherein the second frequency range does not overlap with the

first frequency range;
transmitting said modulated optical carrier signal over an optical signal
transmission line (26); and
detecting the optical carrier signal and producing an electrical signal.
The method of claim 1 wherein the noise level is
due in part to reflections in the optical transmission

line.
The method of claim 1 wherein the noise level is
due in part to multipath interference in the optical

transmission line.
The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency
modulation is operable to reduce stimulated Brillouin

scattering in the optical transmission system.
The method of claim 1 wherein the highest
frequency of the second frequency range is lower than the

lowest frequency of the first frequency range.
The method of claim 1 wherein the first
electrical signal comprises one or more electrically

multiplexed carrier signals and the first frequency range
is between 5 MHz and 1000 MHz. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the first
electrical signal comprises one or more electrically

multiplexed carrier signals and the first frequency range
is between 50 MHz and 500 MHz.
The method of claim 1 wherein the highest
frequency of the second frequency range is equal to or

less than 100 kHz.
The method of claim 1 wherein the optical signal
generator comprises a laser (10, 21) having a tuning means, and the

frequency modulation is effected by applying the second
electrical signal to the tuning means.
The method of claim 1 wherein the optical signal
generator comprises a semiconductor laser having an active

section, and the frequency modulation is effected by
applying the second electrical signal to the active

section of the laser. 
A system for transmitting electrical signals using a lightwave carrier
signal comprising:


a) light signal generating means (21, 22, 23), the light signal generating
means comprising a laser (21), a first means arranged to modulate the laser with a first

electrical signal (15) to be transmitted; said system 
characterised by
 a second means arranged to frequency
modulate the laser (14);
b) a first electrical signal generating means (23) arranged to generate the
first electrical signal, operably connected to the first modulation means of the light

signed generating means;
c) a second electrical signal generating means (22) arranged to generate
a second electrical signal for frequency modulating the laser, said second electrical

signal being of a lower frequency than the first electrical signal, operably connected to
the second frequency modulating means of the light signal generating means; and
d) means arranged to direct and carry the lightwave signal (24, 25, 26)
operably connected to the light signal generating means to direct and carry the signal

produced by said light signal generating means.
The system of claim 11 wherein the means for
frequency modulating the laser comprises a frequency

tuning means.
The system of claim 12 wherein the laser having
a frequency tuning means comprises a semiconductor laser.
The system of claim 12 wherein the laser having
a frequency tuning means comprises a solid state laser.
The system of claim 12 wherein the frequency
tuning means comprises an acousto-optic frequency

modulator.
The system of claim 12 wherein the frequency
tuning means comprises thermal tuning means.
The system of claim 11 wherein the laser
comprises a semiconductor laser having an active section,

and the frequency modulating means comprises the active
section.
The system of claim 11 wherein the first
electrical signal generating means comprises a community

antenna television signal generating means.
The system of claim 11 wherein the first
electrical signal generating means generates a plurality

of electrically multiplexed 5 MHz to 1000 MHz carrier
signals.
The system of claim 11 wherein the first
electrical signal generating means generates a plurality

of electrically multiplexed 50 MHz to 500 MHz carrier
signals.
The system of claim 11 wherein the first
electrical signal generating means generates one or more 5

MHz to 1000 MHz signals. 
The system of claim 11 wherein the first electrical signal generating

means generates one or more 50 MHz to 500 MHz signals.
The system of claim 11 wherein the system is utilized for
transmitting community antenna television signals using a lightwave carrier signal

wherein:

a) the light signal generating means is operable to produce light signals
which have a wavelength of between 1.3 µm and 1.55 µm, and
b) the first electrical signal generating means includes a source of
community antenna television signals operably connected to the laser intensity

modulating means of the light signal generating means to intensity modulate the laser
with a community antenna television signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
