<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617454</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and structure for electronically measuring beam parameters
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L21027	H01L2102	H01J3730	H01J37304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01J37	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of electronically measuring parameters of an 
beam in a raster scan system includes the steps of:

 
choosing a predetermined pixel to be calibrated, moving a 

grid adjacent this pixel, strobing the beam, incrementally 
moving the beam toward an axis of the grid, and 

integrating the signal resulting from the beam as the beam 
moves toward the axis. The steps of strobing the beam, 

incrementally moving the beam, and integrating the signal 
are repeated until the beam crosses the axis. The value 

of the accumulated signals, provided for example by a 
charge amplifier, is used to determine the relative 

position of the axis of the grid. The value of the 
accumulated signals associated with another axis is also 

determined. The relative positions of the two axes 
determine the relative location of the grid. If the grid 

location is known, the location of an associated substrate 
which is typically adjacent the grid is also known. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETEC SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETEC SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRIOR RICHARD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRIOR, RICHARD W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method of electronically measuring
deflection errors of a raster scanning charged particle beam according to the preamble
of claim 1 and to any according system as defined in the preamble of claim 16.The manufacture of electronic integrated circuits
relies heavily on the use of image projection techniques
to expose resist-coated wafers with light or X-rays. The
patterns formed by this exposure determine the various
circuit connections and configurations. In certain
applications, integrated circuit patterns are written
directly onto resist-coated wafers in a process called
electron-bean direct write.In any exposure method, accuracy of the projected
image is a prime consideration. This accuracy is
particularly important in the manufacture of high density
Random Access Memories (RAM) in which yield and ultimately
the cost of the components depend heavily on meeting tight
exposure placement requirements. Presently, electron beam
lithography systems provide the most accurate method of
placing the exposure patterns onto substrates for image
projection techniques and for direct write techniques. A
substrate is defined as a mask, wafer, or any similar
material used in a semiconductor process. In electron
beam lithography systems, beam position during exposure is
critical to achieving and maintaining the tight
performance tolerances required.The electron beam position is conventionally
controlled via a technique called raster scanning. In 
this method, the electron beam is repeatedly deflected in
a continuous series of ramp deflections and flyback
periods similar to a scanning technique used in
televisions. Typically, the electron beam is deflected as
rapidly as possible to minimize the time required to
completely expose a pattern. In this manner, the
production rate (i.e. throughput) is increased, and the
unit cost per mask or wafer is lowered.In a conventional system, the electron beam, which is
typically a spot from 0.1 micron to 1 micron in diameter,
is deflected over a range of several hundred microns and
must be positioned within that range with an error of less
than 0.01 microns, i.e. preferably a placement error of
less than 1 part in ten thousand. This low placement
error, coupled with a typical scanning rate of 30
kilohertz (KHz), make direct measurements of such signals
exceptionally difficult.Conventionally, the deflection signal is measured by
its product, i.e., the patterns on the mask or wafer.
Non-ideal pattern placement seen on the mask or wafer is
identified
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method of electronically measuring deflection errors of a raster scanning
charged particle beam (207, 1300, 1200), comprising the steps of:


a) choosing a predetermined beam position (705) for said raster
scanning charged particle beam to be calibrated;
b) providing a reference structure (316, 1102, 1202, 1302)
near said predetermined beam position and a detection

system (205) for detecting a beam signal representative for
the amount of interaction of said raster scanning charged particle

beam with said reference structure;
characterized by
c) strobing said raster scanning charged particle beam such as to
provide a quasi-stationary beam at the predetermined

position (705);
d) integrating said beam signal for a predetermined number
(N) of strobing pulses and outputting an integrated signal;
e) changing the predetermined beam position in
predetermined increments until the beam position has

crossed said reference structure, 
f) wherein at each incremental beam position steps c) and d) are
repeated.
A method according to claim 1, wherein a reference structure is
provided having a first and a second axis, and wherein steps d)

to f) of claim 1 are executed until the beam position has crossed
both the first and second axis of said reference structure.
The method according to claims 1 or 2, wherein said integrating
of said beam signal is performed by an amplifier (620).
The method of claim 3, further including the step of resetting
said amplifier (620) and setting said amplifier to integrate mode

each time before a measurement at a given beam position is
performed.
The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein
step c) includes unblanking said predetermined beam position

for N scans, where N is a predetermined integer.
The method of any of the preceding claims, further including the
steps of converting a voltage output from said amplifier to a

digital signal and storing said digital signal.
The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein
step a) of claim 1 includes choosing a plurality of pixels (1100).
The method of claim 7, wherein said plurality of pixels are
contiguous.
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
reference structure is a grid (316). 
The method of claim 9, wherein said grid includes reflective
segments (442) on a substrate.
The method of claim 9, wherein said grid includes at least one
scattering mark on a transmissive surface.
The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein said raster scanning
charged particle beam includes a plurality of beam fingers (1302a,

1302b, 1302c) linearly positioned.
A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said raster

scanning charged particle beam is applied in a lithographic system.
The method of any of claims 1 to 12, wherein said raster scanning
charged particle beam is applied in a metrologic system.
A system for electronically measuring deflection errors of a raster
scanning charged particle beam (207) used for substrate (204)

patterning, comprising:

means (203) for positioning said substrate (204);
a reference structure (206, 1202, 1302) fixed to the means (203)
for positioning;
a detector positioned to intercept charged particles from said
reference structure;
a charge amplifier (210) coupled to said detector (205); and
a means for transferring a signal from said charge amplifier to 
said means for positioning
characterized by
a means (209) for strobing said charged particle beam such as to
provide a quasi-stationary beam at a predetermined position on

said substrate.
The system of claim 15, wherein said charge amplifier (210)
comprises:


an operational amplifier (620);
a capacitive element (622) coupled in parallel with said
operational amplifier;
means (623) for switching coupled in parallel with said operational
amplifier;
an offset adjust (624) coupled in series with said means for
switching; and
a slope fine adjust (625) coupled between said offset adjust and
said means for switching.
The system of claim 16, wherein said detector (205) is coupled to
the inverting input terminal of said operational amplifier (620).
The system of claim 17, wherein a first voltage source is coupled
to the non-inverting input terminal of said operational amplifier

(620).
The system of claim 18, wherein said offset adjust (624) and said
slope fine adjust (625) are coupled to said inverting input terminal 

of said operational amplifier.
The system of any of the claims 15 to 19, wherein said reference
structure is a grid (206) positioned over said detector (205).
The system of any one of the claims 15 to 19, wherein said
reference structure is a reflective mark (442) on said substrate

(404), and wherein said detector (205) is positioned over said
substrate.
The system of any of the claims 15 to 19, wherein said reference
structure is a scattering mark on a transmissive surface, and

wherein said detector is positioned under said transmissive
surface.
The system of any of the claims 15 to 19, wherein said system is a
lithographic system.
The system of any of the claims 15 to 19, wherein said system is a
metrologic system.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
