<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632874</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIPELINE REPAIR APPARATUS INCLUDING EXPANDABLE FORMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L55162	F16L55163	F16L5518	F16L5518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus is disclosed for the in situ repair of an inner wall of a conduit or pipe by pressing a repair material in the form of a sheet or sleeve (24) with settable repair substance against a repair zone (12) of the conduit or pipe, the apparatus having a central tube (17) allowing liquid flow therethrough during a repair operation, an inflation zone (20) surrounding the tube (17) defined by a flexible inelastic material tube (19) sealed at opposed ends to the central tube (17), said flexible inelastic material tube forms a control means to prevent radial expansion beyond a predetermined limit and generally has an inflated diameter approximating the diameter of the conduit or pipe to be repaired, means (21) for introducing an inflation medium into said inflation zone (20), and elastic band means (25) surrounding the flexible inelastic material tube (19) to contract same upon said inflation medium being withdrawn from the inflation zone (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARRY BROS SPEC SERVICES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARRY BROS SPEC SERVICES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOWLES ROBERT WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOWLES ROBERT WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PIPEUNE REPAIR APPARATUS INCLUDING EXPANDABLE FORMS The present invention relates to apparatus used in the process of refurbishing damaged conduits, pipelines and sewer pipes through the application of a reinforced lining to their inner walls by means of an inflatable form. The present invention is particularly but not exclusively intended for use in the repair of underground pipelines in situ to avoid the necessity of excavating the pipeline or re-routing flow from the pipeline around the repair site.Conventionally, two principal methods have been used for the refurbishment of cracked, broken or eroded pipelines or sewer pipes through so-called soft lining methods involving the application of a reinforced lining to their inner walls. One of these methods involves the eversion of a tube of thermosetting resin-impregnated reinforcement fabric into a section of pipe to be relined from an external position by means of a head of water. An example of this method can be seen in U.S. Patent No. 4,581 ,085. This method has the disadvantage that the pipe being repaired is necessarily blocked by the repair materials during the repair process and as a result, flow through the pipeline must be re-routed around the repair zone. A second method used involves carrying a layer of resin impregnated reinforcing material on an inflatable form to the repair zone within the pipe and thereafter inflating the inflatable form to press and hold the repair layer against the section of the pipe requiring repair for a length of time sufficient to allow the resins to cure. Examples of this type of repair can be seen in G.B. Patent No. 2136912, European Patent No. 370193 and Swiss Patent No. 635181. A short coming of these known systems is that the inflatable forms used essentially fully block the pipe during the repair process thereby interrupting all flow in the pipeline. Bypassing of the section being refurbished or some other means of stopping flow in the pipeline being repaired is therefore a necessity.A third form of pipeline repair is also shown in prior art specification but this type of process is not intended to refurbish a length of pipeline but rather is intended to repair localised defects, commonly cracks or gaps between discrete section lengths of a pipeline. In this type of repair process a settable liquid or semi-liquid sealant is pumped or forced into a zone between two axially spaced inflated parts pressed against the inner wall of the pipeline. Examples of this type of device are shown in U.S. Patent Nos.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1 . Apparatus for applying in situ a repair material to a repair zone of an inner wait of a conduit or pipe line, said repair material comprising a sheet or sleeve of predetermined dimensions including a settable repair substance, said apparatus comprising a radially expandable device arranged to carry said repair material to said repair zone and to press said repair material outwardly against the inner wall of said conduit or pipeline on either side of said repair zone, said expandable device including a flexible material forming an outer part of an expandable cavity, means being provided to allow a pressure medium to be directed into or withdrawn from said expandable cavity whereby, when the pressure medium is directed into said expandable cavity, the flexible material is moved radially outwardly, control means forming part of said radially expandable device to prevent said flexible material moving substantially in a radial direction beyond a predetermined limit, and to radial contraction of said flexible material upon said pressure medium being withdrawn from said expandable cavity.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said flexible material is non-elastic forming the control means preventing radial expansion beyond a predetermined limit,, said control means further including recovery means separate from said flexible material enabling said material to contract radially inwardly upon withdrawal of said pressure medium from said expandable cavity.
3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said recovery means comprises at least one band located intermediate opposed axial ends of said radially expandable device, the or each said band directing an inwardly contracting force to said radially expandable device but being- expandable therewith upon said pressure medium being directed into said expandable cavity.
4. Apparatus according to claim 2 or claim 3 wherein an end member is located at opposed axial ends of said radially expandable device, said flexible non-elastic material being formed as a sleeve with each axial end of said sleeve being secured to a respective one of said end members whereby along at least a central portion of said radially expandable device said non-extensible material is folded in upon itself to form a trough in said sleeve when the pressure medium is withdrawn from said expandable cavity. 


5. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said flexible material is elastic and said control means comprises one or more non-elastic circumferentially extending members co-operating with said flexible material to prevent said flexible material moving substantially in a radial direction beyond said predetermined limit.
6. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the or each said non-elastic circumferentially extending members are joined to said flexible material at at least one location.
7. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6 further including a core member about which said radially expandable device is located, said core member including a hollow flexible tube of fixed axial length capable of transverse bending but adapted to resist inward deformation caused by said pressure medium, said hollow flexible tube defining at least in part, a through flow passage extending between opposed axial ends of said apparatus whereby flow in the pipeline or conduit being repaired is not prevented during a repair process.
8. Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said hollow flexible tube is a reinforced elastomeric or rubber tube.
9. Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein at least one elongate flexible restraining member is provided interconnecting said end members, the or each said restraining member preventing said end members from moving axially apart beyond a predetermined limit.
10. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein a flexible sleeve member is provided outwardly of said radially expandable device adapted to be located between said radially expandable device and said repair material, said flexible sleeve member being connected to said apparatus only at or adjacent one axial end of the flexible sleeve member.
11. A method of applying in situ a repair material comprising a sleeve or sheet including a settable material or substitute to a repair zone within a pipe or conduit to be repaired, said method comprising : 


 applying externally of said pipe or conduit to be repaired, a said repair material to repair apparatus comprising a radially expandable device including a flexible material forming an outer part of an expandable cavity and means for directing a pressure medium to or withdrawing a pressure medium from said expandable cavity, said repair material being positioned radially outwardly of said radially expandable device; carrying said repair material on said repair apparatus into the pipe or conduit to be repaired and positioning said repair material adjacent said repair zone; introducing a pressure medium into said expandable cavity and thereby expanding said flexible material outwardly so as to press the repair material against an inner wall part of the pipe or conduit on either axial side of said repair zone while restraining expansion of said flexible material so as to prevent expansion of said flexible material through the pipe or conduit being repaired at said repair zone beyond a predetermined limit; holding said pressure medium in said expandable cavity for a length of time sufficient to at least partially set said settable material; withdrawing said pressure medium from said expandable cavity whereby recovery means contracts said material inwardly away from said repair material; and thereafter withdrawing said repair apparatus from said pipeline or conduit being repaired.
12. A method according to claim 11 wherein said flexible material is non-elastic and said recovery means comprises one or more circumferentially extending elastic members co-operating with said non-elastic flexible material.
13. A method according to claim 11 wherein said flexible material is formed from an elastic material and at least one circumferentially extending non-elastic member co¬ operating. -with said elastic flexible material is provided to prevent the expansion of said flexible material through the pipe or conduit being repaired at said repair zone beyond the predetermined limit.
14. A method according to claim 12 or claim 13 wherein said flexible material has a fully inflated diameter between 100 and 150% of the inner diameter of the pipeline or conduit after the repair material has been applied thereto. 


15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said flexible material has a fully inflated diameter of about 110% of the inner diameter of the pipeline or conduit after the repair material has been applied thereto.
16. Apparatus for applying in situ a repair material in the form of a sleeve or sheet including a settable material to a repair zone of an inner wall of a conduit or pipeline, said apparatus comprising a core member having a radially expandable device located outwardly of said core member and extending axially along and at least partially circumferentially around said core member, said core member including a hollow flexible tube of a non perforate material and having a fixed axial length capable of transverse bending but adapted to resist inward deformation caused by internal pressure within said expandable device during a repair operation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
