<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613144</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recording medium, recording apparatus and reproducing apparatus therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2710	G11B27031	G11B1100	G11B2732	G11B2710	G11B27034	G11B27036	G11B11105	G11B2732	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B27	G11B27	G11B11	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B11	G11B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A recording medium (1) has a user recordable area in which two types of 
information may be recorded, such as audio data and user data, and a control area 

having a first area for management information regarding the first type of information 
and a second area for management information regarding the second type of 

information. A reproducing apparatus (10) uses the first management information to 
reproduce the first type of information and to avoid reproducing the second type of 

information as the first type of information, and uses the second management 
information to reproduce the second type of information and to avoid reproducing the 

first type of information as the second type of information. A recording apparatus (10) 
generates the first management information when the first type of information is 

recorded and generates the second management information when the second type of 
information is recorded. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKASHI OHMORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKASHI, OHMORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a recording medium, a
recording apparatus and a reproducing apparatus therefor. The
recording medium is for recording multiple types of data, such as
audio data and user data, and has separate management information
for each of the data types recorded thereon.A magneto-optical (MO) recording medium, specifically,
a disc, a recording apparatus and a reproducing apparatus
therefor have recently become available to consumers for
reproduction and recording of audio information, such as audio
programs.This MO disc includes a user recordable area in which
audio files can be recorded by the consumer and a management
information area for containing data about each of the audio
files, such as its contents and starting and ending positions.
For content identification, it is sufficient to distinguish the
audio files merely by numbers.The management information in this MO disc can
accommodate a relatively small number of audio files, for
example, up to 255 audio files. This is appropriate since it is
unlikely that a larger number of small audio files, corresponding
to, for example, very short programs, will be recorded. It is desirable that the MO disc be able to record and
reproduce additional, non-audio data, referred to herein as user
data, for example, character and graphic information, which is
not in the format defined for audio data.For user data, management information is needed in
addition to that heretofore used for identifying each data file
and its position within the recordable area. For example, a more
extensive file naming capability, and attribute information
including data describing the user data to an external device are
desirable. It is also desirable that the management information
structure for user data be able to accommodate a large number of
small user data files.Since the nature of the management information suitable
for audio data is different than the nature of the management
information suitable for user data, the type of management
information defined for the presently available MO disc makes it
practically impossible for this MO disc to be used more generally
to record and reproduce non-audio data.In conventional disc media used for recording and/or
reproducing user data, such as floppy discs, a data management
structure has been adopted in which directory information for
data files is spread across the disc. Specifically, a root
directory is at a predetermined location. The root directory can
include pointers to user data files and to sub-directories,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A recording apparatus (10) for use with a recording medium (1) for recording
thereon first management information relating to a first type of information, second

management information relating to a second type of information, said apparatus (10)
comprising:


means (26) for recording on said medium (1) said first management information,
said second management information and said first and second types of information in

first, second and third areas, respectively, and
control means (21) for generating said first management information when said first
type of information is recorded by said means (26) for recording and for generating said

second management information when said second type of information is recorded by
said means (26) for recording,
characterized in that
the portion of the recordable area for the first type of information is defined within
the management information for the second type of information, and
the management information for the second type of information is adapted to indicate that said
recordable area for the first type of information is to be considered as an unrecordable and

unreproducible area.
The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein one of the first and second management
information includes allocation information identifying usage of recordable portions of

said recording medium (1), and said control means (21) is operative to update said
allocation information when recording at least one of said first and second types of

information.
The apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said control means (21) is operative to
update said allocation information when recording each of said first and second types of

information.
The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said control means (21) is operative to
generate a first identification code as part of said first management information

indicating said first type of information and to generate a second identification code as
part of said second management information indicating said second type of information.
The apparatus as in claim 4, wherein one of said first and second identification
codes is "MINX". 
The apparatus as in claim 5, wherein the other of said first and second
identification codes is "MINI".
The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said first management information includes
boundary information identifying at least one portion of said third area allocated for

5 recording said second type of information, wherein said apparatus (10) also includes
means for receiving a file containing said second type of information, and wherein said

control means (21) is operative to determine whether said at least one portion of said
third area has adequate capacity for recording said file.
The apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said control means (21) is also operative to
10 adjust said bounda
ry information in said first management area so that said at least one
portion, as adjusted, has adequate capacity for recording said file when said control

means (21) determines said at least one portion of said third area lacks adequate
capacity for recording said file.
The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein said first management information includes
15 a list of free areas on said recording medium (1), and said control means (21) is also

operative to adjust said list of free areas when adjusting said boundary information.
The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein one of said first and second types of
information is user data.
The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the other of said first and second types of
information is audio data.
The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the management information for user data
includes reference information, and the control means (21) is also operative to sample

the user data to obtain the reference information. 
The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said means (26) for recording is operative to
record the user data and the management information for user data in respective sectors

on said recording medium (1), each of said sectors including category information, and
said control means (21) is operative to erase said each of said sectors by setting its

category information to a predetermined value.
The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the user data is recorded in files having at
least one sector, and said control means (21) is operative to erase one of said files by

setting the category information for the sectors in which the file is recorded and the
sectors in which the management information for the file are recorded to said

predetermined value.
The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the management information for user data
includes allocation information identifying the usage of recordable portions of said

recording medium (1), and said control means (21) is also operative to update said
allocation information when erasing at least one of the user data and the management

information for user data. 
A method of recording for use with a recording medium (1) for recording thereon
first management information relating to a first type of information, second

management information relating to a second type of information, said method
comprising the steps of:


recording on said medium (1) said first management information, said second
management information and said first and second types of information in first, second

and third areas, respectively, and
generating said first management information when said first type of information is
recorded by said means (26) for recording and generating said second management

information when said second type of information is recorded by said means (26) for
recording,
characterized in that
the portion of the recordable area for the first type of information is defined within
the management information for the second type of information, and
the management information for the second type of information is adapted to indicate that said
recordable area for the first type of information is to be considered as an unrecordable and

unreproducible area.
The method as in claim 16, wherein one of the first and second management
information includes allocation information identifying usage of recordable portions of

said recording medium (1), and further comprising the step of updating said allocation
information when recording at least one of said first and second types of information.
The method as in claim 17, wherein said step of updating updates said allocation
information when recording each of said first and second types of information.
The method as in claim 16, wherein the step of generating said first management
information includes generating a first identification code indicating said first type of

information; and the step of generating said second management information includes
generating a second identification code indicating said second type of information.
The method as in claim 19, wherein one of said first and second identification
codes is "MINX".
The method as in claim 20, wherein the other of said first and second identification
codes is "MINI".
The method as in claim 16, wherein said first management information includes
boundary information identifying at least one portion of said third area allocated for

recording said second type of information, and further comprising the steps of receiving
a file containing said second type of information, and determining whether said at least

one portion of said third area has adequate capacity for recording said file.
The method as in claim 22, further comprising the step of adjusting said boundary
information in said first management area so that said at least one portion, as adjusted,

has adequate capacity for recording said file when said step of determining determines 
that said at least one portion of said third area lacks adequate capacity for recording said

file.
The method as in claim 23, wherein said first management information includes a
list of free areas on said recording medium (1), and further comprising the step of

adjusting said list of free areas when adjusting said boundary information.
The method as in claim 16, wherein one of said first and second types of
information is user data.
The method as in claim 25, wherein the other of said first and second types of
information is audio data.
The method as in claim 25, wherein the management information for user data
includes reference information, and further comprising the step of sampling the user

data to obtain the reference information.
The method as in claim 25, wherein said step of recording records the user data
and the management information for user data in respective sectors on said recording

medium, each of said sectors including category information, and further comprising
the step of erasing said each of said sectors by setting its category information to a

predetermined value.
The method as in claim 28, wherein the user data is recorded in files having at
least one sector, and the step of erasing one of said files includes setting the category

information for the sectors in which the file is recorded and the sectors in which the
management information for the file are recorded to said predetermined value.
The method as in claim 28, wherein the management information for user data
includes allocation information identifying the usage of recordable portions of said

recording medium (1), and said step of erasing includes updating said allocation 
information when erasing at least one of the user data and the management information

for user data.
A recording medium (1) comprising:

a first area for containing rewritable signals representing first management
information associated with data signals representing a first type of information which

may be recorded on said recording medium, and
a second area for containing rewritable signals representing second management
information associated with data signals representing a second type of information

which may be recorded on said recording medium (1),
said first management information, said second
management information and said first and

second types of information are recorded
in first, second and third areas,

respectively,
characterized in that
the portion of the recordable area for the first type of information is defined within
the management information for the second type of information, and
the management information for the second type of information is adapted to indicate that said
recordable area for the first type of information is to be considered as an unrecordable and

unreproducible area.
The recording medium as in claim 31, wherein said recording medium (1) is a
disc.
The recording medium as in claim 32, wherein said first and second areas are
magneto-optically writable.
The recording medium as in claim 31, wherein the rewritable signals representing
said first and second management information are recorded multiple times in the first

and second areas, respectively.
The recording medium as in claim 31, wherein said first and second areas are
contained in a control area on said recording medium, and an initial position of said

first area is separated from an initial position of said second area by a predetermined
distance.
The recording medium as in claim 35, wherein said first management area is at a
forward position of said control area and said second management area is positioned

subsequent to said first management area. 
The recording medium as in claim 35, wherein said first management area is at a
rearward position of said control area and said second management area is positioned

prior to said first management area.
The recording medium as in claim 31, further comprising a third area for
containing read only signals representing third management information for signals

representing a third type of information recorded on said recording medium (1).
The recording medium as in claim 38, wherein said third management information
indicates a position of said first area on said recording medium (1).
The recording medium as in claim 39, further comprising a fourth area for
containing at least one of said signals representing first type of information and said

signals representing said second type of information, wherein said third management
information indicates a position of said fourth area on said recording medium (1).
The recording medium as in claim 31, further comprising a fourth area for
containing at least one of said signals representing first type of information and said

signals representing said second type of information.
The recording medium as in claim 41, wherein said first management information
indicates a portion of the fourth area used for recording the signals representing the

second type of information.
The recording medium as in claim 42, wherein said second management
information indicates said portion of the fourth area indicated by the first management

information as available for recording the signals representing the second type of
information.
The recording medium as in claim 31, wherein one of said first and second types
of information is user data. 
The recording medium as in claim 44, wherein user data is recorded in sectors on
the recording medium (1) and each of the sectors includes category information

identifying the data contained in said each of sectors as one of binary data, document
data, single image data and multiple image data.
The recording medium as in claim 44, wherein all management information for
user data is in said first and second areas.
The recording medium as in claim 44, wherein said user data is associated with a
"MINX" identification code.
The recording medium as in claim 44, wherein the other of said first and second
types of information is audio data.
The recording medium as in claim 48, wherein audio data is associated with a
"MINI" identification code.
The recording medium as in claim 48, wherein the management information for
audio data includes starting and ending locations on said recording medium (1) at which

respective audio signals are recorded.
The recording medium as in claim 44, wherein user data comprises user files
recorded in clusters on said recording medium (1) and the management information for

user data indicates which clusters contain portions of a respective user file.
The recording medium as in claim 51, wherein the management information for
user data identifies the sequence of clusters in which a file is contained.
The recording medium as in claim 51, wherein the management information for
user data identifies which clusters are available for recording a file. 
The recording medium as in claim 51, wherein the management information for
user data identifies clusters in which audio data is recorded as at least one of non-recordable

and non-reproducible clusters.
The recording medium as in claim 51, wherein said cluster is the minimum unit for
recording one of the user files.
The recording medium as in claim 55, wherein said cluster contains approximately
64 kbytes.
The recording medium as in claim 44, wherein the management information for
user data includes a root directory for indicating child directories and for indicating

heading files for user data.
The recording medium as in claim 57, wherein said user data are character or dot
data.
The recording medium as in claim 57, wherein the management information for
user data includes the child directories and the heading files.
The recording medium as in claim 59, wherein said management information for
user data is arranged in sectors and includes category information identifying the

information contained in each sector of said management information for user data as
one of allocation information for the recording medium (1), directory information and

heading file information .
The recording medium as in claim 60, wherein said category information identifies
each directory sector as one of a root directory and a child directory.
The recording medium as in claim 60, wherein said category information identifies
each heading file as one of a heading file for character data and a heading file for dot

data. 
The recording medium as in claim 57, wherein the heading files include reference
information from user files.
The recording medium as in claim 57, wherein the heading files include position

information and category information for the user files.
The recording medium as in claim 44, wherein the management information for
user data indicates portions thereof available for recording management information for

user data.
A signal comprising

a first portion representing a first type of information,
a second portion representing a second type of information different than said first
type of information,
a third portion representing first management information for said first type of
information, and
a fourth portion representing second management information for said second type
of information,
characterized in that
the management information for the second type of information is adapted to define,
the portion of the recordable area for the first type of

information, on a recording medium, and
the management information for the second type of information is adapted to
indicate that said recordable area for the first type of information is to be

considered as an unrecordable and unreproducible area.
The signal as in claim 66, wherein one of said first and second types of
information is audio information.
The signal as in claim 67, wherein the other of said first and second types of
information is user information.
The signal as in claim 66, wherein the entirety of each of said third and fourth
portions is temporally separate from the other of said first, second, third and fourth

signal portions.
The signal as in claim 69, wherein said first and second portions comprise parts
that are interspersed.  
The signal as in claim 66, wherein each of said first and second management
information includes information for locating particular portions of said first and second

types of information, respectively.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
