<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625124</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CLOSURE WITH INTEGRAL TWIST RING AND METHOD FOR MAKING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29D3100	B29D3100	B65D4704	B65D4726	B65D4728	B67D300	B67D304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29D	B29D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B67D	B67D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29D31	B29D31	B65D47	B65D47	B65D47	B67D3	B67D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APTARGROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APTARGROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUELLER BRUCE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHAFFER ELDON W II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUELLER, BRUCE, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHAFFER, ELDON, W., II
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CLOSURE WITH INTEGRAL TWIST RING AND METHOD FOR MAKING SAME TECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to closures for containers and, in particular, to a closure which has a taxnper-evident feature that can be readily manufactured as a one-piece article that can be subsequently reconfigured as a two-piece dispensing closure. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION ANDTECHNICAL PROBLEMS POSED BY THE PRIOR ART A variety of container closures have been proposed wherein the closure includes a first portion, body, or base for being mounted to the open end of a container and wherein the closure includes a second portion, such as a cover, that is rotatably mounted on the first portion. The first portion defines a discharge passage, and the cover defines a dispensing orifice. The cover can be rotated between a dispensing position in which the passage and orifice are at least partially aligned and a closed in the which the passage is occluded by the cover. See for example, the U.S. Patents No. 3,198,406 and No. 4,613,063.U.S. Patent No. 3,063,602 discloses a dispensing container in which the sidewall of the container defines a discharge passage and in which a snap-on cap is rotatably mounted on the sidewall to cover the discharge passage. The cap defines a dispensing orifice which can be aligned with the discharge passage to permit the contents of the container to be dispensed.While the designs disclosed in the above- discussed patents may provide articles that could generally function adequately for their intended purposes, it would be desirable to provide an improved 

closure having a unique design which could be relatively easily manufactured.Further, it would be advantageous if the manufacture of such an improved closure would require only the single molding of a unitary article rather than the separate molding of a plurality of parts which must be subsequently assembled.It would also be desirable if the improved closure could be manufactured with a molding process that would accommodate an efficient mold design and a highly efficient manufacturing process.It would also be beneficial if such an improved closure could be relatively simple to operate for dispensing the contents of a container and yet effectively seal the container when the closure is closed.The present invention provides an improved closure which can accommodate designs having the above- discussed benefits and features. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention provides a novel dispensing closure which can be readily manufactured, which is easily
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A unitary article that can be reconfigured as a two-piece dispensing closure, said article comprising: a body having a closed end and an open end suitable for mounting on a container, at least a portion of said body having a generally cylindrical wall defining a discharge passage for communicating with said container for dispensing the contents thereof; and a ring and frangible means for connecting said ring to said body wall in an orientation axially offset from said body wall, said ring defining a dispensing orifice whereby said frangible means can be broken and said ring can be moved axially to a location around said body wall to accommodate rotation between a dispensing position in which said passage and orifice are at least partially aligned and a closed position in which said passage is occluded by said ring.
2. The unitary article in accordance with claim 1 in which said frangible means includes a plurality of frangible webs which are circumferentially spaced at equal arc lengths around said body wall.
3. The unitary article in accordance with claim 1 in which said body wall is generally cylindrical and defines two space-apart grooves each extending in at least a partial circular configuration; and said ring is generally cylindrical and defines a pair of spaced-apart protuberances for each being received in one of said grooves.
4. The unitary article in accordance with claim 1 in which said body defines an outwardly projecting lip around said discharge passage.
5. A dispensing closure comprising: 


 a body having a closed end and an open end suitable for mounting on a container, at least a portion of said body having a wall defining a discharge passage for communicating with said container for dispensing the contents thereof; and a ring disposed around said body wall, said ring defining a dispensing orifice and accommodating rotation between a dispensing position in which said passage and orifice are at least partially aligned and a closed position in which said passage is occluded by said ring; one of said body wall and ring defining at least one groove and the other of said body wall and ring defining at least one projection for being received in said groove, said groove and projection each extending in at least a partial circular configuration, said body further defining an outwardly projecting sealing lip around said discharge passage for sealing against said ring.
6. The closure in accordance with claim 5 in which said body wall defines a pair of spaced-apart grooves; said ring defines a pair of spaced-apart projections each received in one of said grooves; and said lip is located axially intermediate said grooves and projections.
7. A dispensing closure made in accordance with the following process:
(A) molding a unitary article comprising a body and a ring, said body having a closed end and an open end suitable for mounting on a container, at least a portion of said body having a wall defining a discharge passage for communicating with said container for dispensing the contents thereof, said ring defining 


a dispensing orifice and being connected with frangible means to said body wall in an orientation axially offset from said body wall; and
(B) breaking said frangible means and moving said ring axially to a location around said body wall to accommodate rotation between a dispensing position in which said passage and orifice are at least partially aligned and a closed position in which said passage is occluded by said ring.
8. The closure in accordance with claim 7 in which said body wall is generally cylindrical and defines two space-apart grooves each extending in at least a partial circular configuration; and said ring is generally cylindrical and defines a pair of spaced-apart protuberances for each being received in one of said grooves.
9. The closure in accordance with claim 7 in which said dispensing orifice and discharge passage are each generally rectangular.
10. A method for making a dispensing closure, said method comprising the steps of:
(A) molding a unitary article comprising a body and a ring, said body having a closed end and an open end suitable for mounting on a container, at least a portion of said body having a wall defining a discharge passage for communicating with said container for dispensing the contents thereof, said ring defining a dispensing orifice and being connected with frangible means to said body wall in an orientation axially offset from said body wall; and
(B) breaking said frangible means and moving said ring axially to a location around said body wall to accommodate rotation between a dispensing position in which said passage and orifice are at least partially 


aligned and a closed position in which said passage is occluded by said ring.
11. The method in accordance with claim 10 in which step (A) includes molding said closure body around a mold core; and step (B) includes breaking said frangible means moving said ring to a location around said body, and subsequently removing said mold core from said body.
12. A method for making a dispensing closure comprising the steps of:
(A) positioning an upper mold core spaced from a lower mold core within two sections of a closed, split-cavity mold;
(B) injecting a thermoplastic molding composition into said mold sections around said upper and lower mold cores to mold a unitary article that includes
(1) a body having
(a) a closed end defined between said upper and lower mold cores,
(b) an open end around said lower mold core for mounting on a container, and
(c) a wall around said lower mold core defining a discharge passage for communicating with said container for dispensing the contents thereof; and
(2) a twist ring that
(a) is located around said upper mold core,
(b) is connected with frangible means to said body wall in an orientation axially offset from said body wall, and
(c) defines a dispensing orifice;
(C) opening said mold sections; 


 (D) withdrawing the upper mold core from said twist ring; and
(E) removing said lower mold core from said body and moving said twist ring relative to said body to break said frangible means and locate said twist ring on said body wall for rotation around said body wall whereby said discharge passage can be selectively opened by at least partially aligning said discharge passage and said dispensing orifice.
13. The method in accordance with claim 12 in which step (E) includes moving said ring relative to said body after removing said lower mold core from said body.
14. The method in accordance with claim 12 in which step (E) includes moving said ring relative to said body before removing said lower mold core from said body.
15. The method in accordance with claim 12 in which said upper mold core includes an axially movable stripper ring and in which step (E) includes axially moving said twist ring relative to said body by moving said stripper ring axially against said twist ring. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
