<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644604</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Unit battery of sealed alkaline storage battery and battery system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M466	H01M402	H01M452	H01M202	H01M216	H01M202	H01M218	H01M210	H01M470	H01M216	H01M402	H01M1042	H01M424	H01M1050	H01M1034	H01M466	H01M1004	H01M424	H01M438	H01M214	H01M1004	H01M438	H01M480	H01M452	H01M210	H01M1034	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M2	H01M2	H01M2	H01M2	H01M2	H01M4	H01M2	H01M4	H01M10	H01M4	H01M10	H01M10	H01M4	H01M10	H01M4	H01M4	H01M2	H01M10	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M2	H01M10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a unit battery 
of sealed alkaline storage battery comprising a 

plurality of cells each of which comprises a container 
in which are inserted an alkali electrolyte and an 

electrode group comprising a plurality of positive 
plates and a plurality of negative plates with 

separators provided between the adjacent plates and 
which is sealed by a cap provided with a safety valve, 

the adjacent cells being electrically connected, wherein 
at least a part of the outermost portion of the electrode 

group in the cell contacts with the container, the 
adjacent cells contact with each other at at least a 

part of their container and a space through which air 
can pass in at least one direction is provided between 

the adjacent cells, the unit battery being constrained 
by holders at a part or the whole surface of both ends 

in the direction of arranging of the cells. The present 
invention further provides a sealed alkaline storage 

battery system comprising an assembled battery which 
consists of a plurality of the unit batteries. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMADA SHINJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKOMA MUNEHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUDA HIROMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORISHITA NOBUYASU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAMADA, SHINJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IKOMA, MUNEHISA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUDA, HIROMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORISHITA, NOBUYASU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a unit
battery of sealed alkaline storage battery of relatively
large capacity and to a sealed alkaline storage battery
system.Sealed alkaline storage batteries are
represented by nickel·cadmium storage batteries and
nickel·hydrogen storage batteries and are high in energy
density and excellent in reliability. Therefore, they
are widely used as electric sources for portable
apparatuses such as videotape recorders, lap-top type
computers and pocket telephones.These are mainly small-sized sealed alkaline
storage batteries which comprise a metallic container,
have a cylindrical or rectangular shape and have a
capacity of about 0.5-3 Ah. In actual use, several to
several ten cells are put in a resin container or tube.Since these small-sized sealed alkaline
storage batteries have a capacity of about 0.5-3 Ah, the
quantity of heat generated at the time of charging and
discharging per cell is small. Accordingly, when they
are used in a resin container or tube, generation of 
heat and dissipation of heat are properly balanced and
so there has been no serious problem resulting from the
rise of temperature of batteries. Furthermore,
electrode groups of alkaline storage batteries expand due
to repetition of charging and discharging, but the
container is in the form of a metallic cylinder and
there have been no problems such as distortion of the
container due to expansion of the electrode groups. For
the rectangular container, since the battery is small,
no special means has been needed.However, recently, medium-sized and large-sized
batteries of high energy and high reliability
(here, the medium-sized battery is defined to be one
having a capacity of 10-100 Ah and the large-sized
battery is defined to be one having a capacity of higher
than 100 Ah and several to several hundred cells are
used) are strongly demanded as portable electric sources
for household appliances and electric cars. As
the medium-sized and large-sized batteries, open
nickel•cadmium batteries or lead storage batteries are
used for storage of energy and for UPS, but there are
troubles in maintenance such as filling of electrolyte
during period of service. Therefore, maintenance free
batteries, namely, sealed batteries are necessary as
portable electric sources for household appliances,
electric cars and the like. As explained above, when
alkaline storage batteries are used as portable electric
sources for household appliances, electric cars and the 
like, sealed and medium-sized or large-sized batteries
are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A unit battery of sealed alkaline storage battery
comprising a plurality of cells (9) each of which comprises a

container (4) which contains an alkali electrolyte in an
amount of 1.0 to 2.8 cm
3
/Ah and an electrode group (1)
comprising a plurality of positive plates (2) and a plurality

of negative plates (3) with separators provided between the
adjacent plates and which is sealed by a cap (8) provided with

a safety valve (7), the adjacent cells (9) being electrically
connected (16), wherein the end surfaces, as seen in the

direction of the arrangements of the plates, of the electrode
groups (1) of each cell (9) are in contact with the cell

container (4) at least after initial charging and discharging,
the adjacent cells (9) contact with each other at at least a

part of their container (4) and a space (13) having a width of
1 to 4 mm and through which air can pass in at least one

direction is provided between the adjacent cells (9), the unit
battery being constrained by holders (15) at a part or the

whole surface of both ends in the direction of arrangement of
the cells (9), and the walls of the containers (4) have such a

thickness that a distortion of the containers (4) resulting
from an expansion of the electrode groups (1) is prevented and

that heat generated in the electrode groups (1) is dissipated.
A unit battery according to claim 1 which comprises 5-40
cells connected electrically in series.
A unit battery according to claims 1 or 2, wherein the
container is provided with many dented and projected portions

on the outside. 
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-3, wherein
the projected portions on the containers of the adjacent cells

contact with each other and air passes through the space
formed by the dented portions.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-4, wherein at
least one of the projected portions is fitted in at least one

of the dented portions.
A unit battery according to any of claims 3-5, wherein
the dented and projected portions are provided in either

vertical or horizontal direction.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-7, wherein
the surface of the container has black or dark brown color.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-7, wherein at
least a part of the surface of the container is provided with

a metal part which is selected from the group consisting of
Al, Cu, Fe and Ni.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-8, wherein
the cap and/or the container are made of mainly polypropylene.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-8, wherein
the cap and/or the container are made of metal.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-8, wherein
the cap and/or the container are made of mainly polypropylene

and have inside a material higher in thermal conductivity than
polypropylene. 
A unit battery according to claim 11, wherein the
material higher in thermal conductivity than polypropylene is

selected from Cu, Ni, Fe, C, Al
2
O
3
 and MgO.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-12, wherein
spaces through which air passes in at least one direction are

provided between the holder at the both ends in the direction
of arrangement of the cells and the cell closest to the

holder.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-13, wherein
air passes through the space at a velocity of 0.1-5 m/s at

least at the time of charging.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-14, wherein
the electrode group is present in the container and the

outermost part of the electrode group is a negative plate, a
separator, a positive plate, a metal plate or a metal porous

body.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-15, wherein
the holder is made of a metal selected from aluminum, iron and

nickel.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-16, wherein
the thickness of the container through which air passes is

1-5 mm.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-17, wherein
the cell comprises n(n≥2) sheets of positive electrodes having

a structure of a three-dimensional metallic porous body in
which powders of a metal oxide are held or a plate-like metal

on both sides of which powders of a metal oxide are held , n-1
or n+1 sheets of negative electrodes hav
ing a structure of a
three-dimensional metallic porous body in which powders of a 

hydrogen-storing alloy capable of electrochemically occluding
or releasing hydrogen are held or a planar plate-like metal on

both sides of which powders of said alloy are held by
sintering or coating with a binder, polyolefinic separators

and an electrolyte comprising an aqueous alkali solution in an
amount of 1.3-2.8 cm
3
 per 1 Ah of theoretical capacity of the
positive electrode.
A unit battery according to any of claims 1-18, wherein
the safety valve provided at the cap of the cell can return to

the original state and works at a difference of pressure of
1-5 kg/cm
2
.
A unit battery of sealed alkaline storage battery
comprising a plurality of cells each of which comprises a

container which contains an alkali electrolyte in an amount of
1.0 to 2.8 cm
3
/Ah and an electrode group comprising a
plurality of positive plates and a plurality of negative

plates with separators provided between the adjacent plates
and which is sealed by a cap provided with a safety valve, the

adjacent cells being electrically connected, wherein the end
surfaces, as seen in the direction of the arrangement of the

plates, of the electrode groups of each cell are in contact
with the cell container at least after initial charging and

discharging, an interval between the adjacent cells is fixed
by a spacer and a space having a width of 1 to 4 mm and

through which air can pass in at least one direction is
provided between the spacer and the adjacent cell, the unit

battery being constrained by holders at a part or the whole
surface of both ends in the direction of arrangement of the

cells, and the walls of the containers have such a thickness
that a distortion of the containers resulting from an

expansion of the electrode groups is prevented and that heat
generated in the electrode groups is dissipated. 
A unit battery according to claim 20 which comprises 5-40
cells connected electrically in series.
A unit battery according to claims 20 or 21, wherein the
spacer is provided with many dented and projected portions.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-22, wherein
the projected portion provided on the spacer contacts with the

container and air passes through the space formed by the
dented portion of the spacer and the container.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-23, wherein
the dented and projected portions are provided in either

vertical or horizontal direction.
A unit battery according to claim 20, wherein the spacer
has a flat outside and spaces through which air can pass

vertically or horizontally are provided inside the spacer.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-25, wherein
the spacer is made of a metal.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-26, wherein
the surface of the spacer has black or dark brown color.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-27, wherein
the surface of the container has black or dark brown color.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-28, wherein
at least a part of the surface of the container is provided

with a metal part which is selected from the group consisting
of Al, Cu, Fe and Ni.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-29, wherein
the cap and/or the container are made of polypropylene. 
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-29, wherein
the cap and/or the container are made of a metal.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-29, wherein
the cap and/or the container are made of a resin mainly

composed of polypropylene and having inside a material higher
in thermal conductivity than polypropylene.
A unit battery according to claim 32, wherein the
material higher in thermal conductivity than polypropylene is

selected from Cu, Ni, Fe, C, Al
2
O
3
 and MgO.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-33, wherein
spaces through which air passes in at least one direction are

provided between the holder at the both ends in the direction
of arrangement of the cells and the cell closest to the

holder.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-34, wherein
air passes through the space at a velocity of 0.1-5 m/s at

least at the time of charging.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-35, wherein
the electrode group is present in the container and the

outermost part of the electrode group is a negative plate, a
separator, a positive plate, a metal plate or a metal porous

body.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-36, wherein
the holder is made of a metal selected from aluminum, iron and

nickel. 
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-37, wherein
the thickness of the container along which the air passes is

1-5 mm and the thickness of the spacer is 1-5 mm.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-38, wherein
the cell comprises n(n≥2) sheets of positive electrodes having

a structure of a three-dimensional metallic porous body in
which powders of a metal oxide are held or a plate-like metal

on both sides of which powders of a metal oxide are held, n-1
or n+1 sheets of negative electrodes having a structure of a

three-dimensional metallic porous body in which powders of a
hydrogen-storing alloy capable of electrochemically occluding

or releasing hydrogen are held or a planar plate-like metal on
both sides of which powders of said alloy are held by

sintering or coating with a binder, polyolefinic separators
and an electrolyte comprising an aqueous alkali solution in an

amount of 1.3-2.8 cm
3
 per 1 Ah of theoretical capacity of the
positive electrode.
A unit battery according to any of claims 20-39, wherein
the safety valve provided at the cap of the cell can return to

the original state and works at a difference of pressure of
1-5 kg/cm
2
.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system of an assembled
battery comprising a combination of a plurality of unit

batteries each of which comprises a plurality of cells
comprising a container which contains an alkali electrolyte in

an amount of 1.0 to 2.8 cm
3
/Ah and an electrode group
comprising a plurality of positive plates and a plurality of

negative plates with separators provided between the adjacent
plates and which is sealed by a cap provided with a safety

valve, the adjacent cells and the adjacent unit batteries
being electrically connected, wherein the end surfaces, as

seen in the direction of the arrangements of the plates, of 
the electrode groups of each cell are in contact with the cell

container at least after initial charging and discharging; a
space having a width of 1 to 4 mm and through wich air can

pass in at least one direction is provided between the
adjacent cells; the unit battery is constrained by holders at

a part or the whole surface of both ends in the direction of
arrangement of the cells; the walls of the containers have

such a thickness that a distortion of the containers resulting
from an expansion of the electrode groups is prevented and

that heat generated in the electrode groups is dissipated;
said assembled battery is fixed at a carrier; and air is

forcedly passed between the cells by means of suction or

exhaustion or both the suction and the exhaustion using a fan
or a blower.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to
claim 41, wherein the air passes from the bottom to the top of

the battery.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to
claims 41 or 42 which has the structure that the bottom of the

carrier contacts with air and this air passes through at least
a hole provided at the carrier and through the spaces provided

between the cells or the unit batteries.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-43 which has an exhaust vent which discharges the

air out of the battery system.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-44, wherein a space through which air can pass is

provided above the assembled battery.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-45, wherein the interval between the adjacent 

unit batteries is kept by the holder which applies a pressure
to a part or the whole surface of both ends of the unit

battery.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-46, wherein the assembled battery comprises two

or more unit batteries connected electrically in series or
parallel or in both series and parallel.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-47, wherein the unit batteries and/or the

assembled battery are prevented from movement backward and
forward and left and right by a projection provided at the

carrier.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-48, wherein the assembled battery is pressed by a

fabric belt or a metallic rod from the above to be prevented
from movement in the upward and downward directions in respect

to the carrier.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-49, wherein the cells and the unit batteries are

electrically connected by a flexible conductor.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-50, wherein the cell comprises n(n≥2) sheets of

positive electrodes having a structure of a three-dimensional
metallic porous body in which powders of a metal oxide are

held or a plate-like metal on both sides of which powders of a
metal oxide are held, n-1 or n+1 sheets of negative electrodes

having a structure of a three-dimensional metallic porous body
in which powders of a hydrogen-storing alloy capable of

electrochemically occluding or releasing hydrogen are held or
a planar plate-like metal on both sides of which powders of 

said alloy are held by sintering or coating with a binder,
polyolefinic separators and an electrolyte comprising an

aqueous alkali solution in an amount of 1.3-2.8 cm
3
 per 1 Ah
of theoretical capacity of the positive electrode.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-51, wherein a vibration absorber is provided

between the carrier and the battery.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to
claim 52, wherein the vibration absorber is a spring or a

rubber.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-53, wherein the carrier is fixed at an apparatus

in which the assembled battery is mounted.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-54, wherein each of the cells is fixed via a

spacer in a distance from the adjacent cells.
A sealed alkaline storage battery system according to any
of claims 41-55, wherein the air passing through the space has

a temperature of -20-50 °C.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
