<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626575</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for microscopic imaging
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N1514	G01N2164	G01N2164	G01N1514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N15	G01N21	G01N21	G01N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The object of the invention is a method used 
in image analysis for delimitation of a 

field (12) in the digitized image of an 
object. The image is observed by means of a 

microscope (28). The image of the object is 
obtained with a digitizing camera (38, 48) 

and, without changing the position or 
location of the camera or the object, two or 

more digital images or analogical images 
that are digitized are taken of the object 

to be imaged. At least one field (12) of the 
object to imaged is delimited on the basis 

of digital delimitation information obtained 
from one or more images, and one or more 

delimited fields of the object to be imaged 
are analyzed on the basis of delimitation 

information obtained from one image. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALLAC OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WALLAC OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAEISAELAE MIKKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAEISAELAE, MIKKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method used in image analysis
for delimitation of a field in the digitized image of an
object, in which method the image is observed by means of an
observation device, such as e.g. a microscope, and the image
of the object is obtained with a detector, such as a
digitizing camera.In image analysis, segmentation refers to delimitation of
the field of interest from the background. Typically, areas
are delimited from the image field of the digitized image on
the basis of the signal level. Segmentation is used in
situations such as studies of labelled objects including
cells and particles, e.g. studies of luminescence of
spherical microparticles. In practice, it is helpful, if
luminescence measurement of an image containing objects can
be carried out with attention directed to the objects alone,
disregarding any fields between the objects.Segmentation can be carried out when the signal of the
object is different from the background signal. The simplest
and most common method of segmentation is what is known as
the thresholding method. In this method any picture elements
above a set limit value are regarded as belonging to the
object. The limit value should be set so high that
background noise also remains below the set limit value.A microscope can be used to study objects, such as cells and
particles, by studying the luminescence of the objects, i.e.
by studying what kind of light they emit when the specimen
is exposed to excitation light. By changing the method of
excitation and the properties of the excitation light and by
labelling objects, objects with different properties can be
distinguished from one another. By means of labels, specific
elements can be distinguished in the specimens of interest
in them, and the concentrations of substances of interest
can also be determined. Luminescence measurement can be simultaneous, or immediate,
hereinafter referred to as 'prompt'. Prompt measurement is
used to measure the light emitted immediately by the
specimen, which is emitted simultaneously or at least almost
simultaneously with the excitation light. The excitation
light beam may be continuous or it can be applied as one or
more light pulses.Luminescence measurement may also be delayed, or time-resolved.
Time-resolved luminescence is hereinafter referred
to as TR measurement, from the English word 'time-resolved'.
In this method the light emitted by the specimen after
excitation by the excitation light pulse is measured after a
time interval. The purpose of this method is to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method in image analysis for the delimitation of a
field (12) in a digitised image (20) of object, in which

method the image is observed with an observation
instrument, such as a microscope (28, 29, 30), and the

image of the object is obtained with a detector, such as
a digitising camera (38, 48), 
characterised in that
a) two or more digital images (20) or analogical images
which are digitised are obtained of the object to be

imaged without changing the position or location of
the camera (38, 48) or the object,
b) at least one of the images of step a) is obtained by
imaging a different wavelength of light from the

other images, or at a different time relative to an
excitation event, to the other image or images,
c) at least one differently wavelengthed or timed image
of step b) is segmented and the delimitation

information so gained used to delimit one or more
fields (12) in the image,
d) one or more of the images of step a) that is not
segmented as in step c) is analysed using the fields

(12) determined in step c).
A method as claimed in Claim 1, 
characterised in
that
 two or more digital images (20) or analogical
images to be digitised are obtained of the object to

be imaged at desired time intervals, without
changing the position or location of the camera (38,

48) or the object,
that
 segmentation is carried out on the basis of
digital delimitation information obtained from at

least one image (22),
and 
that
 the object to be imaged is analysed on the
basis of an image (20) or images different from the 

one that has been segmented.
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, 
characterised
in that
, with the same detector, such as a camera (38,
48) at least two images are obtained at desired time

intervals of which one image (20) is analysed on the
basis of delimitation information obtained from another

image (22).
A method as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3,
characterised in
that
 a digital luminescence image (20, 22) is
obtained of the object to be imaged using at least

two different methods,
and 
that
 segmentation and analysis of the object to
be imaged are carried out on the basis of images

obtained using different methods.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 4,
characterised in
that
 a Prompt digital image (22) and a digital time-resolved
image (20) are obtained of the object to be

imaged without changing the position or location of
the camera (38, 48) or of the object,
that
 segmentation is carried out on the basis of
digital delimitation information obtained by means

of the Prompt image (22),
that
 the analysis of the object to be imaged is
carried out from the TR image (20) on the basis of

digital delimitation information obtained by means
of the Prompt image.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 5,
characterised in
that
 after a time interval following an excitation 
pulse, a fluorescence microscope (30) is first used

to obtain a time-resolved TR fluorescence image,
which is digitised and stored in a computer (42)

memory,
that
 subsequently, at least one immediate Prompt
fluorescence image is obtained for segmentation,

i.e. determination of the fields (12) to be
delimited,
and 
that
 the fields delimited on the basis of such
delimitation information are analysed from the

digitised TR fluorescence image which was obtained
earlier, and stored in the computer memory.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 5,
characterised in
that
 the fluorescence microscope (30) is first used
to obtain at least one immediate Prompt fluorescence

image, which is segmented, i.e. where the fields
(12) to be delimited are defined, and these data are

digitised and stored in the computer (42) memory,
that
 after a time interval following an excitation
pulse, a time-resolved TR fluorescence image is

obtained, which is digitised and also stored in the
computer (42) memory,
and 
that
 the delimitation information is used to
analyse the delimited fields of the digitised TR

fluorescence image stored in the computer memory.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 7,
characterised in that
 the Prompt image (22) and the TR
image (20) are exposed by the same luminescence pulse

(58), of which there are one or more.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 7,
characterised in that
 the Prompt image (22) and the TR 
image (20) are exposed by different luminescence pulses

(58), of which there are two or more.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 9,
characterised in that
 at least two Prompt images (22)
and/or at least two TR images (20) are exposed by the

same luminescence pulse (58).
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 10,
characterised in
that
 at least two simultaneous digital images (20)
or analogical images to be digitised are obtained of

the object to be imaged, without changing the
position or location of the camera (38, 48) or the

object,
that
 segmentation is carried out on the basis of
digital delimitation information obtained by means

of at least one image (22),
and 
that
 the object to be imaged is analysed from
another image (20), on the basis of the delimitation

information obtained.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 11,
characterised in that
 two or more detectors (38, 48),
such as cameras, are used to obtain simultaneously or a
t
desired time intervals two or more images, of which at

least one is analysed on the basis of delimitation
information obtained from the other image or other

images.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 12,
characterised in
that
 at least two simultaneous digital Prompt images
(22), the information of which is distinguished one

from the other, for example, on the basis of the 
wavelength of light, are obtained of the object to

be imaged, without changing the position or location
of the camera (38, 48) or the object,
that
 segmentation is carried out on the basis of
digital delimitation information obtained from at

least one Prompt image (22),
and 
that
 analysis of the object to be imaged is
carried out on the basis of another Prompt image

(20).
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 13,
characterised in that
 the determination of light
intensity, number of particles or other analysis of one

image (20) is carried out on the basis of delimitation
information obtained from another image (22) or other

images.
A method as claimed in one of Claims 1 to 14,
characterised in that
 a microscope (30) and one or more
cameras (38, 48) are used to image light emission from

the object to be imaged caused by two or more excitation
events, such as an excitation light pulse, so


that at least two images are obtained of
luminescence caused by the excitation light pulse at

desired time intervals with one or more detectors,
and that in one image (20) a read-out of light
intensity is obtained for at least one delimited

field (12) on the basis of delimitation information
obtained from another image (22) or other images.
Apparatus used in image analysis for the
delimitation of at least one field (12) in a first image

(20) of an object (19) including an observation
instrument, such as a microscope (28, 29, 30), at least

one detector means (38, 48), such as a camera, and an
analysing unit (42),
characterised in that
 the apparatus includes a device
(37, 41, 49) that transmits at least part of a second

image (22) of the object (19) differing from the first
image in time or wavelength but without change of the

position or location of the detector means (38, 48) or
the object (19) to one or more detector means and via

those means to the analysing unit (42), and the analysing
unit (42) is constructed to segment the second image (22)

to delimit at least one field (12) in the second image
(22), and then to analyse the first image (20) using the

delimited field(s) (12) obtained by segmentation of the
second image (22).
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 16, 
characterised
in that
 the apparatus incorporates a microscope (28, 29,
30), at least one camera (38, 48) and an electronic delay

unit (41) which can be regulated to obtain both immediate
Prompt images and time-resolved TR images, and an

analysing unit (42), which on the basis of at least one
image (22) delimits at least one field (12) in the object

and, on the basis of delimitation information, targets at
least one delimited field in another image for image

analysis.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 16 or 17,
characterised in that
 the apparatus is equipped with a
fast shutter (37), such as a gatable image intensifier,

and a camera or, alternatively, a position-sensitive
photodetector, the digital output port of which can be

gated so that the same detector can be used to measure
both the image information of Prompt luminescence and

time-resolved luminescence.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 16 or 17,
characterised in that
 the apparatus incorporates a
fluorescence microscope (28), at least one camera (38,

48) and a computer (42), in the memory of which can store 
a digitised, time-resolved TR fluorescence image which

has been obtained with a fluorescence microscope after a
time interval following an excitation pulse, and which

computer has also been equipped for analysis of a Prompt
fluorescence image which is used to define the fields

(12) to be delimited, i.e. a segmentation image, and the
delimitation information obtained in this manner is used

to analyse the fields delimited in the digitised TR
fluorescence image in the computer memory.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 16, 17 or 18,
characterised in that
 a fluorescence microscope (28), at
least one camera (38, 48) and a computer (42), in the

memory of which can store a conventional, or immediate,
Prompt fluorescence image which is used to define the

fields (12) to be delimited, i.e. segmentation, and a
digitised, time-resolved TR fluorescence image which has

been obtained with a fluorescence microscope after a time
interval following an excitation pulse, which computer

has been equipped for analysis, on the basis of the
delimitation information obtained, of fields delimited in

the digitised TR fluorescence image stored in the
computer memory.
An apparatus as claimed in one of Claims 16 to 20,
characterised in that
 the apparatus incorporates a camera
(38, 48) and a filter unit (45) with at least two

changeable filters (46, 47), which make it possible to
obtain two or more filtered images taken at desired time

intervals.
An apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 16 to 21,
characterised in that
 the apparatus incorporates a camera
(38, 48), to which at least one optical path has been

directed, and that in the camera is located a filtering 
unit (45) which has two or more layers (57), these being

semiconductor layers or other layers capable of
separation function and through which imaging can be

carried out simultaneously or at desired time intervals,
using at least two different modes of filtering.
An apparatus as claimed in one of Claims 16 to 21,
characterised in that
 the apparatus incorporates a camera
(38, 48), to which at least one optical path has been

directed, and that in or outside the camera is located a
filtering unit (45) which comprises spatial filters (57),

such as a matrix (56), which unit provides spatially
different filtering functions enabling imaging by at

least two different modes of filtering.
An apparatus as claimed in one of Claims 21 to 23,
characterised in that
 the layers forming the filtering
unit (45) are parallel and/or on top of one another.
An apparatus as claimed in one of Claims 16 to 24,
characterised in that
 the apparatus incorporates a
microscope (28, 29, 30), at least two cameras (38, 48)

and a device (37, 41, 49) that directs at least part of
the light flux to one camera (38) and part of the image

information to another camera (48), and an analysing unit
(42), which on the basis of at least one image (22)

delimits at least one field (12), and on the basis of
delimitation information, targets at least one delimited

field in another image for image analysis.
An apparatus as claimed in one of Claims 16 to 25,
characterised in that
 the apparatus incorporates two
cameras (38, 48) and a beam splitter (49), which splits

the image information obtained from the object into two
parts for the cameras, and that at least one camera is 

equipped with a fast shutter (37), such as a gatable
image intensifier, and a camera or alternatively a

position-sensitive photodetector with a gatable digital
output port.
An apparatus as claimed in one of Claims 16 to 26,
characterised in that
 the apparatus incorporates a camera
(38, 48) which can be reset to zero on the basis of

immediate, or prompt, luminescence image information and
opened to measure time-resolved TR luminescence emitted

by the same excitation light pulse.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
