<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652615</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A laser power monitor circuit used in a magneto-optical disk device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B7125	G11B7125	H01S300	H01S300	H01S500	H01S5042	H01S50683	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B7	G11B7	H01S3	H01S3	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A laser power monitor circuit for monitoring the power of a laser used in a magneto- 
optical disk device and other related devices. In order to provide marks in the recording 

medium, a write power of the laser is required, and in between the marks, the laser is to have 
a pedestal power. During recording on the magneto-optical disk, recording corrections are 

performed at the start of the pedestal power and write power of the laser to provide marks in 
the recording medium which are properly shaped. The laser power monitor circuit accurately 

monitors the power of the laser light on a recording medium and includes a reverse correction 
circuit to provide reverse correction of the recording corrected values among the monitored 

values of laser power to bring the laser to the appropriate write power or pedestal power. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON KOGAKU KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIKON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSHINO SHUNJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INABA NAOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSHINO, SHUNJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INABA, NAOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a laser power monitor circuit to monitor the power of 
a laser used in a magneto-optical disk device and other related devices. The thermal properties of a laser beam are generally used in the field of magneto-optical 
recording. The recording and playback of a magneto-optical disk are performed using a light 
(laser) beam emitted from a laser. The light beam has a diameter of about 1 µm, and is 
irradiated on the vertical magnetization film surface (recording surface) of the magneto-optical 
disk. Recording on the magneto-optical disk is performed by a method known as Curie point 
writing. Laser light, intensity modulated according to the information to be recorded, is 
irradiated onto the magneto-optical disk. A spot of light is formed on the portion of the 
magneto-optical disk surface onto which the laser light is irradiated. Then, when the 
temperature of the recording film of the magneto-optical disk exceeds (becomes high) the Curie 
point (a temperature fixed for the material used in the magneto-optical disk), this portion of the 
recording film becomes nonmagnetic. During the heating by laser light, an external magnetic 
field is impressed on the magneto-optical disk. When the portion which the light spot has 
irradiated moves from the position of the light spot as the magneto-optical disk rotates, the 
temperature of this portion of the recording film falls. At the point in time at which the 
temperature of the recording film falls below the Curie point temperature, the recording film is 
magnetized in the direction of the impressed external magnetic field. In this manner, recording 
is performed by changing the direction of magnetization. In the optical recording medium of optical disks and magneto-optical disks and the like, 
tracks used to record information are formed in a vortex form or as concentric circles. One or  
 
many of these tracks are formed per revolution. Two kinds of information units, corresponding 
to 0 and 1, are formed on these tracks and information is recorded. Generally, the magnetization of the tracks of a magneto-optical disk is made uniform in 
one direction (for example, upwards) by impressing a strong external magnetic field before 
recording. After this, marks having the reverse direction of magnetization (for example, 
downwards) are formed on the tracks. Information is represented by these marks, for example, 
by their presence or absence, position of the front end (front edge) of the mark, position of the 
rear end (rear edge)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A circuit for monitoring power of light emitted from a laser, said circuit 
comprising: 

   a monitor unit to monitor the power of the light and, as a result, generating a 
monitor signal; 

   a setting circuit to set the power of the light at distinct predetermined levels; 
   a correction circuit to correct and adjust the power of the light relative to the 

distinct predetermined levels; and 
   a reverse correction circuit to reverse correct the correction made by the 

correction circuit based upon the monitor signal. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 1, wherein said correction and reverse correction 
circuits have respective frequency characteristics which are substantially equal to each other. 
A circuit for monitoring power of light emitted from a laser, said circuit 
comprising: 

   a photoelectric conversion unit to convert the power of the laser into an electrical 
signal proportional to the power; 

   a setting circuit to set the power of the light at distinct predetermined levels; 
   a correction circuit to correct and adjust the power of the light relative to the 

distinct predetermined levels; and 
   a reverse correction circuit to reverse correct the correction made by the 

correction circuit based upon the electrical signal output by said photoelectric conversion unit. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 3, wherein said setting circuit comprises a current 
to voltage conversion circuit to convert the electrical signal from said photoelectric conversion 

unit to corresponding voltages. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 3, wherein said correction and reverse correction 
circuits have respective frequency characteristics which are substantially equal to each other. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 4, wherein said correction and reverse correction 
circuits have respective frequency characteristics which are substantially equal to each other. 
A circuit for monitoring power of a laser used to make a mark in an optical disk, 
said circuit comprising: 

   a laser drive circuit to drive the laser to produce a write power level which forms 
the mark and a pedestal power level which does not form the mark, and to drive the laser to 

produce an overshoot correction of the write power level at a front edge of the mark and an 
undershoot correction of the pedestal power level at a back edge of the mark; 

   a laser control circuit, connected to said laser drive circuit, to control said laser 
drive circuit; and 

   a laser monitor circuit, connected to the laser control circuit, to monitor the power 
of the laser and to provide a reverse overshoot correction of the write power and reverse 

undershoot correction of the pedestal power through said laser control and laser drive circuits. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 7, wherein said laser monitor circuit comprises: 
   a photoelectric conversion unit to convert the power of the laser to an electrical 

signal proportional to the power; 
   a current to voltage converter to convert the electrical signal to a voltage; and 

   a reverse correction circuit to generate a power monitor signal in dependence upon 
the voltage, and to supply the power monitor signal to said laser control circuit, thereby 

providing the reverse overshoot correction and the reverse undershoot correction. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 8, wherein each of said current to voltage 
converter and said reverse correction circuits comprise an operational amplifier. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 8, wherein said laser control circuit comprises: 
   a difference circuit to determine a voltage difference between the power monitor 

signal and one of a write power setting voltage and a pedestal power setting voltage, to generate 
a difference signal; 

   a sample and hold circuit to sample and hold the difference signal using a 
predetermined power sample timing signal; and 

   a loop filter circuit to receive said held difference signal and, in response, 
generating and supplying a corresponding one of a write power control voltage and a pedestal 

power control voltage to said laser drive circuit. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 10, wherein said laser drive circuit comprises: 
   an inductor and first resistor connected in parallel with respective first ends 

connected to each other and respective second ends connected to each other, said first ends 
receiving the pedestal power control voltage from said loop filter circuit; 

   a second resistor having a first end connected to the second ends of said inductor 
and first resistor, and a second end; 

   a transistor having a collector connected to said second end of said second resistor 
and an emitter; and 

   a constant current source controlled by the write power control voltage from said 
loop filter circuit and connected to the emitter of the first transistor; 

   wherein a node at the collector of the transistor has a potential proportional to a 
driving potential of the laser. 
The circuit as claimed in claim 10, wherein said laser drive circuit comprises: 
   a voltage to current converter to convert the write power control voltage and 

pedestal power control voltage to corresponding currents; 
   a second difference circuit to determine a difference between the two 

corresponding currents, to generate a first current signal; 
   a switch to alternately enable transmission of the first current signal in dependence 

upon a pedestal power changeover signal;
 

   a third difference circuit connected to said 
switch and the volt
age to current converter to 
determine a difference between the first current 

signal and the current corresponding to the pedestal 
power control voltage, to generate a second current 

signal; and 
   a first constant current source controlled 

by the current corresponding to the write power 
control voltage, a second constant current source 

controlled by the first current signal, and a third 
constant current source controlled by the second 

current signal, said first through third constant 
current sources controlling a total amount of current 

supplied to the laser. 
A method of monitoring the output power of 
a laser driven to operate at a plurality of discrete 

levels by a drive circuit which generates a drive 
signal for each drive level and then applies a 

predetermined drive correction signal to at least one 
of the drive signals, the method comprising providing 

a monitor signal representative of the laser output 
power and applying thereto a predetermined monitor 

correction signal to compensate for the effect of the 
drive correction signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
