<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632935</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRIC MOTOR CONSTRUCTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16C3304	F16C3320	H02K500	H02K500	H02K508	H02K508	H02K515	H02K515	H02K5167	H02K5167	H02K1500	H02K1514	H02K1514	H02K1516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16C	F16C	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16C33	F16C33	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K5	H02K15	H02K15	H02K15	H02K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRIC MOTORS AND SPECIALTIE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTRIC MOTORS AND SPECIALTIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUTTER ROBERT G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUTTER, ROBERT, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTRIC MOTOR CONSTRUCTIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to improvements in subfractional horsepower long-life electric motors. Subfractional horsepower electric motors manufactured for long-life service are shown, for example, in U.S. Patent 2,053,425. A typical application of such motors is for air circulation in refrigeration apparatus. Generally, such motors include bearing lubrication systems which provide for self-recirculation of a small quantity of oil to ensure a long service life and high reliability. It is critical in this type of motor that the original supply of oil be confined in a zone which is perfectly leak-proof because any leakage, however small, will eventually lead to premature failure of the motor. The oil circuitry may include an oil reservoir, a wick and oil grooves on a shaft or bearing to produce a supply of lubricant along the length of the bearing. Typically, this oil supply and recirculation circuitry involves a number of parts and labor content that add to the cost of the motor. In cold environments, the viscosity of the oil can make it difficult to ensure full lubrication so that premature failure of the bearing and therefore the motor may occur. U.S. Patent 4,746,828 illustrates an electric motor construction in which the end housings are injection molded plastic parts attached to a stack of stator laminations with tie rods running through the stack. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention provides a novel construction for a long-life, high-reliability subfractional horsepower electric motor of the induction type. The motor housing is formed of plastic material, typically thermoplastic material, that is precision injection molded to substantially finished condition and requires essentially no additional fabrication steps such as machining and no finishing steps such as painting. The motor housing is formed of two end units which cradle a stack of stator laminations therebetween. Rotor shaft bearings disposed in each end housing are preferably of a unique plastic material that has self-lubricating qualities. The disclosed motor assembly when compared to prior constructions for extended life applications is greatly simplified. This simplification in design, wherein conventional lubrication oil is eliminated, affords a motor construction which is inherently less expensive to manufacture. In particular, the labor content in the disclosed motor is greatly reduced. This labor content reduction permits the motor to be constructed with a premium type of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A method of making a long-life subfractional horsepower motor comprising the steps of providing a stator, a rotor, electrical windings operative when electrically energized to drive the rotor on the stator, and a steel shaft for rotatably supporting the rotor on the stator, providing a plastic bearing made with a material that includes a self-lubricating solid and that deposits itself on the shaft when the shaft is run in the bearing in a layer that retards corrosion of the steel shaft, assembling the rotor on the stator with the shaft journalled on the bearing, and running the shaft on the bearing to deposit a solid corrosion resisting layer thereon before the motor shaft is exposed to a humid or otherwise corrosive environment for a period of time that would otherwise be sufficient to induce a harmful degree of corrosion.
2. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the shaft is run on the bearing by electrical energization of the windings in a 100% quality assurance test in which electrical power consumption is monitored while the solid layer of bearing material is deposited on the shaft.
3. A long-life subfractional horsepower motor comprising a stator including a bearing support, the bearing support being an injection molded thermoplastic part that includes a molded bearing cavity, a plastic bearing disposed in the 


bearing cavity, the plastic bearing having self- lubricating properties, a rotor including a shaft, the shaft being rotatably supported in the bearing.
4. A motor as set forth in claim 3, wherein the cross section of the bearing cavity transverse to the shaft is non-circular and the bearing has an outside surface that is complementary in shape to the cross-section of the bearing cavity.
5. A motor as set forth in claim 4, wherein the bearing is retained in the cavity by a shrink-fit resulting from the thermoplastic bearing support cooling from an elevated temperature after the bearing has been assembled in the cavity.
6. A long-life subfractional horsepower electric motor including a stator, a rotor with a shaft, bearing support means on the stator, a self- lubricating plastic bearing on the bearing support rotatably supporting the shaft, the shaft having a surface finish of at least as fine as an 8 micron finish.
7. A motor as set forth in claim 6, wherein the shaft has a hardness of about 35 - 40 Rockwell C. 


 8. A motor as set forth in claim 7, wherein the shaft is a cold-roll carbon steel type.
9. An electric motor comprising a stator including a pair of opposed thermoplastic end housings, a stator core stack of laminations, a shaft bearing in each of said end housings, a rotor including a shaft, the rotor shaft being rotatably supported in both of the bearings, the stator core stack of laminations being sandwiched between the end housings, a plurality of spring clips extending axially between an external of the end housings, the spring clips being constructed and arranged to be snapped into an assembly position on the end housings wherein sufficient axial tension in the clips is developed to maintain the end housings in compression towards the stator core lamination stack to resist relative movement therebetween under normally expected service conditions.
10. An electric motor including a stator assembly and a rotor assembly, the stator assembly including a pair of opposed generally cup-shaped end housings and a stack of stator core laminations disposed between said end housings with an axial length, the end housings including opposed surfaces for engaging the stack of laminations, each end housing including a generally circular end wall and an integral and a circular skirt extending axially from the end wall towards the opposed end housing and enclosing a portion of the stator assembly, a bearing in the center of each end wall, the rotor 


assembly being disposed in said stator assembly and including a shaft having portions journalled in said bearings, the skirt of one of said end housings having a circular flange projecting axially from such skirt a distance that is at least the same order of magnitude as the axial spacing of said opposed surfaces whereby said end housings are usable with stator core laminations of different axial lengths varying substantially as much as 50% while the flange of said one skirt remains telescoped over the other skirt.
11. A method of making a subfractional horsepower motor having a stator and a rotor supported on a bearing in the stator comprising the steps of injection molding a circular plastic end wall for the stator with a central cavity, assembling a plastic bearing in the central cavity holding the end wall at points spaced about its periphery so that it is concentrically aligned with the axis of a tool, and causing relative rotation and axial displacement of the tool relative to the end wall to machine a cylindrical bore in the bearing concentric with the circular periphery of the end wall.
12. A method as set forth in claim 11, wherein said circular plastic end wall is molded of thermoplastic material and said plastic bearing is assembled in the central cavity before the thermoplastic material cools from the molding process so that a shrink fit is obtained between the end wall and the bearing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
