<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647945</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Burst refresh mode for DRAMs
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C11406	G11C11403	G11C11406	G11C11403	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Burst refresh mode circuitry is provided for a memory (100) having 
cells (112) in rows and columns, sense amplifiers (110) and Latch 

N/Latch P driver circuitry (124), a RAS buffer (102), refresh 
counters (106), address buffers (104), row decoders (108), precharge 

circuitry (120) producing shorting clocks (128), and a 
refresh detector circuit coupled to the Latch P circuitry to 

provide a restore finished (RF) signal indicative that a refresh 
cycle is substantially completed. Burst refresh mode entry circuitry 

(140) detects proper conditions for entering burst refresh mode. 
An auto-refresh burst refresh mode circuit (136) causes the RAS 

buffer (102) to generate a new internal RAS signal. Burst refresh 
mode logic (134) has counters to count the number of rows that have 

been refreshed. The system self-times the refreshing by responding 
to the restore finished signal. A delay circuit (130) interposes a 

short delay for the precharge before another row is automatically 
refreshed in the burst refresh mode. Battery back-up mode circuitry 

(132) is partially disabled. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOSEL VITELIC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOSEL VITELIC, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARRIS MICHAEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARRIS, MICHAEL C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns a method of refreshing an
integrated circuit memory of the kind defined in the preamble
of Claim 1 and a memory circuit as defined in the preamble of
Claim 11.A method and a memory circuit of the above kinds are known from
US-A-4 549 284. According to this prior document a dynamic
random access memory (DRAM) has an automatic refresh circuit
which consists of a clock generator that generates refresh
clock pulses when an access strobe signal is not produced, and
an address counter that increments a refresh address by
counting the refresh clock pulses. Succeeding refresh cycles
may be triggered by an oscillator circuit.DRAMs include memory storage cells that store data on
capacitors. Charge or lack of charge on these capacitors is
used to represent logic "1" or "O" data states. The capacitors
are susceptible to charge leaking off (or on) over periods of
time, typically milliseconds, and must therefore be refreshed
or restored to their representative data states periodically.DRAMs are constructed of or organized into one or several
memory cell arrays or subarrays consisting of rows and columns
(which correspond to word lines and bit lines). When a row is
selected during an active cycle, all of the cells along that
row are sensed and restored. An active cycle is when the
memory cells are accessed by word lines to read, write or
refresh, for example. Then a precharge cycle is performed,
which is not part of an active cycle, to ready the memory array
to enter another active cycle.To refresh the entire array, also done during an active cycle,
generally only the rows need to be selected. All the 
capacitors of the memory cells along a row or portion of a row
are refreshed when that row is addressed. (That is, all of the
columns are operative during refresh.) Row selection can be
done by cycling through all the row addresses with a row
address strobe signal ("RAS"), or any standard read/write
cycle. For example, column address strobe before row address
strobe (CAS before RAS or "CBR") cycling provides the row
address internally from refresh counters so that each row will
be selected and refreshed. The external signal RAS, supplied by a system and provided externally of the
memory package, is generally used to control many functions of a DRAM. One
of its uses is analogous to a chip select signal as used by other types of chips. If
the external signal RAS remains low for a long enough time, all of the active
cycle clocks will operate in proper sequence, terminate and then wait for a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of refreshing an integrated circuit memory (100)
comprising the steps of:


detecting conditions for entering a burst refresh mode, and
if said conditions are detected, then
generating an auto-refresh signal (AREF);
internally producing an internal address signal (ADD) and
refreshing one or more rows of memory cells (112) based on said

internal address signal (ADD); and
repeating said step of internally producing an internal
address signal (ADD) until all of the memory (100) has been

refreshed;
characterised by the steps of:
internally detecting when said refreshing of one or more
rows of memory cells (112) is substantially completed; and
triggering a new refresh cycle in response to detection of
the completion of a preceding refresh cycle; and
repeating also said steps of internally detecting and
triggering a new refresh cycle until all of the memory (100) has

been refreshed.
The method of claim 1 wherein said step of repeating
includes indexing a count of rows that have been refreshed and

terminating said burst refresh mode when all of the rows have
been refreshed.
The method of claim 2 wherein said step of indexing includes
counting the number of times said auto-refresh signal (AREF) is

generated.
The method of claim 1 employing a variable row select
function to select more rows for refreshing than in a normal

mode of operation of the memory (100) so that each cycle 
refreshes more rows than are normally refreshed in normal mode.
The method of any prior claim including detecting a set of
prescribed conditions on one or more inputs to said memory

circuit (100) upon entering a burst refresh mode.
The method of claim 5 including detecting said prescribed
conditions among an address bit, a column address signal and a

write enable signal.
The method of any preceding claim including

detecting the condition of an electrical signal used during
a sensing operation associated with said refreshing, and
determining whether said electrical signal has reached a
predetermined condition.
The method of claim 7 wherein said memory circuit (100) uses
a latch signal (LP) to latch sense amplifiers (110) within the

memory (100), and wherein said condition is a voltage level of
said latch signal (LP).
The method of Claim 8 wherein said latch signal (LP) is a
latch signal for activating p-channel transistors in sense

amplifiers (110) of the memory circuit (100).
The method of any preceding claim including counting the
number of burst refresh mode cycles so that all of said rows of

the memory circuit (100) are refreshed.
A memory circuit (100) having a plurality of memory cells
(112) arranged in rows and columns, a plurality of sense amplifiers

(110) coupled to said columns of memory cells, a sense
amplifier driver circuit (124) coupled to said plurality of sense

amplifiers, a control signal circuit (102) coupled to receive
an externally-applied control signal (/RAS), a refresh counter 

circuit (106), a plurality of address buffers (104) coupled to
said control signal circuit and said refresh counter circuit

(106), a row decoder circuit (108) coupled to said address buffers
(104) and to said rows of memory cells, and precharge (120)

and clock circuitry responsively coupled to said control signal
circuit (102) for providing a precharge signal used to precharge

the sense amplifiers (110), a burst refresh mode control circuit
(134, 140) coupled to receive externally-applied signals and effective

for determining whether the memory circuit (100) should
enter burst refresh mode;

characterised by

a detector circuit (126) coupled to said sense amplifier
driver circuit (124) to provide a refresh finished (RF) signal

indicative that a refresh cycle is substantially completed;
a selectively operable burst refresh node circuit (132)
responsively coupled to said burst refresh mode control circuit

(134, 140),
the burst refresh mode circuit (132) being coupled to said
control signal circuit (102) and coupled to receive said refresh

finished signal (RF) from said detector circuit (126),
said burst refresh mode circuit (132) being effective to
carry o
ut successive refresh cycles for refreshing rows of memory
cells in response to successive ones of said refresh

finished signal (RF).
The memory circuit of claim 11 wherein said burst refresh
mode circuit (132) includes a burst refresh mode logic circuit

(134) providing a counting function to determine when all rows
of the memory circuit (100) have been refreshed in the burst

refresh mode.
The memory circuit of claim 11 or 12 further comprising a
delay circuit (130) coupled to receive a precharge clock signal

produced by said precharge circuit (120) and to provide a delayed
timing signal based thereon to said burst refresh mode 

circuit (132).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
