<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647274</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RECOMBINANT BACULOVIRUSES CONTAINING INSECT CELLULAR PROMOTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K1446	C07K1470	C12N701	C12N701	C12N916	C12N916	C12N15866	C12N15866	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C12N7	C12N7	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of expressing heterologous proteins in insect cells using recombinant baculovirus comprising a structural gene for a heterologous protein functionally attached to an insect cellular promoter, wherein the insect cellular promoter is a promoter which is not naturally functionally attached to the structural gene, such that the heterologous protein is expressed in the insect cells having the recombinant baculovirus. The heterologous protein includes proteins capable of incapacitating the insect. The invention is also directed towards expression cassettes comprising an insect cellular promoter capable of directing the expression of a heterologous protein in tissues containing the expression cassette, recombinant expression cassettes containing heterologous proteins, transplacement fragments and vectors containing recombinant expression cassettes, and recombinant baculoviruses derived therefrom.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TECHNOLOGIES INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY TECHNOLOGIES INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IATROU KOSTAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IATROU, KOSTAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RECOMBINANT BACULOVIRUSES CONTAINING INSECT CELLULAR PROMOTERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention relates to a method of expressing heterologous proteins in insect cells using a recombinant baculovirus, comprising a structural gene for a heterologous protein functionally attached to an insect cellular promoter such that the protein is expressed in substantially all of the insect tissues into which the recombinant baculovirus was introduced. The heterologous protein includes proteins toxic or harmful to the insect host or proteins whose unregulated expression will incapacitate the insect host. The invention is also directed to expression cassettes, recombinant expression cassettes containing heterologous genes, transplacement fragments containing expression cassettes, transplacement fragments containing recombinant expression cassettes, vectors containing transplacement fragments and recombinant baculoviruses derived therefrom.State of the ArtNuclear polyhedrosis viruses (NPVs) are a subgroup of the family Baculoviridae, whose virions are embedded into proteinaceous polyhedra in the nucleus of host cells.SUBSTITUTE SHEET 

Baculoviruses provide alternatives to chemicals for controlling insect pests. Because most NPVs have a host range restricted to only a few closely-related species, they can be used without disrupting the balance of other insect and non-insect species (e.g., important predators) in the agricultural ecosystem. No baculovirus has been demonstrated to infect mammals, reptiles, birds, invertebrates such as earthworms or plants. To date, however, baculoviruses have met with only limited commercial success as control agents, due to difficulties with virus stability and, most importantly, slower speed of action than that achieved with chemical insecticides.Certain baculoviruses, specifically nuclear polyhedrosis viruses (NPVs), have a unique life cycle which involves the temporally regulated expression of two functionally and morphologically different viral forms, the budded form and the occluded form. Nuclear polyhedrosis viruses produce large polyhedral occlusion bodies, which contain enveloped virus particles, within the nucleus of infected cells. The occlusion body is composed of a matrix comprising a 29 Da protein known as polyhedrin. After the insect dies from infection, occlusion bodies containing virus are released from the dead larvae into the environment and spread the infection to other insects through contamination of the food supply. These
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1 . A method of expressing heterologous protein in insect cells comprising infecting insect cells with a recombinant baculovirus comprising a recombinant expression cassette, such cassette comprising a structural gene encoding a heterologous protein functionally attached to an insect cellular promoter wherein the insect cellular promoter is a promoter which is not naturally functionally attached to that structural gene, such that the heterologous protein is expressed in insect cells having the recombinant baculovirus present therein.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the insect cells are infected by oral ingestion by an insect of the recombinant baculovirus comprising the recombinant expression cassette.
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein the insect cellular promoter comprises an insect promoter from the group consisting of ribosomal genes, histone genes, tubulin genes and actin genes.
4. The method of Claim 3 wherein the insect cellular promoter comprises the promoter sequences of the cytoplasmic actin gene of B. mori.
5. The method of Claim 1 wherein the heterologous protein comprises an incompatible protein.
6. The method of Claim 5 wherein the incompatible protein is one selected from the group consisting of juvenile 


hormone esterase, enkephalin-like peptide precursor, FMRFamide- like peptide precursor, alkaline phosphate, proctolin, protamine, TxP-1 and AalT.
7. A method of expressing heterologous protein in insect cells comprising introducing into insect cells a recombinant expression cassette, such cassette comprising a structural gene encoding a heterologous protein functionally attached to the promoter of the cytoplasmic actin gene of B. mori.
8. An expression cassette comprising an insect cellular promoter wherein the insect cellular promoter is capable of expressing a heterologous gene functionally attached to the promoter when insect cells are infected with a recombinant baculovirus comprising the expression cassette and the heterologous gene and wherein the insect cellular promoter is a promoter not naturally functionally attached to the heterologous gene.
9. The expression cassette of Claim 8 wherein the insect cellular promoter comprises the promoter of the cytoplasmic actin gene of B. mori.
10. A recombinant expression cassette comprising the expression cassette of Claim 8 and further comprising a heterologous structural gene functionally linked to the insect cellular promoter. 


 1 1 . A recombinant expression cassette comprising the expression cassette of Claim 9 and further comprising a heterologous structural gene functionally linked to the promoter.
12. A transplacement fragment comprising the recombinant expression cassette of Claim 10 and further comprising a portion of a baculovirus genome that can sustain insertions of non-viral DNA fragments.
13. A transplacement fragment comprising the recombinant expression cassette of Claim 10 and further comprising baculovirus DNA sequences derived from Bombyx mori nuclear polyhedrosis virus polyhedrin gene.
14. A transplacement fragment comprising the recombinant expression cassette of Claim 1 1 and further comprising a portion of a baculovirus genome that can sustain insertions of non-viral DNA fragments.
15. A transplacement vector comprising the transplacement fragment of Claim 12.
16. A transplacement vector comprising the transplacement fragment of Claim 13.
17. A transplacement vector comprising the transplacement fragment of Claim 14. 


 18. A recombinant baculovirus comprising the recombinant expression cassette of Claim 10.
19. A recombinant baculovirus comprising the recombinant expression cassette of Claim 1 1 .
20. A method of incapacitating insects comprising infecting insects with a recombinant baculovirus, such baculovirus comprising a structural gene encoding an incompatible protein functionally attached to an insect cellular promoter wherein the insect cellular promoter is a promoter not naturally functionally attached to the structural gene, such that the heterologous protein is expressed in insect cells having the recombinant baculovirus present therein. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
