<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631674</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTERLOCKING-BODY CONNECTIVE JOINT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16M1102	F16M1112	F16M1118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16M	F16M	F16M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16M11	F16M11	F16M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A connective joint (10) comprises the following seven elements: (a) four quarter spheres (20, 22, 24 and 26) arranged in adjacent quadrant relationship to form a substantially spherical element or "ball". The quarter spheres are provided with grooved edges that form two substantially perpendicular grooves extending around the spherical element (20, 22, 24 and 26); (b) two hinge elements (28, 30), each having a ring shaped portion that is inserted in an individual one of the two grooves; (c) a device for applying a force between two diametrically opposing ones of the quarter spheres (20, 22, 24 and 26) in the spherical element.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMRUS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMRUS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHPIGEL VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHPIGEL VLADIMIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTERLOCKING-BODY CONNECTIVE JOINTCROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION This application is continuation-in-part of my copending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/492,622, filed March 13, 1990, and now allowed. The entire contents of this prior application is incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to a connective mechanical joint; and more particularly to a joint that permits relative positioning of interconnected articles, such as a tripod and a camera, through large angles, and about an axis having virtually any arbitrarily selectable orientation.My U.S. patent application Serial No. 07/492,622, filed March 13, 1990 (and now allowed) discloses a connective joint for interconnecting two articles, such as a tripod and a camera, comprised of two interlocking bodies, such as hollow rings, that are mounted on a common internal structure that permits each body to rotate about its own axis. The resulting joint can rotate in all directions with a very high angular range, in most cases limited only by the angles subtended by connecting stems used to mount the joint to the aforementioned articles. The joint may include a 

hollow central enclosure for passing flexible wires or tubing so that the wire or tubing can be passed through the joint without inhibiting the joint's high degree of freedom. The internal structure of the joint, which is disclosed in this application, provides two interfitted "tracks" for the interlocking bodies or rings. This internal structure takes the form of four substantially identical interfitted elements or two substantially identical circular-segment corner pairs, each with offset centers.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide an improved connective joint of the type disclosed in the aforementioned patent application Serial No. 07/492,622.It is a particular object of the present invention to provide a connective joint that is comprised of a minimum number of parts which are easily manufactured and assembled.It is another particular object of the present invention to provide a connective joint which is extremely robust in operation.It is another particular object of the present invention to provide a connective joint having two interlocking bodies which may be locked against motion relative to each other by a simple and robust mechanism.These objects, as well as other objects which will become apparent from the discussion that follows, are 

achieved, in accordance with the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. In a connective joint for interconectig two articles for controlled relative motion, comprising: a pair of interlocking bodies; means for attaching each of the bodies to one of such articles respectively; and structure constraining the bodies for systematic relative movement; the improvement comprising means for inhibiting relative movement of said pair of interlocking bodies.
2. The joint defined in claim 1, wherein said constraining structure includes four quarter elements arranged in adjacent quadrant relationship and wherein said movement inhibiting means includes means for applying a force between two diametrically opposing ones of said quarter elements.
3. The joint defined in claim 2, wherein said four quarter elements are quarter spheres which form a substantially spherical element when arranged in adjacent quadrant relationship.
4. The joint defined in claim 3, wherein said quarter spheres each have stepped edges forming two substantially perpendicular grooves, extending around said spherical element, when said four quarter spheres are arranged in adjacent quadrant relationship; and wherein said 


interlocking bodies include first and second hinge elements, each having
^
 a ring shaped portion inserted in one of said two grooves.
5. The joint defined in claim 4, wherein at least one of said first and second hinge elements is split into at least two parts to permit assembly around respective ones of said grooves.
6. The joint defined in claim 5, wherein said one hinge element is split into two substantially identical halves.
7. The joint defined in claim 5, further comprising means for connecting the separate parts of said at least one hinge together.
8. The joint defined in claim 4, wherein said first and second hinge elements each has an attachment portion adapted to be attached to a respective one of the two articles.
9. The joint defined in claim 4, wherein the ring portions of said first and second hinge elements are hollow, at least in part, to accommodate a flexible elongate element. 


10. The joint defined in claim 9, wherein the ring portions of said first and second hinge elements have a U-shaped profile.
11. The joint defined in claim 9, wherein said quarter spheres are configured such that said spherical element is hollow, at least in part, to permit said flexible elongate element to extend from one of said hinge elements to the other.
12. The joint defined in claim 11, further comprising said elongate element, wherein said elongate element extends through a segment of the ring portion of said first hinge element, through the hollow portion of the spherical element, and thence through a segment of the ring portion of said second hinge element.
13. The joint defined in claim 12, wherein said segments are approximately 180 degrees.
14. The joint defined in claim 12, wherein said flexible elongate element is an electric wire.
15. The joint defined in claim 4, wherein said force applying means include a bolt. 


16. The joint defined in claim 15, wherein said bolt has an elongate shank with a flange at one end and a nut in threaded engagement with the shank at the opposite end, and wherein said shank extends through openings in opposite ones of said quarter spheres with the flange abutting one quarter sphere and the nut abutting the other.
17. The joint defined in claim 15, wherein said bolt has an elongate shank with a thread at one end and a flange at the opposite end, said shank extending through an opening in one quarter sphere and into a threaded opening in, and being in threaded engagement with the opposite quarter sphere, said flange abutting said one quarter sphere to said opposite quarter sphere.
18. The joint defined in claim 17, wherein said bolt includes a knob at the end of the shank having the flange, said knob serving to facilitate manual rotation of the shank.
19. The joint defined in claim 4, wherein said force applying means includes means for applying a substantially constant compressive force to said opposite ones of said quarter spheres. 


20. The joint defined in claim 15, wherein said force applying means further includes means for applying a substantially constant compressive force to said opposite ones of said quarter spheres.
21. The joint defined in claim 20, wherein said bolt has an elongate shank with a flange at one end and a nut in threaded engagement with the shank at the opposite end, and wherein said shank extends through openings in opposite ones of said quarter spheres with the flange abutting one quarter sphere and the nut abutting the other, and wherein said force applying means includes a spring arranged on said bolt between one of said quarter spheres and one of said flange and said nut.
22. The joint defined in claim 21, wherein said spring is a coil spring arranged in compression.
23. The joint defined in claim 21, further comprising an adjustment nut in threaded engagement with said shank and adjacent said spring, for adjusting the spring tension.
24. The joint defined in claim 20, wherein said bolt has an elongate shank with a thread at one end and a flange at the opposite end, said shank extending through an opening in one quarter sphere and into a threaded opening in, and being 


in threaded engagement with the opposite quarter sphere, said flange abutting said one quarter sphere to said opposite quarter sphere, and wherein said force applying means includes a spring arranged on said bolt between said one quarter sphere and said flange.
25. The joint defined in claim 24, wherein said spring is a coil spring.
26. The joint defined in claim 24, further comprising an adjustment nut in threaded engagement with said shank and adjacent said spring, for adjusting the spring tension.
27. The joint defined in claim 4, further comprising a swivel base connected to one of said hinge elements.
28. The joint defined in claim 27, wherein said swivel base includes a top portion, attached to said one of said hinge elements, and a bottom portion, arranged for rotation with respect to said top portion.
29. The joint defined in claim 28, further comprising means for locking said bottom portion against rotation with respect to said top portion. 


30. The joint defined in claim 29, wherein said locking means includes a split ring and means for clamping said split ring on at least one of said top portion and said bottom portion. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
