<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0996564</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOLDING FRAME BICYCLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62K312	B62K300	B62K314	B62K1500	B62K1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62K	B62K	B62K	B62K	B62K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62K3	B62K3	B62K3	B62K15	B62K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A foldable bicycle designed so when the bicycle is folded, the front (1) and rear (2) frames bypass each other to permit a complete folding position and using a fold on or near the seat tube (7), and to maintain a rigid open riding position with simple standard fold restraining devices.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONTAGUE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MONTAGUE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTAGUE DAVID G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTAGUE HARRY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTAGUE, DAVID, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTAGUE, HARRY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a foldable bicycle that folds on or near the seat tube having non-overlapping front and rear frames and using quick release clamps or other means to lock a front and a rear frame together in the open riding position. In this application, the term "quick release" or other locking devices are referred to as restraining devices.Many folding bicycles such as the Dahon, U.S. Pat. No. 4,067,589, require many folding steps while setting the folding axis in the middle of the structural members making a bicycle that is too complicated to fold and structurally weak. To date the strongest folding bicycles have been those that fold about the seat tube using a minimum number of quick release levers. U.S. Pat. No. 4,448,437 and U.S. Pat. No. 4,900,047 define a fold about the seat tube construction, with the rear member collared about the front member and the seat post attached to the front member.Other bicycles, such as the Bridgestone "Grandtech", U.S. Pat. No. 4,579,360, employ the fold about the seat tube concept and involved only a few steps to fold the bicycle but had to sacrifice the strength of the open bicycle by distorting the seat post to achieve the limited number of folding steps. Likewise, U.S. Pat. No. 5,222,751 uses the concept defined in Pat No. 4,448,437 by having the same bottom bracket area collar as shown in Fig. 2B of 4,448,437. The design has a collared bent seat tube attaching a front and a rear frame, at the bottom near the crank and at the top near the seat tube.All of these bicycles and tandems, including the prior configurations of the present inventor, had front and rear frames that partially or completely overlapped each other. U.S. Pat. No. 4,448,437 shows both the condition where the front frame surrounds the rear frame and where the rear frame surrounds the front frame. The current application has the front and rear frames partially overlapping. U.S. Pat. No. 4,579,360, Bridgestone's "Grandtech" has the back frame surrounding the front frame and U.S Pat. No. 5,222,751 has the two frames overlapping.ES 2 028 615 discloses a bicycle according to the preamble of claim 1 having a combined fold and fastening means arranged in front of the seat tube. This means permits non-overlapping folding but since the front and rear frames are secured to each other at one point only, this arrangement causes problems concerning the stability of the bicycle when it is in its unfolded riding condition. There are however still areas for design improvement, to reduce the number of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A foldable bicycle comprising; a front frame (1) for mounting a front wheel and a rear frame (2) for mounting a rear wheel, the front and rear frames are attached and secured together by at least one restraining device with the bicycle in an operative riding condition, said front and rear frames oriented so that when folded each frame can be rotated about a common axis of rotation backward or forward and will not contact a structural member of the other frame, when in a completely folded position, 
characterized in that

said axis of rotation is located at or nearer to a main seat tube (6, 7) than a head tube (3) of the front frame,

said front frame (1) or said rear frame (2) comprising an extended portion (21, 22, 23) which extends beyond said axis of rotation and

that the restraining device is arranged on said extended portion, remote from and not concentric with said axis of rotation.
A foldable bicycle of claim 1 wherein said front frame (1) is positioned above a top edge of the rear frame (2) projected forward, and said rear frame is attached to the front frame and secured together when the bicycle is in the operative riding position.
A foldable bicycle of claim 2, further comprising a locking mechanism (11, 13, 15, 33-36, 48, 55) to secure said front (1) and rear (2) frames together, and wherein said front frame and said rear frame are attached together by said locking mechanism but are not hinged and upon releasing the locking mechanism, the front and rear frames can be positioned as desired in the folded position.
A foldable bicycle of claim 1 wherein said rear frame (2) is positioned above a top edge of the front frame (1) projected back, and said front frame attached to the rear frame and secured together when the bicycle is in the operative riding position.
A foldable bicycle of claim 4 further comprising a locking mechanism (12, 12a, 33-36) to secure said front (1) and rear (2) frames together, and wherein said front frame and said rear frame are attached together by said locking mechanism but are not hinged and upon releasing the locking mechanism, the front and rear frames can be positioned as desired in the folded position.
A foldable bicycle of claim 2 wherein said front frame (1) and said rear frame (z) are attached together and folded open
 by concentric rotation defined by non-intersecting planes of the front and rear frames.
A foldable bicycle of claim 4 wherein said front frame (1) and said rear frame (2) are attached together and folded open by concentric rotation defined by non-intersecting of the planes of the front and rear frames.
A foldable bicycle of claim 1 wherein at least one of said front (1) and rear (2) frames have a solid bar construction.
A foldable bicycle of claim 1 wherein at least one of said front (1) and rear frames (2) have an open tube geometry.
A foldable bicycle of claim 6 wherein said concentric rotation occurs in front of the main seat tube (6, 7) position.
A foldable bicycle of claim 10, wherein said concentric rotation occurs in an angled position.
A folding bicycle of claim 11, further comprising a hinge for said front member to join the separate frames together, said hinge collared over the other frame member.
A foldable bicycle of claim 7 wherein said concentric rotation occurs in back off the main seat tube position.
A foldable bicycle of claim 13, wherein rotation occurs in an angled position.
A folding bicycle of claim 14, further comprising a hinge for said rear frame member to join the frames together, said hinge collared over the other frame member.
A folding bicycle of claim 1 further comprising an elastic suspension (61) permitting said rear frame (2) to move relative to said front frame (1).
A folding bicycle of claim 13 wherein said front frame (1) further comprises a movable stop block (57) in contact with a portion of said rear frame (2) permitting said rear frame to move in a forward direction relative to said front frame.
A folding bicycle of claim 14, wherein said rear frame (2) comprises a hinge with a crank housing to permit rotational movement as said rear frame shifts forward.
A folding bicycle of claim 15 wherein said hinge comprises a rotating sleeve coupled to said crank housing and said rear frame, said crank housing being carried by a seat tube.
A folding bicycle of claim 3 wherein said bicycle further comprises an alternative electric source of power.
A folding bicycle of claim 1 wherein said frame is a tandem frame .
A foldable bicycle of claim 2 or 4 wherein said front frame (1) and said rear frame (2) are attached together and pivot open and closed about a pin member.
A foldable bicycle of claim 22 wherein at least one of said front and rear frames have a solid bar construction.
A foldable bicycle of claim 22 wherein said pivoting rotation occurs at the main seat tube position
A foldable bicycle of claim 24, wherein said pivoting rotation occurs in an angled horizontal position.
. A foldable bicycle of claim 22 wherein said pivoting rotation occurs in front of the main seat tube position
A foldable bicycle of claim 26 wherein said pivoting axis is vertical.
A foldable bicycle of claim 10 wherein said pivoting occurs in an angled horizontal position.
A foldable bicycle of claim 10 wherein said concentric rotation occurs about a substantially vertical position at a point proximate to a mid point between two axle mounts on the frames, and said main seat tube is separated into two portions, an upper seat tube portion directly attached to the front frame and below it and a lower seat tube portion attached to the rear frame, whereby said bicycle is locked in an operable rideable position by an inner seat tube which slides down through the upper front frame and into the lower rear frame, said bicycle seat post positioned inside the inner seat tube and clamping means for clamping together the inner seat tube.
A foldable bicycle of claim 24 wherein said concentric rotation occurs about a substantially vertical position at a point at proximate to the mid point between two axle mounts on the frames, and said main seat tube is separated into two portions, an upper seat tube portion directly attached to the front frame and below it and a lower seat tube portion attached to the rear frame, whereby said bicycle is locked in an operable rideable position by the seat post which slides down through the upper seat tube and into the lower seat tube.
A foldable bicycle of claim 24 wherein said concentric rotation occurs about a substantially vertical position at a point proximate the mid point between the two axle mounts on said frames, and wherein the main seat tube is separated into two portions, an upper seat tube portion attached to the front frame, and directly and in line below it, and a lower seat
 tube portion attached to the rear frame, whereby said bicycle is locked in the rideable position by an inner seat tube which slides down through the upper front frame into the lower rear frame, and said bicycle seat post is inside the inner seat tube and clamped together with the inner seat tube using a clamping device.
A foldable bicycle of claim 13 wherein said concentric rotation occurs about a substantially vertical position at a point proximate to a mid point between the two axle mounts on said frames (1, 2) in which the main seat tube is separated into two portions, an upper seat tube portion attached to the rear frame, and directly and in line below ic, a lower seat tube portion attached to the front frame, whereby said bicycle is locked in the rideable position by the seat post which slides down through the upper seat tube portion into the lower seat tube portion.
A foldable bicycle of claim 13 wherein said concentric rotation occurs about a substantially vertical position at a point proximate to a mid point between the two axle mounts on said frames (1, 2), in which the main seat tube is separated into two portions, an upper seat tube portion attached to the rear frame, and directly and in line below it, a lower seat tube portion attached to the front frame, whereby said bicycle is locked in the rideable position by an inner seat tube which slides down through the upper front frame into the lower rear frame, and said bicycle seat post is inside the inner seat tube and clamped together with the inner seat tube using a quick release or other clamping device.
A foldable bicycle of claim 26 wherein said concentric rotation occurs about a substantially vertical position at point proximate to a. mid point between the two axle mounts on said frames (1, 2), said main seat tube separated into two portions, an upper seat tube portion attached to the rear frame, and directly and in line below it, a lower seat tube portion attached to the front frame whereby said bicycle is locked in the rideable position by the seat post which slides down through the upper seat tube into the lower seat tube.
A foldable bicycle of claim 26 wherein said concentric rotation occurs about a substantially vertical position at a point proximate to a mid point between the two axle mounts on said frame, said main seat tube separated into two portions, an upper seat tube portion attached to the rear frame, and directly and in line below it, a lower seat tube portion attached to the front frame whereby said bicycle is locked in the-rideable position by an inner seat tube which slides down through the upper front frame into the lower rear frame, and a bicycle seat post is positioned inside the inner seat tube and clamped together with the inner seat tube using a quick release or other clamping device.
A foldable bicycle of claim 29 further comprising means providing a positive retention to hold said seat tube into the lower frame.
A foldable bicycle of claim 29 further comprising a collar fastened to said inner seat tube whereby said inner seat tube is prevented from eliding entirely inside said upper seat tube portion.
A foldable bicycle of claim 37 in which the seat post fits into the inner seat tube, and a quick release clamping device to hold said Beat post in position.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
