<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633464</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Particle monitoring sensor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J900	G01J902	G01N1500	G01N1500	G01N1502	G01N1502	G01N1514	G01N1514	G01N2115	G01N2115	G01N2121	G01N2121	G01N2147	G01N2149	G01N2153	H01L2102	H01L2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J9	G01J9	G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a particle monitoring 
sensor (10) which uses a variety of techniques to 

prolong the effective life of the optical surfaces 
within the particle monitoring sensor. Substantially 

inert purging gas is directed from flow connections (26) 
over the particle monitoring sensor windows (16), which 

are normally exposed to a harsh operating environment. 
The surfaces of these windows are heated by heating 

elements (28) in direct thermal contact with the 
windows. In addition a restrictive slit assembly (58, 

60, 62) is placed over the detector window (16) to 
reduce the exposed area and to increase the velocity of 

gas flowing over the window surface. While the slit 
(62) reduces the detector's field of view, the signal 

loss is reduced by using a linearly polarized light 
source and aligning the elongated slit's major axis with 

the direction of polarization. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHKIN BORIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALZMAN PHIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FISHKIN, BORIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SALZMAN, PHIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a particle monitoring system and to a 
method of detecting particulate material. The diminished size of structures in modern semiconductor devices 
places extreme demands on semiconductor processing equipment. For 
example, the use of 0.35 µm design rules requires very low levels of 
particulate contamination throughout the processing environment. Recently, 
in situ particle monitors have been identified as potentially useful tools for 
monitoring the performance of semiconductor processing equipment. It is 
believed that, under certain circumstances, the output of in situ particle 
monitors can be correlated with the presence of undesirable levels of 
particulates in the reaction environment. Both developmental and production 
line semiconductor processing equipment may incorporate laser-based 
optical systems for monitoring particulate levels in exhaust gas flow as a 
measure of equipment cleanliness. During processing, particulates created in the equipment chamber are 
withdrawn from the chamber and flow through the exhaust line of the 
chamber. Typically, particle monitors are laser-based optical systems 
designed to detect the low levels of scattered light produced when the laser 
light interacts with the particulate matter in the exhaust line flow. Sustained 
operation of such particle monitoring sensors is made difficult by the harsh 
chemical environment that exists in the exhaust line flow of semiconductor 
processing equipment. Chemical species within the exhaust gases deposit 
on the walls of the exhaust lines, and these species may deposit on or etch 
surfaces that are not suitably inert to the exhaust gas environment. Optical 
surfaces which face the interior of the exhaust line, such as those necessary 
for a low light level optical detection system, are quickly degraded in such 
an environment.  Increased scattering in the particle monitoring sensor's optical path 
may significantly diminish the signal to noise ratio for the sensor and thereby 
render it ineffective. For example, particulate matter deposited on the 
detector windows can reduce the level of light gathered by the collection 
optics, reducing the total signal level. In addition, a poor optical surface on 
the laser inlet window can scatter the input laser beam and the scattered 
beam may enter the detector, introducing an optical noise signal into the 
particle monitoring sensor. This noise signal can be so strong that no 
particle detection would be possible. As a consequence, the reactor must 
be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A particle monitoring system including a 
chamber through which particulate matter flows, a 

coherent light source producing an input optical beam, 
the input optical beam interacting with particulate 

matter within the chamber to produce a scattered optical 
signal, an optical detector, and a collection optical 

element through which a portion of the scattered optical 
signal passes to the optical detector; characterised in 

that a first heating element is provided in thermal 
contact with the collection optical element and in 

substantially poor thermal contact with the optical 
detector so that the element maintains the collection 

optical element at an elevated temperature to inhibit 
deposition of particulate matter on the collection 

optical element. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
claim 1, characterised in that an input optical element 

is provided including a lens and an input window, and in 
that a second heating element is provided in thermal 

contact with the input window, the second heating 
element being in substantially poor thermal contact with 

the coherent light source. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
claim 2, characterised in that the first heating element 

and the second heating element comprise a single, thin, 
electrically resistive layer disposed between two thin 

insulating layers. 
A particle monitoring sensor including a 
linearly polarized laser for emitting light which is 

polarized along a polarization axis directed toward a 
scattering region, collection optics providing a 

 
collection window, and a detector, the collection 

optics, the detector and at least a portion of the 
scattering region defining an optical path; 

characterised in that an elongate slit is disposed along 
the optical path, the slit being elongate along a slit 

axis substantially perpendicular to the polarization 
axis. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
claim 4, characterised in that the linearly polarized 

laser is a semiconductor diode characterised by a 
junction plane which is substantially parallel to the 

direction of particulate matter flow in the particle 
monitoring system. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
claim 4 or claim 5, characterised in that a heater is 

provided in contact with the collection window. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
any of claims 4 to 6, characterised in that means are 

provided to direct a flow of substantially inert gas 
over the collection window. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
any of claims 4 to 7, characterised in that a light trap 

is disposed along the propagation direction. 
A particle monitoring system including 
   a laser emitting light directed toward a 

scattering region, collection optics, and a detector, 
wherein the collection optics, the detector and at least 

a portion of the scattering region define an optical 
path; characterised in that the system further comprises 

a slit formed adjacent to the collection optics so that 
the slit blocks a portion of the field of view of the 

 
collection optics, a gas inlet, a slit port disposed 

between the slit and the collection window, and a slit 
gas channel coupling the gas inlet to the slit port. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
claim 9, characterised in that the slit is sufficiently 

restrictive so that a stream of gas flowing through the 
slit port is throttled by the slit. 
A particle monitoring system as claimed in 
claim 9 or claim 10, characterised in that a first 

heater element is provided in thermal contact with the 
laser window, and in that a second heater element is 

provided in thermal contact with the collection optics. 
A method of detecting particulate matter 
comprising the steps of directing a flow of particulate 

matter along a flow direction and through a detection 
region, illuminating at least a portion of the detection 

region with coherent light, scatting the coherent light 
from the particulate matter to produce a scattered light 

signal, passing at least a portion of the scattered 
light signal through a detector window, and collecting 

at least a portion of the scattered light signal with a 
detector; the method being characterised by the step of 

directly heating the detector window. 
A method as claimed in claim 12, 
characterised in that the coherent light is produced by 

a linearly polarized laser diode. 
A method as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13, 
characterised in that the coherent light is shaped to 

form an elongate beam within the detection region, 
wherein the elongation axis of the elongate beam is 

substantially perpendicular to the flow direction. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, 
chartacterised in that the coherent light is polarized 

along a direction substantially parallel to the flow 
direction. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 12 to 
15, characterised in that a portion of the scattered 

light signal is blocked with an elongate slit, wherein 
the elongation axis of the elongate slit is disposed 

substantially perpendicular to the flow direction. 
A method of detecting particulate matter 
comprising the steps of illuminating a particulate 

stream flowing along a flow direction with polarized 
light so that the polarized light propagates along a 

propagation direction, and scattering the polarized 
light from the particulate stream to form a scattered 

light signal, the method being characterized by the 
steps of arranging the polarization axis of the 

polarized light to be substantially parallel to the flow 
direction, blocking a portion of the scattered light 

signal with an elongate slit disposed so that its 
elongation axis is substantially perpendicular to the 

flow direction, and collecting a portion of the 
scattered light signal with a detector. 
A method as claimed in claim 17, 
characterised in that a stream of substantially 

unreactive gas is caused to flow over a surface of a 
detector window disposed between the elongate slit and 

the detector. 
A method as claimed in claim 17 or claim 18, 
characterised in that the detector window is heated with 

a heater that is in substantially better thermal contact 
 

with the detector window than with the detector. 
A method of claim 19 characterised in that 
direct heat is applied to surface of a laser window 

disposed along the propagation direction. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
