<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618524</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Twinning control.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24F1100	F24F1100	F24F1102	F24F1102	G05D2319	G05D2319	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24F	F24F	F24F	F24F	G05D	G05D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24F11	F24F11	F24F11	F24F11	G05D23	G05D23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A twinning controller or control circuit (10) 
for use in an HVAC system is coupled between a system 

thermostat (3) and at least two HVAC units (4, 5) coupled 
to a common duct. The HVAC units (4, 5) are heating, 

cooling or heating and cooling appliances such as heating 
furnaces, air conditioners, fans, other forced air 

systems, or other devices for heating and/or cooling an 
environment. The twinning controller (10) is capable of 

operating in a single-stage mode (single mode) or a 
double-stage mode (dual mode). When operating in the 

double-stage mode, the twinning controller (10) 
alternately operates the first HVAC unit (4) and the 

second HVAC unit (5) in order to extend the operating 
life of the HVAC units (4, 5). The twinning controller 

(10) includes a microcomputer (84) which receives inputs 
from the system thermostat (3) and provides outputs (30, 

31) to the first (4) and second (5) HVAC units in order 
to efficiently control the temperature in an environment 

such as a living space. The twinning control (10) 
includes LED indicators (42, 44, 62, 64) which provide 

fault codes and blower sense inputs (94, 96) for 
receiving signals indicative of the status of blowers (6, 

7) in the HVAC units (4, 5). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON SERVICE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON SERVICE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUS J MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCAS MARVIN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUS J MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUCAS MARVIN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
controllers used in temperature controlling systems such 
as HVAC (heating, ventilating, air-conditioning) systems. 
More specifically, the invention relates to an interface 
such as a twinning control for controlling the operation 
of two heating/cooling appliances such as HVAC units. In an HVAC system, controllers or control 
circuits are coupled between a system thermostat and a 
heating or cooling device. The controller receives 
signals from the system thermostat and controls the 
heating or cooling device in response to the signals from 
the system thermostats. The controller turns the devices 
ON and OFF in response to the signals from the system 
thermostat in order to provide a comfortable temperature 
regulated environment. A heating or cooling device or appliance is an 
HVAC unit. An HVAC unit is any device for providing 
heating, cooling and/or air circulation. Examples of 
HVAC units are furnaces for providing hot air, air 
conditioners for providing cool air, fans for providing 
air circulation, or other environmental control 
appliances such as boilers. Preferably, the HVAC unit is 
a forced air system which is capable of both heating and 
cooling the environment.  In a forced air system, an air handler (blower, 
plenums and associated ductwork) moves air from the 
interior of the HVAC unit to the temperature regulated 
environment. The air handler may be used with heating 
and/or cooling units where energy is provided by 
electricity, gas, oil, as well as other fuels. The 
blower of the air handler generally includes a fan which 
is turned by an electric motor. In a forced air system 
such as a heating furnace, the blower forces hot air 
produced by a gas flame or electric coil to the 
environment. In a forced air system such as an air 
conditioner, the blower forces cool air produced by 
cooling coils and a compressor to the environment. The blower in the air handler often is 
automatically turned ON when the HVAC unit is turned ON. 
Most HVAC units include start-up controls which do not 
turn ON the motor in the blower immediately after the 
HVAC unit is turned ON. These start-up controls delay 
the operation of the blower for a predetermined time or 
until a specific temperature is reached within the HVAC 
unit. The blower may also be turned ON by providing an 
external blower signal to the HVAC unit. Turning the 
blower ON with an external blower signal is referred to 
as forcing the blower ON. Proper blower operation is 
critical to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control (10) for use in a system 
including a system thermostat (3), and a plurality of 

HVAC units including a first HVAC unit (4) and a second 
HVAC unit (5), the control (10) for controlling the first 

HVAC unit (4) and the second HVAC unit (5), the control 
(10) characterized by: 

   a stage input (80, 82) which receives a stage 
signal representing one of a dual mode and a single mode; 

   a system thermostat input (11) which receives a 
system thermostat signal, the system thermostat signal 

being comprised of either a high and a low signal in the 
dual mode, or a single system thermostat signal in the 

single mode; 
   a first output (30) which provides a first HVAC 

unit signal; 
   a second output (31) which provides a second 

HVAC unit signal; and 
   a logic circuit (84), coupled to the stage 

input (80, 82), the first output (30) and the second 
output (31), configured to provide the first and second 

HVAC unit signals in response to the high and low signal 
and provides one of the first and second HVAC unit 

signals in response to the low HVAC unit signal and an 
absence of the high HVAC unit signal when in the dual 

mode, and provides the first and second output signals in 
response to a single system thermostat signal when in the 

single mode. 
The control (10) of claim 1 further 
characterized in that the system further includes a first 

blower (6), a second blower (7), a first blower sense 
circuit (94) which provides a first blower ON signal 

indicating the state of the first blower (6) and a second 
blower sense circuit (96) which provides a second blower 

ON signal indicating the state of the second blower (7), 
the twinning control (10) further characterized by:

 
   a first blower sense input (46, 48) which 

receives the first blower ON signal; 
   a second blower sense input (66, 68) which 

receives the second blower ON signal; 
   a first fan output (38) which provides a first 

fan signal; 
   a second fan output (58) which provides a 

second fan signal; and 
   further characterized in that the logic circuit 

(84) provides the first fan signal if a blower ON signal 
is not received within a predetermined amount of time 

after providing the first HVAC unit signal, and provides 
the second fan signal if the second blower ON signal is 

not received within a predetermined amount of time after 
the second HVAC unit signal is provided. 
The control (10) of claim 2 further 
characterized by an alarm output (88) for providing an 

alarm signal; and further characterized in that the logic 
circuit (84) provides the alarm signal if the first 

blower ON signal is not received within a predetermined 
amount of time after the first fan signal is provided. 
The control (10) of claim 1 further 
characterized in that the logic circuit (84) is a 

microcomputer, the first (30) and second (31) outputs are 
coupled to relay switches, and the first (4) and second 

(5) HVAC units are boilers. 
In a temperature controlling system 
including a first HVAC unit (4) having a first blower 

(6), a second HVAC unit (5) having a second blower (7), a 
first blower sense circuit (94) coupled to the first 

blower (6) which provides a first blower ON signal, a 
second blower sense circuit (96) coupled to the second 

blower (7) which provides a second blower ON signal, and 
a twinning control (10) coupled to the first (94) and 

second (96) blower sense circuits, the twinning control 
 

(10) providing a first HVAC unit signal for turning ON 
the first HVAC unit (4), a second HVAC unit signal for 

turning ON the second HVAC unit (5), a first blower 
signal for forcing ON the first blower (6), and a second 

blower signal for forcing ON the second blower (7), a 
method for controlling the first (4) and second (5) HVAC 

units characterized by the steps of: 
   providing the first and second HVAC unit 

signals; and 
   providing at least one of the first and second 

blower signals if the first and second blower ON signals 
are not sensed within a first predetermined time. 
The method of claim 5, further 
characterized by the step of: 

   removing the at least one of the first and 
second blower signals after the first and second blower 

ON signals are sensed. 
The method of claim 6, further 
characterized by the steps of: 

   providing the at least one of the first and 
second blower signals if the first and second blower ON 

signals are not sensed within a second predetermined 
time; and 

   removing the at least one of the first and 
second blower signals after the first and second blower 

ON signals are sensed. 
The method of claim 7 further 
characterized in that the twinning control (10) includes 

an alarm (88), further characterized by the steps of: 
   repeating the steps recited in claim 5 for a 

given number of times and after the given number of times 
maintaining the first and second blower signals and 

activating the alarm (88). 
The method of claim 5, further 
characterized by the step of: 

   removing the first and second HVAC unit signals 
and first and second blower signals if the first and 

second blower ON signals are not sensed within a second 
predetermined time. 
The method of claim 9 further 
characterized in that the twinning control (10) includes 

an alarm (88), further characterized by the step of: 

   activating the alarm (88). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
