<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653184</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of measuring gas exchanges and metabolism.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B508	A61B5083	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The gases expired by a patient (at rest or under stress), collected 
in a portable container (5), during a predetermined time interval, are 

analysed for oxygen and carbon dioxide contents in a measuring device 
(32) comprising gas sensors (29,30) and electromagnetic valves (24-27) 

controlled by a microprocessor (28). 
The portable container (5) is manufactured in such a way so as to be 
folded into a minimal space, when deflated. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTRUMENTARIUM CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INSTRUMENTARIUM CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERILAINEN PEKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MERILAINEN, PEKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of measuring gas exchanges 
and metabolism and collecting the gases and to a container 
therefore. There are many devices available for measuring the gas 
exchanges and the metabolism at rest or during artificial 
stress. These devices are presently used especially for 
testing athletics, but also for testing the fitness of others. 
A device measuring the metabolic quantities can e.g. be 
connected to a respirator as presented in the FI patent 
78231, which by measuring the respiratory exchanges calculates 
the energy consumption on the basis of oxygen consumption 
in a certain state of equilibrium and concludes the 
quality of a nourishment digested on the basis of a ratio of 
carbon dioxide output to oxygen consumption. This device has 
almost entirely been used for measuring the respiration of a 
patient connected to a respirator. A reliable measuring in 
actual conditions during physical stress and work performances 
is, however, more of interest to many scientists. 
Portable devices have been developed, but these have proved 
technically undependable. Therefore, the scientists still 
use the so called Douglas-bag-method, characterized in that 
a timed collection of expired gas is collected into a bag of 
1-2 kg with a volume of 100-150 liters, and the volume and 
the gas contents are analyzed later. In the collecting 
stage, the test person's nose is closed mechanically, and he 
is breathing through his mouth into the valve system, so 
that the inhalation comes from the open air and the expiration 
is lead through a hose to said bag. The system also 
contains a manually controlled change valve, by which the 
expiration is directed from the air to the bag in the beginning 
of the test, and in the reverse direction at the end of 
the test. The gas collecting time is measured by a clock. 
The rubberized breathing Douglas-bags are put to hang from 
the ceiling during the test, in order not to disturb the 
test by their weight. The test person does not thus carry  
 
the bag, wherefore the state of stress has always to be 
arranged artificially in places equipped with a bag suspension 
carrier. The mouth of the Douglas-bag is made of a different material, 
generally polyethylene or alike, than the rest of the 
bag in order to accommodate the valve. The bag can, therefore, 
only be closed by the valve. When a required amount of expired air has been collected 
into the bag, its carbon dioxide and oxygen contents are 
analyzed. The volume is measured by discharging the bag
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for measuring respiratory gas quantities, in 
which method the expired gas is collected into a container 

(5) for later treatment, characterized in that the expired 
gas is collected into a gas-tight container (5) at a certain 

period during stress, and when the collection is finished, 
the expiration gas collected in the container (5) is suck by 

a device (20) generating low pressure, to treat the desired 
quantities of the expired gas in a measuring device (32). 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that 
gas is sucked to the measuring device (32) from outside the 

container (5) in a certain ratio to the expiration gas 
discharged from the container (5). 
A method according to claims 1 or 2, characterized in 
that the oxygen and the carbon dioxide contents of the gas 

in the container (5) are measured. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-3 above, 
characterized in that the volume of the gas in the container 

(5) is calculated or measured. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-4, characterized 
in that a mixture formed of the expiration gas discharged 

from the container (5) and a known gas flow, a 
constant flow of the mixture, is produced, the gas contents 

and the volume of the gas in the container (5) as well as 
the carbon dioxide output and oxygen consumption at rest are 

measured by the measuring device (32), and the ratio between 
the measuring of expired gas in the container and the 

measuring of the expired gas at rest is calculated. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-5, 
characterized in that when breathing into the container (5) 

its volume grows by each breath. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-6, 
characterized in that the volume of the container (5) 

decreases when gas is sucked out of it. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-7, 
characterized in that the expiration gas is collected into 

the container (5) when the test person is moving. 
A method according to claim 8, characterized in that 
the expiration gas is collected to a container (5) portable 

at the test person's back. 
A method according to any of the claims 1-9, 
characterized in that the weight of the container (5) is 50 

-300 g, preferably 50 -200 g, and more preferably 70 - 150 
g. 
A container (5) for collection of the expired gas for 
later treatment, which container after the collection of gas 

can be connected to a test person's expiration gas measuring 
device for the treatment of the gas content of the container, 

characterized in that the container (5) comprises a 
laminate having two films, of which one is metallised so 

that the metallisation is between the said two films, the 
weight of the container (5) being typically approx. 50 -300 

g, preferably 50 -200 g and more preferably 70 - 150 g. 
A container according to claim 11, characterized in 
that the film is a material that can be heat-sealed, e.g. 

polyolefin. 
A container according to claim 12, characterized in 
that the polyolefin is e.g. orientated polypropylene or e.g. 

polyethylene. 
A container according to any of the claims 11-13, 
characterized in that the thickness of the aluminum foil is 

approx. 1-3 µm, preferably approx. 2 µm and the thicknesses 
 

of the films approx. 10-100 µm and preferably approx. 10 µm, 
the volume of the collection container (5) being below 200 

l, preferably 100 - 150 l. 
A container according to any of the claims 11-14, 
characterized in that the diffusion rates of the films used 

for the container (5) measured according to the DIN 53380 
method are with oxygen below 300 cm³/(m² d bar) and with 

carbon dioxide below 700 cm³/ (m² d bar), the thickness of the 
laminate being approx. 20 µm. 
A container according to any of the claims 11-15, 
characterized in that the container (5) is a bag, whose 

sides being against each other (7) are folded in the middle 
inward. 
A container according to any of the claims 11-16, 
characterized in that the container (5) is formed of two 

blanks (10, 11), whose ends (12, 13) being against each 
other and gables (15, 16) are heat-sealed. 
A container according to any of the claims 11-17, 
characterized in that to one side of the sides (15, 16) 

being against each other, and having the extension of the 
folded line (8 or 9) dividing the mouth essentially into two 

equally big portions, has been attached the container mouth 
(14) being of the same piece, and the free sides of the 

mouth blank are heat-sealed so that the mouth (14) forms a 
hose-shaped portion. 
A bag according to any of the claims 11-18, characterized 
in that inside the mouth (14) of the bag has been 

placed a hose reinforcement to keep it in the shape of a 
hose, and that the diameter of th
e mouth is approx. 30 mm. 
A method for measuring the respiratory gas quantities, 
in which method the expired gas is collected into a container 

(5) and analyzed later, characterized in that the 
 

expired gas is collected into a gas-tight container (5) at a 
certain period, when the collection is finished, the expiration 

gas collected in the container (5) is sucked by a 
device (20) generating low pressure to measure or analyze 

the desired quantities of expired gas in the measuring 
device (32). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
