<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620324</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Shock absorbing apparatus and method for a vibratory pile driving machine.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02D1100	E02D1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02D	E02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02D11	E02D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The specification discloses an apparatus (10) for driving and/or 
pulling a pile (20) which basically comprises vibratory device (16), a 

pulling device, a plurality of shock absorbing members (70,78), and 
shock connecting apparatus (26). The vibratory device (16) generates a 

vibratory force and applies this force to the pile (20). The pulling 
device applies a tension load to a carrying member (12). The shock 

connecting apparatus (26) is operatively connected to the carrying 
member (12), the shock absorbing members (70,78), and the vibratory 

device (16). The shock connecting apparatus (26) so selectively connects 
each of the plurality of shock absorbing means (70,78) between the 

vibratory device (16) and the pulling device that the total shock 
absorbing capacity of the apparatus is incrementally increased as the 

tension load applied to the carrying member (12) increases. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN PILEDRIVING EQUIPMENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN PILEDRIVING EQUIPMENT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE JOHN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITE, JOHN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This patent application is a continuation-in-part of 
U.S. patent application serial number 07/465,464 filed 
January 16, 1990, by John L. White, which is entitled 
"Shock Absorbing Apparatus and Method for a Vibratory 
Pile Driving Machine," which is in turn a continuation-in-part 
of application serial number 07/465,464 was 
itself a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application 
serial number 07/464,428, which has been abandoned. The present invention relates to a shock absorbing 
apparatus and method to be used in conjunction with a 
pile driving and/or pile pulling vibratory machine, and 
more particularly to such an apparatus and method which 
can be used effectively to isolate shocks under greatly 
varying load conditions imparted to the shock absorbing 
apparatus.  In the construction industry, it is sometimes 
necessary to drive piles into the earth to provide a 
proper foundation for a building or other structure. One 
method of accomplishing this is to place the pile in a 
vertical position above the earth's surface and strike 
the upper end of the pile repeatedly with a hammer (i.e., 
a metal mass which is raised and dropped on the pile) 
until the pile has penetrated into the ground surface a 
sufficient distance to provide adequate bearing. A later 
development was to drive piles into the ground by use of 
a vibrating machine which oscillates the pile from zero 
to 20,000 cycles per minute depending on the type of 
machine to cause what appears to be an almost continuous 
motion of the pile into the earth. Under some 
circumstances, such a vibratory machine can cause the 
pile to move into the earth relatively rapidly (e.g., as 
fast as ten feet per second). A typical arrangement for such a vibratory machine 
is to provide a pair of weights which are mounted 
eccentrically for rotation about parallel axes, with the 
directions of rotation being opposite to one another so 
that the lateral forces are being cancelled out, and a 
net up and down vibrating force is developed by the 
machine. One part of the machine is coupled to the upper 
end of the pile, while a second part of the machine is 
connected through a shock absorbing device to a support 
member, such as a cable. When the pile is being driven into the ground, the 
vibratory machine is able, in large part, to act  
 
substantially independently, in that only minimal 
exterior support is required, this being mainly to keep 
the vibratory machine properly positioned. Sometimes 
weights are added to the shock absorbing device to 
prov
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A shock absorbing apparatus adapted 
to be connected between a pile driving and/or pile 

pulling vibratory device which generates a 
vibratory force and imparts the vibratory force to 

a pile and a carrying member for supporting the 
vibratory device, comprising: 


a. a base section adapted to be connected to 
one of the carrying member and the 

vibratory device; 
b. a connecting section adapted to be 
connected to the other of the carrying 

member and the vibratory device, where 
tension loads are applied to the carrying 

member which causes a relative 
displacement between the connecting 

section and the base section; 
c. first shock absorbing means connected 
between the base section and the 

connecting section for absorbing the 
vibratory force generated by the 

vibratory device; 
d. second shock absorbing means connected 
between the base section and the 

connecting section above a first 
predetermined load for absorbing the 

vibratory force generated by the 
vibrating device; 
e. third shock absorbing means connected 
between the base section and the 

connecting section above a second 
predetermined tension load for absorbing 

the vibratory force generated by the 
vibrating device; and 
f. stop means for so limiting relative 
movement between the base section and the 

connecting section that, under a third 
 

predetermined load, the intermediate and 
connecting sections come into essentially 

rigid contact with each other. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 1, 
further comprising an intermediate section 

attached to the base section, in which: 

a. the connecting section has a center 
cavity having front and back inner 

walls; 
b. the second and third shock absorbing 
means each comprise at least one 

shock absorbing unit connected 
between the front and back inner 

walls of the center cavity; and 
c. the intermediate section so extends 
into the center cavity that the at 

least one shock absorbing unit of 
the second shock absorbing means 

extends through at least one 
corresponding first slot in the 

intermediate section and the at 
least one shock absorbing unit of 

the third shock absorbing means 
extends through at least one second 

slot in the intermediate section; 
 
whereby the first slot is formed with at least one 

edge which contacts and distorts the at least one 
shock absorbing unit of the second shock absorbing 

means at tension loads greater than the first 
predetermined tension load and the second slot is 

formed with at least one edge which contacts and 
distorts the at least one shock absorbing unit of 

the third shock absorbing means at tension loads 
greater than the second predetermined tension 

load. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 2, in 
which the connecting section further defines first 

and second end cavities, where the base section 

has first and second projections that protrude 
into the first and second end cavities, 

respectively, and the first shock absorbing means 
comprises first and second rectangular solid 

rubber shock absorbing members, where the first 
rectangular solid shock absorbing member extends 

from an inner wall of the first end cavity to the 
first projection and the second rectangular solid 

shock absorbing member extends from an inner wall 
of the second cavity to the second projection. 
A method of preventing shock generated by 
a pile driving and/or pile pulling vibratory 

device which generates a vibratory force and 
imparts the vibratory force to a pile from being 

transmitted to a carrying member for supporting 
the vibratory device, comprising: 


a. providing a base section adapted to 
be connected to one of the carrying 

member and the vibratory device; 
b. providing a connecting section 
adapted to be connected to the other 

of the carrying member and the 
vibratory device, where tension 

loads are applied to the carrying 
member which causes a relative 

displacement between the connecting 
section and the base section; 
c. operatively connecting the first 
shock absorbing means for absorbing 

the vibratory force generated by the 
vibratory device between the base 

section and the connecting section; 
d. operatively connecting a second 
shock absorbing means for absorbing 

the vibratory force generated by the 
vibratory device between the base 

section and the connecting section 
above a first predetermined load; 

and 
e. operatively connecting a third shock 
absorbing means for absorbing the 

vibratory force generated by the 
vibrating device between the base 

section and the connecting section 
above a second predetermined tension 

load. 
A method as recited in claim 4, further 
comprising the step of so limiting relative 

movement between the base section and the 
connecting section that, under a third 

predetermined load, the intermediate and 
connecting sections come into essentially rigid 

contact with each other. 
A method as recited in claim 4, further 
comprising the steps of: 


a. attaching an intermediate section to 
the base section, where the 

connecting section is provided with 
a center cavity having front and 

back inner walls and the 
intermediate sections into the 

center cavity; 
b. forming at least one first slot in 
the intermediate section; and 
c. forming at least one second slot in 
the intermediate section; wherein 
 
   the second and third shock absorbing 

 
means each comprise at least one shock absorbing 

unit connected between the front and back inner 
walls of the center cavity; 

   the intermediate section so extends into 
the center cavity that the at least one shock 

absorbing unit of the second shock absorbing means 
extends through the at least one corresponding 

first slot in the intermediate section and the at 
least one shock absorbing unit of the third shock 

absorbing means extends through the at least one 
second slot in the intermediate section; and 

   the first slot is formed with at least 
one edge which contacts and distorts the at least 

one shock absorbing unit of the second shock 
absorbing means at tension loads greater than the 

first predetermined tension lad an the second slot 
is formed with at least one edge which contacts 

and distorts the at least one shock absorbing unit 
of the third shock absorbing means at tension 

loads greater than the second predetermined 
tension load. 
A method as recited in claim 6, in which 
the connecting section is further provided with 

first and second end cavities, where the base 
section is provided with first and second 

projections that protrude into the first and 
second end cavities, respectively, and the first 

shock absorbing means comprises first and second 
rectangular solid rubber shock absorbing members, 

where the first rectangular solid shock absorbing 
member extends from an inner wall of the first end 

cavity to the first projection and the second 
rectangular solid shock absorbing member extends 

from an inner wall of the second end cavity to the 
second projection. 
A shock absorbing apparatus adapted to be 
connected between a pile driving and/or pile 

pulling vibratory device which generates a 
vibratory force and imparts the vibratory force to 

a pile and a pulling means for applying a tension 
load to a carrying member, the shock absorbing 

apparatus comprising: 

a. a base section adapted to be connected to 
the vibratory device; 
b. a connecting section adapted to be 
connected to the carrying member; 
c. a plurality of shock absorbing means for 
absorbing vibratory force, where a 

predetermined tension load is associated 
with each of the plurality of shock 

absorbing means; and 
d. means for so connecting each of the shock 
absorbing means between the base section 

and the connecting section at the 
predetermined tension loads associated 

with the shock absorbing means that 

i. below a given tension load on the 
connecting section, at least one of 

the plurality of shock absorbing 
means is effective to absorb the 

vibratory force, and 
ii. above the given tension load on the 
connecting section, additional of 

the shock absorbing means are 
effective to absorb the vibratory 

force. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 8, in 
which the connecting means connects at least a 

first shock absorbing means of the plurality of 
shock absorbing means between the base and 

connecting sections under all tension loads 
applied to the carrying member. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 9, in 
which the connecting means connects at least a 

second shock absorbing means of the plurality of 
shock absorbing means between the base section and 

the connecting section under a first predetermined 
load. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 10, in 
which the connecting means connects at least a 

third shock absorbing means of the plurality of 
shock absorbing means between the base section and 

the connecting section under a second 
predetermined load, where the second predetermined 

load is greater than the first predetermined load. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 10, in 
which the connecting means comprises an 

intermediate plate connected to one of the base 
section and the connecting section and having at 

least a first slot formed therein corresponding to 
the second shock absorbing means, where a 

contacting portion of the second shock absorbing 
means so extends through the first slot 

corresponding thereto that: 

a. the contacting portion of the second 
shock absorbing means moves within the 

slot when the tension loads are below the 
first predetermined load; and 
b. the contacting portion of the first shock 
absorbing means so engages a contacting 

surface of the first slot at tension 
loads equal to and greater than the first 

predetermined load that the first shock 
absorbing means also yieldingly absorbs 

shocks generated by the vibratory device. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 11, in 
which the connecting means comprises an 

intermediate plate connected to one of the base 
section and the connecting section and having at 

least a first slot and a second slot formed 

therein corresponding to the second and third 
shock absorbing means, respectively, where a 

contacting portion of the second shock absorbing 
means extends through the first slot corresponding 

thereto and a contacting portion of the third 
shock absorbing means extends through the second 

slot corresponding thereto so that: 

a. the contacting portions of the second and 
third shock absorbing means moves within 

their respective slots when the tension 
loads are below the first predetermined 

load; and 
b. the contacting portion of the first shock 
absorbing means so engages a contacting 

surface of the first slot at tension 
loads equal to and greater than the first 

predetermined load that the second shock 
absorbing means also yieldingly absorbs 

shocks generated by the vibratory device; 
and 
c. the contacting portion of the second 
shock absorbing means so engages a 

contacting surface of the second slot at 
tension loads equal to and greater than 

the secondpredetermined load that the 
third shock absorbing means also 

yieldingly absorbs shocks generated by 
the vibratory device. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 8, 
further comprising stop means for limiting 

relative movement between the base section and the 
 

connecting section under a maximum tension load. 
An apparatus as recited in claim 13, 
further comprising stop means for limiting 

relative movement between the base section and the 
connecting section under a maximum tension load, 

where the maximum tension load is greater than the 
second predetermined load. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
