<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623004</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2501	A61B1728	A61B1700	A61B1728	A61M2501	A61B1702	A61B1702	A61B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61M	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61M25	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical instrument (1) includes a plurality of segments which can be moved relative to each other from a first position in which the segments extend in a straight direction and can be inserted through an opening in a body to a second position in which segments are brought tight against each other to cause the instrument to go round a bend. The segments are brought tight against each other by pulling a flexible element (10) extending through the segments from a part of the instrument (1) located outside of the body. Scissors or gripping means may be located at the free end of the instrument within the body, and these scissors or gripping means may be operated from outside of the body.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to surgical 
instruments. In abdominal surgery it is possible for a surgeon to 
examine or operate on abdominal organs without the 
physical insertion of the surgeons fingers. This is done 
by making a hole through the skin and other tissues in 
order to enter a body cavity, blowing inert gas under 
pressure into the abdominal cavity through that hole to 
create space, and inserting an endoscopic camera through 
that opening so that the surgeon can view the organs on a 
remote monitor. Other tubes are then placed in the 
abdominal wall (usually of 5 - 11 mm diameter), which are 
sealed to prevent or restrict the egress of the inert gas, 
and instruments can then be inserted through these tubes. 
The instruments can either be for operating on the organs 
or for pushing organs out of the way, and the surgeon is 
able to manipulate them from outside of the body. As the tubes are of restricted diameter (usual 
maximum 11 mm) all that can be inserted through the tubes 
is a relatively straight instrument having a diameter of 
slightly less than the tube through which it is inserted. 
Thus, where a surgical retractor is used, the surgeon must 
displace organs and retain them in a displaced position 
with the use of a straight rod. It is difficult to so 
displace and retain the organs with such a straight rod 
and the organs are prone to slipping over the end of the 
rod thereby impeding the operation. The surgical instruments described herein aim to 
reduce the problems associated with this type of surgery.  
 U.S. 4 754 909 (Barker) shows a stapler including a 
plurality of rigid spine segments each having a concave 
end surface and an opposite convex end surface. A 
stiffening assembly extends through the segments and can 
be tightened, when the segments are in the desired 
position, to hold the segments in that position. According to the present invention, a 
surgical instrument includes an elongate portion arranged, 
in use, to be inserted through a restricted opening into 
a body cavity, the elongate portion comprising a plurality 
of segments movable relative to each other from a first to 
a second position whereby, when movement of the segments 
occurs from the first to the second position the relative 
direction in which a part of the elongate portion extends 
when compared to another part of the elongate portion is 
altered characterised in that, in the second position of 
the segments, further movement of the segments away from 
the first position is inhibited by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical instrument (1) including an elongate 
portion (2,7) arranged, in use, to be inserted through a 

restricted opening into a body cavity, the elongate 
portion (2) comprising a plurality of segments 

(3,29,32,35,63,66,67,71,73,74,75,70,78) movable relative 
to each other from a first to a second position whereby, 

when movement of the segments occurs from the first to the 
second position the relative direction in which a part of 

the elongate portion extends when compared to another part 
of the elongate portion is altered characterised in that, 

in the second position of the segments, further movement 
of the segments away from the first position is inhibited 

by abutments provided on the segments. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 1 in which 
further movement of the segments away from the first 

position is inhibited by abutment of adjacent segments. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 in 
which, when the segments are urged towards each other from 

the first to the second position, the force urging the 
segments towards each other acts between two locations 

where a segment contacts an abutment. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which the segments are comprised by separate 

pieces. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any of Claims 1 
to 3 in which the segments are comprised by adjacent 

portions which are integral with each other. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 5 in which 
the segments are integrally moulded.  

 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 5 or 6 in 
which the segments are formed by removing a portion of 

integral material. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which the segments are guided during at least 

part of their movement from the first to the second 
position. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which segments cooperate with each other when in 

the second position to inhibit movement relative to each 
other in at least one direction transverse to the 

longitudinal extent of the elongate member. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim including at least three segments movable relative 

to each other from the first position to the second 
position whereby movement of those segments from the first 

to the second position causes relative movement between an 
intermediate segment and
 an adjacent segment on one side 
to be in a first direction relative to the longitudinal 

extent of the elongate portion and relative movement 
between the intermediate segment and an adjacent segment 

on the other side to be in a second direction extending at 
an angle to both the first direction and the longitudinal 

extent of the elongate portion. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which, in the first position, the elongate 

portion extends in a generally straight direction. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which in the second position the elongate portion  

 
curves through more than 45째 or 90째 or 120째 or in the region 

of 180째 or more. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which, in the second position, the elongate 

portion forms a constriction. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which the segments are arranged to be biased 

towards each other in order to move from the first to the 
second position. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 14 in which 
the segments are biased towards each other by a flexible 

member. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 15 in which 
the flexible member extends through the segments. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 15 or 16 in 
which the flexible member is arranged to be caused to be 

tensioned by control means located outside of a body when, 
in use, the segments are located within a body. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which the cross sectional area of the instrument, 

in a direction perpendicular to the extent of the 
longitudinal portion, remains largely unchanged along the 

longitudinal extent in both the first and second 
positions. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which segments are located at an intermediate 

portion along the elongate portion.  
 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which segments are located towards the end of the 

elongate portion. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which an extent of the elongate portion is 

covered with a protective layer. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 21 in which 
the extent of the elongate portion which is covered by the 

protective layer is substantially the complete extent. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim including a mechanism connected to one of the 

segments on the elongate portion. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim in which substantially the complete extent of the 

elongate portion is comprised by segments movable relative 
to each other from the first to the second position. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in any preceding 
claim including an elongate resilient member arranged to 

act on adjacent segments in order to urge them towards a 
particular position. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 25 in which 
the resilient member is arranged to urge adjacent segments 

towards the first position. 
A surgical instrument as claimed in Claim 25 or 26 in 
which the resilient member is arranged to enable the 

instrument to have sufficient stiffness to enable use at 
a position in which the segments are away from the first  

 
position, in a second position which is away from a limit 

position. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
