<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636274</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRUCTURED COIL ELECTROMAGNETS FOR MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5055	A61B5055	G01R3328	G01R3338	G01R3338	G01R333815	G01R333875	G01R33421	H01F500	H01F500	H01F720	H01F720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	H01F	H01F	H01F	H01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	H01F5	H01F5	H01F7	H01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Superconducting electromagnets suitable for use in the NMR tomography of human organs, and a method of making the same, are disclosed. Each of the disclosed electromagnets are constructed according to a structured coils methodology. The magnet construction results in a plurality of coils of varying current polarity, and of irregular shape and size (106, 108, 110, 112, 114), optimized to provide the uniform field. Magnets may be constructed according to the present invention which provide suitably highly uniform and high magnitude DC magnetic fields at volumes of interest which may be within or outside of the magnet bore, enabling the MRI of human organs without requiring whole body insertion of the patient into the magnet bore.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOUSTON ADVANCED RES CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOUSTON ADVANCED RESEARCH CENT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINTYRE PETER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PISSANETZKY SERGIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINTYRE PETER M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PISSANETZKY SERGIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STRUCTURED COIL ELECTROMAGNETS FOR MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING* * * * *This invention is in the field of electromagnets, and is more particularly directed to a shielded superconducting electromagnet for use in magnetic resonance imaging.Background of the InventionHigh magnetic field electromagnets have become important elements in various types of equipment over recent years. One important type of such equipment is medical imaging equipment, such as the type commonly referred to as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) equipment. This equipment utilizes the mechanism of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to produce an image, and accordingly imaging systems operating according to this mechanism are also commonly referred to as NMR imaging systems.As is well known in the field of MRI, a high DC magnetic field is generated to polarize the gyromagnetic atomic nuclei of interest (i.e., those atomic nuclei that have nonzero angular momentum, or nonzero magnetic moment) contained within the volume to be imaged in the subject. The magnitude of this DC magnetic field currently ranges from on the order of 0.15 Tesla to 2.0 Tesla; it is contemplated that larger fields, ranging as high as 4.0 to 6.0 Tesla, may be useful in the future, particularly to perform spectroscopy as well as tomography. The volume of the subject to be imaged (i.e., the volume of interest, or "VOI") is that volume which receives the high DC magnetic field, and within which the DC field is substantially uniform. 

 Imaging is accomplished in the VOI utilizing the mechanism of nuclear magnetic resonance in the gyromagnetic atomic nuclei contained therewithin. As such, in addition to the large field DC magnet, the MRI apparatus includes an oscillator coil to generate an oscillating magnetic field oriented at an angle relative to the DC field, and at a frequency matching the resonant frequency of the atoms of interest in the selected volume; frequencies of interest in modern MRI are in the radio frequency (RF) range. As the gyromagnetic nuclei in the defined volume will have a common resonant frequency different from atoms outside of the volume, modulation of a gradient magnetic field (produced by a gradient coil) allows sequential imaging of small volumes. The images from the small volumes are then used to form a composite image of the larger volume, such as the internal organ or region of interest. To produce the series of images, the MRI apparatus also includes a detecting coil in which a current can be induced by the nuclear magnetic dipoles in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. An electromagnet for generating a DC magnetic field in a volume, comprising: a plurality of coils encircling a cylindrically- shaped bore, each of said plurality of coils having a plurality of turns of wire for conducting a current therethrough about a longitudinal axis of the bore, at least one of said plurality of coils being cylindrically symmetric and having an irregularly shaped cross-section in a plane coplanar with the longitudinal axis of the bore; wherein the shape of the cross-section of each of said plurality of coils is selected in such a manner that the magnetic field produced thereby is substantially uniform over a volume of interest that protrudes from said bore.
2. The electromagnet of claim 1, wherein the field produced by said coils is asymmetric relative to a midplane axis of said plurality of coils.
3. The electromagnet of claim 2 , wherein said plurality of coils are disposed within a single coil assembly; and wherein the current density within said coil assembly is substantially constant.
4. The electromagnet of claim 2, wherein said plurality of coils are disposed within a plurality of coil assemblies; wherein the current density within each of said plurality of coil assemblies is relatively constant; and wherein the current density within a first one of said plurality of coil assemblies is different from the 


current density within a second one of said plurality of coil assemblies.
5. The electromagnet of claim 1, further comprising: a flux return, comprising a ferromagnetic material, disposed near said plurality of coils on the opposite side from the side at which said volume of interest protrudes.
6. The electromagnet of claim 1, further comprising: means for shielding the stray magnetic field from said plurality of coils, said shielding means located outside of said plurality of coils from said bore.
7. The electromagnet of claim 1, wherein each of said coils comprise superconducting wire; further comprising: a cryostat surrounding said plurality of coils to cool said plurality of coils to superconducting temperature; and wherein said shielding means comprises a shielding coil comprising superconducting wire, disposed within said cryostat so that said plurality of coils are located nearer said bore than said shielding coil.
8. The electromagnet of claim 1, wherein said magnetic field is oriented in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of said bore.
9. A method of fabricating an electromagnet, comprising the steps of: defining, in a z-p plane, a tiling having a plurality of coil elements arranged in an array; 


 defining a plurality of target locations outside of said tiling and located in said plane, and a desired magnetic field vector at each of said target locations; determining the magnitude and polarity of current to be conducted by each of said coil elements in a direction normal to the z-p plane to produce the desired magnetic field vectors at said target locations; and constructing coils containing superconducting wire, said coils conducting current corresponding to the result of said determining step.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein at least some of said target locations define a volume of interest.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein said volume of interest protrudes along the z-axis from the midplane of said constructed coils.
12. An electromagnet for producing NMR images of the human head, comprising: first and second cylindrically symmetric coil assemblies each surrounding a cylindrical bore having a longitudinal axis, said second coil assembly spaced apart from said first coil assembly along said longitudinal axis; a cryostat surrounding said first and second coil assemblies, said cryostat having a central opening corresponding to said bore, and having an opening between said first and second coil assemblies; wherein each of said first and second coil assemblies comprise a cylindrically symmetric first primary coil having a plurality of turns of wire for conducting a current therethrough about said bore, said first primary coil having an irregularly shaped cross-section in a plane coplanar with the longitudinal axis of the bore; 


 and wherein the shape of the cross-section of each of said first primary coils is selected in such a manner that the magnetic field produced thereby is substantially uniform over a volume of interest within said central opening of said cryostat.
13. The electromagnet of claim 12, wherein said first and second coil assemblies are symmetric with one another about a midplane located therebetween.
14. The electromagnet of claim 12, wherein each of said first and second coil assemblies further comprise: a cylindrically symmetric shielding coil having a radius greater than that of said first primary coil, and conducting a current of opposite polarity of the current conducted by said first primary coil.
15. An electromagnet for producing a DC magnetic field in a volume, comprising: a plurality of coils encircling a cylindrically- shaped bore, each of said plurality of coils having a plurality of turns of wire for conducting a current therethrough about a longitudinal axis of the bore, at least one of said plurality of coils being cylindrically symmetric and having an irregularly shaped cross-section in a plane coplanar with the longitudinal axis of the bore; wherein the shape of the cross-section of each of said plurality of coils is selected in such a manner that the magnetic field produced thereby is substantially uniform over a volume of interest located completely outside of said bore; and wherein the field produced by said coils is asymmetric relative to a midplane axis of said plurality of coils. 


 16. The electromagnet of claim 15, further comprising: a flux return, comprising a ferromagnetic material, disposed adjacent said plurality of coils on the opposite side of said plurality coils from said volume.
17. A superconducting magnet, comprising: a plurality of driving coils surrounding a cylindrical bore, each comprised of superconducting cable, for conducting current in a first direction to generate magnetic flux in said bore having substantially an axial orientation therein; first and second shielding coils, each comprised of superconducting cable, each having a radius greater than that of said driving coil, and disposed at first and second ends of said electromagnet, respectively, said first and second shielding coils conducting current in a second direction opposing said first direction; and a flux return, surrounding said driving coil and disposed between said first and second shielding coils, for providing a return path for magnetic flux generated by said driving coil, and injected thereinto by said first and second shielding coils.
18. The magnet of claim 17, wherein at least one of said plurality of driving coils has a cross-section of irregular shape.
19. The magnet of claim 17, wherein said first and second shielding coils each have a cross-section of irregular shape.
* * * * * 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
