<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629845</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pocket size laser power meter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J102	G01J142	G01K1700	G01J142	G01K1700	G01J102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01K	G01J	G01K	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J1	G01J1	G01K17	G01J1	G01K17	G01J1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pocket size laser power meter adapted to measure the power of laser 
energy emitted by a laser. The power meter includes a thermal mass adapted to receive 

the laser energy. A temperature sensor coupled to the thermal mass translates 
temperature changes in the thermal mass into an electrical sensor signal having a variable 

voltage. A differentiator coupled to the temperature sensor receives the electrical sensor 
signal and produces a differentiated signal indicative of the rate of change of voltage of 

the electrical sensor signal. A cooling rate holding circuit coupled to the differentiator 
receives a cooling portion of the differentiated signal indicating a lowering of the 

temperature of the thermal mass. A heating rate holding circuit coupled to the 
differentiator receives a heating portion of the differentiated signal indicating a raising of 

the temperature of the thermal mass. A display meter coupled to the holding circuits 
adds the cooling and heating portions of the differentiated signal together, translates the 

differentiated signal into a power reading, and displays the power reading to a operator. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNRAD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNRAD INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAAKMAN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAAKMAN, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to power meters and, more particularly, to
meters capable of displaying the power emitted by a laser.Laser power meters in the several watt to several hundred watt range
include two general types: a mechanical probe similar to a meat thermometer provided
with a heat sink at the tip and an electronic meter having a thermopile detector and
remote read out unit.The meat thermometer-type meter is "exposed" to the laser beam for a
period of time, typically 20 seconds. The temperature rise is recorded by a mechanical
needle movement from a bi-metal element in the probe. The temperature rise in the
exposure period is proportional to input power. Except for the tip-mounted heat sink,
the meat thermometer-type meter looks exactly like the commonly used meat
thermometer and costs typically about $200.The thermopile-based instrument records power continuously, with a
delay time of less than 1 second. This is a large, precise laboratory instrument costing
typically about $2,000. The thermopile-based instrument is used to tune and optimize
lasers. It includes a "power head" that is separated from a display console by a cable.Although the meat thermometer-type meter is fairly portable, it is both
inaccurate and slow. The meat thermometer-type meter requires a separate stopwatch
to measure the exposure period. As the exposure timing is critical for accurate power
measurement, the meat thermometer-type meter has been found to be deficient. Further,
the exposure time is relatively long and a long time is required between uses to let the
heat sink cool. The required delay between uses is typically a few minutes.The limitation on the thermopile instrument is not in the performance and
accuracy area. Its limitation is portability. The power head is large as it is designed for
continuous duty. In many cases, the power head cannot be inserted into an existing
beam delivery system because of its large size. Further, the separation of the power
head from the display console renders the thermopile instrument somewhat less than
ideal in terms of ease of use. It is the object of this invention to eliminate the prior art limitations with
a new class of portable power meter, while providing new capabilities.It is another object to achieve a truly pocket size power meter.It is another object to eliminate the need for a stopwatch and critical
timing.It is another object to increase speed of use and decrease recycling time
when compared with prior art meat thermometer-type meters.It is another object to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power meter (10) for measuring the power of an energy source,
comprising:


a thermal mass (12) adapted to receive energy from the energy source; and
a temperature sensor (14) coupled to the thermal mass to translate temperature
changes in the thermal mass into an electrical sensor signal that varies in proportion to the

temperature changes; the power meter being characterized by:
a differentiator (16) coupled to the temperature sensor (14) to receive the
electrical sensor signal and adapted to produce a differentiated signal indicative of the rate of

change of voltage of the electrical sensor signal; and
a display meter (18) coupled to the differentiator (16) and adapted to translate
the differentiated signal into a power reading and display the power reading to an operator.
The power meter of claim 1 further characterized by:

a hold timer (20) coupled to the display meter (18) and adapted to transmit a
hold timing signal to the display meter after a predetermined delay period, and wherein the

display meter includes means for holding the power reading constant in response to the hold
timing signal.
The power meter of claim 2 further characterized by an audible signal
generator (22) coupled to the hold timer and adapted to emit an audibl
e signal in response to
the hold timing signal.
The power meter of claim 1 further characterized by a cooling rate
holding circuit (26) and a heating rate holding circuit (24), each of the holding circuits being

coupled to the differentiator (16) and the display meter (18), the cooling rate holding circuit
being adapted to receive a cooling portion of the differentiated signal indicating a lowering of

the temperature of the thermal mass and the heating rate holding circuit being adapted to
receive a heating portion of the differentiated signal indicating a raising of the temperature of

the thermal mass, the respective holding circuits sending their respective portions of the
differentiated signal to the display meter. 
The power meter of claim 4 further characterized in that the display
meter (18) includes means for receiving the cooling and heating portions of the differentiated

signal from the holding circuits and means for adding the cooling and heating portions
together before translating the differentiated signal into a power reading.
The power meter of claim 1 further characterized by:

an operator-activated reset switch (28) coupled to the differentiator (16) and adapted
to transmit a reset signal to the differentiator (16) in response to an activation by a user, thereby

preparing the differentiator for a new power measurement.
The power meter of claim 1 further characterized in that the thermal
mass (12) includes a void (30) adjacent the temperature sensor (14) which increases thermal

diffusion time in the thermal mass.
The power meter of claim 1 further characterized by a shutoff timer
(38) coupled to a shutoff switch (40) coupled to the display meter, the shutoff timer causing

the shutoff switch to remove power from the power meter after a predetermined delay period.
The power meter of claim 1 further characterized by:

a maximum temperature sensing circuit (36) coupled to the temperature sensor
(14) and adapted to transmit a warning signal when the temperature sensor detects that the

temperature of the thermal mass has reached a predetermined maximum temperature; and
an audible signal generator (22) coupled to receive the warning signal from the
maximum temperature sensing circuit and adapted to emit an audible signal in response

thereto.
The power meter of claim 1, further characterized by a peak rate
holding circuit (24, 26) coupled between the differentiator and the display meter, the peak rate

holding circuit receiving the differentiated signal, storing the highest voltage change rate
indicated by the differentiated signal, and transmitted the highest voltage change rate to the

display meter, wherein the display meter translates the highest voltage change rate into a
steady state power reading and displays the steady state power reading to the operator. 
A method of measuring the power of an energy source, comprising:

receiving energy in a thermal mass from the energy source;
sensing temperature changes in the thermal mass;
transmitting an electrical sensor signal indicative of temperature changes in the
thermal mass; the method characterized by:
differentiating the electrical sensor signal to produce a differentiated signal
indicative of the rate of change of the electrical sensor signal;
translating the differentiated signal into a power reading; and
displaying the power reading using a display meter.
The method of claim 11, further characterized by:

transmitting a hold timing signal to the display meter after a predetermined
delay period; and
holding the power reading constant in response to the hold timing signal.
The method of claim 12 further characterized by;

emitting an audible signal in response to the hold timing signal.
The method of claim 11, further characterized by:

separating the differentiated signal into a cooling portion indicating a lowering
of the temperature of the thermal mass and a heating portion indicating a raising of the

temperature of the thermal mass.
The method of claim 14, further characterized by:

adding the cooling and heating portions together before translating the
differentiated signal into a power reading.
The method of claim 11, further characterized by determining the
highest voltage change rate in the differentiated signal, translating the highest voltage change

rate into a steady state power reading, and displaying the steady state power reading.: 
The method of claim 11, further characterized by:

detecting that the temperature of the thermal mass has reached a predetermined
maximum temperature; and
emitting an audible signal in response to detecting the maximum temperature.
The method of claim 11 wherein the translating step is characterized by:

computing a peak heating rate of change of temperature in the thermal mass
based upon the differentiated signal as the energy is being received by the thermal mass;
computing a peak cooling rate of change of temperature in the thermal mass
based upon the differentiated signal when the energy is not being received by the thermal mass,

immediately prior to or after the energy is received by the thermal mass; and
adding the peak heating and peak cooling rates of change to produce the power
reading indicative of the power of the energy source.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
