<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621495</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Colour cross-fading system for a luminaire
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B528	G02B2600	G02B700	G02B2600	F21S800	G02B700	F21S800	G02B528	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	F21S	G02B	F21S	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B26	G02B7	G02B26	F21S8	G02B7	F21S8	G02B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A colour cross-fading system for a luminaire includes two filter 
disks (14,15) or strips each provided with a multi-layer filter coating 

to provide a dichroic filter effect. In each case the thickness of the 
coating layers varies continuously along a gradient axis of the filter 

disk or strips. One disk acts predominantly as a long wave pass filter 
and the other act predominantly as a short wave pass filter, but each 

disk has an essentially "complex" characteristic enabling a very wide 
range of different colours to be obtained by cumulative subtractive 

filtering, by varying the positions of the two disks or strips relative 
to an optical axis. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIGHT 
&
 SOUND DESIGN LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIGHT 
&
 SOUND DESIGN, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEWLETT WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEWLETT, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a colour cross-fading system for a luminaire for use in stage, architectural or other lighting 
applications. Various proposals have already been made for providing variation of the colour of light produced by luminaires, 
the earliest of such proposals being the use of coloured gels across the light beam. Colour changers employing gels 
have had multiple gels in a rotary carrier which can be turned to position any one of a plurality of differently coloured 
gels in the beam, or strings of square colour gels connected together edge to edge and scrollable across the beam 
between a pair of rollers. U.S. Patents 4459014 (Thebault 7/84) and 4600976 (Callahan 7/86) both utilize three uniform density primary or 
secondary colour filters which can be moved individually to intercept a variable proportion of the beam cross-section. 
Whilst this arrangement enables a wide range of overall average colours to be obtained, the distribution of colours 
within the beam is non-uniform and proper mixing can only be achieved by diffusion which is inefficient. U.S. Patents 
4897770 (Solomon 1/90) and its continuation 4958265 (9/90) improve the distribution by providing for the colour filters 
to affect opposite sides of the beam simultaneously so that the beam colour distribution is symmetrical, but still non-uniform. 
The above-mentioned prior patents all rely on additive mixing of different parts of a beam and U.S. Patent 
5044730 (La Duke 9/91) also relies on such mixing using filters which split the beam into differently coloured subsidiary 
beams and a mixer for recombining the subsidiary beams. U.S. Patent no. 4914556 (Richardson 4/90) makes use of filter plates having a filter coating applied in a pattern 
the density of which varies. A preferred embodiment uses three such plates in yellow, cyan and magenta. This arrangement 
again allows wide variation of colour in a continuous manner, but the beam is striated especially when the 
luminaire's focusing system is focused on or near one of the plates. U.S. Patent 4392187 (Bornhorst 7/83) discloses two techniques for varying the transmitted beam colour. In one 
technique several dichroic filters are pivotally mounted in the light beam so that variation of hue can be obtained by 
pivoting the filters about axes perpendicular to the beam axis. This arrangement still requires a mixer or integration 
lens to mix white light with the variably coloured light transmitted by the filters. The other technique uses two rotatable 
disks having a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A colour control system (13) for a luminaire, comprising first and second 
non-uniform dichroic filter elements (14, 15; 114, 115) arranged to intercept a 

predetermined direction (12; 112), said first filter element having a 
predominantly long wave pass characteristic in the visible light wavelength range 

and said second filter element having a predominantly short wave pass 
characteristic in the visible light wavelength range, the two filter elements being 

mounted so as to be moveable independently from one another with respect to 
said predetermined direction to vary the substractively combined pass-bands of 

the two filter elements for a light beam propagating along said predetermined 
direction, wherein each filter element comprises a plurality of layers (L
1
, ... L
15
, 
S
1
, ... S
16
) of materials having different refractive indices to provide a dichroic 
filtering effect,
characterised in that
: 

the thickness of the layers continuously increases along a gradient axis 
(14c, 15c) intersecting said predetermined direction so that the pass-band 

characteristics of each filter element vary continuously along said axis; 
said first filter characteristic is complex and has, at each point (14Y) on 
said gradient axis (14C), a first cut-off wavelength and a respective first cut-off 

limit, the wavelength of the respective first cut-off limit being lower than that of 
the first cut-off wavelength, wherein light of wavelength longer than the first cut-off 

wavelength is passed, and light of wavelength shorter than the respective first 
cut-off limit is also transmitted, and wherein, for first cut-off wavelengths at the 

lower end of the visible light wavelength range, respective first cut-off limits lie 
below the visible light wavelength range; and  

 
said second filter characteristic is complex and has, at each point (15Y) on 
the gradient axis (15C), a second cut-off wavelength and a respective second cut-off 

limit, the wavelength of the respective second cut-off limit being higher than 
the second cut-off wavelength, wherein light of wavelength shorter than the 

second cut-off wavelength is passed, and light of wavelength longer than the 
respective second cut-off limit is also transmitted, and wherein, for second cut-off 

wavelengths at the upper end of the visible light wavelength range, respective 
second cut-off limits lie above the visible light wavelength range. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 1, further 
characterised 
in that
 for each filter element (14, 15), the thickness of said layers at each 
(14Y; 15Y) point on said gradient access (14C; 15C) is linearly related to the 

displacement of such point along said gradient access from a datum point 
(14X, 15X; 14Z, 15Z). 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, in which 
said cut-off limit is at a substantially fixed proportion of the cut-off 

wavelength throughout the range of cut-off wavelengths. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 3, in which the ratio of 
the cut-off wavelength to the cut-off limit is in the range of from 1:0.70 to 

1:0.85. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 4, in which the ratio of 
the cut-off wavelength to the cut-off limit is 1:0.77. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 1, in which said second 
filter cut-off limit is at a substantially fixed proportion of the second filter 

cut-off wavelength throughout the range of second filter cut-off wavelengths. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 6, in which the ratio of 
the second filter cut-off wavelength to the second filter cut-off limit is in the 

range 1:1.27 to 1:1.40.  
 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 7, in which the ratio of 
the second filter cut-off wavelength to the second filter cut-off limit is 1:1.34. 
A colour control system as claimed in any preceding claim in which 
the filter characteristic of the second filter element is such that at each point 

on said gradient axis there is a cut-on wavelength shorter than said second 
filter cut-off wavelength, such that light at a wavelength below said cut-on 

wavelength is blocked. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 9, in which said cut-on 
wavelength is at a substantially fixed proportion of said second filter cut-off 

wavelength throughout the range of second filter cut-off wavelengths, the cut-on 
wavelengths corresponding to second filter cut-off wavelengths at the 

lower end of the range below the visible light wavelength range. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 10, in which the ratio of 
the second filter cut-off wavelength to the cut-on wavelength is in the range 

1:0.40 to 1:0.50. 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 11, in which the ratio of 
the second filter cut-off wavelength to the cut-on wavelength is 1:0.45. 
A colour control system as claimed in any preceding claim in which 
each filter element (14, 15) is in the form of a disk, the gradient axis (14C, 

15C) being a circular line on said disk.  
 
A colour control system as claimed in Claim 13, in which a sector 
(14b, 15b) of each disk is left uncoated. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
