<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612594</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A motor-driven stapler
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B27F738	B25C500	B27F721	B25C516	B27F700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B27F	B25C	B27F	B25C	B27F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B27F7	B25C5	B27F7	B25C5	B27F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A feed roller 32 is disposed in a magazine section 1 in 
a state that the feed roller 32 is in press contact with the 

lower side of a sheet-like staple fed out of a cartridge 13. 
A rack is formed in the support means of the magazine section 

1. The feed roller 32 is operatively coupled with the magazine 
section 1 through a one-way clutch gear 34 in mesh with the 

rack 33. Only when the magazine section 1 separates from the 
clincher section 4, the one-way clutch gear 34 operates to 

rotate the feed roller 32 in the staple supply direction. A 
quantity of rotation of the one-way clutch gear 34 can be 

adjusted by a gear ratio of the combination of the one-way 
clutch gear 34 and the rack 33. Therefore, a sufficient 

quantity of feeding the sheet-like lowest staple is secured. 
The feed roller 32 is rotated by utilizing the forward/backward 

motion of the magazine section 1 with respect to the clincher 
section. Because of this, provision of any special drive means 

for rotation is not required. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a staple supply 
mechanism for a motor-driven stapler of the type in which a 
cartridge containing a stack of sheet-like staples each 
consisting of a series of glued staple pieces is removably 
mounted on a magazine body, and the sheet-like lowest staple is 
fed forward from the cartridge by making use of the 
forward/backward motion of the magazine section with respect to 
the clincher section in driving out the staple piece. An embodiment of the present invention also relates to a control 
mechanism for a motor-driven stapler having a magazine section 
including a driver plate for cutting off by punching a staple 
piece from a staple, and a clincher section including movable 
clinchers for bending the legs of the staple piece flat, the 
control mechanism controlling the operations of the magazine 
section and clincher section. An embodiment of the present invention further relates to a positioning 
mechanism in use in a stapler having separately a staple 
driving section and a clincher section having a clincher groove 
for clinching the driven staple piece flat. A staple driving mechanism in which a cartridge 
containing a stack of sheet-like staples each consisting of a 
series of glued staple pieces is removably mounted on a 
magazine body, and the sheet-like lowest staple is fed forward  
 
from the cartridge in driving out the staple piece, is known as 
disclosed in Published Unexamined Japanese Utility Model 
Application No. Hei. 1-156880 and Published Unexamined Japanese 
Patent Application No. Hei. 4-129679. In the former publication, a feed belt is disposed 
under the cartridge so as to come in contact with the lowest 
staple a1 of a staple stack within the magazine. The lowest 
staple is fed forward by moving the feed belt. In the later 
publication, a roller is used for the same purpose, in lieu of 
the belt. These techniques are both based on such an technical 
idea that a contact friction between the feeding means and the 
lowest staple is used for feeding the staple. For this reason, 
the staple feeding operation tends to be instable. The lowest 
staple contacts with the staple placed thereon. Because of 
this, the friction force acting therebetween is strong. This 
leads to an insufficient feed of the staple. In addition, in a conventional motor-driven stapler 
with movable clinchers, a staple punching section (magazine 
section) and a clincher section are mounted on a frame. The 
movable clinchers are driven by using a drive mechanism 
installed in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A motor-driven stapler comprising: 

a substantially vertically movable magazine section 
including a driver plate for driving down a staple piece from 

a sheet-like staple; 
a clincher section disposed separately from said 
magazine section and operably aligned with said magazine 

section, said clincher section including a clincher for 
clinching flat the legs of the staple piece driven down; and 
a staple feeding means for feeding said sheet-like 
staple towards a driving portion where said staple piece is 

driven down by said driver plate, said staple feeding means 
feeding said sheet-like staple by making use of the vertical 

motion of said magazine section relative to said clincher 
section in driving out the staple piece. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 1, 
wherein said staple feeding means includes a first staple 

feeding means which comprises: 

a pusher standing facing the rear end of said sheet-like 
staple; 
a roller being brought into press contact with the 
surface of said pusher; 
a drive gear for transferring a rotation force to the 
roller; and  

 
a rack member being brought in mesh with said drive 
gear, wherein said rack member is disposed on the rear side of 

the magazine section, and said rack member rotates the drive 
gear by making use of the substantially vertical motion of said 

magazine section to said clincher section in driving out the 
staple piece. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 1, 
wherein said staple feeding means includes a second staple 

feeding means which comprises: 

a feed roller disposed in the magazine section in a 
state that said feed roller is in press contact with the lower 

side of said sheet-like staple; 
a rack member provided in the magazine section; and 
a one-way clutch gear meshed with said rack member for 
rotating said feed roller in such a manner that said one-way 

clutch gear operates to rotate the feed roller in the staple 
feeding direction, only when said magazine section is moved in 

a direction separating from said clincher section. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 2, 
wherein said staple feeding means includes a second staple 

feeding means which comprises: 

a feed roller disposed in the magazine section in a 
state that said feed roller is in press contact with the lower 

side of said sheet-like staple;  
 
a rack member provided in the magazine section; and 
a one-way clutch gear meshed with said rack member for 
rotating said feed roller in such a manner that said one-way 

clutch gear operates to rotate the feed roller in the staple 
feeding direction, only when said magazine section is moved in 

a direction separateing from said clincher section. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 3, 
further comprising: 


a guide means disposed on said magazine section for 
guiding the substantially vertical movement of said magazine 

section,
 
   wherein said staple feeding means is formed on said 

guide means. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 4, 
further comprising: 


a guide means disposed on said magazine section for 
guiding the substantially vertical movement of said magazine 

section,
 
   wherein said staple feeding means is formed on said 

guide means. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 1, 
further comprising:  

 

a drive mechanism for moving said clincher of said 
clincher section; and 
a control means for driving said drive mechanism for 
said movable clincher to start its operation when the legs of 

the staple piece panetrate the set of papers. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 1, 
further including: 


a means for positioning said magazine section and said 
clincher section, wherein said positioning means comprises; 
at least three positioning holes for positioning said 
magazine section and said clincher section so as to align them 

with each other, and 
pins to be inserted into the positioning holes for 
positioning the magazine section and the clincher section for 

the alignment. 
A motor-driven stapler according to claim 7, 
further including: 


a means for positioning said magazine section and said 
clincher section, wherein said positioning means comprises; 
at least three positioning holes for positioning said 
magazine section and said clincher section so as to align them 

with each other, and  
 
pins to be inserted into the positioning holes for 
positioning the magazine section and the clincher section for 

the alignment. 
A stapler according to claim 1 having a driving 
section separately disposed from said clincher section 

for driving the sheet-like staple consisting of glued 
staple pieces by a driving mechanism comprising: 


at least three positioning holes for positioning 
the driving section and the clincher section so as to 

align them with each other, and 
pins to be inserted into the positioning holes 
for positioning the driving section and the clincher 

section for the alignment. 
A control mechanism for a motor-driven stapler 
according to claim 1, wherein the magazine section 

includes a drive mechanism for moving the magazine 
section so that when the magazine section is aligned 

with the clincher section, the lower surface of the 
magazine section is brought into contact with the 

surface of a set of papers to be stitched, and for 
driving the driver plate, the clincher section 

includes another drive mechanism for driving a movable 
clincher, and a control means is provided for driving 

the drive mechanism for the movable clincher to start 
its operation when the legs of the staple piece 

penetrate the set of papers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
