<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659015</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Frame synchronizer and a signal switching apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B304	H04B304	H04N5067	H04N5073	H04N544	H04N544	H04N700	H04N700	H04N701	H04N701	H04N7015	H04N7015	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B3	H04B3	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An external color frame is synchronized with a local color frame 
without producing a pixel position error. A frame synchronizer (30) 

synchronizes a frame from an external television signal (13) with that 
of a 

local television signal (11a). A wide screen oriented high definition 
television signal is used as the external television signal (13), the image 

quality of which is improved by adding a support signal to the main 
screen signal. A memory (31) is provided to receive and store the 

external 
television signal and the external signal is read from the memory (31) 

after a predetermined time passes when the frame difference between 
the external and local television signals is at least one frame. In this 

instance, only the support signal in the readout of the external 
television signal is corrected by a low pass filter (50) in order to 

match 
the pixel position of the support signal to that of the main screen 

signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON TELEVISION NETWORK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON TELEVISION NETWORK CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIDA MASAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIDA, MASAYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a frame synchronizer and the 
switching apparatus that utilizes said frame synchronizer. This 
invention is appropriate for a wide screen oriented high definition 
external television signal, such as the next generation Enhansed 
Definition Television (EDTV), e.g., EDTV-II, when such external 
television signal is to be frame synchronized with a local television 
signal. Since broadcast television cameras in local stations are driven 
such that color frames thereof are synchronized with each other, no 
problem occurs with the frame synchronization. In order to switch 
between the local television signal and a television signal transmitted 
from outside the local station, a signal switching apparatus must be 
used in connection with the frame synchronization. Figure 5 shows an example of the signal switching apparatus 10. 
Input terminals 11a-11c receive, for example, local television signals 
Sa-Sc from three television cameras at the local station. These local 
television signals are applied to a switcher 14. An input terminal 13 receives a television signal from outside the 
local station, i.e., an external signal transmitted through a variety of 
transmission systems. The television signal from outside the local 
station (hereinafter referred to as "external television signal") may be 
a reproduced signal of a VTR that is not synchronized with the 
television camera. External television signals are not synchronized with local 
television signals in general, so a frame synchronizer (FS) 30 is 
commonly provided between the input terminal 13 and the switcher 14 
in order to make the external signal synchronized with the local 
signal. The output signal from the frame synchronizer is thus applied  
 
to the switcher 14 so that the output signal is synchronized with the 
local television signal. A control central processing unit (CPU) 16 is a 
control section that applies a read/write signal to the frame 
synchronizer 30 and applies a switching signal SW to the switcher 14 
to control the selection of a target television signal from the four 
input signals. The control CPU 16 receives an external color frame 
signal and the like from terminals 13 and 17. Since a color subcarrier phase returns to the original phase 
position every four fields in the NTSC system, a color video signal may 
be delayed so as to match the color frame phases of independent video 
signals every four fields. This results in a large time difference 
between the video signal and an audio signal. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a frame synchronizer for synchronizing a frame of an 
external television signal with that of a local television signal, 

   a frame synchronizer characterized in that a wide screen oriented 
high definition television signal is used as the external television 

signal, the image quality of said high definition television signal is 
improved by adding a support signal to the main screen signal, a 

memory is provided to receive and store the external television signal, 
and the external television signal is read from said memory after a 

predetermined time passes and a low pass filter process is applied 

only to the support signal of the readout of the external television 
signal when the frame difference between the external television 

signal and the local television signal is at least one frame. 
A frame synchronizer according to claim 1, wherein the high 
definition external television signal is a letter box type high 

definition television signal, and the support signal is a data 
compressed signal. 
A frame synchronizer according to claim 1, wherein a digital 
low pass filter for the low pass process comprises: 

   a single delay device having a delay time of one pixel; 
   a plurality of coefficient devices for applying predetermined 

weighting coefficients to the delayed signal and the non-delayed 
signal respectively; and 

   an adder for adding the outputs from said coefficient devices. 
A frame synchronizer according to claim 1, wherein a digital 
low pass filter used as the low pass filter comprises: 

   five delay devices each having a delay time of one pixel; 
   a plurality of coefficient devices for applying predetermined 

weighting coefficients to the delayed signal and the non-delayed 
signal respectively; and 

   adders for adding the outputs from said coefficient devices. 
A signal switching apparatus, comprising:
 

   switching means to receive plural local television signals and an 
external television signal; 

   a frame synchronizer provided in the transmission path of the 
external television signal; and 

   a control means for controlling said switching means and said 
frame synchronizer; 

   wherein the external television signal is a wide screen oriented 
high definition television signal the image quality of which is 

improved by adding a support signal to the main screen signal, said 
frame synchronizer includes a memory to receive and store the 

external television signal, and the external television signal is read 
from said memory after a predetermined time passes and a low pass 

filter process is applied only to the support signal in the readout of 
the external television signal from said memory when the frame 

difference between the external and local television signals is at 
least one frame. 
A signal switching apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the 
high definition external television signal is a letter box type high 

definition television signal, and the support signal is a data 
compressed signal. 
A signal switching apparatus according to claim 5, wherein a 
digital low pass filter for the low pass process comprises: 

   a single delay device having a delay time of one pixel; 
   a plurality of coefficient devices for applying predetermined 

weighting coefficients to the delayed signal and the non-delayed 
signal respectively; and 

   an adder for adding the outputs from said coefficient devices. 
A signal switching apparatus according to claim 5, wherein a 
digital low pass filter for the low pass process comprises: 

   five delay devices each having a delay time of one pixel; 
   a plurality of coefficient devices for applying predetermined 

weighting coefficients to the delayed signal and the non-delayed 
signal respectively; and 

   adders for adding the outputs from said coefficient devices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
