<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646905</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Driver circuit for grey level display in an electroluminescent panel
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G312	G09G320	G09G320	G09G304	G09G330	G09G330	H04N314	H04N314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	H04N3	H04N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A driver circuit has an input stage (2) with an input node for 
receiving a control signal (DRIVE-IN). A capacitor circuit 

(4) is connected to the input node and a first power supply 
(VRAMP) and is arranged to be charged up by said first power 

supply (VRAMP) under the control of the control signal 
(DRIVE-IN). The driver circuit also has an output stage (6) 

connected to a second power supply (Vpp) and is arranged to 
provide a driver signal (POUT) in dependence on the charge 

stored at the capacitor circuit (4). A buffer circuit (8) is 
connected between the capacitor circuit (4) and the output 

stage (6). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a driver circuit and
particularly but not exclusively to a high voltage analogue
grey scale driver circuit for driving flat panel
electroluminescent displays, for example using zinc sulphide
as the electroluminescent material. As is well known, such
driver circuit are required to produce a potential difference
across the electroluminescent material in the display to
activate the display. So-called "grey scale" driver circuits
are required to produce different potential differences in
accordance with different control inputs so as to provide
different electroluminescent outputs from the display.Such a driver circuit is described in SID INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM
Digest of Technical Papers Vol XIX pages 31-34 S A STEINER et al.
"High Performance Column Driver For Gray-Scale TFEL Displays".In general a known "grey scale" driver circuit comprises an input
stage in the form of a level shifter, a capacitor circuit connected
to the level shifter and operating as a sample and hold (SH)switch
and an output stage in the form of a voltage follower. This
circuit receives the following signals:
i) a pulse width modulated logic signal which is supplied to
the level shifter and which, when level shifted controls
the sampling period of the SH switch;ii) a ramped analogue voltage which is sampled and held by
the SH switch at a time determined by the pulse width
modulated logic signal.The signal which is held by the SH switch is transferred to an
output node via the voltage follower which receives a power
supply at a high voltage required to supply the necessary
potential difference across the electroluminescent material,
typically 60V. The high voltage power supply is normally
modulated to reduce power consumption in flat panel systems
and thus the voltage supplied to the voltage follower will
increase and decrease in accordance with the modulation
applied to it. The high voltage power supply is normally 
ramped but is generally out of phase with the ramped analogue
voltage supplied to the SH switch. Furthermore, where the
voltage follower is made with MOS transistors, these
transistors must be large to carry the high voltages required
for the display and, as such, have large parasitic
capacitances associated therewith. These large parasitic
capacitances and the variations in the modulated power supply
can cause the circuit to function incorrectly because the
output node can become coupled to the signal held at the SH
switch through the parasitic capacitance, thereby affecting
the output
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A driver circuit comprising:

an input stage (2) having an input node for receiving a
control signal (DRIVE IN);
a capacitor circuit (4) connected to said input stage and
a first power supply (VRAMP) and arranged to be charged up by

said first power supply under the control of said control signal;
and
an output stage (6) connected to a second power supply (V
PP
)
and arranged to provide a driver signal (P
OUT
) in dependence on
the charge stored at said capacitor circuit (4), wherein a buffer

circuit (8) is connected between the capacitor circuit (4) and
the output stage (6), wherein the first and second power supplies

are ramped power supplies.
A driver circuit according to claim 1, wherein the buffer
circuit is connected to the first power supply.
A driver circuit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the
capacitor circuit comprises a capacitor and a switch connected

between the capacitor and the first power supply and arranged to
be actuated by the control signal to operate as a sample-and-hold

switch.
A driver circuit according to any preceding claim, wherein
the first and second power supplies have respectively different

timings.
A driver circuit according to any preceding claim wherein
the control signal is a pulse width modulated signal and wherein

the first power supply is sampled at a time dependent on the
pulse width.
A driver circuit according to any preceding claim, wherein
the first and second power supplies are at a voltage level

substantially higher than said control signal and wherein the 
input stage comprises a level shift circuit.
A driver circuit according to claim 6, wherein the control
signal is at about 5V and the first and second power supplies

varies up to about 60V.
A driver circuit according to any preceding claim, wherein
the buffer circuit comprises first and second MOS transistors

connected in a voltage follower configuration,
A driver circuit according to any preceding claim, wherein
the output stage comprises first and second MOS transistors

connected in a voltage follower configuration.
A driver circuit according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the
transistors of the output stage are substantially larger than the

transistors in the buffer circuit.
A driver circuit according to claim 8, 9 or 10, wherein the
transistors in the buffer circuit and the output stage are BCD

transistors.
A driver circuit according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
wherein the first and second power supplies are at a voltage

level substantially higher than said control signal.
The driver circuit of claim 12 wherein the buffer circuit
is powered by said first power supply and has an input node

connected to receive a voltage signal stored on the capacitor of
the capacitor circuit such that the capacitor may be

significantly smaller due to a lack of influence from parasitic
capacitances of the output stage on the voltage signal stored on

the capacitor. 
An analogue driver circuit comprising:

an input stage (2) comprising an input node for receiving
a control signal (DRIVE IN);
a capacitor circuit (4) connected to said input stage and
to a first high voltage power supply (VRAMP), wherein said

capacitor circuit is charged by said first power supply in
response to said control signal;
an output stage (6) connected to a second high voltage power
supply (V
PP
) comprising at least one large transistor which
creates large parasitic capacitances for providing a driver

signal (P
OUT
) proportional to the charge stored at said capacitor
circuit; and
a buffer circuit (8) connected between the capacitor circuit
and the output stage (6), wherein said buffer circuit decouples

the output stage and the signal at the capacitor circuit to
prevent interference of the capacitor circuit from parasitic

capacitances of the output stage wherein said first high voltage
power supply (VRAMP) and said second high voltage power supply

(V
PP
) are ramped power supplies with respectively different
timings.
A flat panel electroluminescent display comprising a driver
circuit in accordance with any of the preceding claims.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
