<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644574</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus and semiconductor device menufacturing method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L21205	H01J3732	H01L213065	H01L2102	H01J3732	H01L21302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01J	H01L	H01L	H01J	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01J37	H01L21	H01L21	H01J37	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus 
and its method, which measures the amount or chemical 

composition of reaction products adhering to or 
deposited on the inside of a processing chamber of the 

semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus, without 
exposing the chamber to the air. External light such 

as infrared light is introduced from a light 
introducing unit into the processing chamber by a 

light introducing means. A light receiving unit 
provided outside the processing chamber receives light 

reflected from a specified location inside the 
processing chamber or light reflected from an 

arbitrary location inside the chamber. The received 
light is then subjected to spectrometry or photometry 

to judge how badly the chamber is contaminated and to 
judge the state of the process being carried out. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDAMURA MANABU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAI SABURO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWADA HIROKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI KAZUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMURA NAOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDAMURA,MANABU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAI,SABURO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWADA,HIROKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI,KAZUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAMURA,NAOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor 
device manufacturing apparatus and a semiconductor 
device manufacturing method and more particularly to a 
semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus and a 
semiconductor device manufacturing method suitable for 
monitoring the conditions of reaction products 
produced during a processing in the apparatus. Conventional dry etching apparatus have a problem 
that as the number of wafers processed increases, the 
amount of dust generated increases, destabilizing the 
process, gradually deviating the process condition 
from the initial state which resulting unfavourable 
products, and reducing the yield. It is considered 
the reason is that reaction products are deposited on 
the inner walls of the processing chamber and on the 
surface of components and dust particles are produced 
from the reaction products, destabilizing the process. 
The process destabilization may also result from other 
causes. In fact, cleaning the deposited reaction products 
(hereinafter referred to as "deposited materials") 
recovers the yield but usually this requires to expose 
the process chamber to the air. Once the apparatus is 
exposed to the air, however, it is necessary to 
perform evacuation again and set the conditions for 
process stabilization before the wafer processing is 
restarted. This results in lowering the working ratio 
of the apparatus. Because lowering the frequency of the chamber  
 
cleaning leads to an improved working ratio of the 
apparatus, it is important to make a correct decision 
on the time to perform the cleaning, and to perform 
the cleaning which enable us to increase the time 
before cleaning as long as possible. Determining the 
correct time for cleaning, however, is difficult under 
present situation. Among the methods of determining 
the clearing time are one in which a dummy wafer is 
processed and the amount of dust adhering to it is 
taken as the reference, and one in which the amount of 
dust generated in the apparatus is monitored. The 
difficulty in these methods lies in the fact that 
there are large variations in dust generation and that 
the amount of dust adhering to the wafer is unstable. Studies have been conducted to determine process 
requirements for suppressing the generation of 
deposited materials to a minimum level and kinds of 
special gas suited for removing deposited materials. 
For the purpose, it is necessary to examine the state 
of deposited material adhering to the chamber as well 
as the analysis of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus filled with 
a processing gas, comprising: 


a chamber (11), and 
a transparent member (19) installed in the chamber (11) 
and capable of transmitting light, 
 
characterized by 


a light application means for introducing light (16) into 
the chamber (11) through the transparent member (19) and 

illuminating the interior of the chamber (11) with the 
light (16) and 
a measuring means for performing at least either spectrometry 
or photometry of light (17) reflected from the 

inner surface of the chamber (11) itself, whereby the 
state of the interior of the chamber (11) can be monitored 

without exposing the chamber (11) to the air. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus filled with 
a processing gas, comprising: 


a chamber (11), and 
at least one transparent member installed in the chamber 
(11) and capable of transmitting light, 
 
characterized by
 
a measuring means for performing at least either spectrometry 

or photometry of multiply reflected light that has been 
reflected inside the transparent member, whereby the measuring 

means measures at least one of the amount, composition 
and property of material (65) adhering to a surface of the 

transparent member, which surface is directed toward the 
interior of the chamber (11), to allow the monitoring of 

the state of the interior of the chamber (11) without 
exposing the chamber (11) to the air.  

 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according to 
claim 1, characterized in that 


it comprises an additional transparent member (20) installed 
in the chamber (11), and 
the light application means introduces light (16) into 
the chamber (11) through one transparent member (19) and 

the measuring means takes light (17) that has passed 
through the other transparent member (20). 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according to 
claim 2, characterized by a light application means for 

introducing external light (16) into the chamber (11) 
through an optical fiber (51) optically connected to the 

transparent member. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according to 
claim 4, characterized in that 


it comprises more than one transparent member connected 
with the light application means via the optical fiber 

(51), and 
the measuring means performs at least either spectrometry 
or photometry of multiply reflected light that has been 

reflected inside said transparent members. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according to 
claim 1, characterized by a mechanism (22) for moving the 

transparent member (19). 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according to 
claim 1, characterized by a shutter (23) which can cover 

the transparent member (19). 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according to 
claim 1, characterized by an evacuation means (63) that  

 
evacuates the chamber (11) to a vacuum. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according to 
claim 1, characterized by a gas introducing means (29) for 

introducing a processing gas to the chamber (11). 
A semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus according 
to any of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that it is a 

dry-etching apparatus which comprises at least 

a gas introducing means (29) for introducing a processing 
gas into the chamber (11), 
a magnet (2) for generating a magnetic field, and 
an electromagnetic wave source to generate an electromagnetic 
wave, 
 
whereby the chamber (11) is a chamber (11) in which a 

processing is performed. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method comprising the 
steps of: 


introducing light (16) into a chamber (11) of a semiconductor 
device manufacturing apparatus through a transparent 

member (19) provided in the chamber (11), 
illuminating the interior of the chamber (11) with light 
(16), and 
performing at least either spectrometry or photometry of 
light (17) reflected from the inner surface of the chamber 

(11) itself to monitor the state of the interior of 
the chamber (11) without exposing the chamber (11) to 

the air. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method comprising the 
steps of: 


reflecting light inside a transparent member so arranged 
that one surface thereof faces inside a chamber (11) of  

 
a semiconductor device manufacturing apparatus, and 
performing at least either spectrometry or photometry of 
multiply reflected light that has been reflected inside 

the transparent member to measure at least one of the 
amount, composition and property of material (65) adhering 

to said surface of the transparent member to allow 
the monitoring of the state of the interior of the 

chamber (11) without exposing the chamber (11) to the 
air. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that 


external light is introduced into the chamber (11) 
through an optical fiber (51) optically connected to the 

transparent member, and 
the at least either spectrometry or photometry is performed 
while a semiconductor device manufacturing process 

is under way. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that the state of the interior 

of the chamber (11) is a state of the material (65) deposited 
on the inner surface of the chamber (11), a chemical 

reaction, or the state of a processing. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that the transparent member is 

a window (13) provided in the chamber (11), a microwave is 
introduced from the front of the window (13), light is 

introduced into the window (13) from a side of the window 
(13), light that has been reflected inside the window (13) 

is taken out from a side of the window (13), and at least 
either spectrometry or photometry of the taken out reflected 

light is performed to measure at least either the  
 

amount or property of the material (65) deposited on the 
inner side of the window (13) of the chamber (11) while a 

processing is progressing. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in 
that the monitoring of the 
state of the interior of the chamber (11) is performed 

before or after at least one of processings deposition on 
wafer (12), etching and exposure. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that based on the results of 

the measurement of the light reflected inside the transparent 
member an instruction to clean the material (65) 

adhering to the interior of the chamber (11) is displayed. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that at least one of start, 

stop and control of the processing of removing the material 
(65) adhering to the interior of the chamber (11) is 

automatically performed based on the results of the measurement 
of the light reflected inside the transparent 

member. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that at least either the results 

of measurement or the state of process is displayed 
based on the results of the measurement of the light 

reflected inside the transparent member. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that the state of process is 

controlled based on the results of measurement of the 
light reflected inside the transparent member.  

 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that the introduced light or 

taken-out light is infrared light. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 12, characterized in that the means for analyzing 

the light is an analyzing means using a Fourier-transform 
spectroscopy. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 11, characterized in that based on the results of 

the measurement of the light (17) reflected inside the 
chamber (11) an instruction to clean the material (65) 

adhering to the interior of the chamber (11) is displayed. 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 11, characterized in that at least one of start, 

stop and control of the processing of removing the material 
(65) adhering to the interior of the chamber (11) is 

automatically performed based on the results of the measurement 
of the light (17) reflected inside the chamber 

(11). 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 11, characterized in that at least either the results 

of measurement of the state of process is displayed 
based on the results of the measurement of the light (17) 

reflected inside the chamber (11). 
A semiconductor device manufacturing method according to 
claim 11, characterized in that the state of process is 

controlled based on the results of measurement of the 
light (17) reflected inside the chamber (11). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
