<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644504</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Scanner with multiple scan units
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K712	G06K712	G06K710	G06K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	G06K7	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To scan indicia on items moving through a 
predetermined space, without having to manually orient 

each item so that the indicia faces in a specified 
direction, a plurality of optical scan units are arranged 

around the predetermined space. Each scan unit emits 
light along a different path and receives light reflected 

from a surface of any item moving along the conveyor. As 
a result, the scan heads have different lines of sight 

and fields of view, and the system nominally scans a 
plurality of different optimal planes oriented to 

correspond to item surfaces expected to most often bear 
the indicia. In some embodiments, optical fibers connect 

the scan units to a central control unit. In such 
embodiments, the central control unit houses both a laser 

light generator and a photodetector, and the optical 
fibers carry the generated laser light to the scan units 

and carry the reflected light from the scan units back to 
the photodetector. Circuitry in the central control 

analyzes signals produced by the photodetector to derive 
information represented by the optically encoded indicia. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to optical scanners
for reading optically encoded indicia, such as bar codes
or matrix symbols. In particular, this invention relates
to a system for scanning indicia on the surfaces of items
moving through a Predetermined space or opening, e.g. at
a point along a conveyor belt or a check out counter,
wherein the system includes multiple scan units each
having multiple light emitters and optionally utilizing
a charge coupled or other solid state imaging device such
as a sensor array. Optical readers, such as bar code readers, are now
quite common. Typically, a bar code comprises a series
of encoded symbols, and each symbol consists of a series
of light and dark regions, typically in the form of
rectangles. The widths of the dark regions, the bars,
and/or the widths of the light spaces between the bars
indicate the encoded information. A bar code reader
illuminates the code and senses light reflected from the
code to detect the widths and spacings of the code
symbols and derive the encoded data.Bar code reading type data input systems improve the
efficiency and accuracy of data input for a wide variety
of applications. The ease of data input in such systems
facilitates more frequent and detailed data input, for
example to provide efficient inventories, tracking of
work in progress, etc. Bar code readers are also quite
common in point of sale terminals or checkout stands. To
achieve these advantages, however, users or employees
must be willing to consistently use the bar code readers.
The readers therefore must be easy and convenient to
operate.A variety of optical reading devices are known. One
particularly advantageous type of reader is an optical
scanner which scans a beam of light, such as a laser
beam, across the symbols. Laser scanner systems and
components of the type exemplified by U.S. Patent Nos.
4,251,798; 4,369,361; 4,387,297; 4,409,470; 4,760,248;
4,896,026 all of which are owned by the assignee of the
instant invention.
Such systems and components have generally been
designed to read indicia having parts of different light
reflectivity, e.g., bar code symbols, particularly of the
Universal Product Code (UPC) type, at a certain working
or reading distance from a hand-held or stationary
scanner. More recently, new symbology types have been
developed which utilize symbols comprised of a matrix
symbol with geometric shapes forming a coded symbol. The
matrix symbol may utilize square, hexagonal, polygonal as
well as other shapes to form the encoded label.
Exemplary
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system (10) for scanning indicia having
parts of different light reflectivity, comprising:


a plurality of optical scan units (15l, 15r, 15t,
15b, 15), wherein each said scan unit (15l, 15r, 15t,

15b, 15) includes:

(i) first light emitting means (17, 17') for
emitting a first light beam (27)
(ii)
means for directing (18, 19, 21, 23) said first light

beam (27) towards said indici,
such that said first light beam (27) scans a first portion

of said indicia, and
(iii) detection means (33, 33') for detecting
reflected light (29) from the first scanned portion of the

indicia, and
a central control means (50) for receiving
signals corresponding to detected reflected light

(29) from each of said plurality of optical scan units
(15l, 15r, 15t, 15b, 15) and processing said signals to

determine information represented by said indicia,
characterized in that :
each scan unit also comprises
second light emitting means (17, 17') for

emitting a second light beam (27), the wavelength of which is
equal to the wavelength of the first light beam (27),
said means for directing also scans said second light beam (27)
towards said indicia such that said second light beam scans a

second portion of said indicia, different from the portion scanned
by the first light beam, and
said detection means (33, 33') also detects reflected light from
the second scanned portion of said indicia.
A scanning system according to claim 1, further
comprising:


means (11, 20) for defining a space (100) through
which the item bearing the indicia will move;

wherein each said optical scan unit (15) optically
senses variations in light reflectivity on the

surface of said item as the item moves through said
space and includes means for transmitting said

generated signals;
 
wherein a first one of the optical scan units (15) is

oriented for optically sensing along a first line of
sight, and
a second one of the optical scan units (15) is
oriented for optically sensing along a second line of

sight angularly displaced with respect to said first
line of sight;

wherein said central control unit (50) is separate
and spaced apart from the first and second optical

scan units (15) and processes the signals transmitted
from the optical scan units (15) to determine the

information contained in the indicia.
A system as in claim 2, wherein said central control
unit (50) includes means for digitizing and signals

transmitted from the optical scan units (15). 
A system as in claim 2, wherein each said optical
scan unit (15) is configured to nominally scan and

sense reflected light with respect to a plane
parallel to the direction of movement of said item.
A system as in claim 2, wherein said plurality of
optical scan units (15) nominally scans and senses

reflected light with respect to only four planes, and
each said plane is parallel to the direction of

movement of said item and orthogonal to the other
said planes.
A system as in claim 2, further comprising a
conveyor (20) for moving the item through said space.
A system as in claim 6, wherein

(i) said conveyor (20) is comprised of a first
conveyor belt (20a) for carrying the item into said

space (100) through which the item will move, and a
second conveyor belt (20b), disposed apart from said

first conveyor belt (20a) with a separation space
therebetween, for carrying the item out of said space

(100) through which the item will move, and at least
one of the optical scan units (15) has a line of

sight through said separation space, and
(ii) said item simultaneously contacts said first
conveyor belt (20a) and said second conveyor belt

(20b) to move through said space (100).
A system as in claim 7, wherein the means (11, 20)
for defining said space (100) through which items

will move includes a bracket (11) which supports at
least some of the plurality of optical scan units

(15) and extends from a point alongside the
separation space and across the separation space. 
A system as in claim 2, wherein a common plane
substantially perpendicular to a direction of

movement of the item is impinged by each of said
plurality of scan units (15).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
