<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659435</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Injectable ready-to-use solutions containing Doxorubicin
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K908	A61K908	A61K900	A61K31704	A61K4726	A61K317028	A61K900	A61K4726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K31	A61K47	A61K31	A61K9	A61K47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A storage stable, sterile, pyrogen-free, 
injectable anthracycline glycoside solution consists 

essentially of a physiologically acceptable salt of an 
anthracycline glycoside dissolved in a physiologically 

acceptable solvent therefor, which has not been 
reconstituted from a lyophilizate and the pH of which has 

been adjusted to from 2.5 to 4.0 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a storage
stable, injectable ready-to-use solution of
doxorubicin, and to a process
for preparing such a solution.The anthracycline glycoside compounds are a well
known class of compounds in the antineoplastic group of
agents, of which doxorubicin is a typical, and the most
widely used, representative: Doxorubicin. Anticancer
Antibiotics, Federico Arcamone, 1981, Publ: Academic Press,
New York, N.Y.; Adriamycin Review, EROTC International
Symposium, Brussels, May, 1974, edited by M. Staquet, Publ.
Eur. Press Medikon, Ghent, Belg.; and Results of Adriamycin
Therapy, Adriamycin Symposium at Frankfurt/Main 1974 edited
by M.Ghione, J.Fetzer and H.Maier, publ.: Springer, New
York, N.Y.At present, anthracycline glycoside antitumor
drugs, in particular doxorubicin, are solely
available in the form of lyophilized preparations, which
need to be reconstituted before administration. Both the
manufacture and the reconstitution of such preparations
expose the involved personnel (workers, pharmacists,
medical personnel, nurses) to risks of contamination which
are particularly serious due to the toxicity of the
antitumor substances.The Martindale Extra Pharmacopoeia 28th edition,
page 175 left column, reports on adverse effects of
antineoplastic drugs and recommends that "They must be
handled with great care and contact with skin and eyes
avoided; they should not be inhaled. Care must be taken to
avoid extravasation since pain and tissue damage may
ensue.". Similarly, Scand. J. Work Environ Health vol.10
(2), pages 71-74 (1984), as well as articles in Chemistry
Industry, Issue July 4, 1983, page 488, and Drug-Topics-Medical-Economics-Co,
Issue February 7, 1983, page 99 
report about severe adverse effects observed in medical
personnel exposed to use of cytostatic agents, including
doxorubicin.To administer a lyophilized preparation, double
handling of the drug is required. The lyophilized cake
first has to be reconstituted and then administered.
Moreover, in some cases, the complete dissolution of the
powder may require prolonged shaking because of
solubilization problems. Reconstitution of a lyophilized
cake or powder can result in formation of aerosol droplets
which can be inhaled or can come into contact with skin or
mucous membranes of those handling the solution.As the risks connected with the manufacture and
the reconstitution of a lyophilized preparate would be
highly reduced if a ready-to-use solution of the drug were
available, we have developed a stable, therapeutically
accept
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims for the following Contracting States : AT, BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LU, NL, SE
A product which is a storage stable, sterile, pyrogen-free, injectable
doxorubicin solution which is sealed in a container and which consists essentially of

doxorubicin hydrochloride dissolved in a physiologically acceptable aqueous solvent
therefor at a concentration of doxorubicin of from 0.1 to 50 mg/ml, which has not

been reconstituted from a lyophilisate and the pH of which has been adjusted to from
3.5 to 4.0 solely by means of a physiologically acceptable acid.
A product according to claim 1, wherein the solution has a pH of from
3.7 to 4.0.
A product according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the said acid is
hydrochloric acid.
A product according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
solution contains dextrose, lactose, sorbitol or mannitol as a tonicity adjustment

agent.
A product according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
container is a sealed glass container.
A product according to claim 5, wherein the sealed glass container is a
vial or an ampule.
A process for producing a product according to any one of the
preceding claims, which process comprises


(i) dissolving the doxorubicin hydrochloride, which is not in the form of a
lyophilisate, in the physiologically acceptable aqueous solvent therefor at a

concentration of doxorubicin of from 0.1 to 50 mg/ml;
(ii) optionally, adding one or more formulation adjuvants selected from co-solubilising
agents, tonicity adjustment agents, preservatives and

pharmaceutically acceptable chelating agents;
(iii) adding solely a physiologically acceptable acid to adjust the pH to from 3.5 to
4.0 as desired; and 
(iv) sealing the solution in a container

the process being effected in such a manner that the resultant solution is sterile and
pyrogen-free.
A process according to claim 7, wherein the solution is passed through
a sterilising filter after step (iii).
Claims for the following Contracting States : ES, GR
A process for producing a product which is a storage stable, sterile,
pyrogen-free, injectable solution of doxorubicin sealed in a container, which process

comprises

(i) dissolving doxorubicin hydrochloride, which is not in the form of a
lyophilisate, in a physiologically acceptable aqueous solvent therefor at a

concentration of doxorubicin of from 0.1 to 50 mg/ml;
(ii) optionally, adding one or more formulation adjuvants selected from co-solubilising
agents, tonicity adjustment agents, preservatives and

pharmaceutically acceptable chelating agents;
(iii) adding solely a physiologically acceptable acid to adjust the pH to from 3.5 to
4.0 as desired; and
(iv) sealing the solution in a container

the process being effected in such a manner that the resultant solution is sterile and
pyrogen-free.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the solution is passed through
a sterilising filter after step (iii).
A process according to claim 1 or 2, wherein, in step (iii), the pH is
adjusted to from 3.7 to 4.0.
A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
said acid is hydrochloric acid.
A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
dextrose, lactose, sorbitol or mannitol is added in step (iii) as a tonicity adjustment

agent.
A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
container is a sealed glass container.
A process according to claim 6, wherein the sealed glass container is a
vial or an ampule. 
A product obtainable by a process according to any one of the
preceding claims.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
