<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642874</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for welding an inner diameter of a first tubular member disposed in an inside diameter of a second tubular member.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2600	B23K2600	B23K2606	B23K2606	B23K2608	B23K2608	B23K2620	B23K2628	G21D100	G21D100	H01S3101	H01S3101	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	G21D	G21D	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	G21D1	G21D1	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
System and method for laser welding an inner 
surface of a tubular member (210), which tubular member may 

be a repair sleeve (210) disposed in a nuclear heat exchanger 
heat transfer tube (50). The system includes a 

laser (220) for generating high intensity laser light 
sufficient to fuse the sleeve to the inside diameter (80) 

of the heat exchanger tube, the tube being of the type 
typically found in nuclear heat exchangers (10). A fiber-optic 

cable (230) is optically coupled to the laser for 
conducting the laser light therethrough. The fiber-optic 

cable has a predetermined configuration to homogenize the 
laser light so that the laser light obtains the desired 

spatial coherency as the light is emitted from the fiber-optic 
cable. A mirror (240) is optically coupled to the 

fiber-optic cable so as to receive the homogenized light 
beam emitted from the fiber-optic cable. The mirror is 

also optically coupled to the inner diameter of the sleeve 
for reflecting the homogenized light beam onto the inner 

diameter of the sleeve to weld or fuse the sleeve to of the 
tube. In this manner, the sleeve is welded to the inside 

diameter of the tube to sleeve the tube. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIRL WILLIAM E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIRL,WILLIAM E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to welding 
apparatus and methods and more particularly relates to a 
system and method for laser welding an inner surface of a 
tubular member, which tubular member may be a repair sleeve 
disposed in a nuclear heat exchanger heat transfer tube. Although laser welding apparatus and methods are 
known, it has been observed that such apparatus and methods 
have a number of operational problems associated with them 
that make these apparatus and methods less than completely 
satisfactory for welding an inner surface of a tubular 
member, which tubular member may be a repair sleeve disposed 
in a nuclear heat exchanger heat transfer tube. 
However, before these problems can be appreciated, some 
background is desirable as to the structure and operation 
of a typical nuclear heat exchanger. In a typical nuclear heat exchanger or steam 
generator, a heated and radioactive primary fluid flows 
through a plurality of U-shaped tubes, each of the tubes 
having a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet end. The inlet and 
outlet ends of the tubes are received through holes in a 
tubesheet disposed in the heat exchanger. The heat exchanger 
defines an inlet plenum chamber below the tube-sheet, 
which inlet plenum chamber is in communication with 
the inlet ends of the tubes. The heat exchanger also  
 
defines an outlet plenum chamber below the tubesheet and 
isolated from the inlet plenum chamber, the outlet plenum 
chamber being in communication with the outlet ends of the 
tubes. During operation of the heat exchanger, a heated 
and radioactive primary fluid flows into the inlet plenum 
chamber and enters the inlet ends of the tubes to flow 
through the tubes. The primary fluid then flows through 
the outlet ends of the tubes and into the outlet plenum 
chamber. The primary fluid next flows out the outlet 
plenum chamber to exit the heat exchanger. A nonradioactive 
secondary fluid having a temperature less than the 
primary fluid simultaneously surrounds the exterior surfaces 
of the tubes above the tubesheet as the primary fluid 
flows through the tubes. As the primary fluid flows 
through the tubes, it gives-up its heat to the secondary 
fluid surrounding the exterior surfaces of the tubes to 
produce steam that is used to generate electricity in a 
manner well known in the art. Occasionally, due to tube wall intergranular 
cracking caused by stress and corrosion during operation of 
the heat exchanger, the heat exchanger tubes may degrade 
and thus may not remain leak-tight.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for welding an inner diameter of a 
first tubular member (210) disposed in an inside diameter 

(80) of a second tubular member to fuse the first tubular 
member to the second tubular member, characterized by: 


(a) a laser for generating high intensity laser 
light sufficient to fuse the first tubular member to the 

second tubular member; 
(b) a fiber-optic cable (230) optically coupled 
to said laser for conducting the laser light through said 

fiber-optic cable, said fiber-optic cable configured to 
homogenize the light so that said fiber-optic cable emits 

a homogenized light beam therefrom; 
(c) a housing (290) sized to be disposed in the 
inner diameter of the first tubular member; and 
(d) a reflector (240) mounted on said housing, 
said reflector optically coupled to said fiber-optic cable 

for receiving the homogenized light beam emitted from said 
fiber-optic cable and optically coupled to the inner 

diameter of the first tubular member for reflecting the 
homogenized light beam onto the inner diameter of the first 

tubular member to weld the first tubular member to the 
second tubular member, whereby the first tubular member is 

fused to the second tubular member as the first tubular 
member is welded to the second tubular member. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said fiber-optic 
cable has a predetermined generally S-shaped configuration 

 
so that said fiber-optic cable homogenizes the 

light. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said reflector 
is characterized by a mirror (240) having a predetermined 

orientation with respect to the inner surface of the first 
tubular member to prevent fouling of said mirror as the 

inner diameter is welded. 
The system of claim 1, further characterized 
by a rotator (300, 305, 310) housed in said housing and 

connected to said reflector for rotating said reflector to 
weld around the inner diameter of the first tubular member. 
The system of claim 1, further characterized 
by a conduit (250) connected to said housing for moving 

said housing axially along the inner diameter of the first 
tubular member. 
The system of claim 5, further characterized 
by a conduit driver (260) engaging said conduit for driving 

said conduit axially along the inner diameter of the first 
tubular member, whereby said housing moves axially along 

the inner diameter of the first tubular member as said 
conduit driver drives said conduit. 
The system of claim 6, further characterized 
by a manipulator (580) connected to said housing for 

manipulating said housing into coaxial alignment with the 
first tubular member. 
The system of claim 7, further characterized 
by a shielding gas supply (270) in gas communication with 

the inner diameter of the first tubular member for supplying 
a shielding gas to the inner diameter to exclude 

impurities from the inner diameter so that an impurity-free 
weldment is formed. 
The system of claim 8, further characterized 
by a probe (600) connected to said housing for identifying 

the location of a portion of the inner diameter to be 
welded. 
A method of welding an inner diameter of a 
first tubular (210) member disposed in an inside diameter 

(80) of a second tubular member (50) to fuse the first 
 

tubular member to the inside diameter of the second tubular 
member, characterized by the steps of: 


(a) generating high intensity laser light 
sufficient to weld the first tubular member to the inside 

diameter of the second tubular member by operating a laser 
(220); 
(b) emitting a homogenized light beam by conducting 
the light through a fiber-optic cable (230) configured 

to homogenize the light as the light is conducted through 
the fiber-optic cable, the fiber-optic cable being optically 

coupled to the laser; 
(c) providing a housing (290) sized to be 
disposed in the inner diameter of the first tubular member; 

and 
(d) reflecting the homogenized light beam onto 
the inner diameter of the first tubular member to weld the 

inner diameter of the first tubular member by mounting a 
reflector (240) onto the housing and simultaneously optically 

coupling the reflector to the fiber-optic cable and 
to the inner diameter of the first tubular member, whereby 

the first tubular member is fused to the inside diameter of 
the second tubular member as the first tubular member is 

welded. 
The method of claim 10, wherein said step of 

reflecting the light beam is characterized by the step of 
preventing fouling of the reflector by orienting the 

reflector at a predetermined angle with respect to the 
inner diameter of the first tubular member. 
The method of claim 10, further characterized 
by the step of welding around the inner diameter of the 

first tubular member by operating a rotator (300, 305, 310) 
housed in the housing and connected to the reflector for 

rotating the reflector. 
The method of claim 10, further characterized 
by the step of moving the housing axially along the inner 

diameter of the first tubular member, the housing having a 
flexible conduit connected thereto. 
The method of claim 13, wherein said step of 
moving the housing axially along the inner diameter of the 

first tubular member is characterized by the step of 
driving the conduit axially along the inner diameter of the 

first tubular member by operating a conduit driver (260) 
engaging the cable. 
The method of claim 14, further characterized 
by the step of manipulating the housing into coaxial 

alignment with the inner diameter of the first tubular 
member by operating a manipulator (580) connected to the 

housing. 
The method of claim 15, further characterized 
by the step of providing an impurity-free weldment by 

excluding impurities from the inner diameter of the first 
tubular member by supplying a shielding gas to the inner 

diameter. 
The method of claim 16, further characterized 
by the step of identifying the location of a portion of the 

first tubular member to be welded by energizing a probe 
(600) connected to the housing as the housing axially moves 

along the inner diameter of the first tubular member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
