<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619485</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Densitometer using a microwave
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2200	G01N2200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N22	G01N22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A densitometer using microwaves comprises a 
microwave detection section (26, 27, 28, 29), a phase 

detection section (30), and a density calculation section 
(31). The microwave detection section (26, 27, 28, 

29) picks up a first microwave receiving signal by 
transmitting and receiving a microwave of a frequency 

band of 1.4 [GHz] to 1.75 [GHz]
 to/from a reference 
fluid, and a second microwave receiving signal by transmitting 

and receiving a microwave of a frequency band of 
1.4 [GHz]
 to 1.75 [GHz] to/from a measuring fluid. The 

phase detection section (30) obtains a phase difference 
between the first microwave receiving signal and the 

second microwave receiving signal. The density calculation 
section (31) calculates the density of the measuring 

fluid based on the phase difference obtained by the 
phase detection section (30). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a densitometer
using a microwave, and more particularly to a densitometer
using a microwave which can measure density of
suspension (suspended matter) or dissolving matter with
high accuracy.As a densitometer for measuring density of
suspension (suspended matter) such as sludge and pulp,
a densitometer using an ultrasonic wave has been
conventionally known. FIG. 1 shows such a conventional
densitometer using an ultrasonic wave.As shown in FIG. 1, a detection pipe 3 is provided
between a pipe lA and a pipe 1B through sluice valves 2A
and 2B. On a pipe wall, an ultrasonic transmitter 4 and
an ultrasonic receiver 5 are arranged to be opposed to
each other so as to contact a measuring fluid flowing in
the detection pipe 3. An oscillator 6 is connected to
the ultrasonic transmitter 4. An attenuation factor
measurement unit 7 is connected to the ultrasonic
receiver 5.According to the above-mentioned densitometer using
the ultrasonic wave, the ultrasonic transmitter 4 is
driven by the oscillator 6, and an ultrasonic wave is
transmitted from the ultrasonic transmitter 4, propagated
in fluid of the detection pipe 3, and received by
the ultrasonic receiver 5. At this time, strength of
the ultrasonic wave is attenuated in accordance with 
density of the suspension in liquid. The ultrasonic
receiver 5 generates an electrical signal in accordance
with the receiving strength of the ultrasonic wave. The
receiving signal outputted from the ultrasonic receiver
5 is supplied to the attenuation factor measurement unit
7. In the attenuation factor measurement unit 7, there
is, in advance, set a working curve showing a
relationship between density of suspension and an
attenuation factor of the ultrasonic wave in accordance
with the density of the suspension. The attenuation
factor measurement unit 7 measures density of the
suspension within the fluid in accordance with the
working curve based on the attenuation factor shown by
the receiving signal outputted from the ultrasonic
receiver 5.However, in the above-mentioned densitometer using
the ultrasonic wave, the following problems exist.
(a) Since the ultrasonic transmitter 4 and the
ultrasonic receiver 5 contact the fluid, suspension is
adhered to their contact surfaces, and this becomes a
factor causing a measuring error. Due to this, it is
necessary to clean the contact surfaces of the ultrasonic
transmitter 4 and the ultrasonic receiver 5.
Particularly, when suspension such as sludge is easily
adhered thereto, such a cleaning must be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A densitometer using a microwave, comprising:

a detection pipe member (20) for flowing a fluid therein;
a microwave detection section (26 to 29) for producing a first microwave
receiving signal by transmitting and receiving a microwave of a frequency band of 1,4

GHz to 1,75 GHz to and from a reference fluid (13) flowing in said detection pipe
member (20), and a second microwave receiving signal by transmitting and receiving a

microwave of a frequency band of 1,4 GHz to 1,75 GHz to and from a measuring fluid
(14) flowing in said detection pipe member (20);
a phase detection section (30) for obtaining a phase difference between said
first microwave receiving signal and said second microwave receiving signal, said phase

detection section (30) comprising

phase lag detection means (30A) for detecting a phase lag of the
microwave receiving signal obtained by said microwave detection section (26 to 29) when

the reference fluid is flowing in said detection pipe member (20),
storing means (30B) for storing first phase lag data of the first microwave
receiving signal obtained by said phase lag detection means (30A) when the reference

fluid is flowing in said detection pipe member (20), and
phase difference detection means (30C) for obtaining a phase difference
between the first microwave receiving signal and the second microwave receiving

signal based on a second phase lag of the second microwave receiving signal obtained by
said phase lag detection means (30A) when the measuring fluid is flowing in said detection

pipe member (20), and the first phase lag data stored in said storing means (30B); and
a density calculation section (31) for calculating the density of the measuring
fluid in accordance with a predetermined obtained working curve showing the relationship

between a predetermined known density and the phase difference obtained by said phase 
calculating means (30C).
A densitometer according to claim 1, wherein said microwave detection
section (26 to 29) comprises:


a microwave transmission section (11), provided in said detection pipe member,
for transmitting the microwave of the frequency band of 1,4 GHz to 1,75 GHz; and
a microwave receiving section (12), provided in said detection pipe member to
be opposite to said microwave transmission section (11) for receiving the microwave of the

frequency band of 1,4 GHz to 1,75 GHz.
A densitometer according to claim 1, wherein said microwave detection
section comprises:


the detection pipe member (20) which includes first and second opening
windows (20A, 20B) formed in facing opposition to each other;
a first insulation member (26A) airtightly provided at said first opening
window;
a microwave transmission antenna (26D), airtightly provided in said first
insulation member, for transmitting the microwave of the frequency band of 1,4 GHz to

1,75 GHz;
a second insulation member (27A) airtightly provided at said second opening
window; and
a microwave receiving antenna (27D), airtightly provided in said second
insulation member, for receiving the microwave of the frequency band of 1,4 GHz to 1,75

GHz.
A densitometer according to claim 3, wherein the microwave transmission
antenna (26D) and the microwave receiving antenna (27D) are filled with a dielectric (26E,

27E).
A densitometer according to claim 3, wherein the microwave transmission 
antenna (26D) and the microwave receiving antenna (27D) are filled with a dielectric (26E,

27E), and at least one of said first and second insulation members (26A, 27A) is formed
of the same material as said dielectric or a material whose dielectric constant and permeability

are close to said dielectric.
The densitometer according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said
phase lag detection means (30A) detects said first phase lag prior to detecting said second

phase lag.
A densitometer according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising
a correction section (38) for correcting said phase difference based on a difference between

at least one of the first conductivity and first temperature of the reference fluid and at least
one of the second conductivity and second temperature of the measuring fluid.
A densitometer according to any of claims 1 to 6, further comprising a
correction section (38) for correcting said phase difference based on a difference between

the first conductivity of the reference fluid and the second conductivity of the measuring
fluid.
A densitometer according to any of claims 1 to 6, further comprising a
correction section (38) for correcting said phase difference based on a difference between

the first temperature of the reference fluid and the second temperature of the measuring
fluid.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
