<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MAKING TRANSLUCENT COLORED-BACKED FILMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05C110	B05C110	B05D704	B05D704	B32B3814	B32B3814	C08J700	C08J704	C09J702	C09J702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05C	B05C	B05D	B05D	B32B	B32B	C08J	C08J	C09J	C09J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05C1	B05C1	B05D7	B05D7	B32B38	B32B38	C08J7	C08J7	C09J7	C09J7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is described for making colored backed film material using a polyvinyl fluoride (PVF) film (90) having a first face and a second face opposite the first face. The method comprises the steps of coating the first face of the PVF film (90) with an ink-receptive coating (65). A carrier is then statically laminated to the second face of the PVF film. Using a rotary web (68) printing apparatus (32), an acrylic ink is then continuously applied onto the first face of the PVF film (90). After drying the ink, the PVF film is separated from the carrier and the colored PVF film (90) is coated with a pressure-sensitive adhesive and provided with a release paper.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLEX TAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLEX/TAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOWTHER RONALD W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOWTHER, RONALD, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR MAKING TRANSLUCENT COLORED-BACKED FILlti-SThe present invention relates generally to methods for manufacturing translucent colored vinyl films for use, for example, in back-lit outdoor signs. Back-lit outdoor signs and awnings are known in the art. Typically, such signs and awnings include pressure-sensitive vinyl graphics on a suitable translucent carrier such as rigid acrylic or some other flexible sign-face material. These prior art constructions, however, suffer from several deficiencies including, without limitation, solar degradation of the color graphics and environmental dirt contamination on the face of the graphics.It is also known in the prior art to address such deficiencies of the prior art used color- pigmented polyvinyl fluoride ("PVF") film, such as DuPont速 TEDLAR速 film. TEDLAR is a thin, generally clear film that is dirt-resistant and exhibits excellent UV resistance. Such color-pigmented film, however, is difficult and expensive to produce, and it is only commercially available in a relatively few standard colors which do not satisfy the sign industry's requirements to provide custom colors.Another approach to solving the problems of the prior art has been to laminate a pressure-sensitive colored film (sold commercially as SCOTCHCAL速) to a white fabric base formed by vinyl-coating a nylon mesh (PANAFLEX速) . This process produces a flexible sign material but this material w?ars poorly, is subject to streaking and is expensive to produce. Still another proposed solution to the deficiencies of the prior art has been to silkscreen colors onto TEDLAR film using a flatbed screen printing machine. This approach facilitates the formation of custom-colored PVF films but is not 

commercially practicable because the film can only be printed in a discrete (i.e., not continuous) manner. The size of each portion printed is limited to the area of the flatbed screen, and it is difficult to provide consistent coloration across multiple print cycles. The resulting product is unacceptable and extremely expensive to produce. This process cannot be used effectively on a commercial scale. There is therefore a need to provide an improved method of manufacturing translucent colored pressure-sensitive clear vinyl films for use in the sign and awning industry which overcome these and other problems of the prior art. it is a general object of the present invention to provide a method of making translucent colored PVF films for use in the sign and awning industry.It is yet another object of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method for making colored backed film material using a polyvinyl fluoride (PVF) film having a first face and a second face opposite the first face, comprising the steps of: processing the PVF film to increase the surface tension of the PVF film first face; statically laminating a carrier to the second face of the PVF film; continuously applying a translucent acrylic ink onto the first face of the PVF film; continuously drying the translucent acrylic ink applied to the PVF film; and separating the PVF film from the carrier.
2. The method as described in Claim 1 further including the steps of: continuously applying an adhesive coating to the first face of the PVF film after the PVF film is separated from the carrier; and continuously applying a backing paper over the adhesive coating.
3. The method as described in Claim 1 wherein the step of increasing the surface tension of the PVF film first face includes the step of: continuously passing the PVF film through a corona discharge.
4. The method as described in Claim 1 wherein the step of increasing the surface tension of the PVF film first face includes the step of: continuously coating the first face with an ink receptive coating. 


 5. The method as described in Claim 1 wherein the step of increasing the surface tension of the PVF film first face includes the steps of: continuously passing the PVF film through a corona discharge; and continuously coating the first face with an ink receptive coating.
6. The method as described in Claim 1 wherein the translucent acrylic ink is continuously applied to the PVF film using a rotary web silkscreen apparatus.
7. The method as described in Claim 6 wherein the rotary silksceen apparatus has a silkscreen having a predetermined thickness.
8. The method as described in Claim 7 wherein the predetermined thickness is approximately 150 microns.
9. The method as described in Claim 1 wherein the translucent acrylic- ink has a predetermined viscosity.
10. The method as described in Claim 9 wherein the predetermined viscosity is approximately 5000 centipoise.
11. The method as described in Claim 6 wherein the rotary web silkscreen apparatus operates at a predetermined speed to continuously apply the translucent acrylic ink to the PVF film. 


 12. The method as described in Claim 11 wherein the predetermined speed is between 10-12 meters per minute.
13. The method as described in Claim 6 wherein the rotary web silkscreen apparatus includes an oven for drying the PVF film after the translucent acrylic ink is applied.
14. The method as described in Claim 13 wherein the oven operates over a predetermined temperature range.
15. The method as described in Claim 14 wherein the predetermined temperature range is between 170-185 degrees Fahrenheit.
16. A method for making colored backed film material using a polyvinyl fluoride (PVF) film having a first face and a second face opposite the first face, the first face pre-coated with an ink-receptive coating, comprising the steps of: statically laminating a carrier to the second face of the PVF film; applying a translucent acrylic ink having a viscosity of approximately 5000 centipoise onto the pre-coated first face of the PVF film using a rotary web silkscreen apparatus, the rotary web silkscreen apparatus running at a speed between 10-12 meters per minute and having a silkscreen approximately 150 microns thick; continuously drying the PVF film in an oven operating at a temperature of approximately 170-185 degrees Fahrenheit; and separating the PVF film from the carrier. 



 17. The method as described in Claim 16 further including the step of: continuously passing the PVF film through a corona discharge apparatus prior to applying the translucent acrylic ink to increase the surface tension of the PVF film.
18. A method for making colored backed film material using a polyvinyl fluoride (PVF) film having a first face and a second face opposite the first face, comprising the steps of: coating the first face of the PVF film with an ink-receptive coating; statically laminating a carrier to the second face of the PVF film; continuously applying a translucent acrylic ink onto the first face of the PVF film; separating the PVF film from the carrier; continuously applying an adhesive coating to the first face of the PVF film after the PVF film is separated from the carrier; and continuously applying a backing paper over the adhesive coating. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
