<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630515</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROMAGNETICALLY ACTUATED COMPRESSOR VALVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04B1703	F04B1704	F04B3500	F04B3504	F04B3900	F04B3900	H01F708	H01F716	H02K3300	H02K3310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	F04B	H01F	H01F	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04B17	F04B17	F04B35	F04B35	F04B39	F04B39	H01F7	H01F7	H02K33	H02K33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Compressor (50) includes electromagnetic element (76), core (77), coil (80), armature (78) and piston (58), controlled by electromagnetically actuated valve (52). Surface (104) has continuous channel (90) around opening (88). The channel has a top portion (106) of frustoconical cross section, and coil (80) in bottom portion (108). The armature has raised portion (110) to be received in top portion (106). Valve shaft (56) lies in the opening of the electromagnetic element and is connected to the armature. The compressor piston is connected to one end of the shaft. Support spring (84) lies in the opening of the electromagnetic element, and extends from the retaining bar (82) to the upper surface of the cylinder. Two lower springs (86) extend from the armature to a lower support surface and bias the armature in a normally spaced-apart relationship from the electromagnetic element. Applying current in the coil causes the piston to move upward, and interrupting the current causes the piston to move downward.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AURA SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AURA SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORINIGO FERNANDO B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUART KEITH O
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORINIGO, FERNANDO, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STUART, KEITH, O.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
ELECTROMAGNETICALLY ACTUATED COMPRESSORVALVERELATED APPLICATION DATAThe present application is a continuation-in-part of commonly owned, co-pending application, U.S. Serial No. 07/957,194, filed on October 5,1992 for Electromagnetically Actuated Valve, which is incorporated by reference herein.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to an electromagnetically actuated valve, and more particularly to an electromagnetically actuated compressor valve which creates linear motion directly.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONOne basic problem with a standard refrigerator compressor is the inefficiency of the compressor due to the friction generated by the piston drive mechanism in the standard compressor. A standard refrigerator compressor uses an induction motor to rotate a crankshaft, which in turn moves a piston up and down within a compression chamber. Referring to FIG. 1 , a typical refrigerator compressor 10 is shown. More specifically, the induction motor 12 creates a torque on the crankshaft 14 which causes the piston 16 to move back and forth within the cylinder 18 via a connecting rod 20. During operation, the force exerted by the compressing gas is transferred through the piston's spherical bearing 22 down the connecting rod 20 to the connecting rod bearing 24 and and finally to the crankshaft bearings 26. These bearings 

are all heavily side loaded, creating a great amount of friction. As a result, the bearings must be continuously lubricated.Therefore, a need exists for a compressor valve that provides the required piston movement without producing undesired amounts of friction.Another problem with the standard compressor is that its manufacturing process is complex, and therefore relatively expensive. The conventional induction motor in the compressor is constructed from a laminated stack of silicon-iron, with a copper coil complexly woven throughout. The motor's stator is assembled by stamping appropriately-shaped individual laminates from a coiled sheet silica-iron. The laminates are varnished, stacked in a jig, and welded along the side to create one integral unit. Coil slots and holes are machined into the stacked assembly, and plastic insulation inserts are placed in the slots and holes. Copper wire is then woven into the inserts by a coil winding machine. The coil extensions are then machine stitched, the entire assembly vacuum impregnated with epoxy, and baked. Similarly, the conventional compressor's rotor assembly requires stacked laminates, wherein the process of stacking
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS
I claim as my invention:
1 1. An electromagnetic actuator for actuating an
2 external load comprising:
3 an electromagnetic element, said electromagnetic
4 element including a core and a coil, said core having having a
5 first surface and an opening at said first surface extending
6 through said core, said first surface further having a
7 continuous channel extending around said opening, said channel
8 having a top portion of frustroconical cross-section and a
9 bottom portion, said coil being disposed in said bottom ιo portion; and ιι an armature element, said armature element having i2 a raised portion dimensioned to be received within said top i3 portion of said channel, said armature further being in a i4 normally biased initial spaced apart position from said is electromagnetic element, said armature being connected to the i6 external load; i7 wherein applying current to the coil in the is electromagnetic element causes the armature to move toward i9 the electromagnetic element, and interrupting the current to
20 the coil causes the armature to move away from the
2i electromagnetic element.
ι 2. An electromagnetically actuated valve in
2 accordance with Claim 1 further comprising a support spring,
3 said support spring disposed within the opening of the
4 electromagnetic element and biasing said armature in the
5 spaced apart position.
1 3. An electromagnetically actuated valve in
2 accordance with Claim 2 further comprising at least one lower
3 spring, said lower spring contacting said armature and serving 


4 1.to bias the armature in an opposing direction from said
5 support spring.
1 4. An electromagnetically actuated valve in
2 accordance with Claim 1 wherein said electromagnetic
3 element and said armature are annular in horizontal cross-
4 section.
1 5. An electromagnetically actuated valve in
2 accordance with Claim 3 wherein two lower springs are used,
3 said two springs being disposed on opposing sides of the
4 armature.
ι 6. An electromagnetically actuated valve in
2 accordance with Claim 1 further comprising a shaft, said shaft
3 connecting said armature element to the external load.
1 7. An electromagnetic actuator for actuating an
2 external load comprising:
3 an electromagnetic element, said electromagnetic
4 element including a core and a coil, said core having having a
5 first surface and an opening at said first surface extending
6 through said core, said first surface further having a
7 continuous channel extending around said opening, said channel
8 having a top portion of frustroconical cross-section and a
9 bottom portion, said coil being disposed in said bottom lo portion ; ιι an armature element, said armature element having i2 a raised portion dimensioned to be received within said top i3 portion of said channel, said armature further being in a i4 normally biased initial spaced apart position from said is electromagnetic element, said armature being connected to the i6 external load; 


17 a support spring disposed within the opening of the is electromagnetic element, said support spring restraining said i9 armature from upward movement; and
20 at least one lower spring, said lower spring
2i contacting said armature and restraining the armature from
22 downward movement;
23 wherein applying current to the coil in the
24 electromagnetic element causes the armature to move toward
25 the electromagnetic element, and interrupting the current to
26 the coil in causes the armature to move away from the
27 electromagnetic element.
ι 8. An electromagnetic actuator in accordance with
2 Claim 7 further comprising a shaft, said shaft connecting said
3 armature element to the external load.
1 9. An electromagnetic actuator in accordance with
2 Claim 7 further comprising a case having an upper support and
3 a lower support, said case surrounding said electromagnetic
4 element, said armature element, and said springs, and further
5 wherein said upper spring contacts the upper support and said
6 lower spring contacts the lower support of the case.
1 10. An electromagnetic actuator in accordance with
2 Claim 9 further comprising:
3 a reaction mass, said reaction mass being mounted
4 intermediate said support spring and said upper support; and
5 at least one upper spring extending from and
6 contacting said reaction mass and said upper support, wherein
7 the compression and extension of the support spring drives the
8 reaction mass 180 degrees out-of-phase with the moving
9 armature element. 


 1 1 1 . An electromagnetic actuator in accordance with
2 Claim 7 wherein said electromagnetic element and said
3 armature are annular in horizontal cross-section.
ι 12. An electromagnetic actuator in accordance with
2 Claim 7 wherein two lower springs are used, said two springs
3 being disposed on opposing sides of the armature element.
ι 13. An electromagnetic actuator in accordance with
2 Claim 7 wherein two spaced apart upper springs are used.
1 14. A compressor having a compression cylinder
2 defining an aperture, and a piston disposed within said
3 aperture for movement between an upper end of the aperture
4 and a lower end of the aperture, wherein the piston's
5 movement is actuated by an electromagnetic actuator
6 comprising:
7 an electromagnetic element, said electromagnetic
8 element including a core and a coil, said core having having a
9 first surface and an opening at said first surface extending ιo through said core, said first surface further having a ιι continuous channel extending around said opening, said channel i2 having a top portion of frustroconical cross-section and a i3 bottom portion, said coil being disposed in said bottom i4 portion; is an armature element, said armature element having i6 a raised portion dimensioned to be received within said top i7 portion of said channel, said armature further being in a is normally biased initial spaced apart position from said i9 electromagnetic element; and
20 a shaft disposed within the opening of the
2i electromagnetic elements, said armature element being
22 connected to said shaft, and the compressor piston being
23 connected to one end of said shaft; 


 wherein applying current to the coil in the electromagnetic element causes the armature to move toward the electromagnetic element and the piston to move to the upper end of the aperture, and interrupting the current to the coil causes the armature to move away from the electromagnetic element and the piston to move to the lower end of the aperture.
15. A compressor in accordance with Claim 14 wherein said actuator further comprises a support spring, said support spring disposed within the opening of the electromagnetic element and biasing said armature in the spaced apart position.
16. A compressor in accordance with Claim 15 wherein said actuator further comprises at least one lower spring, said lower spring contacting said armature and serving to bias the armature in an opposing direction from said support spring.
17. A compressor in accordance with Claim 14 wherein said compressor cylinder further includes an upper support and a lower support, and further wherein said upper spring contacts the upper support and said lower spring contacts the lower support.
18. A compressor having an electromagnetic actuator in accordance with Claim 17 further comprising: a reaction mass, said reaction mass being mounted intermediate said support spring and said upper surface; and at least one upper spring extending from and contacting said reaction mass and said upper surface, wherein the compression and extension of the support spring drives the reaction mass 180 degrees out-of-phase with the moving armature element.
19. A compressor having an electromagnetic actuator in accordance with Claim 14 further comprising a retaining 


bar, said retaining bar connecting said armature element to said shaft.
20. A compressor having an electromagnetic actuator in accordance with Claim 14 wherein said electromagnetic element and said armature are annular in horizontal cross- section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
