<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655874</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fast tunable channel dropping filter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B612	G02B612	G02B634	G02B634	H04B1002	H04B1002	H04J1402	H04J1402	H04Q1100	H04Q1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	H04B10	H04B10	H04J14	H04J14	H04Q11	H04Q11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A channel dropping filter includes three frequency routing 
devices (30,31,32), one 

which functions as an input device (30) and two which function 
as output devices (31,32). 

The first frequency routing device has one input (16) for 
receiving the input signal 

and at least N outputs, where N corresponds to the number of frequencies that 
compose the input signal. The N outputs of the first 

frequency routing device 
are each coupled to an optical switch (21). Each optical switch 

has a first output 
coupled in consecutive order to one of the N inputs 

(16₁,...16
N
) of the first output 
frequency routing device (31) and a second output coupled in 

consecutive order to 
one of the N inputs (16₁,...16
N
) 
of the second output frequency routing device (32). 

A controller 
is employed to selectively switch the optical switches between first and second 

states for directing each optical frequency component demultiplexed by the first 
frequency routing device to the first and second output frequency routing 

device, respectively. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLANCE BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLANCE, BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical communications systems. More 
particularly, this invention relates to a fast tunable channel dropping filter used 
in optical communications systems. The capacity and speed of communications systems may be increased by 
transmitting information in optical form over networks composed of optically 
transmissive nodes, fibers, and the like. High capacity optical communications 
systems require that many optical signals be frequency division multiplexed in 
the components of an optical network. Receivers must be configured such that 
a desired optical frequency or band of frequencies may be retrieved from a 
group of many optical frequencies. This necessitates the provision of suitable 
optical filters such as a tunable channel dropping filter for dividing out one or 
more component frequencies from a multiplexed signal composed of a large 
number of frequencies. Until now, there has been no convenient approach to 
dividing out one or more optical frequencies with an extremely rapid response 
time. In accordance with this invention, a fast optical tunable channel 
dropping filter has been developed. The optical filter in accordance with this 
invention may be based upon photonic integrated circuitry which can provide 
very sharp transitions between the various passbands. In one example of the invention, Applicants have realized that integrated 
optical multiplexers and demultiplexers disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent 
Nos. 5,002,350 and 5,136,67 may be used to create a monolithic optical tunable 
channel dropping filter. In specific terms, this example of the invention 
comprises three frequency routing devices, one which functions as an input 
device and two which function as output devices. The first frequency routing 
device has one input for receiving the input signal and at least N outputs,  
 
where N corresponds to the number of frequencies that compose the input 
signal. The N outputs of the first frequency routing device are each coupled to 
an optical switch. Each optical switch has a first output coupled in consecutive 
order to one of the N inputs of the first output frequency routing device and a 
second output coupled in consecutive order to one of the N inputs of the 
second output frequency routing device. A controller is employed to 
selectively switch the optical switches between first and second states for 
directing each optical frequency component demultiplexed by the first 
frequency routing device to the first 15 and second output frequency
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical channel dropping filter comprising: 
   an input frequency routing device having an input for receiving a signal 

composed of a plurality of multiplexed optical frequencies; and 
   at least first and second output frequency routing devices responsive to 

the input frequency routing device, the first and second output frequency 
routing devices having respective first and second outputs, the first output 

carrying at least one of the multiplexed optical frequencies and the second 
output carrying the remainder of the optical frequencies. 
The filter of claim 1 further comprising means for selectively directing 
demultiplexed optical frequency components of the plurality of multiplexed 

optical frequencies from the input frequency routing device to an input of 
either the first or second output frequency routing device. 
The filter of claim 1 wherein said input frequency routing device has 
at least N outputs, N 
>
 1, each for receiving a demultiplexed optical frequency 
component of the plurality of multiplexed optical frequencies, and further 

comprising: 
   at least N optical switches each coupled to one of said outputs of the 

input frequency routing device, said optical switches each having a first output 
coupled in consecutive order to one of N inputs of the first output frequency 

routing device and each having a second output coupled in consecutive order 
to one of N inputs of the second output frequency routing device. 
The filter of claim 3 further comprising control means for selectively 
switching the optical switches between first and second states for directing each 

demultiplexed optical frequency component to the first and second output 
frequency routing device, respectively. 
The filter of claim 4 wherein said control means switches the state of 
each of said optical switches independently of every other optical switch. 
A tunable optical filter comprising: 
   an input frequency routing device having an input for receiving a signal 

composed of a plurality of multiplexed optical frequencies, the input frequency 
routing device further having at least one output; 

   an output frequency routing device having at least two outputs; and 
   means for selectively directing demultiplexed optical frequency 

components of the plurality of multiplexed optical frequencies from the at least 
one output of the input frequency routing device to either a first input of the 

output routing device or a second input of the output routing device. 
The filter of claim 6 wherein said directing means comprises: 
   a waveguide connecting the at least one output of the input device to the 

first input of the output device; and 
   an optical switch and an optical coupler arranged in series with the 

waveguide. 
The filter of claim 7 wherein the optical coupler optically couples the 
output of the input frequency routing device in series therewith to both the first 

and second inputs of the output device. 
The filter of claim 6 wherein the input frequency routing device has a 
second output and the output frequency device has a third input, and 
further 
comprising: means for selectively directing demultiplexed optical frequency 

components of the plurality of multiplexed optical frequencies from the second 
output of the input frequency routing device to either the second input of the 

output routing device or the third input of the output routing device. 
The filter of claim 9 wherein said directing means comprises: 
   a second waveguide connecting the second output of the input device to 

the second input of the output device; and
 

   a second optical switch and a second optical coupler arranged in series 
with the second waveguide. 
The filter of claim 10 wherein the second optical coupler optically 
couples the second output of the input frequency routing device in series 

therewith to both the second and third inputs of the output device. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
