<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0949904</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K900	A61K900	A61K920	A61K920	A61K31422	A61K31422	A61K4500	A61K4508	A61P2700	A61P2702	A61P2706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	A61P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K9	A61K31	A61K31	A61K45	A61K45	A61P27	A61P27	A61P27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration comprising a carrier and, as active ingredient, an ophthalmologically active compound, characterized in that the composition is formulated to promote pre-gastric absorption of the ophthalmologically active compound. A process for preparing such compositions and the use of such compositions for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases, particularly diseases caused by elevated intra-ocular pressure, such as ocular hypertension and glaucoma, are also provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHERER LTD R P
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R.P. SCHERER LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMBLETON JONATHAN KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EMBLETON, JONATHAN, KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONSThis invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions, a process for preparing such compositions and the use of such compositions for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases, particularly diseases caused by elevated intra-ocular pressure, such as ocular hypertension and glaucoma.Ophthalmic medicines are most frequently formulated as ophthalmic treatment fluids which are commonly administered to the eye by means of eye drops or ointment. The use of eye drops has a number of disadvantages , primarily as a consequence of the difficulty with which drops are accepted by the patient. The drops are relatively large, and the instinctive blink that is provoked by the arrival of a drop on the eye severely limits the amount of or proportion of fluid that actually contacts the target area on the eye. Typically less than 10% of a 50μl drop is effective, the remainder being lost by drainage, either externally or through nasolacrimal drainage . Such use of expensive treatment fluids is wasteful, as well as leading to substantial uncertainty regarding the effectiveness of a treatment since the delivery of a drop of a particular size requires considerable manual dexterity. Similar problems apply in the use of ointments, although levels of wastage can be reduced by careful delivery and, the greater viscosity of ointments reduces their tendency to drain or be washed away.Another problem is that ophthalmic dropper bottles are difficult to use with any degree of accuracy since the delivery of a drop of a particular size requires considerable manual dexterity. Also, it is difficult, if not impossible, for the patient to see where the eye drops are to be instilled. Consequently, underdosing or overdosing frequently occurs. Indeed, since the majority of patients suffering from glaucoma are over 70 

years of age and may have other health problems such as stroke, poor vision, arthritis, poor physical coordination etc., the use of an ophthalmic dropper bottle is often not a viable option for such patients. This problem is further exacerbated by the fact that many such patients live alone and may have difficulty in obtaining help in the administration of their medication.Additionally, eye drops typically incorporate preservatives to prevent growth of microorganisms.These preservatives can cause irritation to the eyes of some patients . The unit dose oral system obviates the requirement for these potentially irritant preservatives . A further disadvantage of eye drops is that their extended use can have a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising a carrier and, as active ingredient, an ophthalmologically active compound, characterised in that the composition is formulated to promote pre-gastric absorption of the ophthalmologically active compound.
2. A composition according to Claim 1 in which the composition is formulated to promote absorption of the ophthalmologically active compound through the buccal, sublingual, pharyngeal and/or oesophageal mucous membranes .
3. A composition according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 in which the composition is in the form of a viscous emulsion, syrup or elixir, a sublingual tablet, a suckable or chewable tablet, softgel or lozenge, chewing gum, a laminated system or patch, hydrogel, adhesive film, hollow fibre, microsphere or other dosage form designed to release the active ingredient in a controlled manner to saliva or to the buccal, pharyngeal and/or oesophageal mucous membranes, a fast-dispersing dosage form designed to release the active ingredient rapidly in the oral cavity, or a bioadherent system.
4. A composition according to any one of the preceding Claims in which the composition is in the form of a fast-dispersing dosage form designed to release the active ingredient rapidly in the oral cavity.
5. A composition according to Claim 4 in which the composition is in the form of a solid fast- dispersing dosage form comprising a network of the active ingredient and a water-soluble or water- dispersible carrier which is inert towards the active ingredient, the network having been obtained by subliming solvent from a composition in the solid state, that composition comprising the active ingredient and a solution of the carrier in a solvent.
6. A composition according to Claim 4 or Claim 5 


in which the composition disintegrates within 1 to 60 seconds of being placed in the oral cavity.
7. A composition according to any one of the preceding Claims in which the ophthalmologically active compound is an agent for the reduction of intra-ocular pressure .
8. A composition according to Claim 7 in which the agent for the reduction of intra-ocular pressure is a beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent. 9. A composition according to Claim 8 in which the beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent is selected from propranolol, acebutolol, alprenolol, atenolol, betaxolol, bufetolol, bufuralol, bunitrolol, bunolol, bupranolol, carteolol, cetamolol, dexpropranolol , labetalol, levobunolol, metipranolol, metoprolol, nadolol, nifenalol, oxprenolol, penbutolol, pindolol, practolol, pronethalol, sotalol, timolol, tolamolol and toliprolol and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof . 10. A composition according to Claim 9 in which the beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent is selected from propranolol, atenolol, betaxolol, bupranolol, carteolol, levobunolol, metipranolol, metoprolol
'
, nadolol, pindolol and timolol and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
11. A composition according to Claim 10 in which the beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent is timolol or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
12. A composition according to Claim 11 in which timolol or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is present in an amount of 10 to 1000 μg.
13. A composition according to any one of the preceding Claims for use in the treatment of ophthalmic diseases . 14. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 for use in the treatment of diseases caused by elevated intra-ocular pressure. 

15. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 for use in the treatment of ocular hypertension.
16. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 for use in the treatment of glaucoma. 17. A process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition according to any one of the preceding Claims which comprises bringing a carrier into association with the active ingredient.
18. Use of a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of ophthalmic diseases.
19. Use of a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 for the manufacture of" a medicament for the treatment of diseases caused by elevated intra- ocular pressure.
20. Use of a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of ocular hypertension.
21. Use of a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of glaucoma.
22. A method of treating ophthalmic diseases which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 to a patient suffering from an ophthalmic disease.
23. A method of treating diseases caused by elevated intra-ocular pressure which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a composition according to Claims 1 to 12 to a patient suffering from elevated intra-ocular pressure.
24. A method of treating ocular hypertension which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 to a patient suffering from ocular hypertension. 25. A method of treating glaucoma which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 12 to a 


patient suffering from glaucoma. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
