<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639135</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLUIDIC CONTAINER FILLER APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B300	B65B324	B65B328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B3	B65B3	B65B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) for filling a container (14) with a fluid comprising a fluid source having a pump (64) fluidly coupled thereto and electrically interfaced to a controller (72). Fluidly coupled to the pump is a nozzle valve (60) which is also electrically interfaced to the controller. During the operation of the apparatus, the container is positioned under the nozzle valve, with the controller being operable to fill the container with a first volume of the fluid from the supply source at a fist flow rate, and fill the container with a second volume of fluid at a second flow rate which is lower than the first flow rate.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DUNN EDWARDS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DUNN-EDWARDS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDWARDS KENNETH N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAPP MICHAEL C SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDWARDS, KENNETH, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAPP, MICHAEL, C., SR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLUIDIC CONTAINER FILLER APPARATUSField of the Invention The present invention relates generally to devices for filling containers with fluids, and more particularly to an apparatus for sequentially filling a container with first and second volumes of paint at first and second flow rates which are adapted to achieve a high level of accuracy in the volume of paint dispensed into the container.Background of the Invention In the prior art, many devices have been developed for filling containers with desired fluids. One of the greatest obstacles encountered in designing such devices pertains to maintaining a high level of accuracy in the volume of fluid dispensed into the container. Such volume control usually necessitates taking weight measurements of the container prior to, during and subsequent to the filling thereof with the fluid, and/or measuring the flow rate of the fluid as it is being dispensed into the container.The problems typically associated with achieving a high accuracy level in the volume of fluid dispensed into the container are magnified when precise volume control is desired for viscus, quickly curing fluids such as paints. In most prior art paint dispensing devices, residual quantities of paint remain within the pumps, dispensing nozzles, flow lines and other components of the device when the device is deactivated. While the device is inactive, this residual paint typically dries, thus resulting in an accumulation of dried paint in the aforementioned components which steadily increases over time. Due to this increasing accumulation, the precise volume of the paint dispensed into the container is slightly altered with every fill cycle of the device. 

The present invention overcomes these and other problems associated with prior art paint dispensing devices by providing an apparatus which is adapted to fill a container with a precise volume of paint and continuously maintain a high accuracy level in the volume of paint dispensed into the container.Summary of the Invention In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention there is provided an apparatus for filling a container with a fluid, such as paint, comprising a means for filling the container with a first volume of fluid at a first flow rate and a means for filling the container with a second volume of fluid at a second flow rate which is lower than the first flow rate. The apparatus further includes means for controlling and coordinating the operation of the first and second volume filling means. In the preferred
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus for filling a container with a fluid, comprising: means for filling said container with a first volume of said fluid at a first flow rate; means for filling said container with a second volume of said fluid at a second flow rate lower than said first flow rate; and means for controlling and coordinating the operation of said first volume filling means and said second volume filling means.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said first volume is approximately ninety-five percent (95%) of the total volume of the container and said second volume is approximately five percent (5%) of the total volume of the container.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said first and second volume filling means each comprise: a fluid supply source; a pump having a rotatable impeller therein, said pump being fluidly coupled to said supply source and electrically interfaced to said control means; and a nozzle valve fluidly coupled to said pump and electrically interfaced to said control means, said container being positioned under said nozzle valve.
4. The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said first volume filling means further comprises: an incremental encoder electrically interfaced to said pump and said control means, said encoder being operable to count the rotations of the pump impeller; said control means being operable to sequentially activate the pump and open the nozzle valve to allow the fluid to be pumped from the supply source into the container at said first flow rate, and deactivate said pump and close said nozzle valve in response to an electrical signal generated by said encoder corresponding to a preselected number of impeller rotations programmed 


into the control means needed to establish that the container has been filled with the first volume.
5. The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein said second volume filling means further comprises: a scale electrically interfaced to said control means, said container being disposed upon said scale; said control means being operable to sequentially take a first measurement of the container weight via the scale prior to filling the container with the first volume of fluid, calculate a target fill weight by adding the first weight measurement to a predetermined value programmed in the control means corresponding to the weight of the fluid needed to be dispensed into the container to completely fill the container, store the target fill weight, activate the pump and open the nozzle valve to allow the fluid to be pumped into the container at the second flow rate after the container is filled with the first volume, take total weight measurements of the container as the container is being filled with the second volume, project an amount of time the nozzle valve must remain open to obtain a total weight measurement substantially equal to the target fill weight and deactivate the pump and close the nozzle valve when the projected amount of time elapses, thus establishing that the container has been filled with the second volume.
6. The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said first and second volume filling means each further comprise a motor mechanically coupled to said pump and electrically interfaced to the control means, said encoder being connected between said motor and said pump.
7. The apparatus of Claim 5 further comprising: a conveyor, said container being positionable on said conveyor; means for sealing a lid member to the container; and means for incrementally moving said container along said conveyor, said moving means being operable to 


transport said container from said first and second volume filling means to said lid member sealing means; said conveyor including a measurement section interfaced to said scale in a manner wherein said scale is able to take weight measurements of said container when said container is positioned on said measurement section by said moving means.
8. The apparatus of Claim 7 wherein said moving means comprises: first and second roller members disposed at opposed ends of said conveyor, at least one of said roller members being mechanically coupled to a drive means electrically interfaced to said control means; first and second continuous belt members extending about said first and second roller members in a manner wherein said first and second belt members extend longitudinally along opposed sides of the conveyor; and a plurality of elongate pusher rods attached to and extending laterally between said first and second belt members in spaced relation; said container being incrementally movable along said conveyor by any one of said pusher rods, and said control means being operable to cause said pusher rods to back away out of abutting contact with said container when said container is positioned upon said measurement section and under said nozzle valve thereby.
9. A method for filling a container with a fluid comprising the steps of: positioning the container upon a scale; measuring the tare weight of the container via the scale; calculating a target fill weight; storing the target fill weight in a memory means; . filling the container with the first volume of fluid at a first flow rate; 


 and filling the container with a second volume of fluid at a second flow rate lower than the first flow rate.
10. The method of Claim 9 further comprising the step of sealing a lid member to the container after the container is filled with the second volume.
11. The method of Claim 9 wherein the step of filling the container with the first volume of fluid comprises the steps of: positioning the container under a nozzle valve; activating a pump fluidly coupled to the nozzle valve; opening the nozzle valve to allow the fluid to be pumped from a fluid supply source coupled to the pump into the container at the first flow rate; counting the number of rotations of an impeller disposed within the pump via an incremental encoder electrically interfaced to the pump; deactivating the pump in response to an electrical signal generated by the encoder establishing that the container has been filled with the first volume based on a preselected number of impeller rotations counted by the encoder; and closing the nozzle valve.
12. The method of Claim 11 wherein the step of filling the container with the second volume of fluid comprises the steps of: activating the pump; opening the nozzle valve to allow the fluid to be pumped from the supply source into the container at the second flow rate after the container is filled with the first volume; taking measurements of the total weight of the container via the scale as the container is being filled with the second volume of fluid; projecting the amount of time the nozzle valve must remain open to obtain a total weight measurement substantially equal to the target fill weight; 


 deactivating the pump when the projected amount of time elapses thus establishing that the container has been filled with the second volume of fluid; and closing the nozzle valve. 13. The method of Claim 12 wherein the step of calculating the target fill weight further comprises the step of adding the first weight measurement to a predetermined value programmed into the control means corresponding to the weight of the fluid needed to be dispensed into the container to completely fill the container.
14. The method of Claim 12 further comprising a first calibration stage, comprising the steps of: positioning a container upon the scale; measuring the tare weight of the container via the scale; calculating a target fill weight by adding the tare weight measurement to a predetermined value programmed into the control means corresponding to the weight of the fluid needed to be dispensed into the container to completely fill the container; storing the target fill weight; filling the container with a first preselected volume of fluid at a first flow rate; taking a first total weight measurement of the container; calculating the ratio of the number of impeller rotations which occurred during the first preselected volume filling operation to the first total weight measurement; calculating the number of impeller rotations needed to dispense a second preselected volume of paint into the container at a second flow rate lower than the first flow rate; filling the container with the second preselected volume of fluid at the second flow rate; 


 filling the container with a third preselected volume of fluid at a third flow rate lower than the second flow rate; and calculating the amount of time the nozzle valve remains open during the third preselected volume filling operation to achieve the target fill weight.
15. The method of Claim 14 further comprising a second calibration stage, comprising the steps of: positioning a second container upon the scale; measuring the tare weight of the second container via the scale; calculating a new target fill weight by adding the tare weight of the second container to the total paint weight value input into the control means; storing the new target fill weight in the memory means; filling the container with a new first preselected volume of fluid at the first flow rate; taking a new first total weight measurement of the container; calculating the ratio of the number of impeller rotations which occurred during the new first preselected volume filling operation to the new first total weight measurement; storing the ratio in the memory means; filling the container with a new second preselected volume of fluid at the third flow rate; calculating the amount of time the nozzle valve remains open during the new second preselected volume filling operation to achieve the new target fill weight; and storing the time measurement in the memory means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
