<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615195</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for displaying menu options for selection with a minimum of key strokes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3023	H03M1104	G06F314	G06F1502	G06F3048	H03M1104	G06F3023	G06F3048	G06F1502	G06F314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	H03M	G06F	G06F	G06F	H03M	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	H03M11	G06F3	G06F15	G06F3	H03M11	G06F3	G06F3	G06F15	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A calculating device (20) enables a user to select 
among multiple menu options by displaying a two 

dimensional array (50) of menu options. A user can 
select among rows of the array by pressing a selector 

key (46, 47) that causes a selected row to be 
highlighted and reproduced in a menu label row (30) on a 

display unit (16) corresponding to menu keys on a 
keyboard (12). The user may select a menu option by 

pressing a menu key (36) aligned with the corresponding 
menu label. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COFFIN DANIEL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COFFIN, DANIEL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to calculators
and equivalent calculating devices. More particularly,
this invention relates to a novel technique for
displaying a large number of menu options in a limited
screen area for selection with a minimum number of key
strokes.Calculators, palmtop computers and other
equivalent compact calculating devices by their nature
have keyboards with a limited number of keys. To
increase the number of functions, or actions, for a key,
such devices often employ shift or modifier keys, one of
which is pressed immediately before or simultaneously
with pressing the key of interest to select the key's
desired function. The various functions available for a
key are usually written on the key and immediately above
and below it on the keyboard in colors that correspond
to the colors of modifier keys. For example, many newer
calculators have a primary, or unshifted, function that
is written in white on the key; a first secondary, or
shifted, function written in red above the key; and a
second secondary function written in blue below the key.
As a practical matter, however, a key can be given no
more than three or four functions because of the limited
space for writing the functions on and around each key.To further increase the number of functions a
calculator can execute, menu keys ("soft keys") have
been added to keyboards, typically as a row of keys
placed immediately below the calculator display screen.
Menus of functions may then be selected and displayed as
labels above the menu keys, with each menu key
associated with a label. Menu keys and the technique
for displaying menus of associated labels are shown and
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,020,012.
Menu labels are displayed on a screen in proximity to an adjacent row of menu keys on a keyboard. The drawback of present menu-based techniques is
the difficulty in associating a menu option as a label
with a menu key when there are more options than menu
keys. For example, typically the row of menu keys
consists of six keys. If the menu relates to linear
units such as meters, yards, feet, inches, etc. that are
to be appended to a displayed scalar value, the menu may
include many more than six options. The user must then
choose which six of the options he desires to be
associated as labels with the menu keys.Several prior solutions to this selection problem
have been tried, each with disadvantages. A common
approach is to arrange related options into a group and
then display subgroups of this group corresponding in
number to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A calculating device (20) comprising:

a display unit (16);
a keyboard (12) having a plurality of keys (24) including a first number of
menu keys (36); and
a programmed data processor (14) which includes:
first means, coupled to the display unit, for displaying a second number
(26) of function categories on the display unit in response to execution of a first

user command (42,32), the second number being greater than the first number,
the first means also causing a third number (52,30) of the function categories to

be highlighted, the third number being equal to the first number, and wherein
each highlighted function category is associated with one of the menu keys;
second means, coupled to the display unit, for displaying a fourth number
(62) of functions in response to the user selecting a first menu key (60), wherein

the functions displayed belong to a first highlighted function category
associated with the selected first menu key, the second means also causing a fifth

number of the displayed functions to be highlighted, the fourth number being
greater than the first number, and the fifth number being equal to the first

number, and wherein each highlighted function is associated with one of the
menu keys; and
third means, in response to a user selecting a second menu key (65), for
performing a first function associated with the second menu key;
wherein the first means causes each highlighted function
category to be additionally displayed (30) adjacent to the menu key associated with the

highlighted function category, and the second means causes each
highlighted function to be additionally displayed adjacent to the menu key associated with

the highlighted function.
A device according to claim 1, wherein each function category is a category
of units of measure, each function is a unit of measure, and the third means

performs the first function by appending a selected unit of measure (65) to a
numeric value. 
A device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the first means, in response to
execution of a second user command (46,47), ceases to highlight the third

number of the function categories and causes a sixth number of the function
categories to be highlighted, the sixth number being equal to the first number,

and wherein each of the sixth number of the highlighted function categories is
associated with one of the menu keys.
A device according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the first means, in
response to execution of the first user command, displays the second number of

function categories on the display unit in rows and columns, the number of
columns being equal to the first number.
A method of selecting a menu option in a calculating device (20) said device including a
keyboard (12) having a plurality of keys (24) including, a first number of menu keys (36), and a display unit (16), the

method comprising:

(a) in response to a first user command (42,32), displaying on the display
unit a second number (26) of function categories, the second number being

greater than the first number, including the substep of:

(a.1) highlighting (52,30) a third number of the function categories,
the third number being equal to the first number, wherein each highlighted

function category is associated with one of the menu keys, and wherein each
highlighted function category is additionally displayed (30) adjacent to the menu key

associated with the highlighted function category;
(b) in response to the user selecting a first menu key (60), displaying on
the display unit a fourth number (62) of functions, the fourth number being

greater than the first number, wherein the functions displayed belong to a first
highlighted function category associated with the selected first menu key, including the

substep of:

(b.1) highlighting a fifth number of the functions, the fifth number
being equal to the first number, wherein each highlighted function is associated

with one of the menu keys and wherein each highlighted function is additionally displayed
adjacent to the menu key associated with the highlighted function; and
(c) in response to the user selecting a second menu key (65), performing 
a first function associated with the second menu key.
A method according to claim 5, wherein:

in step (a) each function category is a category of units of measure;
in step (b) each function is a unit of measure; and
in step (c) performing the first function includes appending a selected unit
of measure to a numeric value.
A method according to claim 5 or 6, wherein step (a) additionally includes the
substep:


(a.2) in response to a second user command (46,47):

ceasing to highlight the third number of the function categories, and
highlighting a sixth number of the function categories, the sixth number
being equal to the first number wherein each of the sixth number of the

highlighted function categories is associated with one of the menu keys.
A method according to any of claims 5 to 7 wherein step (a) additionally
includes displaying the second number of function categories on the display unit

in rows and columns, the number of columns being equal to the first number.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
