<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631744</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Mobile table and table system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47B700	A47B700	A47B1308	A47B1310	A47B8700	A47B8700	B60B3300	B60B3300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47B	A47B	A47B	A47B	A47B	A47B	B60B	B60B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47B7	A47B7	A47B13	A47B13	A47B87	A47B87	B60B33	B60B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mobile table system is provided in which multiple 
tables (2, 3, 4, 5) can be juxtaposed in many different 

configurations to facilitate a wide variety of both group 
and individual activities. Each table has a top (6) with 

oppositely oriented side edges (7, 8) shaped to abut 
flush with the side edges of like tables, an outer 

marginal edge (9) configured to accommodate a user 
thereby, and an inner marginal edge (10) with a generally 

concave shape which defines a central space (11) when 
aligned with the inner marginal edges of like tables. 

Each table includes legs (12, 13, 14, 16, 16) to support 
the same freestanding on a floor surface. A leg (12, 14) 

adjacent the inner marginal edge has a roller at its 
lower end to permit wheelbarrow-like translation of the 

table across the floor. A latch arrangement (100) may be 
provided to detachably interconnect like tables in a 

manner enabling them to be readily pulled apart. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEELCASE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STEELCASE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALL DOUGLAS CAMERON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHEERHORN LON DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALL, DOUGLAS CAMERON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHEERHORN, LON DOUGLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to furnishings, and in 
particular to a mobile table, and to a mobile or modular 
table system. Modular table systems are generally well known in 
the art, and typically comprise multiple like tables 
which can be juxtaposed to form an enlarged worksurface, 
such as for office conference areas, classrooms, 
cafeterias, restaurants, and other similar environments. 
Such prior art tables are normally somewhat heavy and 
awkward to reconfigure, so that they usually require more 
than one person to handle effectively. Also, the table 
shapes heretofore available in such systems are rather 
limited, and are therefore not readily adaptable for a 
wide variety of different configurations and/or uses. 
The increased popularity of team problem solving and 
collaborative work styles creates the need for 
worksurfaces that can move and change as quickly as 
today's workers, and address a broad range of 
communication styles and work process needs. Another drawback associated with the prior modular 
table systems is that the adjacent tables tend to 
separate inadvertently when bumped or jostled. As a 
result, unsightly gaps develop between adjacent tables, 
which must be covered with a table cloth or the like. 
Although some types of table constructions are provided 
with a latch mechanism to avoid this problem, they tend 
to be cumbersome to operate, with some even requiring 
manipulation from underneath the table. Also, most prior 
table latches require that adjacent tables be converged 
in a square and aligned fashions or the opposite latch 
members will not engage properly. When multiple tables 
are arranged in a closed marginal configuration, such as  
 
a circle, square, rectangle, etc., the last table to be 
installed in the group must normally be inserted at an 
angle to the next adjacent tables, which renders the 
latching operation more difficult. The principle objects of the present invention are 
to provide a modular table and related system which is 
mobile, so that it can be easily reconfigured by a single 
user to facilitate a wide variety of both group and 
individual activities. Various aspects of the invention are set out in the 
independent claims. One aspect of the present invention is to provide a 
mobile table, comprising a top having a pair of 
oppositely oriented side edges configured to abut 
generally flush with similar side edges of adjacent like 
mobile tables to create an enlarged substantially 
continuous worksurface, an outer marginal edge configured 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A mobile table (2, 3, 4, 5) comprising: a top (6) 
having a pair of oppositely oriented side edges (7, 8) 

configured to abut generally flush with similar side 
edges of adjacent like mobile tables to create an 

enlarged substantially continuous worksurface, an outer 
marginal edge (9) configured to accommodate a user 

thereby, and an inner marginal edge (10) with a generally 
concave shape which defines a central space (11) when 

aligned with similar inner marginal edges (10) of 
adjacent like mobile tables; and a plurality of legs ( 

12, 13, 14, 15, 16) connected with the top and depending 
therefrom to support the mobile table on a floor surface 

in a freestanding fashion; at least a first one (13, 15) 
of the legs having an upper end thereof connected with 

the top at a location disposed adjacent the outer 
marginal edge(9), and a lower end (47) thereof with a 

foot (17) to abut the floor surface; at least a second 
one (12, 14) of the legs having an upper end thereof 

connected with the top at a location disposed adjacent 
the inner marginal edge, and a lower end thereof with a 

roller ( 18) adapted to permit manual translation of the 
mobile table across the floor surface in wheelbarrow 

fashion. 
A mobile table as claimed in claim 1 in which the 
roller comprises a caster (18) which is adapted to pivot 

about a generally vertical axis to facilitate translation 
of the mobile table in all directions. 
A mobile table as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 in 
which a third one (14, 12) of the legs has an upper end 

thereof connected with the top (6) at a location disposed 
 

adjacent the inner marginal edge generally opposite the 
second leg (12, 
14), and a lower end thereof with a 
roller (12) adapted to permit manual translation of the 

mobile table across the floor surface in wheelbarrow 
fashion. 
A mobile table as claimed in claim 3 in which a 
fourth one (15, 13) of the legs has an upper end thereof 

connected with the top (6) at a location disposed 
adjacent the outer marginal edge generally opposite the 

first leg (13, 15), and a lower end thereof with a foot 
(17) to abut the floor surface. 
A mobile table as claimed in claim 4 in which a 
fifth one (16) of the legs has an upper end thereof 

connected with the top (6) at a location disposed 
adjacent to the outer marginal edge intermediate the 

first and fourth legs (13, 15), and a lower end with a 
vertically adjustable glide (88) to abut the floor 

surface. 
A mobile table as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 or 
claim 5 which includes a back panel (96) extending 

between and connected with the second and third legs (12, 
14) to rigidify the same and enclose the central space 

(11). 
A mobile table as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims which includes a utility post (90, 90a) 

supported on the floor surface, and shaped to be received 
in the central space (11) created by adjacently 

positioned like mobile tables. 
A mobile table as claimed in any one of the 
 

preceding claims which includes a latch (100) connected 
with the mobile table, and configured to interconnect 

with adjacent like mobile tables detachably in a pull-apart 
fashion. 
A mobile table as claimed in claim 8 in which the 
latch (100) is configured selectively to engage latches 

of adjacent like mobile tables even when the side edges 
(7, 8) of like mobile tables are manually converged 

along a line of motion which is not substantially 
perpendicular to the side edge (7, 8). 
A mobile table as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the outer marginal edge (9) 

and the inner marginal edge (10) have a substantially 
identical shape such that the inner marginal edge matches 

the outer marginal edge of an adjacent like mobile table 
top. 
A mobile table as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the outer marginal edge (9) of 

the top is curved to create at least one work area. 
A mobile table as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the outer marginal edge (19) 

and the inner marginal edge (10) are contoured. 
A mobile table as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the side edges (7, 8) are flat 

and disposed substantially perpendicular to upper (25) 
and lower surfaces (26) of the top. 
A mobile table as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims in which the inner marginal edge (10) 

 
has a quarter-circle plan shape. 
A mobile table system, comprising: a plurality of 
mobile tables, each of which is in accordance with any 

one of the preceding claims. 
A modular table system, comprising: a plurality of 
individual modular tables (2, 3, 4, 5), each including a 

top (6) having at least one side edge (7, 8) thereof 
configured to abut generally flush with a similar side 

edge (8, 7) of an adjacent one of the modular tables to 
create an enlarged substantially continuous worksurface, 

and at least one leg (12, 13, 14, 15, 16) connected with 
the top and depending therefrom to support the modular 

table on a floor surface in a freestanding fashion; a 
male latch member (161) located on a first one of the 

modular tables, and including a resilient arm (111) 
configured to protrude outwardly of the side edge of the 

first modular table; the male latch member including an 
upwardly protruding barb portion (112) thereof disposed 

adjacent a free end of the arm, and having a bevelled 
outer edge (113); and a female latch member (102) located 

on a second one of the modular tables, and including a 
catch edge (136) shaped to engage the barb portion of the 

male latch member, and positioned to selectively retain 
the side edges of the first and second modular tables 

closely together when the same are positioned in an 
adjacent and aligned condition; the female latch member 

(102) including a marginal edge portion (132, 133, 134, 
135) which is disposed outwardly of the catch edge (136) 

adjacent the side edge of the second modular table, and 
is bevelled to wedgingly mate with the bevelled outer 

edge (113) of the male latch member; the marginal edge 
extending uninterrupted between opposite sides of the 

 
catch edge, whereby the barb portion (112) of the male 

latch member is abuttingly deflected over the bevelled 
marginal edge of the female latch member and snaps into 

place against the catch edge, even when the side edges of 
the first and second modular tables are manually 

converged along a line of motion which is not 
substantially perpendicular to the side edges (7, 8). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
