<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635705</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Angular michelson interferometer and optical wavemeter based on a rotating periscope.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B902	G01B902	G01J900	G01J902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01J	G01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B9	G01B9	G01J9	G01J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An interferometer for measuring the wavelength of a 
beam of light. A beam splitter (30) splits a reference 

light beam of known wavelength into first and second 
optical reference paths (A, B). The beam splitter also 

splits an input light beam of unknown wavelength into 
first and second optical paths (C, D). The first optical 

path (C) is similar to the first optical reference path 
(A), and the second optical path (D) is similar to the 

second optical reference path (B). Light in the 
reference paths (A, B) propagates oppositely to light in 

the corresponding paths (C, D). Light propagating along 
the optical paths and optical reference paths enters a 

rotating periscope (32) having parallel mirrors (32a, 
32b) carried by a rotating platform (32c). The rotating 

periscope continuously varies the lengths of the paths. 
A reflector (34 and 36) reflects the light in the various 

paths back through the periscope to the beam splitter 
(30) which recombines the light from the first and second 

optical paths (C, D) into an interference signal and the 
light from the first and second optical reference paths 

(A, B) into a reference interference signal. A pair of 
detectors (56, 58) detect these interference signals and 

an electronic circuit (60) uses the detector outputs to 
determine the wavelength of the input light beam. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUTLER GREGORY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUTLER, GREGORY M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to dynamic interferometers 
used to determine the wavelength of an unknown 
signal or used to determine the position of a movable 
element. U.S. patent 4,329,055, Schaefer et al., 
describes an interferometer using a rotating 
parallelpipedic transparent body. As shown in Fig. 1, 
Schaefer discloses the use of a laser source 2 that 
sends an input beam to the beam splitter 4. The beam 
splitter 4 at point 4a splits the incoming light beam 
into two arm beams. The two arm beams travel through 
the rotating parallelpipedic transparent body 5 and are 
reflected off mirrors 6 and 7. The two arm beams then 
return to point 4a in the beam splitter 4 and are 
recombined into a interference signal beam that is sent 
to detector 8. The interference signal detected at the 
detector 8 will have an intensity that depends on the 
wavelength of the input beam and the path length 
difference between the arm beams. This path length 
difference is produced in the rotating parallelpipedic 
transparent body 5 and changes as the parallelpipedic 
transparent body 5 rotates. Although only one input signal is shown in 
figure 1, Schaefer et al. discloses the use of both an 
input signal of a known wavelength which is split into 
reference arm beams and an input signal of an unknown 
wavelength which is split into unknown wavelength arm 
beams. The use of an input signal of a known wavelength  
 
increases the accuracy of the determination of the 
unknown wavelength. The input signal of the known 
wavelength and the input signal of the unknown wavelength 
are sent into the apparatus in parallel along 
different paths. Since the reference arm beams comprise 
different paths from the unknown wavelength arm beams, 
the reference arm beams and the unknown wavelength arm 
beams will have different contact points with the 
reflective surfaces of the parallelpipedic transparent 
body 5 and the interferometer will be sensitive to any 
lack of flatness of these reflective surfaces. Another 
disadvantage of the interferometer disclosed in Schaefer 
is that the refractive index of the rotating 
parallelpipedic transparent body 5 is wavelength dependent 
so that beams with different wavelengths refract at 
different angles inside the rotating bodies. It is an objective of the present invention to 
have a wavelength meter with improved accuracy. In accordance with the principles of the 
present invention, the above and other objectives are 
realized by using an interferometer using an input light 
beam of unknown
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interferometer for measuring the wavelength 
of an input light beam of unknown wavelength, the 

interferometer comprising: 
   a reference laser (44; 81) that generates a 

reference light beam of known wavelength; 
   a beam splitter (30; 86 and 84) that splits the 

input light beam into two beams along first (C) and 
second (D) optical paths and that splits the reference 

light beam into two beams along first (A) and second (B) 
optical reference paths, the first optical path 

substantially the same as the first optical reference 
path and the second optical path substantially the same 

as the second optical reference path, light in the first 
optical path propagating oppositely to light in the first 

reference optical path and light in the second optical 
path propagating oppositely to light in the second 

optical reference path; 
   a rotating periscope (32) for varying the lengths of 

the first optical path and the first optical reference 
path, the periscope comprising first and second 

reflectors (32a and 32b) on a rotating platform (32c), 
the first reflector substantially parallel the second 

reflector; 
   back reflector means (34 and 36) for reflecting 

light in the first optical path and light in the first 
optical reference path back through the periscope; 

   means (30; 86 and 84) for recombining light from the 
first and second optical paths into an interference 

signal and for recombining light from the first and 
 

second optical reference paths into a reference 
interference signal; 

   a first detector (56; 90) for detecting the 
interference signal; 

   a second detector (58; 91) for detecting the 
reference interference signal; and 

   circuit means (60) in communication with the 
detectors for determining the wavelength of the input 

light beam. 
An interferometer according to claim 1 wherein 
the rotating periscope (32) is adapted to vary the length 

of the second optical path and the length of the second 
optical reference path and wherein the back reflector 

means (34 and 36) is adapted to reflect light in the 
second optical path and the second optical reference path 

back through the rotating periscope. 
An interferometer according to claim 1 or 2 
wherein the circuit means comprises means (70) for 

performing a fast Fourier transform. 
An interferometer according to any preceding 
claim and further comprising a gate detector (59) for 

supplying a gating signal indicative of the angular 
orientation of the rotating platform. 
An interferometer according to any preceding 
claim wherein the back reflector means (34 and 36) 

comprises two back reflectors arranged in a manner that 
for a range of orientations of the rotating periscope, 

light in the first and second optical paths reflects off 
the reflectors on the rotating periscope, reflects back 

 
off one of the back reflectors and then reflects another 

time off the reflectors on the rotating periscope towards 
the beam splitter (30; 86 and 84), wherein the directions 

of the light in the first and second optical paths 
reflecting another time off the reflectors on the 

rotating periscope towards the beam splitter define 
outgoing directions, these outgoing directions remaining 

substantially the same for said range of orientations of 
the rotating periscope. 
An interferometer according to any preceding 
claim and further comprising a detector lens (54) for 

focusing the interference signal onto the first detector 
(56) and the reference interference signal onto the 

second detector (58). 
An interferometer according to any preceding 
claim and further comprising reflector means (84 and 86) 

for sending light in the first and second paths back 
through the rotating periscope a third time. 
An interferometer according to claim 7 wherein 
the reflector means (84 and 86) comprise bi-directional 

reflectors having reflectors of a first orientation and 
reflectors of a second orientation. 
A method for measuring the wavelength of a light 
beam from a light source using a second light beam of 

known wavelength comprising the steps of: 

(a) splitting the light beam into two beams along a 
first and second optical path and splitting the second 

light beam of a known wavelength into two beams along a 
first reference optical path and a second reference 

optical path; 
(b) reflecting the light in the two optical paths 
and the light in the two reference optical paths off a 

pair of parallel reflectors; 
(c) arranging the first and second light beams such 
that the first optical path and the first reference 

optical path are substantially the same and such that the 
second optical path and the second reference optical path 

are substantially the same, the arranging step being such 
that light int the first optical path counter-propagates 

light in the first reference optical path and light in 
the second optical path counter-propagates light in the 

second reference optical path; 
(d) varying the lengths of the first and second 
paths and the lengths of the first and second reference 

optical paths by rotating the reflectors; 
(e) recombining light from the first and second 
optical paths into an interference signal; 
(f) recombining light from the first and second 
reference optical paths into a reference interference 

signal; 
(g) detecting the interference signal and the 
reference interference signal; and 
(h) determining the wavelength of the light beam 
from the interference signal and the reference 

interference signal. 
A method according to claim 9 and further 
comprising the step of arranging the light beam and the 

second light beam of known wavelength such that one of 
the beams before it is split is incident at an angle 

downward to a plane normal to the pair of parallel 
reflectors and such that the other beam before it is 

split is incident at an opposite angle upward to a plane 
normal to the pair of parallel reflectors. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
