<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644814</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXHAUST AND PARTICLE WASTES COLLECTING DEVICE FOR LASER ETCHING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B3314	G11B2350	B23K2600	B23K2614	G11B2350	G11B582	B23K2600	B23K2614	G11B582	G11B3314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	B23K	B23K	G11B	G11B	B23K	B23K	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B33	G11B23	B23K26	B23K26	G11B23	G11B5	B23K26	B23K26	G11B5	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The current invention provides an apparatus and method of collecting waste materials produced during laser etching of a floptical medium (1) without blocking access to the medium surface. The invention also improves collection efficiency by applying a uniform low-pressure air around the outer edge of the medium (1). Because the air pressure is applied around the edge, there is no necessity to coordinate a movement or timing of the current invention with respect to the laser etching unit (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERO JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEITZMAN JEFF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON PAUL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERO, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEITZMAN, JEFF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, PAUL, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The current invention is related to a method of and
an apparatus for collecting waste materials during laser
etching of a floptical medium, and more particularly to a
method of and apparatus for applying uniform low-pressure air
around an entire outer edge of the floptical medium.Recently, floppy disk systems have been developed
that combine magnetic disk recording techniques with the high
track capacity servos found in optical disk systems. Such a
system is described in AN INTRODUCTION TO THE INSITE 325
FLOPTICAL(R) DISK DRIVE, Godwin, which was presented at the
SPIE Optical Data Storage Topical Meeting (1989).
Essentially, an optical servo pattern is pre-recorded on a
magnetic floppy disk. The optical servo pattern typically
consists of a large number of equally spaced concentric
tracks about the rotational axis of the disk. Data is stored
in the magnetic "tracks" between the optical servo tracks
using conventional magnetic recording techniques. An optical
servo mechanism is provided to guide the magnetic read/write
head accurately over the data between the optical servo
tracks. By utilizing optical servo techniques, much higher
track densities are available on the relatively inexpensive
removable magnetic medium. As mentioned, the optical servo pattern typically
consists of a large number of equally spaced concentric
tracks about the rotational axis of the disk. As disclosed
in U.S. Patent No. 4,961,123, each track may be a single
continuous groove (Fig. 3), a plurality of equally spaced
circular pits (Fig. 8), or a plurality of short equally
spaced grooves or stitches (Fig. 9). Various methods and
systems exist for inscribing the optical servo tracks on the
magnetic medium.For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,961,123, entitled
"Magnetic Information Media Storage With Optical Servo
Tracks," discloses a method of and apparatus for etching the
servo track pattern on a disk using a laser. During the
laser etching of the floptical media, smoke and particulate
wastes are generated. The size of etched debris is in the
order of micron or sub-micron. These materials are
hazardous to an operator of the laser etching machine. These
materials can also be deposited onto the optics of the laser
system thereby degrading its performance.In order to solve the above mentioned problems, for
example, Williams et al (U.S. Patent 4,961,123) invented the
debris evacuation system. A pair of tubes is disposed in a
unit and follows a etching location on the surface of a disk
as the laser beam travels. This unit is placed near the
e
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for removing exhaust and particulate
wastes from a floptical medium (1) during laser etching,

comprising :

a spindle (7) for rotating said floptical medium (1) at a
predetermined angular velocity, said exhaust and said

particulate wastes being transported towards an outer edge of
said floptical medium (1) by an airflow created by a pumping

effect of said rotating floptical medium (1);
a platen (3) disposed in a parallel plane of said
floptical medium (1) for guiding said airflow toward an outer

edge of said platen (3);
a shroud (4) placed around said platen (3) and providing a
gap (12) between said outer platen edge and an inner surface of

said shroud (4); and
a plurality of vacuum sources (5) connected to said
shroud (4) for creating an uniform low pressure through said gap (12),

said uniform low pressure further transporting said exhaust
and said particulate wastes from said outer edge of said

floptical medium (1) to said gap (12) along a surface of said platen (3).
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said gap (12)
is uniform around said outer platen edge.
Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said gap
is approximately 1,587 mm (1/16 inch).
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said
vacuum sources (5) are connected to an outer surface of said

shroud (4).
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said
vacuum sources (5) are connected to a filter for collecting said

particulate wastes. 
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said
platen (3) is larger than said floptical medium (1) and placed below

said floptical medium (1).
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said
shroud (4) is disposed above said platen (3) and said floptical

medium (1) for containing said airflow of said exhaust and said
particulate wastes.
Apparatus for removing exhaust and particulate
wastes from a floptical disk (1) during laser etching of tracks,

comprising :

a spindle (7) for rotating said floptical disk (1) at a
predetermined angular velocity, said exhaust and said

particulate wastes being transported towards an outer edge of
said floptical disk (1) by an airflow created by a pumping effect

of said rotating floptical disk (1);
a circular platen (3) disposed in a parallel plane of
said floptical disk (1) and under said floptical disk (1) for guiding

said airflow toward an outer edge of said platen (3), a diameter
of said platen (3) being larger than that of said floptical disk (1);
a cylindrical shroud (4) placed around said platen (3) and
providing a uniform gap (12) between an outer edge of said platen (3)

and an inner surface of said shroud (4), said shroud (4) extending
above and below said platen (3) and said floptical disk (1), and
a plurality of vacuum sources (5) connected to an outer
surface of said shroud (4) for creating a uniform low pressure

through said gap (12), said uniform low pressure further
transporting from said outer edge of said floptical disk (1) to

said gap (12) along the surface of said platen (3).
Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said gap (12)
is approximately 1,587 mm (1/16 inch).
Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said
vacuum sources (5) are connected to a filter for collecting said

particulate wastes. 
Method of collecting exhaust and particulate
wastes from a floptical medium (1) during laser etching,

comprising the steps of:

(a) mounting said floptical medium (1) on a
spindle (7);
(b) rotating said spindle (7) and said floptical
medium (1) at a predetermined angular velocity;
(c) etching a surface of said rotating
floptical medium (1), said exhaust and said particulate wastes

being transported towards an outer edge of said floptical
medium (1) by an airflow created by a pumping effect of said

rotating floptical medium (1);
(d) uniformly applying a low-pressure air
around an outer edge of aid rotating floptical medium (1) during

step (c) for further transporting said exhaust and said
particulate wastes; and
(e) collecting said further transported
exhaust and said particulate wastes in a filter.
Method recited in claim 11 wherein said
uniform low-pressure air application is provided by vacuuming

through a circular gap (12) disposed around said outer edge of
said rotating floptical medium (1).
Method recited in claim 11 wherein said
uniform low-pressure air is simultaneously applied to an

entire outer edge of said rotating floptical medium (1).
Method recited in claim 11 wherein said
further transportation of said exhaust and said particulate

wastes is guided by a platen (3) disposed in a parallel plane of
said floptical medium (1) towards said low-pressure air.
Method recited in claim 11 wherein said
further transported exhaust and said particulate wastes are 

guided by a shroud (4) disposed in a perpendicular plane to said
platen (3) toward said low-pressure air. 
Method recited in claim 11 wherein said filter
is a high efficiency particulate air filter.
Method recited in claim 11 wherein said
said uniformly applying said low-pressure

air step is independent from the etching location and timing.
Method recited in claim 11 wherein said
rotation is approximately 3400 RPM.
Method of collecting exhaust and particulate
wastes from a floptical disk (1) during laser etching of tracks,

comprising the steps of :

a) mounting said floptical disk (1) on a spindle (7);
b) rotating said spindle (7) and said floptical
disk (1) at a predetermined angular velocity;
c) etching a surface of said rotating
floptical disk (1), said exhaust and said particulate wastes

being transported towards an outer edge of said floptical
disk (1) by an airflow created by a pumping effect of said

rotating floptical disk (1);
d) uniformly applying a low-pressure air
around an entire outer edge of said rotating floptical disk (1)

through a circular gap (12) disposed around said outer edge during
step c) for further transporting said exhaust and said

particulate wastes towards said circular gap (12), said further
transportation being guided by a platen (3) disposed in a

parallel plane of said floptical disk (1) and a shroud (4) disposed
in a perpendicular plane to said platen (3) towards said circular

gap (12); and
e) collecting said further transported exhaust
and said particulate wastes in a filter.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
