<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627564</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Panel locator and attachement apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60K3704	B60K3704	B60R1100	B60R1100	F16B512	F16B512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60K	B60K	B60R	B60R	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60K37	B60K37	B60R11	B60R11	F16B5	F16B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A locator and attachment apparatus for 
attaching a cover panel (10) to a trim bezel (12) including a 

projecting member (15) and clip whereby the projecting member 
guides the cover panel into the proper position through 

use of a slot on the trim bezel (12) and the clip (30) attached to 
the projecting member (15) thereby secures the projecting 

member (15) in place. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHRYSLER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHRYSLER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEWITT WILLIAM LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEWITT, WILLIAM LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to an 
apparatus for locating and attaching panels and, more 
particularly, to a locator and attaching apparatus for 
use in attaching a cover panel to trim bezels. Automotive vehicles typically utilize cover 
panels fastened to trim bezels to provide an 
aesthetically appealing vehicle interior. The cover 
panels are mounted on the trim bezels through the use of 
locator pins and clips. The locator pins properly 
position the cover panel on the trim bezel and the clips 
hold it in place. Previously, apparatuses for mounting 
a cover panel to a trim bezel included a separate 
locator pin and clip assembly, including a cup support. 
In order for the locator pin to function properly, it 
must extend beyond the point of the clip, i.e., the 
locator pin must engage the trim bezel first. At times, 
because of the position and design of the cover panel, 
it was necessary to increase and extend the overall size 
and length of both the cup support and locator pin. 
Increasing the length and size of the cup support and  
 
locator pin resulted in several disadvantages including 
loss of strength and durability. Typically, the cover panel is molded from a 
plastic material such as polypropylene. One 
disadvantage with molding polypropylene is that any 
member outwardly extending from the cover panel can not 
have a thickness greater than 50% of the thickness of 
the cover panel. The purpose of this limitation is to 
prevent a sink or depression in the outer or viewing 
surface. Another disadvantage of members that are 
extended, is that the members have a fixed or limiting 
thickness past which the members have a reduced overall 
stiffness and strength. It is, therefore, one object of the present 
invention to provide a locator and attachment apparatus 
for use in attaching a cover panel to a trim bezel. It is another object of the present invention 
to provide a locator and attachment apparatus for use 
with a plastic material such that the locator and 
attachment apparatus is of a size and dimension which 
prevents a sink or depression from occurring in the 
outer or viewing surface. It is yet another object of the present 
invention to provide a locator and attachment apparatus  
 
which extends outward from a cover panel a sufficient 
distance to contact a trim bezel while maintaining an 
increased degree of strength and rigidity to allow the 
cover panel to be securely fastened to the trim bezel. It is a further object of the present 
invention to properly position and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A locator and attachment apparatus for 
use in attaching a cover panel to a trim bezel 

comprising: 
   a projecting member extending outward from 

said cover panel, said projecting member including a 
wall portion and side portions connected to said wall 

portion and positioned transversely thereto; and 
   a U-shaped clip having a locking projection 

disposed over said wall portion wherein said locking 
projection extends outwardly, away from said wall 

portion, said clip mounted to said projecting member 
such that said projecting member engages the trim bezel 

prior to said locking projections engaging the trim 
bezel such that said projecting member first locates the 

proper position of the cover panel on the trim bezel 
prior to attaching the cover panel to the trim bezel 

through use of said clip. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1 wherein said side portions include a 

post portion and a base portion, said base portion and 
said post portion intersecting to define a shoulder. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1 including a rib portion secured to and 

extending transversely from said wall portion. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1 wherein said locking projection 

includes an outwardly tapered portion forming a cam 
surface and a planar portion parallel to said wall 

portion forming a locking surface. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 4 wherein said clip further includes 

outwardly extending flange portions. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 5 wherein said clip includes locking 

prongs inwardly projecting from of said clip, said 
locking prongs engaging said wall portion to prevent 

disengagement of said clip from said wall portion. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1 wherein said projecting member and the 

cover panel are integrally formed of a plastic material. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 7 wherein said wall portion and side 

portion have a thickness ratio when compared with a 
thickness of the cover panel of 1:2. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 5 wherein said flange of said clip is 

supported by said rib portion. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1 wherein the trim bezel includes a slot 

therein, said slot having sidewall surfaces and said 
locking projection including a cam surface engaging the 

sidewall surfaces of said slot, said sidewall surfaces 
deflecting said locking member inward and a planar 

portion which engages said sidewall surfaces of said 
slot to secure said projecting member in said slot. 
A locator and attachment apparatus for 
securing a cover panel to a trim bezel comprising: 

   a projecting member extending outwardly from 
the cover panel; and 

   a U-shaped clip having locking projections 
thereon disposed about said projecting member, said 

locking projections including a cam surface and a 
locking surface, said surfaces positioned to engage and 

be deflected by engagement with a slot in the trim 
bezel. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 11 wherein said projecting member 

 
includes a wall portion and side portions positioned 

transverse and secured to said wall portion. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 12 wherein said side portions include a 

post portion and a base portion, wherein said post 
portion and base portion have a common interface which 

defines a shoulder. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 13 including a rib portion adjacent and 

secured to said projecting member. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 14 wherein said clip further includes 

outwardly extending flange portions, said flange 
portions engaging and supported by said rib portion. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 11 wherein said projecting member is made 

of a polypropylene material wherein a ratio of thickness 
of said projecting member to the cover panel is 

approximately 1:2. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 16 wherein said clip further includes 

 
inwardly extending locking prongs on said clip, said 

locking prongs engaging said wall portion. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 13 wherein said post portion has a width 

equal to a width of the slot in the trim bezel and said 
base portion has a width greater than a width of the 

slot thereby defining a shoulder; and 
   said locking surface outwardly biased to 

develop a positive, draw-down force to keep the said 
shoulder engaged with the trim bezel. 
A locator and attachment apparatus for 
attaching a cover panel to a trim bezel comprising: 

   a projecting member extending outwardly from 
the cover panel, said projecting member including a 

planar wall portion, side wall portions positioned 
transverse to and secured to said wall portion, said 

side wall portions further including a post portion and 
a base portion wherein said post portion and base 

portion intersect and define a shoulder portion; 
   a rib portion secured to said wall portion and 

extending outwardly and transversely therefrom; 
   a U-shaped clip disposed over said wall 

portion, said clip including locking projections, said 
locking projections including an outwardly tapered 

portion forming a cam surface and a planer portion 
 

substantially parallel to said wall portion forming a 
locking surface, said clip further including an 

outwardly extending flange portion, said flange portion 
engaging and supported by said rib portion. 
A locator and attachment apparatus as set 
forth in claim 19 wherein said projecting member and 

cover panel are formed of a polypropylene material 
wherein a ratio of thickness of portions of said 

projecting member and a thickness of the cover panel is 
approximately 1:2. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
