<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Preparation of silver vanadium oxide cathodes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M458	H01M406	H01M448	H01M406	H01M616	C01G3100	C01G3100	H01M616	H01M448	H01M458	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	C01G	C01G	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M6	C01G31	C01G31	H01M6	H01M4	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cathode for an electrochemical cell containing as active component a silver 
vanadium oxide in the form of a mixed metal oxide having an amorphous content. Also 

provided is a method for preparing the cathode wherein the silver vanadium oxide is 
formed by chemical addition, reaction or otherwise intimate contact of a silver-containing 

compound and a vanadium containing compound to form a mixed metal oxide bronze that 
is thermally treated and rapidly cooled to form an amorphous product. The method of the 

present invention provides an alternate preparation technique for improving chemical 
control in the formation of a cathode for incorporation into an electrochemical cell. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the manufacture of an alkali metal
electrochemical cell or battery, and more particularly to new and
improved methods of preparing silver vanadium oxide composite
cathode material for use in high energy density batteries.Solid cathode, liquid organic electrolyte and alkali metal
lithium anode cells or batteries are used as the power source for
implantable medical devices. The cathode of such a cell may have
as active material carbon fluoride, a metal oxide, a metal oxide
bronze such as silver vanadium oxide, or other suitable material
as disclosed in U. S. Patent 4,830,940 to Keister et al., which
patent is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and
is incorporated herein by reference.Preparation of cathode material containing a metal oxide
bronze such as silver vanadium oxide for use in a lithium cell or
battery has been known by a decomposition reaction. However, the
decomposition method of preperation is accompanied by the
evolution of gaseous products. Typically, the synthesis is
carried out by first thermally decomposing a vanadium salt to
produce vanadium pentoxide. A decomposable metal salt,
preferably containing silver, is then blended with the vanadium
pentoxide in water and the mixture is oven-dried. Following
drying, the mixture is again blended and ground to ensure
thorough intermingling of the constituents and the resulting
homogeneous mixture is subsequently baked for a final
heating/decomposition period. Depending on the starting
materials used, this final heating/decomposition period can 
result in the release of toxic by-product gases. For example, if silver nitrate (AgNO3) is used
as the silver source, nitrous oxide type gases may be formed. Such a decomposition reaction
for the preparation of silver vanadium oxide is:
AgNO3 + V2O5 → AgV2O5.5 + NO2 + ¼O2
Upon cooling, the baked material is blended with appropriate amounts of carbon black and
graphite powder to enhance conductivity, and with a binder material, and then pressed to form
the cathode. Such a method is described in more detail in US Patent 4,310,609 to Liang et
al., which patent is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and is incorporated
herein by reference.The present invention provides a cathode containing silver vanadium oxide as an active
component, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is provided in the novel and improved form
of a mixed metal oxide having an amorphous content.References related to the art of forming a mixed metal oxide bronze by reacting a
vanadium
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cathode for an electrochemical cell and containing silver vanadium oxide as
active component characterised in that the silver vanadium oxide is provided as a

mixed metal oxide being substantially amorphous with the proviso that the
proportion of oxide(s) added to the vanadium oxide in the production of the silver

vanadium oxide is greater than 30 mole % of the total amount of oxide(s) and the
vanadium oxide.
A cathode for an electrochemical cell and containing silver vanadium oxide as
active component characterised in that the silver vanadium oxide is provided as a

mixed metal oxide having a vanadium content in amorphous form with the proviso
that the proportion of oxide(s) added to the vanadium oxide in the production of

the silver vanadium oxide is greater than 30 mole % of the total amount of
oxide(s) and the vanadium oxide.
A cathode according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the amorphous characteristics are
provided by the presence of a dopant.
A cathode for an electrochemical cell and containing silver vanadium oxide as
active component characterised in that the silver vanadium oxide has been treated

in the presence of a dopant to provide a mixed metal oxide in amorphous form.
A cathode as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 which comprises from 80 to 99
weight percent of said silver vanadium oxide. 
A cathode as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 which comprises 0 to 3 weight
percent carbon, 0 to 3 weight percent fluororesin powder and 94 to 99 weight

percent of said silver vanadium oxide.
A method of making a cathode for an electrochemical cell comprising:

(i) forming silver vanadium oxide in the form of a mixed metal oxide being
substantially amorphous wherein the proportion of oxide(s) added to the vanadium

oxide in the production of the silver vanadium oxide is greater than 30 mole % of
the total amount of oxide(s) and the vanadium oxide; and
(ii) utilising said silver vanadium oxide to form the cathode.
A method as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that step (i) comprises forming
silver vanadium oxide in the form of a mixed metal oxide having a vanadium

content in amorphous form.
A method of making a cathode for an electrochemical cell comprising:

(i) combining a silver-containing component with a vanadium-containing
component to provide silver vanadium oxide as a mixed metal oxide having

amorphous characteristics, wherein the amorphous characteristics are provided by
the presence of a dopant material; and
(ii) utilizing said silver vanadium compound to form the cathode.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9 in which step (i) comprises

(a) forming a first combination comprising a vanadium compound and a dopant 
material
(b) rendering said combination amorphous,
(c) combining the amorphous first combination with a silver containing
component selected from silver and compounds of silver to provide a second

combination, and
(d) heat-treating the second combination to form the mixed metal oxide.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9 in which step (i) comprises

(a) forming an intimate combination comprising a vanadium compound, a
silver-containing component selected from silver and compounds of silver, and a

dopant to form a mixed metal oxide, and
(b) rendering said mixed metal oxide amorphous.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 11 in which the step of making the
combination or mixed metal oxide amorphous comprises heating it to an elevated

temperature followed by quenching.
A method as claimed in claim 12 in which the heating to an elevated temperature
comprises heating above the melting point of the vanadium compound.
A method as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13 wherein the heating to an elevated
temperature comprises baking at a temperature in the range 750°C to 775°C for 1

to 2 hours. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein the heating to an elevated temperature
comprises baking at about 760°C for about one hour.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 15 wherein the quenching is
effected by pouring the heated material into deionized water or rapidly lowering it

to a liquid nitrogen temperature.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 15 in which the quenching is
effected by pouring the heated material on to a liquid nitrogen cooled foil.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 17 wherein the dopant material is a
non-metallic oxide salt.
A method as claimed in claim 18 wherein non-metallic oxide salt is a phosphorus
oxide salt.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 19 wherein the silver-containing
component is selected from silver oxide, silver vanadate, silver metal, silver

carbonate, and combinations thereof.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 20 wherein the vanadium
compound is selected from silver vanadate, vanadium pentoxide and combinations

thereof. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 21 wherein the silver containing
component is silver oxide and the vanadium compound is vanadium pentoxide.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 22 wherein the silver vanadium
oxide forms 80 to 99 percent by weight of the cathode.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 23 wherein the cathode comprises
0 to 3 weight percent carbon, 0 to 3 weight percent flu
ororesin powder and 94 to
99 weight percent of said silver vanadium oxide.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 24 wherein the cathode is formed
from a composition comprising the silver vanadium oxide by pressing.
A method as claimed in claim 25 wherein liquid electrolyte is added dropwise to
the composition prior to pressing.
An electrochemical cell comprising a cathode, an alkali metal anode, a nonaqueous
electrolyte comprising a combination of an organic solvent and a lithium

salt; and a separator electrically insulating the anode from the cathode and of
sufficient porosity to allow for electrolyte flow characterised in that the cathode is

a cathode as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 or obtained by a method as
claimed in any one of claims 7 to 26.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
