<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device with noise suppression
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2352	H01L2348	H01L2350	H01L23528	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A CMOS IC device operable at a frequency of 300 
MHz or higher includes a power supply wiring (1) for 

inter-connecting circuit elements and a power supply pad, 
and a phase-shifting split wiring (2, 3a-3d) connected to 

the power supply wiring (1) and not directly connected to 
any circuit elements, which is provided for producing a 

noise phase difference between noise signals on the power 
supply wiring and on the phase-shifting split wiring. A 

noise signal entering from the phase-shifting split 
wiring has a phase different from the phase of a signal 

transmitted on the power supply wiring to thereby reduce 
spike noise. The split wiring can take the form of one 

or more loops (2) or one or more split wirings (3a-3d). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATO TOMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TATSUOKA MASATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATO, TOMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TATSUOKA, MASATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a
CMOS IC device. In particular, the
present invention concerns the suppression of noise in
power supply wirings of a semiconductor device.CMOS circuits feature low power dissipation in
which substantial current is dissipated only in a very
short period while circuit elements are being switched.
Low power dissipation has become desirable as the
integration of semiconductor devices has increased, which
makes CMOS IC devices more important. However, spike
current flows in CMOS IC devices so that spike noise is
likely to be generated on power supply wirings.To satisfy the requirements of high speed
circuit operation, techniques of high speed and high
frequency operations of CMOS circuits have advanced. A
power supply voltage has been lowered. In CMOS circuits
operating at a high frequency and at a low voltage, if
spike noise or other noise generated by the switching of
circuit elements changes a voltage on a power supply
wiring, noise is generated in other circuit portions.
Noise present on a power supply wiring greatly limits the
circuit function. One approach for alleviating the influence of
switching noise on other circuit elements is to widen a power
supply wiring. If the potential of a power supply wiring is
pinned to a power supply voltage, the influence of switching
noise can be reduced. There is a limit, however, on widening
a power supply wiring because of the requirements of high
integration. Other conventional proposals for preventing
noise from entering other circuit elements via a power supply
wiring are to form a number of pads, to form slits in parallel
with a power supply wiring, or to form a power supply wiring
in a lattice shape.These countermeasures intend to reduce switching
noise itself by increasing the effective current capacity
of a power supply wiring, and/or to alleviate the influence of
noise by increasing the resistance of a path from a noise
source to a connection node of a power supply wiring.These conventional approaches of suppressing noise
on power supply wirings narrow a usable range of a power
supply potential (lowering a high level potential and raising
a low level potential) so that an operating margin of a CMOS
IC device is narrowed and its operating speed is lowered.Conventional approaches of suppressing noise on
power supply wirings have taken into consideration wiring
resistance (R) components and capacitance (C) components, or
time constants. It has been found that the approaches relying
upon this technique have various
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A CMOS IC device comprising:

a semiconductor substrate;
a power supply pad formed on said semiconductor
substrate;
circuit elements including CMOS elements formed on
said semiconductor substrate; and
a power supply wiring for interconnecting one of
said circuit elements and said power supply pad;

   characterised in that said device is additionally
provided with a phase-shifting split wiring which is

connected to said power supply wiring and not directly
connected to any of said circuit elements, and which is

adapted to suppress noise by producing a phase
difference between a noise signal on said power supply

wiring and a noise signal on said phase-shifting split
wiring.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 1, wherein
said phase-shifting split wiring and said power supply

wiring form a loop, and the phase shift of the signal
on that part of said power supply wiring which forms

said loop is different from the phase shift of the
signal on said phase-shifting split wiring, and the

difference is not 2nπ where n is an integer.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 1, wherein
said phase-shifting split wiring has one end connected

to said power supply wiring and the other end isolated,
and the phase shift of the signal transmitted from said

one end, 
reflected from said other end, and returned back to said one

end takes a finite value except 2nπ, where n is zero or an
integer.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 1, wherein said
phase-shifting split wiring has a plurality of split wirings

branching from both sides of said power supply wiring, at
least some of said split wirings and said p
ower supply wiring
form loops, and the phase shift of the signal on said power supply

wiring at each of said loops is different from the phase shift
of a signal on said split wiring at each of said loops.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 1, wherein said
phase-shifting split wiring has a plurality of split wirings

branching from both sides of said power supply wiring, at
least some of said split wirings have one ends connected to

said power supply wiring and the other ends thereof being
isolated, and the phase shift of a signal transmitted from

said one end, reflected from said other end, and returned back
to said one end of each of said split wirings takes a finite

value except 2nπ, where n is zero or an integer.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 1, wherein two
of said power supply wirings are disposed facing each other,

at least one phase-shifting split wiring is connected to each
of said power supply wirings, and said phase-shifting split 

wirings each have a tooth shape meshing with one another to
form an inter-digital configuration.
A CMOS IC device according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein said
phase-shifting split wiring is made of a conductive member

having a cross sectional area smaller than said power supply
wiring.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 2 or 4, wherein, in
said loop, the power supply wiring has a length d
1
 and a phase
constant β
1
, the phase-shifting split wiring has a length d
2

and a phase constant β
2
, and the difference between phase
shift β
1
d
1
 and phase shift β
2
d
2
 is not equal to 2nπ, where n
is zero or an integer.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 8, wherein the
difference between the phase shifts is between 52 degrees and

308 degrees.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 3 or 5, wherein said
phase-shifting split wiring has an attenuation constant α, a

phase constant β and a length d, which satisfy

cos (2dβ) 
<
 -exp (-2dα)/2.
A CMOS IC device according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein said
power supply pad is located at a peripheral region of said 

semiconductor substrate, and said phase-shifting split wiring
is located adjacent to said bonding pad in said peripheral

area.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 11, wherein
there are provided a plurality of said power supply pads, said

power supply wiring includes a common potion running across
neighborhoods of said power supply pads, and neck portions

connecting said common portion and said power supply pads, and
said phase-shifting split wiring is connected to each of said

neck portion.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 12, wherein said
phase-shifting split wiring has an elongated shape parallel to

said common portion.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 12, wherein said
of said phase-shifting split wirings has one end connected to

the associated neck portion of the power supply wiring and the
other end isolated.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 12, wherein each
of said phase-shifting wirings has both ends connected to

different points of the associated neck portion of the power
supply wiring.
A CMOS IC device according to claim 12, wherein each 
of said phase-shifting split wirings has a plurality of

split wirings branching from both sides of the
associated neck portion of said power supply wiring.
A CMOS IC device according to any preceding claim,
wherein said phase-shifting split wiring has a

different level from that of said power supply wiring.
A method of making a CMOS IC device, the device
comprising: a semiconductor substrate; a power supply

pad formed on said semiconductor substrate; circuit
elements including CMOS elements formed on said

semiconductor substrate; and a power supply wiring for
interconnecting one of said circuit elements and said

power supply pad; the method characterised by
comprising a step of:

   suppressing noise on said power supply wiring by
forming a phase-shifting split wiring connected to said

power supply wiring and not directly connected to said
circuit elements, said phase-shifting split wiring

being adapted to produce a phase difference between a
noise signal on said power supply wiring and a noise

signal on said phase-shifting split wiring.
A method according to claim 18, wherein said 
phase-shifting split wiring and said power supply wiring form

a loop, further comprising a step of:

   selecting length and width of the power supply
wiring and the phase-shifting split wiring so that the phase

shift of a signal on that part of said power supply wiring
which forms said loop is different from the phase shift of a

signal on said phase-shifting split wiring, and the difference
is not 2nπ where n is an integer.
A method according to claim 18, wherein said
phase-shifting split wiring has one end connected to said

power supply wiring and the other end being isolated, further
comprising a step of:

   selecting length and width of said phase-shifting
split wiring so that the phase shift of a signal transmitted

from said one end, reflected from said other end, and returned
back to said one end of said phase-shifting split wiring takes

a finite value except 2nπ, where n is zero of an integer.
A method according to claim 19, wherein said
selecting step includes selecting the width and length of said

power supply wiring and said phase-shifting split wiring in
such a manner that, in said loop, the power supply wiring has

a length d, and a phase constant β
1
, the phase-shifting split
wiring has a length d
2
 and a phase constant β
2
, and the
difference between phase shift β
1
d
1
 and phase shift β
2
d
2
 is 
not equal to 2nπ, where n is zero or an integer.
A method according to claim 21, wherein the
difference between the phase shifts is between 52 degrees and

308 degrees.
A method according to claim 22, wherein said
selecting step includes selecting the width and length of said

phase-shifting split wiring in such a manner that said phase-shifting
split wiring has an attenuation constant α, a phase

constant β and a length d, which satisfy

cos (2dβ) 
<
 -exp(-2dα)/2.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
