<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640825</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for the analysis of porous materials
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N110	G01N134	G01N3336	G01N128	G01N134	G01N110	G01N128	G01N3336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	G01N1	G01N33	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus is disclosed for the determination of the 
inner condition of a porous material (106), particularly a 

textile material web, and a method for running the 
apparatus. The apparatus comprises a pressure element (10) 

and an extracting and collecting element (50) which clamp 
the material between them; the clamped-in sample is then 

extracted with a preferably hot extracting fluid. The 
extract will then be analyzed in order to yield indications 

of the inner condition of the material and/or of substances 
present in or on the porous material. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HABOTEX HANS BORS CONSULTING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HANS BORS HABOTEX-CONSULTING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORS HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUETHI WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORS, HANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUETHI, WALTER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention refers to a device or apparatus for 
the analysis of porous materials which contain extractable 
substances, in order to determine the inner condition of 
the material, such as substances present in or on the 
material, by forced desorption and extraction. More 
particularly, this invention is directed to the analysis of 
textile materials, especially of such materials in sheet or 
web form, but also in the form of parallel strands of 
filaments, by means of water, aqueous liquids, or organic 
solvents. In the manufacturing industries, there is often the 
necessity of determining the inner condition of a porous 
material, particularly in sheet or web form, referring to 
substances which are enclosed within its interior where a 
simple or direct access is not possible. This applies for 
example to the textile industry, particularly to the 
finishing steps where finishing agents are applied to the 
textile material and are absorbed by the latter. For 
finishing, such as dyeing, sizing, high-grade finishing, 
fast finish, crease resist finish, hydrophobing, 
mercerizing etc., a treating liquor or a gas mixture is 
generally applied in excess, the excess is removed after 
impregnation, and the textile material is further 
processed, for example in a reaction step, by condensing, 
drying, washing, the application of further finishing 
agents, etc. In all cases, modern economical and ecological necessities 
require the application of the minimal amounts of treating 
agents. This, in turn, requires the knowledge what amounts 
of free, unused substances have remained in the textile 
material after the finishing and reaction steps. Only if  
 
these values are known, the preceding treatment steps can 
be optimized as to the really required amount of treating 
agents. The determination of these values should be rapid 
and should not destroy the material to be assayed. In this sense, the expression "analysis" as used herein 
means the determination of the condition within materials 
as defined above but also, more generally, the 
determination of substances contained in or on porous 
materials. It is generally well known to cut samples from porous web 
materials and to extract substances in excess from these 
samples. However, these techniques partially destroy the 
material and make relatively large portions thereof 
unusable. As to non-destructive analysis methods, European patent 
application No. EP-A2-0,529,455 discloses a method and a 
device for the continuous measurement of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for the analysis of porous materials 
(106) which contain extractable substances, in order to 

determine the inner condition of the material including 
substances present in or on the material by forced 

desorption and extraction, wherein the apparatus comprises: 

a) a pressure element (10) and a collecting element (50), 
both elements having facing contact surfaces and being 

coaxially arranged and fastened to a support bar system 
consisting of two parallel support bars (12, 14) having 

upper and lower surfaces, 
b) means for pressing said two elements one against the 
other, said porous material being clamped between said 

contact surfaces of said elements, 
c) means for introducing an extracting fluid through one 
of said elements into the clamped-in porous material, and 
d) means for removing an extract formed of said 
extracting fluid and extracted substances from said 

material and for collecting the extract. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said two elements 
(10, 50) are circular disk shaped, each element comprising 

a circular pressure plate (38, 78) equipped with a heating 
device (40, 90), each pressure plate being rigidly fastened 

at an axial distance to a circular mounting plate (36, 52) 
of a dimensionally stable metal, all said plates having 

substantially the same diameter. 
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising suction 
means (110, 111, 101) for removing of the formed extract 

from said clamped-in porous material. 
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the pressure element 
(10) is fastened to the lower surface of the first, upper 

support bar (12), and the collecting element (50) is  
 

fastened to the upper surface of the second, lower support 
bar (14). 
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the heating devices 
(40, 90) of the said two pressure plates comprise flat, 

sheet-like circular heating elements fixed to the inner 
surface of said pressure plates. 
The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the said pressure 
plates further comprise means (44, 92) for measuring and 

controlling the temperature of said plates. 
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the collecting 
element (50) is rigidly fastened to the said lower support 

bar, and the pressure element (10) is axially displaceably 
fastened to the said upper support bar (12) to be pressed 

against the collecting element. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the upper support 
bar (11) contains a driving motor (20) connected to a 

reduction gearbox (21) having an output driving shaft (24), 
an eccenter disk (26) being mounted on said driving shaft, 

said eccenter disk acting on a pin (30) connected to said 
pressure element (10) for reciprocating said pressure 

element to and from said collecting element (50). 
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the outer surface of 
the pressure plate (52) of said collecting element 

comprises a central bore (80) for the supply of fresh 
extracting fluid, a first, circular collecting groove (98) 

near the outer edge of the pressure plate for collecting 
the extract, and a second, circular barrier groove (99) 

disposed between the said first groove (98) and the outer 
edge of said pressure plate (78), said two grooves having 

bores (94, 101) traversing the pressure plate.  
 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for 
introducing an extracting fluid comprise an extracting 

fluid storage vessel (104); a first metering device (115, 
117, 119) for supplying metered volumes of extracting fluid 

to the central bore (80) of said collecting element (50); a 
second metering device (116, 118, 120) for supplying 

metered volumes of extracting fluid to said barrier groove 
(99) of the pressure plate; a heatable spiral tube (88) for 

heating extracting fluid supplied by said first metering 
device; and conduits (121, 60, 122) for connecting said 

storage vessel to said metering devices and the latter with 
said spiral tube and said pressure plate (78). 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for 
removing the said extract comprise several collecting 

conduits (56) connected to said collecting groove (98) and 
merging into a main collecting conduit (56A), and a suction 

device (110, 111) connected by a suction conduit (14) to 
said sample tube, said main collecting conduit leading into 

the said sample tube (68). 
The apparatus of claim 10 and 11, wherein each conduit 
(122) coming from the second metering device (116, 118, 

120) for feeding the extracting fluid to the barrier groove 
(99), is in close thermally conductive contact with a 

collecting conduit (56) coming from the collecting groove 
(98). 
A method for the analysis of a porous material which 
contains extractable substances, in order to determine the 

inner condition of the material including substances 
present in or on the material by forced desorption and 

extraction, by using the apparatus of any one of the 
preceding claims, said method comprising the following 

steps:  
 


a) inserting a porous material (106) between a pressure 
element (10) and an extracting and collecting element (50), 
b) clamping the porous material (106) between said two 
elements (10, 50), 
c) feeding a first metered amount of an extracting fluid 
(105) into said extracting and collecting element (50) and 

from that into said porous material (106), said fluid being 
heated during its flow towards the extracting and 

collecting element, and 
d) collecting an extract (69) from said porous material in 
a collecting groove (98) near the outer periphery of said 

extracting and collecting element and directing the extract 
into a sample receptacle (68). 
The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of 
feeding a second metered amount of extracting fluid as a 

barrier fluid into a barrier groove (99) near the outer 
periphery of said extracting and collecting element, 

simultaneously with the feeding of the first metered amount 
in step c). 
The method of claim 14, wherein heat is exchanged 
between the said barrier fluid and the outflowing extract. 
The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of 
applying a suction to the sample receptacle in order to 

assist in collecting said extract. 
The method of claim 13, wherein an aqueous extracting 
fluid is used. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the extracting fluid 
comprises at least in part an organic solvent. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the extracting fluid 
contains at least one substance capable of reacting with  

 
substances to be extracted in order to improve their 

extractability. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the extracting fluid 
is liquid, and the extracting fluid and the said porous 

material are heated to a temperature slightly below the 
boiling point of the extracting fluid, namely in the range 

of from 70 to 100 °C, preferably 90 to 95 °C in the case of 
an aqueous extracting fluid. 
The method of claim 13, wherein the porous material 
comprises a bidimensional textile material or a dense row 

of substantially parallel textile fibers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
