<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635205</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Climate control and method for controlling the climate in cattle houses and the like
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K101	A01K100	A01C300	A01K101	A01K100	A01C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01C	A01K	A01K	A01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K1	A01K1	A01C3	A01K1	A01K1	A01C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a climate control system (2) for cattle 
houses (1) and the like, the system comprising means for separating from 

each other at least a part of liquid and solid excrements of the cattle 
before they can mix. Preferably the system further comprises means by 

which the at least partly separated liquid and solid excrements are 
dried. The system further comprises air supply means by which an air 

stream is passed along the at least partly separated liquid and solid 
excrements in order to dry the excrements. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOLSMA TECHNIEK B V
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOLSMA TECHNIEK B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOLSMA AUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOLSMA, AUKE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a climate control system for
cattle houses and the like, comprising a transport system on
which liquid and solid excrements of the cattle can be
deposited and means for separating from each other at least a
part of said liquid and solid excrements before they can mix.
A problem with cattle houses is that the air in the cattle
house often contains aggressive gases which arise inter alia
from liquid and solid excrements of the cattle. These
excrements end up on the floor of the cattle house, mix with
each other, for instance as a result of the cattle treading
on them, and react with each other to form inter alia gaseous
ammonia which is very harmful to man, animals and the
environment.These aggressive gaseous substances in the air of the
cattle house will have to be removed, not only in the
interest of the cattle, but also in the interest of man. The
spent air which contains the aggressive gases is discharged
from the cattle house into the atmosphere, while fresh
outside air is supplied to the cattle house. A drawback of
such a system is that the environment will be seriously polluted
by this strongly polluted air which is discharged into
the atmosphere. In view of the ever stricter environmental
requirements, this leads to an unacceptable situation.This problem can be reduced in an implement,
comprising a transport system on which liquid and solid 
excrements of the cattle can be deposited and means for
separating from each other at least a part of said liquid and
solid excrements, as known from EP-A-0 498 084. In the implement
described therein the means for separating liquid and
solid excrements are separated from each other are formed by
the transport system; in other words, the separation is realized
mechanically. Although the liquid and solid excrements
on the transport system are predryed by an air stream, a
substantial amount of liquid remains on the transport system
and in the solid excrements. The consequence is that still,
true enough a reduced amount of aggressive gases will be
released. As furthermore, the air stream is supplied from
beneath the transport system and discharged upwardly via the
space of the cattle house where the cattle are accommodated,
the air in said space will contain aggressive gases.In order to obtain a further reduction of released
aggressive gases and to keep the space of the cattle house
where the cattle are accommodated free from said aggressive
gases the system as described in the opening paragraph is,
according to the invention,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A climate control system (2) for cattle houses (1) and
the like, comprising a transport system on which liquid and

solid excrements of the cattle (4) can be deposited and means
for separating from each other at least a part of said liquid

and solid excrements before they can mix, characterized in
that the system (2) further comprises air supply means by

means of which an air stream, heated by the animal heat of
the cattle (4), is passed along the transport system (20),

and a heating device (48) which together with the heated air
stream provide for the separation of the liquid and solid

excrements by drying the excrements at least to such an
extent that the development of aggressive gases is

practically prevented.
A climate control system (2) according to claim 1,
characterized in that the system (2) further comprises a

floor (6) in the cattle house (1) with apertures and the
transport system (20) is located under the floor (6) of the

cattle house (1), on which transport system (20) the liquid
and solid excrements of the cattle (4) are deposited via the

apertures (12) in the floor (6), the transport system (20)
comprising a sloping surface (34) along which liquid

excrements flow down to a collecting area (32) on the
transport system (20) so that the liquid and solid 

excrements are at least partly mechanically separated from
each other.
A climate control system (2) according to claim 2,
charcterized in that the transport system (20) conveys the

excrements along a discharge path (16) to a collecting space
(18) which is located outside a space of the cattle house

where the cattle (4) are accommodated.
A climate control system (2) according to claim 2 or
3, characterized in that the cattle house (1) comprises a

plurality of mutually separated accommodation spaces where
the cattle (4) are accommodated, each accommodation space

comprising a floor with apertures (12) under which a part of
the transport system (20) is located, the transport system

(20) being so designed that excrements, which fall onto the
transport system (20) via an aperture (12) in a floor (6),

are conveyed to a central collecting space (18).
A climate control system (2) according to any one of
the preceding claims 2-4, characterized in that the transport

system (20) comprises at least one endless conveyor (24)
passed round reversing means (26).
A climate control system (2) according to claim 5,
characterized in that the collecting area extends (32) along

at least a portion of an upper part of the conveyor (24), the
collecting area (32) being bounded on either side by said

surface (34) sloping in the transverse direction of the
conveyor (24) and extending in the lengthwise direction of

the conveyor (24). 
A climate control system (2) according to any one of
the preceding claims, characterized in that the heating

device (48) is located under the upper part of the conveyor
(24) and extend in the lengthwise direction of at least a

portion of the conveyor (24).
A climate control system (2) according to any one of
the preceding claims, characterized by means for supplying

fresh air to at least a space (3) of the cattle house (1)
where the cattle (4) are accommodated arid for discharging

spent air of the accommodation space (3) for controlling the
climate in the accommodation space (3), the air being passed

along the transport system (20) in order to dry the
excrements.
A climate control system (2) according to claim 8,
characterized in that the climate control system (2) further

comprises a return flow path (36) with air treatment means
(38), 
the discharged, spent air of the accommodation space
(3) being supplied to the return flow path (36), the air

treatment means removing aggressive gases from the discharged
spent air in order to obtain the fresh air which is returned

to the accommodation space (3) via the return flow path (36).
A climate control system (2) according to claim 9,
characterized in that the return flow path (36) partly

coincides with the discharge path (16).
A climate control system (2) according to claim 10,
characterized in that the air treatment means are included in

a part of the return flow path (36) that does not coincide
with the discharge path (16). 
A climate control system (2) according to claim 9, 10
or 11, characterized in that the air treatment means comprise

a cooler (40) for cooling the spent air, the heat withdrawn
from the spent air by the cooler (40) being at least partly

supplied to the heating device (22).
A climate control system (3) according to any one of
the preceding claims 9-12, characterized in that the air

treatment means further comprise a biofilter (38) for
removing aggressive gases from the air, means (42) for

abstracting water vapour from the spent air and for killing
micro-organisms present in the spent air.
A climate control system (2) according to claims 9-13,
characterized in that the return flow path (36) further

comprises an exterior outlet (68) by which a percentage of
the air which flows through the return flow path (36) is

discharged to the atmosphere and an air inlet (70) by which
outside air is supplied to the return flow path (36).
A climate control system (2) according to any one of
the preceding claims, characterized in that the cattle house

(1) is of at least substantially airtight construction.
A cattle house (1) comprising a climate control system
(2) according to one or more of the preceding claims.
A method for processing liquid and solid excrements of
cattle accommodated in a cattle house, where liquid and solid

excrements of the cattle are deposited on a transport system
and at least a part of the liquid and solid excrements of the

cattle are separated from each other before they can mix, 
characterized in that drying is

realized by utilising a separate heating device and by passing
an air stream heated by the animal

heat of the cattle along the transport system,
wherein the excrements on the transport system are dried at least to

such an extent that the development of aggressive gases is practically prevented.
A method according to claim 17, characterized in that
the liquid and solid excrements of the cattle are passed via

a discharge path to a collecting space which is located
outside a space of the cattle house where the cattle are

accommodated.
A method according to claim 18, characterized in that
the excrements of the cattle are heated at least along a part

of the discharge path.
A method according to any one of the claims 17-19,
characterized in that fresh air is supplied to at least a

space in the cattle house where the cattle are accommodated
and spent air of the accommodation space is discharged in

order to control the climate in the accommodation space, the
spent air being passed along the at least partly separated

liquid and solid excrements in order to dry the excrements.
A method according to claim 20, characterized in that
the air discharged from the accommodation space is treated in

order to obtain fresh air after it has been passed along the
at least partly separated liquid and solid excrements and

whereafter the fresh air obtained from the spent air is
returned to the accommodation space. 
A method according to any one of the claims 17-21,
characterized in that the cattle house is of at least

substantially airtight construction.
A method according to claim 20 or 21,, characterized
in that the spent air is cooled before being returned to the

accommodation space, the heat withdrawn from the spent air
being at least partly used for heating the at least partly

separated liquid and solid excrements.
A method according to any one of the claims 17-23,
characterized in that the cattle house comprises a plurality

of mutually separated accommodation spaces where the cattle
are accommodated, the solid and liquid excrements of the

cattle of each accommodation space being at least partly
separated and conveyed to a central collecting space.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
