<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630345</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STORING AND DISPENSING SYSTEM FOR PRODUCTS PACKED IN A SEALED POUCH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8124	A47K1020	A47K1000	B65D8124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	A47K	A47K	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D81	A47K10	A47K10	B65D81	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A storing and dispensing system for pre-moistened tissues or granular products comprises a container (3) which is closable in a fluid tight manner and a pouch (5) having a sealed dispensing aperture (10) which after opening can be placed in the container (3). Opening the pouch (5) at a preformed dispensing aperture (10) and placing the tissues or granular products together with the pouch (5) in the container (3) instead of first removing the contents from the pouch (5), results in a better protection of the tissues or granules upon accidental falling and prevents contamination of the container (3) by for instance mould growth due to contact with wet tissues. The pouch (5) is preferably provided with means to affix it to the inside of the container (3), the container (3) having at its bottom an antislip support (39, 41). The pouch (5) can contain products of a granular nature. The label (7) closing the pouch dispensing aperture (10) can be applied to a receiving surface of the container (3) and can be re-applied to the pouch (5).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE CALUWE ROBERT CORNEEL J M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFLANDER JOSEPH FERNAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STULENS MARIELLE JEANNINE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE CALUWE, ROBERT, CORNEEL, J., M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFLANDER, JOSEPH, FERNAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STULENS, MARIELLE, JEANNINE, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a storing and dispensing system for a product 
packed in a sealed pouch, the system comprising: 
a container of relatively rigid material having a dispensing opening 
which is covered by a lid, the container being in its closed position 
sufficiently air-tight to prevent free exchange of air between the 
container's contents and the ambient, and a sealed pouch in which a 
product is contained, the pouch comprising a topface having opening 
means for manually opening the pouch, the pouch being after opening 
thereof storable inside the container, the opening means comprising a pre-formed 
dispensing aperture which is openably sealed by a cover member 
which is removable from the dispensing aperture. Such a system, wherein the pouch comprises pre-moistened tissues, is 
marketed by Scott Paper Co., Philadelphia, PA 19113, USA, under the 
trade name Baby Fresh. In this system, a refill pouch made of laminated polyethylene film 
contains a folded stack of wet baby wipes. On a topface of the pouch, the 
film is provided with a line of weakening, the topface being covered by a 
glued-on tab that firmly adheres to the topface. To open the pouch, the 
tab is pulled so that the film of the pouch is ripped and the contents are 
exposed. To prevent the moist tissues from drying out, they can be taken 
from the pouch and placed inside a box-shaped plastic container. It is  
 
also possible to place the opened pouch inside the container as is shown in 
instructions on the pouch. The above described refill system has as an advantage that by multiple use 
of the container, the waste coming from used-up product is reduced. 
Upon opening of the pouch however, the topface and the side face of the 
pouch are torn in a relatively irregular manner, so that the sides of the 
stack of tissues are exposed. Upon dispensing of the stack's topmost 
tissue from the container, the underlying tissues can accidentally be 
touched so that the hygienic conditions of those tissues deteriorates. 
Because the moist tissues can through the rip in the pouch contact the 
inside of the container, the container can in course of time be 
contaminated by the moisture of the tissues. A storing and dispensing system containing a pouch which has a pre-formed 
dispensing aperture is known from the European patent 
application EP-A-0 370 192. In this patent application a paperboard box is described for storage and 
dispensing of a stack of moist tissues. The paperboard box has a 
dispensing opening which is covered by a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Storing and dispensing system for a product packed in a sealed 
pouch, the system comprising: 


a container (3) of relatively rigid material having a dispensing 
opening (9) which is covered by a lid (12), the container being 

in its closed position sufficiently air-tight to prevent free 
exchange of air between the container's contents and the 

ambient and 
a sealed pouch (5) in which a product is contained, the pouch 
comprising a topface (11) having opening means for manually 

opening the pouch, the pouch (5) being after opening thereof, 
storable inside the container (3), the opening means comprising 

a pre-formed dispensing aperture (10) which is openably sealed 
by a cover member (7) which is removable from the dispensing 

aperture (10), 
 
Characterized in that the cover member (7) can be completely 

detached from the pouch without substantially damaging the cover 
member or the pouch, the cover member comprising an adhesive 

adapted for adhesively refastening the cover member over the 
dispensing aperture subsequent to detachment of the cover member, and
 
in that the container (3) comprises a smooth surface of at least equal 

size as the cover member (7) to which surface the cover member can 
be adhesively adhered in a detachable manner. 
Storing and dispensing system according to claim 1 
characterized in that the container is provided with an anti-slip 

support (39, 41) for exerting a force on the container (3) for 
preventing movement of the container in a direction perpendicular 

and/or parallel to a supporting surface on which the container is 
placable.  

 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of the preceding claims 
characterized in that the anti-slip support comprises suction naps 

(39). 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of the preceding claims 
characterized in that the container is at its bottom provided with at 

least one hole (41) through which a part of a glue strip (27, 29) that 
is attached to the pouch (5) can project and can contact a supporting 

surface of the container to provide the anti-slip support. 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of the previous 
claims, characterized in that the product contained in the pouch is of 

a granular nature.  
 
System according to any of the previous claims, characterized in that 
the pre-formed dispensing aperture (10) comprises a peripheral edge 

(14), the dispensing aperture exclusively extending in the plane of the 
topface (11) of the pouch so that upon placing of the pouch (5) in the 

container (3), the dispensing aperture (10) is parallel with the 
dispensing opening (9), the peripheral edge (14) of the dispensing 

aperture at most partly coinciding with a circumferential edge (16) of 
the topface (11). 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of the previous 
claims, characterized in that the dispensing aperture (10) is formed 

by a hole extending through the topface (11) of the pouch or by an 
endless line of weakening, the dispensing aperture (10) being covered 

by a tab (7) of larger size than the dispensing aperture (10), the tab 
(7) being connected to the pouch along the peripheral edge (14) of 

the dispensing aperture (10).  
 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of claims 1 to 6 
characterized in that the pouch (5) comprises a laminate of at least 

two layers, an outer layer comprising the dispensing aperture (10), 
the inner layer being continuous and covering the dispensing 

aperture, the opening means comprising a tab (7) that within the 
boundaries of the dispensing aperture in connected to the inner layer 

which is sufficiently thin to be torn upon removal of the tab from the 
dispensing aperture. 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of Claims 1 to 6 
characterized in that the pouch (5) comprises a laminate of at least 

two layers (11, 18), an inner layer comprising the dispensing 
aperture (10) which is formed by a hole extending through the inner 

layer (18) or by an endless line of weakening, the dispensing 
aperture (10) being covered by a tab (7) of larger size, the tab (7) 

being an integral part of the outer layer of the pouch (5) and being 
formed by a cut or a line of weakening in the outer layer. 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of claims 1 to 3 or 
any of claims 8 to 9, the product contained in the pouch comprising 

a stack (6) of pre-moistened tissues. 
Storing and dispensing system according to claim 10 characterized in 
that the pouch (5) comprises a stretchable material which is stretched 

at least in a direction transverse to the pouch's dispensing aperture 
(10), so that, upon relaxation of the pouch when tissues are removed 

from it, the pouch's dispensing aperture retracts to lie substantially in 
the plane of the topmost tissue in the stack. 
Storing and dispensing system according to any of the previous 
claims, characterized in that the system comprises means (27, 29, 

31, 33, 35, 37) for attaching the pouch (5) to the container (3) for 
preventing movement of the pouch towards the container's 

dispensing opening (9).  
 
Storing and dispensing system according to Claim 12 characterized in 
that the attaching means comprise suction naps which are placed at 

the inside of the container (3). 
Storing and dispensing system according to Claim 12 characterized in 
that the attaching means comprise a glue tape (27, 29), the glue tape 

being on one side permanently fixed to the bottom of the pouch (5) 
and being on its other side covered by a release paper. 
Storing and dispensing system according to Claim 12, characterised 
in that the attaching means comprise a system of engageable 

protrusions and loops (35, 37), the loops (37) being fixed to the 
bottom of the pouch, the protrusions (35) being fixed to the bottom of 

the inside of the container or the loops being fixed to the bottom of 
the inside of the container, the protrusions being fixed to the bottom 

of the pouch. 
Container for use in a storing and dispensing system according to any 
of claims 1-3 to 5, characterized in that the container comprises an 

anti-slip support (39,41). 
Container for use a storing and dispensing system according to any 
of claims 12 to 15, characterized in that the container comprises 

means for attaching the pouch to the container. 
Pouch for use in a storing and dispensing system according to any of 
the previous claims. 
Pouch for use in a storing and dispensing system according to any of 
claims 1 to 17, the pouch containing a stack of pre-moistened tissues, 

the pouch comprising a topface (11) having opening means for 
manually opening the pouch, the pouch (5) being, after opening 

thereof, storable inside the container (3), the opening means 

comprising a pre-formed dispensing aperture (10) which is sealed by 
a cover member (7) which is removable from the dispensing aperture 

(10), characterized in that the tissues' are provided with visual  
 

indication means for highlighting the tissue's edge (23) for easy 
handling. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
