<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626835</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ORTHOPEDIC ANKLE BRACE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F501	A61F502	A61F1306	A61F1306	A61F501	A61F502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	A61F13	A61F13	A61F5	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TORONTO RUSSELL A
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TORONTO, RUSSELL A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASTYR CHARLES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORONTO RUSSELL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BASTYR, CHARLES, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TORONTO, RUSSELL, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to orthopedic treatment
devices, particularly to an ankle brace, and more particularly to a
pliant ankle brace providing both compression and stability to the
entire ankle joint region.In the treatment of soft tissue or skeletal injuries to the ankle
joint, it is preferable to stabilize the ankle joint as well as portions of
the foot and leg in the region of the ankle joint. At the outset, when
the injury is in the acute rehabilitation phase, stabilization of the
ankle joint generally comprises compression and significant mobility
restriction thereof to reduce swelling and facilitate healing. As
treatment progresses and the injury enters the return to activity
phase, stabilization of the ankle joint generally requires lesser, yet
still somewhat significant, mobility restriction thereof.In the past, stabilization of the injury during the acute
rehabilitation phase has required casting of the ankle joint, thereby
immobilizing it. Removable ankle braces became available which
could subsequently be used to stabilize the injury during the return
to activity phase. Once the ankle joint was fully rehabilitated, a
removable abnkle brace could also be worn as a prophylaxis on the
healthy ankle joint to minimize the risk of re-injury during activity.US Patent number 4962768 describes an ankle support which
comprises an elastic sheath and two crossed elastic straps which
are anchored at the intersection thereof under the bottom portion of
the sheath which is located, in use, under the foot of the wearer.
The support is designed to stabilise the ankle joint and provide
protection from abnormal rotations of the ankle.More recently, removable ankle braces have been developed
which can even be employed during the acute rehabilitation phase
of the injury in the place of a cast. It is apparent that each phase of the injury has different
performance requirements for the ankle brace. While presently-available
ankle braces have specific utility for a given injury phase,
no one ankle brace is sufficiently versatile to be useful throughout
treatment of the ankle joint injury and thereafter when the ankle joint
is fully rehabilitated. Thus, known ankle braces are found to exhibit
at least one of the following deficiencies: lack of compression,
incomplete protection of the injury, discomfort when worn with a
shoe, and cumbersome when engaging in activity. As such, a need
exisits for an ankle brace that overcomes these deficiencies and
provides effective stabilization of the ankle joint
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ankle brace (10) comprising a boot (12) defining a
posterior, an anterior, and first and second sides, said boot having a

proximal segment (16) for encircling the lower leg above the ankle
joint and a distal segment (20) for encircling the foot below the ankle

joint;

a first tension strap (46) having two ends (50, 90), wherein a
first attachment means (52, 94) is provided for attaching a first end

(50;90) of said first tension strap to said boot and a second
attachment means is provided for attaching a second end (50; 90)

of said first tension strap to said boot (12), wherein at least one of
said first and second attachment means provides for releasable

attachment of said first tension strap, thereby enabling adjustment of
the tension in said first tension strap;
a second tension strap (48) having two ends (92, 102),
wherein a third attachment means is provided for attaching a first

end (90; 102) of said second tension strap to said boot and a fourth
attachment means is provided for attaching a second end (90; 102)

of said second tension strap (48) to said boot wherein at least one
of said third and fourth attachment means provides for releasable

attachment of said second tension strap, thereby enabling
adjustment of the tension in said second tension strap.

   characterised in that said first, second, third and fourth
attachment means are configured such that said first tension strap

(46) extends from said first side of said distal segment (20) around
the bottom of said distal segment to said second side of said

proximal segment (16), and said second tension strap (48) extends
from said proximal segment (16) around said posterior of said

proximal segment to said distal segment (20) and around the bottom
of said distal segment to said proximal segment.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said first tension
strap (46) extends around the bottom of said distal segment (20) at

a point in correspondence with the plantar vault (54) of the foot. 
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said second
tension strap (48) extends around said posterior of said proximal

segment at a point in correspondence with the achilles tendon (58)
of the lower leg.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said second
tension strap (48) extends around the bottom of said distal segment

(20) at a point in correspondence with the calcaneus (56) of the
foot.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said first tension
strap (46) extends around the bottom of said distal segment (20)

anterior to where said second tension strap (48) extends around the
bottom of said distal segment.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said second
tension strap (48) extends from said second side (36) of said

proximal segment (16), around said posterior of said proximal
segment to said first side (40) of said distal segment, around the

bottom of said distal segment, and along said second side of said
distal segment to said second side of said proximal segment.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said first
attachment means (52) is positioned on said first side (40) of said

distal segment (20).
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said second
attachment means (94) is positioned on said second side (36) of

said proximal segment (16).
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said third
attachment means is positioned on said second side (36) of said

proximal segment (16).
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said fourth
attachment means (94) is positioned on said second side (36) of

said proximal segment (16). 
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said boot (12) is
formed from a pliant material.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said boot (12) is
formed from an elastic material.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein said boot (12) is
formed from an inelastic material.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 wherein an anterior
opening (32) extends across said anterior of said proximal segment

(16) and further wherein a first flap (34) is provided to be releasably
fastenable to said first or second side of said proximal segment (16)

across said anterior opening (32) to adjust the width thereof.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 14 wherein said anterior
opening (32) extends across said anterior of said distal segment

(20) and further wherein a second flap (42) is provided to be
releasably fastenable to said first or second side of said distal

segment (20) across said anterior opening (32) to adjust the width
thereof.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 11 further comprising a
pair of first and second stiffening members (104a, 104b) attached to

said first and second sides (40,36) of said proximal segment (16)
respectively, wherein said first and second stiffening members are

substantially stiffer than said pliant material.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 further comprising a pair
of first and second retention members (106a, 106b) attached to said

first and second sides of said proximal segment (16) respectively
wherein said first and second retention members are positioned to

conformingly abut the upper portions of the malleoli of the ankle
joint.
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 further comprising a
retention strap (62; 64) encircling said proximal segment (16) and

posteriorly overlapping said second tension strap (48). 
An ankle brace as recited in claim 1 further comprising a first
row of eyelets (410) and a second row of eyelets (412) formed

substantially vertically on opposite sides of said boot (212)
respectively, and a lace (414) threadable through said first and

second rows of eyelets, thereby providing means for adjusting the
tension of said boot around the ankle joint.
An ankle brace as claimed in claim 16, wherein said first and
second stiffening members (104) are positioned to conformingly

abut the lower leg above the malleoli.
An ankle brace as claimed in claim 20 further comprising a
pair of first and second retention members (106) attached to said

first and second sides of said proximal segment respectively
wherein said first and second retention members are positioned to

conformingly abut the upper portions of the malleoli of the ankle
joint between the malleoli and said stiffening members.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
