<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628125</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH SECURITY MULTI-PANE WINDOW AND DOOR SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B6500	E05B6504	E05B6508	E05B6508	E05C1700	E05C1760	E06B332	E06B346	E06B366	E06B366	E06B510	E06B510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	E05B	E05B	E05C	E05C	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	E06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B65	E05B65	E05B65	E05B65	E05C17	E05C17	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	E06B3	E06B5	E06B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A high security multi-pane window and door system (10) describing a stationary outer frame (14) having sashes (15) mounted therein for relative translational movement. Each sash (15) includes a high strength grate (13) placed between two spaced and sealed panes (35) and the grate perimeter bars (33A, 33B, 33C) serving as a perimeter seal spacer bar for two spaced panes (35). A high strength elements system, being part of the high security multi-pane window and door system (10), and comprising: the grate (13) having attached with high strength joints a lock (61), trolleys (57), bottom and top interlocking elements (40, 41), interlocking with bottom and top channels (43, 69). The high strength elements system cannot be disassembled nor opened while the lock bolt (49) is in locked position, even when ventilation gaps are left between the outer frame (14) and the sash (15). The high security multi-pane window and door system (10) incorporates thermo-insulating materials and features thermally broken design.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROZYCKI JERZY J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROZYCKI, JERZY J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZYCKI JERZY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZYCKI, JERZY J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HIGH SECURITY MU ΪI-PΛNE WINDOW AND DOOR SYSTEMBackground-Field of InventionThis invention relates generally to multi-pane window and door systems. More specifically, the present invention is directed to an improved window and door system, having incorporated protective grate and lock systems therein.Background-Description of Prior ArtMulti-pane window and door systems are known generally in the art. Such systems have two or more panes enclosed in wooden, metal, or plastic sash and frame. Operable and nonoperable window, or door grates are used separately from multi-pane window and door sashes. Glass windows and doors without additional grates are generally the easiest points for burglar and alike penetration into a building. Grates are often not allowed for aesthetical reasons. Electronic alarm systems, even if they work properly, usually do not resolve immediate penetration problem by burglar and alike. It takes time after activation of alarm systems for security, or else to show up and damage might be done. 

 Objects of InventionIt is an object of the present invention to provide high security, protective, insulated, multi-pane window and door assembly, having greatly improved resistance to burglar and alike penetration;It is another object of the present invention to provide high security, protective, insulated, multi-pane window and door assembly which appears to be ordinary insulated, multi-pane, glass window, or door with colonial grids;It is yet another object of the present invention to provide high security, insulated, multi-pane window and door assembly having good thermal, sound and weather insulating properties;It is also an object of the present invention to provide high security, insulated, multi-pane window and door assembly having greatly improved resistance to burglar and alike penetration, both in locked position with no ventilation gap, or in positions with different sizes of ventilation gaps;It is further another object of the present invention to provide high security, insulated, multi-pane window and door assembly having greatly improved strength, durability and deformation resistance.Summary of InventionThe present invention is directed to an improved insulated, multi-pane window and door system having innovative safety features and substantially standard and defined thickness and frame sizes; good thermal insulation, weather resistance, strengths, durability and deformation resistance.The improved, insulated, multi-pane, sliding window and door system comprises: 

 a grate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
I claim:
1. A high security multi-pane window and door system, said system comprising: a first and second pane in a closely spaced apart, substanti parallel relationship, each pane having an inner surface facing the other; a grate made of high strength substantially rigid material, between and in a very closely spaced apart, substantially parallel relationship to said first pane and said second pane, said grate comprising of inner bars and connected thereto perimeter bars, said inner bars and said perimeter bars being secured thereto by means of high strength joints at points of their intersection; a seal between and in contacting relationship with said first pane and said second pane along the periphery of the inner surfaces of said first pane and said second pane, said seal comprising of said perimeter bars and bounding means, said bounding means between and in contacting relationshi with inner surfaces of said first pane, said second pane and said perimeter bars; a sash frame encasing perimeter of said first pane, said second pane and said seal, said sash frame having good thermo- insulating properties, the sash comprises of: said sash frame, said first pane, said second pane, said seal and said inner bars; an outer frame having good thermo-insulating properties and incorporating extruded elements, said extruded elements being made of high strength substantially rigid material; means for relative movement between said outer frame and said sash; high strength means for securing said extrusions to a 


 building wall or other structure; locks, said locks while in a locked mode positions, securing by high strength means said grates to said extruded elements, in the vicinity of said high security multi-pane window and door system said locks can not be operated witiiout access code means, said extruded elements, said grates, said locks, said locked mode positions and said means of high strength joints comprise a high strength element system being an integral part of said high security multi-pane window and door system, said high strength element system having thereof components positioned in such a way that allows neither movement nor removal of any thereof components while said locks are in said locked mode positions, said high strength element system has components positioned and spaced in such a way, that a human being can not pass through thereof while said locks are in said locked mode positions, even if said first panes, said second panes, said sash frames and said outer frames are removed.
2. The system of claim 1 further including interlocking elements made of high strengths substantially rigid material and secured to said perimeter bars of said grate by said means of high strength joints, said interlocking elements, being integral part of said high strength element system, and interlock with said extruded elements.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein said locked mode positions of said lock are arranged in such a way to allow for multitude of sizes of ventilation gaps between said outer frame and said sash frame, said ventilation gaps have the sizes not allowing for passage of a human being through, even if said outer frame, said first pane, said second pane and sash said frame are removed. 


 4. The system of claim 1 further including removal cutouts positioned in: said outer frame and said extruded elements, to facilitate removal of said sashes from said outer frame, said removal cutouts being spaced in such a way, that said sashes can not be removed from said outer frame while said locks are in said locked mode positions, said high security multi-pane window and door system includes cover elements, said cover elements being removed to facilitate said sash removal and are meant to improve thermo-insulating properties of said high security window and door system.
5. The system of claims 1, 2 and 3.
6. The system of claims 1, 2, 3 and 4.
7. The system of claim 5 wherein said locks made of high strength material being inserted into a lock covers, said lock covers made of high strength material being secured to said perimeter bars by the high strength means;
8. The system of claims 6 and 7.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein said sash frame and said outer frame being made of extruded plastic and including multitude of weather-striping.
10. The system of claims 2 and 9.
11. The system of claims 5 and 9.
12. The system of claims 6 and 9.
13. The system of claim 1 wherein all said inner bars being parallel thereto to facilitate accommodation thereon hollow 


core grid being made of decorative material and covering all visible, after said sash assembly, surfaces of said inner bars and said perimeter bars.
14. The system of claims 2 and 13.
15. The system of claims 5 and 13.
16. The system of claims 6 and 13.
17. The system of claims 10 and 13.
18. The system of claims 11 and 13.
19. The system of claims 12 and 13.
20. The system of claim 13 further including multiple panes positioned in plane of said grate, spaced from and placed in between said first pane and said second pane, and moulded into said hollow core grid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
