<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630025</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor memory device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C11419	G11C11418	G11C11417	G11C11419	G11C11417	G11C11418	G11C710	G11C710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C7	G11C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A semiconductor memory device comprises: a memory cell 
array having memory cells (1) arranged into a matrix 

pattern; a plurality of word lines (WL) each for selecting 
the memory cells arranged in the same line of the memory 

cell array; a plurality of bit lines (BL, NBL) each 
connected in common to the memory cells arranged in the 

same column of the memory cell array, for transmitting and 
receiving data to and from one of the memory cells selected 

by one of the word lines; a plurality of first column 
decoders (FCD) each for selectively connecting one of a 

predetermined number of the bit lines to one of a plurality 
of first common data lines (FDL, FNDL); a plurality of 

writing transistors (2) each provided for one of a plurality 
of the first common data lines and each having a data 

input line for inputting data applied from the outside 
thereto, the data inputted from the outside through the 

data input line being written in one of the selected memory 
cells so that data of a plurality of bits can be simultaneously 

written; a second column decoder (SCD) for selectively 
connecting one of the first common data lines to a 

second common data line; and a sense amplifier (4) connected 
to the second common data line, for reading data from 

the selected memory cell via the bit line, the first common 
data line and the second common data line, and for 

outputting the read data to the outside as one-bit data. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory
device, and more specifically to a semiconductor memory
device of random access type provided with hierarchical
column decoders of more than two stages.In a random access memory (RAM) which can write and
read data at random in and from a memory unit, a plurality
of memory cells are arranged into a two-dimensional matrix
pattern. Further, data given from the outside are written
in the memory cells arranged at intersections between a
selected word line and selected bit lines, or read out of
the memory cells through sense amplifiers.In more detail, when data are written in the memory
cell, a word line is first selected on the basis of an
address signal inputted from the outside, so that the
memory cells connected to the word line are selected.
Here, the data inputted from the outside are inputted to
a pair of bit lines selected by a write circuit and through
a common data line pair respectively, and then written in
the memory cells.On the other hand, when data are read, first a word
line is selected on the basis of an address signal inputted
from the outside, so that the memory cells connected to the
word line are selected. After that, the selected memory
cells output data stored therein to a pair of the bit
lines, respectively. The data outputted to a pair of the
bit lines are transmitted to a pair of common bit lines
through a column decoder, amplified by sense amplifiers,
and then outputted to the outside.Here, a 4-M SRAM will be described hereinbelow as an
example of the conventional semiconductor memory devices.
Fig. 3 shows a partial circuit diagram showing the same. 
As shown, a plurality of cells 1(1), 1(2), .. for storing
data are connected between a bit line pair composed of a
bit line BL and a bit line NBL (an inversion signal line
of the bit line BL). The cell 1 is of a static type memory
cell as shown in Fig. 6, for instance. These memory cells
are arranged into a matrix pattern so as to form a memory
cell array. A plurality of the memory cells 1, 1, ..
arranged in the same column of the memory cell array are
connected between the same two bit lines BL and NBL, and
a plurality of the memory cells 1, 1, .. arranged in the
same row are connected to any one of word lines WL(1),
WL(2), ... In an example shown in Fig. 3, only one bit
line pair and only two word lines WL(1) and WL(2) are shown
for brevity. Here, the cell 1(1) can be selected by the
word line WL(1). To the bit line pair between which the
cell 1(1) is connected, a first column
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor memory device provided with a
predetermined number of memory cell blocks (BLK) each for

outputting one-bit data and for writing a predetermined
number of bits of data simultaneously, each said memory

cell block (BLK) comprising:

a memory cell array having memory cells (1) arranged
into a matrix pattern;
a predetermined number of word lines (WL) each for

selecting the memory cells (1) arranged in the same row of
said memory cell array;
a predetermined number of bit lines (BL, NBL) each
connected in common to the memory cells (1) arranged in

the same column of said memory cell array, for
transmitting and receiving data to and from one of the

memory cells (1) selected by one of said word lines (WL);
a predetermined number of first column decoder units
(FCD) each for selectively connecting one of a

predetermined number of said bit lines (BL, NBL) to one of
a plurality of first common data lines (FDL, FNDL);
a predetermined number of second column decoders
(SCD) for selectively connecting one of said plurality of

first common data lines (FDL, FNDL) to a second common
data line (SDL, SNDL); and
a sense amplifier (4) connected to the second common
data line (SDL, SNDL), for reading data from the selected

memory cell (1) via said bit lines (BL, NBL), the first
common data lines (FDL, FNDL) and the second common data

line (SDL, SNDL), and for outputting the read data to the
outside as one-bit data;

   characterized in that each said memory cell block
(BLK) further comprises: 


a predetermined number of writing means (3) each
provided for one of said plurality of first common data

lines (FDL, FNDL) and each having a data input line (DIN,
DINI) for inputting data applied from the outside thereto,

the data inputted from the outside through the data input
line (DIN, DINI) being written into one of the memory

cells (1) selected by said word lines (WL) and said first
column decoder units (FCD) so that data of the

predetermined number of bits can be simultaneously
written.
The semiconductor memory device of claim 1, wherein the
number of memory cell blocks (BLK) is one.
The semiconductor memory device of claim 1, wherein the
number of memory cell blocks (BLK) is two or more.
The semiconductor memory device of any one of the
preceding claims, wherein the number of all of said first

common data lines (FDL, FNDL), first column decoder units
(FCD) and writing means (3) is two or more.
The semiconductor memory device of any one of the
preceding claims, wherein in each of said first column

decoder units (FCD), said bit lines (BL, NBL) are
connected in common to the first common data line (FDL,

FNDL); a first switching means is connected between said
bit line (BL, NBL) and the first common data line (FDL,

FNDL); and the first switching means is turned on or off
in response to a first column decode signal (CD, CDI)

applied from the outside, to connect one of a
predetermined number of said bit lines (BL, NBL) to the

first common data line (FDL, FNDL).
The semiconductor memory device of any one of the
preceding claims, wherein in each of said writing means

(3), write switching means (2) is connected between the 
data input line (DIN, DINI) and the first common data line

(FDL, FNDL).
The semiconductor memory device of 6, wherein said write
switching means (2) is controllably turned on or off in

response to a switch control signal (SD*CDP*WE) obtained
by a logical operation of the first column decode signal

(CD, CDI).
The semiconductor memory device of any one of the
preceding claims, wherein in said second column decoder

unit (SCD), the first common data lines (FDL, FNDL) are
connected to the second common data line (SDL, SNDL); a

second switching means is connected between each of the
first common data lines (FDL, FNDL) and the second common

data line (SDL, SNDL); and the second switching means is
turned on or off in response to a second column decode

signal (CDP, CDPI) applied from the outside, to connect
one of the first common data lines (FDL, FNDL) to the

second common data line (SDL, SNDL).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
