<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626154</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Remote controllable penile prosthetic system and method of operating the same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F226	A61F226	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An implantable penile prosthesis system which 
includes a fully implantable and elongatable prosthesis 

that is operated by remote control. The system comprises:
 

   an implantable penile prosthesis (12) including,
 

   first fluid chamber means (16) located adjacent a 
distal end of said prosthesis, and being inflatable with 

pressurizing fluid,
 

   second fluid chamber means (18) for selectively 
storing fluid and located adjacent a proximal end of said 

prosthesis opposite said first fluid chamber means,
 

   fluid transfer means (20) adapted to be coupled to 
and cooperate with said first and second chamber means and 

being operable for selectively transferring fluid between 
said first and second chamber means in response to remote 

control operation thereof, so as to cause an erect 
condition of the penis in one mode and operable so as to 

permit withdrawal of the fluid therefrom to effect a 
flaccid condition of the penis in a second mode, said 

transfer means including,
 

   displaceable plunger means (54),
 

   energizable electromagnetic means (44) selectively 
operable for displacing said plunger means within said 

fluid transferring means in response to energization of 
said electromagnetic means,

 
   and valve means (60) associated with housing means 

(38) for allowing fluid flow between said first and second 
chamber means; and

 
   means (58) operable for energizing said energizable 

means from a remote location. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HELMY ALI M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HELMY, ALI M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELMY ALI M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELMY, ALI M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to penile 
erection systems for overcoming erectile dysfunctions. 
More particularly, it relates to penile erection systems 
which are remotely controlled and elongatable, as well as 
a method of operating the same. A wide variety of approaches have been proposed for 
overcoming erectile dysfunctions to thereby alleviate the 
trauma associated therewith. One practice generally 
accepted is to apply a vasodilator type drug directly to 
the penis for selectively effecting erections. 
Significant difficulties tend to arise, however, with the 
application of these drugs since dosages are usually self-administered 
by injection. Such injections have a 
tendency to be both frightening and painful to some 
patients. In addition, repeated injections may result in 
hematoma, infection and eventually penile fibrosis. 
Consequently, there are significant drawbacks. Another common approach for overcoming dysfunctions 
includes utilization of implantable prostheses. A 
number of different types of prostheses have been 
proposed. Penile erections are achieved upon selective 
introduction of fluid to an extensible chamber of the 
prosthesis implant that is located within a portion 
of a penis. Essentially, the fluid is transferred from a  
 
suitable reservoir, which is either integral with the implant or 
separate therefrom, through a valve system and finally into an 
extendable distal end chamber of the prothesis which expands and 
causes penile erection. Return of the penis to a flaccid 
condition occurs when the fluid is withdrawn from this distal end 
chamber and returns to the reservoir. A variety of mechanisms exist for operating implant systems. 
The overwhelming majority of them tend to require distinct manual 
manipulations of a separate reservoir in the form of a bulb or 
some other comparable component for forcing the fluid into the 
distendable chamber for effecting an erection. Subsequently, 
compression of the filled chamber manually effects fluid return 
to the reservoir to thereby bring about a flaccid penile 
condition. There are, however, disadvantages associated with 
such mechanisms, not the least of which includes significant 
inconvenience, such as in obtaining manual proficiency required 
in manually pumping the fluid to effect either erect or flaccid 
penile conditions. Still another known approach is described in U.S. Patent No. 
4,941,461 issued to Fischell. This patent describes use of a 
remote control device for remotely controlling erection of a 
pe
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A remote controllable penile prosthetic system, 
comprising: 

   an implantable penile prosthesis (12) including, 
   first fluid chamber means (16) located adjacent a 

distal end of said prosthesis, and being inflatable with 
pressurizing fluid, 

   second fluid chamber means (18) for selectively 
storing fluid and located adjacent a proximal end of said 

prosthesis opposite said first fluid chamber means, 
   fluid transfer means (20) adapted to be coupled to 

and cooperate with said first and second chamber means and 
being operable for selectively transferring fluid between 

said first and second chamber means in response to remote 
control operation thereof, so as to cause an erect 

condition of the penis in one mode and operable so as to 
permit withdrawal of the fluid therefrom to effect a 

flaccid condition of the penis in a second mode, said 
transfer means including, 

   displaceable plunger means (54), 
   energizable electromagnetic means (44) selectively 

operable for displacing said plunger means within said 
fluid transferring means in response to energization of 

said electromagnetic means, 
   and valve means (60) associated with housing means 

(38) for allowing fluid flow between said first and second 
chamber means; and 

   means (58) operable for energizing said energizable 
means from a remote location. 
The system of claim 1 wherein said fluid 
transferring means includes housing means coupled to and 

between said first and second chamber means and defining 
an elongated housing chamber for fluidly coupling said 

first and second chamber means;
 

said energizable means being positioned within said chamber and 
said plunger means movable within said chamber in at least one 

direction in response to selective energization of said 
energizable means for allowing fluid to flow from said second 

chamber means through said valve means to said first chamber 
means. 
The system of claim 2 wherein said valve means includes 
a pair of double-acting valve means, each of said double-acting 

valve means is located adjacent a corresponding end of said 
housing means and is coupled to respective ones of said first and 

second chamber means, and said plunger means includes a double-acting 
valve means for allowing fluid flow therethrough in 

opposite directions. 
The system of claim 2 wherein said first fluid chamber 
means is compressible manually to allow fluid to be forced 

therefrom. 
The system of claim 1 wherein said remote control means 
includes a portable wand containing an electromagnetic field 

generator which generates selective ones of electromagnetic 
fields of opposite polarity so as to induce currents of opposite 

polarity in said energizable means. 
The system of claim 3 wherein each of said double-acting 
valve means includes at least one passage and an one-way flap 

valve which is openable and closable by said flap valve, and a 
second passage which is openable and closable by a ball type 

check valve therein. 
The system of claim 4 wherein said first fluid chamber 
means is elongatable. 
The system of claim 7 wherein said first fluid chamber 
means includes an elongatable bladder that receives pressurizing 

fluid therein for elongated expansion. 
The system of claim 2 wherein said energizable means 
includes a fluid passage therethrough for allowing passage of 

fluid between said first and second fluid chamber assemblies. 
The system of claim 2 wherein said second fluid chamber 
means includes an expandable bladder and a cage assembly 

connected to said transfer housing means for allowing unimpeded 
expansion and contraction when said prosthesis is implanted and 

said cage facilitating securement of said prothesis to a base of 
a penis. 
The system of claim 2 wherein said plunger means 
includes at least one passage and an one-way flap valve which is 

openable and closable by said flap valve, and a second passage 
defined by a central member which said second passage is openable 

and closable by a one-way valve, said central member having fluid 
passage openings therein which are arranged to enhance flow of 

fluid through said central body between said one and second 
passage. 
An unitary penile prosthetic apparatus which is adapted 
to be remote controllable, said apparatus comprising: 

   a fully implantable, self contained, penile prosthesis 
including,

 
   first fluid chamber means located adjacent a distal end 

of said prosthesis and being alternatively inflatable with 
pressurizing fluid so as to cause an erect condition of the 

penis, or operable so as to permit withdrawal of the fluid 
therefrom to effect a flaccid condition in the penis, 

   second fluid chamber means located adjacent a proximal 
end of said prothesis and adapted for selectively storing fluid, 

   fluid transfer means adapted to be coupled to and cooperate 
with said first and second chamber means and being operable for 

selectively transferring fluid between said first and second 
chamber means in response to remote control operation thereof; 

and, 
   said transfer means including displaceable plunger means, 

stationary electromagnetic means operable for displacing said 
plunger means within said fluid transferring means in response to 

actuation of said electromagnetic means and valve 
means for allowing fluid flow between said first and second 

chamber means. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said fluid 

transferring means includes housing means coupled to and between 
said first and second chamber means and defining an elongated 

housing chamber; said energizable means being positioned within 
said chamber and said plunger means movable within said chamber 

in at least one direction in response to selective energization 
of said energizable means for allowing fluid to flow from said 

second chamber means through said valve means to said first 
chamber means. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said valve means 
includes a pair of double acting valve means, each located 

 
adjacent a corresponding end of said housing chamber and 

respective ones of said first and second chamber means, and said 
plunger means includes a double acting valve means for allowing 

fluid flow therethrough in opposite directions. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said first fluid 
chamber means is compressible manually to allow fluid to be 

forces therefrom. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said remote control 
means includes a portable wand containing an electromagnetic 

field generator which generates selective ones of 
electromagnetic fields of opposite polarity so as to induce 

currents of opposite polarity in said energizable means. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said double-acting 
valve means includes a passage having one-way flap valve in one 

orientation and a passage having a ball type check valve therein. 
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said first fluid 
chamber means is elongatable. 
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said first fluid 
chamber means includes an elongatable bladder that receives 

pressurizing fluid therein for elongated expansion. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said energizable 
means includes a fluid passage therethrough for allowing passage 

of fluid between said first and second fluid chamber assemblies. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said second fluid 
chamber means includes an expandable bladder and a cage assembly 

connected to said transfer housing means for allowing unsuspected 
expansion and contraction when said prothesis is implanted and 

said cage facilitating securement of said prothesis to a base of 
a penis. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said plunger means 
includes at least one passage and an one-way flap valve which is 

openable and closable by said flap valve, and a second passage 
defined by a central member, an one-way valve in said second 

passage said central member having fluid passage openings therein 
which are arranged to enhance flow of fluid through said central 

body between said one and second passages. 
A method of remotely controlling an implantable unitary 
penile prosthetic apparatus, said method comprising the steps of: 

   providing a fully implantable penile prosthesis including 

(a) first fluid chamber means located adjacent a distal end of 
the prosthesis and being inflatable with pressurizing fluid so as 

to cause an erect condition of the penis, and operable so as to 
permit withdrawal of the fluid therefrom to effect a flaccid 

condition of the penis; 
(b) second fluid chamber means for selectively storing fluid 
and located adjacent a proximal end of the prothesis; 
(c) fluid transfer means adapted to be coupled to and 
cooperate with the first and second chamber means and being 

operable for selectively transferring fluid between the first and 
second chamber means; 
 
   said transfer means including displaceable plunger means, a 

stationary electromagnetic means, and valve means for allowing 
 

fluid flow between the first and second chamber means and a fluid 
passage through the electromagnetic means; and 

   remotely energizing the electromagnetic means so as to cause 
displacement of the plunger means to thereby effect transfer of 

fluid either to or from the first fluid chamber means. 
A method of remotely controlling an implantable unitary 
penile prosthetic apparatus, said method comprising the steps of: 

   providing a fully implantable penile prosthesis including 

(a) first fluid chamber means located adjacent a distal end of 
the prosthesis and being inflatable and elongatable with 

pressurizing fluid so as to cause an erect condition of the 
penis, and operable so as to permit withdrawal of the fluid 

therefrom to effect a flaccid condition of the penis; 
(b) second fluid chamber means for selectively storing fluid 
and located adjacent a proximal end of the prothesis; 
(c) fluid transfer means adapted to be coupled to and 
cooperate with the first and second chamber means and being 

operable for selectively transferring fluid between the first and 
second chamber means; 
 
   said transfer means including displaceable plunger means, a 

stationary electromagnetic means, and valve means for allowing 
fluid flow between the first and second chamber means and a fluid 

passage through the electromagnetic means; and 
   remotely energizing the electromagnetic means so as to cause 

displacement of the plunger means and transfer of fluid either to 
or from the first fluid chamber means and corresponding into and 

out of the second fluid chamber means. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
