<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639945</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
KEY AND HOLDER COMBINATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A45C1100	A45C1132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A45C	A45C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A45C11	A45C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A key and holder combination, comprising a holder (2, 4) shaped as a card of standard dimensions and provided with an impression (12) for housing a key (14), and with means for connecting said holder to said key, characterized in that said connection means (20) consists of an articulated joint element permanently connected to said card (2) and to said key (14) and formed in at least two parts to provide said connection both when the key (14) is housed in said impression (12) and when the key is completely spaced from said card (2).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SILCA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SILCA S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOTTEON RENATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIES EZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOTTEON, RENATO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIES, EZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a key and holder combination. Metal keys inserted into plastics holders in the 
standard form of credit cards are known. For this purpose the 
holder comprises an impression corresponding to the form of 
the key, which can be completely housed in said impression 
and be either permanently or releasably connected to it. Generally if the key is of the releasable type a part of 
the impression which houses it is shaped in such a manner as 
to interfere with the head of the key in order to retain it, 
but to also enable it to be removed. This method is valid in 
terms of manoeuvrability of the key when separated from the 
card, but is less valid from the reliability aspect, as the 
key can be lost. If however the key is permanently connected to the card 
this problem does not arise, but the key is then of poor 
manoeuvrability because when turned it also inevitable 
rotates the card or in any event is hindered by this latter 
in its movement. US-A-5 046 343 discloses a key holder combination, 
comprising a holder shaped as a card and provided with an 
impression for housing the key. There are means for 
connecting the holder to the key, which consist of an 
articulated joint element, having three degrees of freedom,  
 
permanently connected to the holder and to the key and formed 
in at least two parts to provide the connection both when the 
key is housed in the impression and when the key is completely 
spaced from the holder. The object of the invention is to provide a key with 
holder in which on the one hand the key is permanently 
connected to the relative holder, and on the other hand can 
be operated without being in any way hindered by the holder. This and further objects are achieved according to the 
invention through a key and holder combination as described 
in claim 1. Some preferred embodiments of the present invention are 
described in greater detail hereinafter with reference to the 
accompanying drawings, in which: 
Figure 1is a plan view of a combination according to the 
invention with the holder closed and the key housed 
therein; Figure 2is a plan view thereof with the holder open and the 
key housed therein; Figure 3is a plan view thereof with the holder open and the 
key extracted therefrom; Figure 4is a plan view thereof with the holder closed and 
the key extracted therefrom; Figure 5is an enlarged longitudinal section through the  
 
element connecting the key to the holder; Figure 6shows a second embodiment of the combination 
according to the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A key and holder combination, comprising a holder (2,4) 
shaped as a card and provided with an impression (12) for 

housing the key (14), and with an articulated joint element 
for connecting said holder to said key, said joint having 

three degrees of freedom and being formed in at least two 
parts to provide said connection both when the key is housed 

in said impression and when the key is completely spaced from 
said holder, characterised by the following features: 


the articulated joint connects a corner of the head of the 
key (14) with a corner of the holder, 
the holder consists of a base (2) and a cover (4) hinged 
each other to along a side and having, when superposed, the 

size of a usual credit card, 85x54 mm, 
the cover (4) and the base (2) are provided with means 
(8,10) which are mutually snap-engageable, 
the thickness of the corner part of the base (2) to which the 
articulated joint is applied corresponds to the overall 

thickness of the base plus the cover, the corresponding 
corner part of the cover being lacking. 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the snap engageable means consists of projections (8) 

and notches (10).  
 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the hinge between the base (2) and the cover (4) is 

represented by a thinned part of the actual plastics material 
from which both are formed. 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the cover (4) is hinged to the base (2) along one of 

their larger sides. 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the cover (4) is hinged to the base (2) along one of 

their smaller sides. 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the depth of the impression (12) is less than the 

thickness of the base (2). 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that that part of the impression (12) relative to the head 

(16) of the key (14) is complementary to the shape of said 
head, whereas that part of the impression corresponding to 

the shaft (18) of the key is larger than said shaft. 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the articulated joint element (20) comprises two short 

stems (22) hinged about their longitudinal axis to the head 
(18) of said key (14) and to said holder, and hinged to each 

other about an axis perpendicular to their longitudinal axis.  
 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the articulated joint element (20) comprises two short 

stems (22) each formed from two parts hinged together about 
the longitudinal axis of the relative stem, one of the two 

parts of each stem being hinged to the corresponding part of 
the other stem about an axis perpendicular to the 

longitudinal axis of said stems. 
A combination as claimed in claim 9, characterised in 
that one of the two stems (22) is hinged to the holder (2,4) 

by a pin (26) inserted through the constituent plastics 
material of the holder (2) in proximity to a corner thereof. 
A combination as claimed in claim 10, characterised in 
that the pin (26) is positioned in a thickned part (24) of 

the constituent plastics material of the holder (2,4). 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the holder (2,4) is provided with a magnetic band (28). 
A combination as claimed in claim 12, characterised in 
that the magnetic band is provided on a thinned part of the 

holder. 
A combination as claimed in claims 7 and 12, 
characterised in that the magnetic band (28) is provided in 

the holder cover (4). 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised by  
 

comprising a programmable memory (30) incorporated into the 
plastics material of the holder (2,4). 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the holder comprises a region carrying in coded form 

data relative to the specification of the key (14). 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that an impression (12') for a second key is provided in the 

base (2) of the holder. 
A combination as claimed in claim 16, characterised in 
that the second key to be housed in the second impression 

(12') is permanently connected to the base (2) by a separate 
articulated connection member (20). 
A combination as claimed in claim 16, characterised in 
that the second key is connected to the impression (12) by 

double-adhesive tape. 
A combination as claimed in claim 16, characterised in 
that a pocket portion is provided in the second impression 

(12') for the insertion of the second key. 
A combination as claimed in claims 1 and 13, 
characterised in that the cover (4) is of smaller width than 

the base (2). 
A combination as claimed in claim 21, characterised in 

that that part of said base not covered by the cover is  
 

thinned and carries the magnetic band (28). 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the holder when closed is slightly convex in the sense 

of having thinned edges. 
A combination as claimed in claim 1, characterised in 
that the holder houses a transmitter circuit for radio 

control purposes. 
A combination as claimed in claim 1 characterised in 
that the head (16) of the key is provided with a seat (32) 

into which an appendix (38) snap engages being integral with 
the bottom of the impression (12). 
A combination as claimed in claim 25 characterised in 
that the appendix (38) consists of a radially shrinkable peg 

cooperating with a circumferential rib (34) foreseen in the 
seat (30). 
A combination as claimed in claim 1 characterised in 
that the key (16) is axially pierced to snap engage the arm 

(40) of a cross piece (42) articulated to a portion (44) 
around an axis orthogonal to the axis of said arm (40), said 

portion (44) being articulated to the holder. 
A combination as claimed in claim 27 characterised in 
that the portion (44) consists of two different parts, 

respectively a cross piece (46) articulated to the holder and  
 

an intermediate element (48) supporting the cross piece (42) 
and elastically snap engaging with the cross piece (46). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
