<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627525</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Multiple section special trackwork fastener.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01B700	E01B722	E01B900	E01B942	E01B962	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01B	E01B	E01B	E01B	E01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01B7	E01B7	E01B9	E01B9	E01B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A special trackwork fastener (10) for supporting a railroad rail and 
attaching it to a support structure. The trackwork fastener (10) is 

modularly constructed and includes a top plate (20), resilient end portions 
(12) and (16), optional resilient center portion (14), and securing elements 

(18). The special trackwork fastener (10) has the versatility to be used in a 
large number of special trackwork situations such as turnouts, crossovers, 

crossings and switches or the like, which require a variety of lengths of 
trackwork fastener (10). The vertical compression stiffness and 

adjustability in length is provided by two opposed end portions (12),(16) and 
an optional center portion (14) which is molded or cut to length such that 

the portions collectively match the length of the top plate (20) and therefore 
the top plate (20) is fully supported along its length. The elastomer portions 

can be cored out to provide the desired compression stiffness. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LORD CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILDENSTON ROBERT F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEINGANG CHARLES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILDENSTON, ROBERT F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEINGANG, CHARLES J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the area of trackwork fasteners for railway 
rails. More particularly, the invention is directed to the area of elastomeric 
trackwork fasteners for supporting loads, providing vibration isolation, 
shock attenuation, and electrical insulation for the special trackwork areas 
of railways such as turnouts, crossovers, crossings and switches. In the olden days of railroad transportation, the rails were directly 
fastened to wooden railroad ties with railroad spikes. At turnouts, 
crossovers, crossings and switches, where there are special support and 
securing requirements, special fasteners were used to allow fastening of 
the rails to the support structure. Such special fasteners are described in 
US patent 1,126,530 to Liebmann. Trackwork fasteners of the resilient-type flexibly attach the railroad 
rail to a supporting structure such as a railroad tie or concrete abutment. 
Again, at turnouts, crossovers, crossings and switches, the problem arises 
of how to fasten the rail at these junctures. US patent 2,424,916 to Stedman 
describes one such method which uses a resilient base plate. Rapid transit 
systems which have a high voltage third rail further require the trackwork 
fastener to insulate the rail from the support structure. In addition, the  
 
rail is resiliently supported to provide shock attenuation 
and vibration isolation of the support structure. One such 
resilient trackwork fastener for the abovementioned rapid 
transit installations is described in US patent 3,576,293 to 
Landis. In all cases, a top portion of the trackwork 
fastener is secured to the rail by suitable means such as 
the spring clips described in the commonly assigned US 
patent 4,307,837 issued to Leingang. Further development in the area of resilient trackwork 
fasteners for turnouts, crossovers, crossings and switches 
led to the development of the trackwork fastener described 
in the commonly assigned Us patent 5,022,584 to Sherrick, 
which is herein incorporated by reference. Generally, a 
special trackwork fastener needs to be adaptable to a large 
number of special trackwork situations, it needs to be 
simple, cost effective and easily installed with as many 
standard components as possible. The trackwork fastener 
concept also needs to be such that it can be adapted and 
made to fit many special trackwork situations in the field. In light of the requirements for a special trackwork 
fastener the invention provides an elastomeric assembly 
adapted for use with a top plate and which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A trackwork fastener for attaching a railroad rail to a support 
structure, including a top plate, means for securing said railroad 

rail to a rail receiving surface, a plurality of holes formed through 
said top plate, said top plate including a load-bearing surface opposite 

said rail-receiving surface, said trackwork fastener being 
characterized by 


(a) a first end portion for supporting said top plate, said first end 
portion including a first elastomer section and means for 

restraining movement relative to said top plate, said first end 
portion having a load-receiving surface and a load-reacting 

surface opposing said load-receiving surface, one of said load-reacting 
surfaces of said first end portion and said load-receiving 

surface of said first end portion contacting said load-bearing 
surface of said top plate; 
(b) a second end portion for supporting said top plate, including a 
second elastomer section and means for restraining movement 

relative to said top plate, said second end portion including a load-receiving 
surface and a load-reacting surface opposing said load-receiving 

surface, one of said load-receiving surface of said second 
end portion and said load-reacting surface of said second end 

portion contacting said load-bearing surface of said top plate, said 
 

second end portion being movable relative to said first end portion 
in a direction which is generally transverse to said railroad rail; 
(c) means for attaching said first and second end portions to said 
top plate; 
 
whereby said top plate is fully supported along its length. 
The trackwork fastener according to Claim 1 further characterized 
by a center portion for supporting said top plate including a center 

plate and a center elastomer section adjacent thereto, said center 
plate having a load-receiving surface and said center elastomer 

section having a load-reacting surface opposing said load-receiving 
surface, at least one of said center portion and said first and second 

end portions including means for restraining movement of said first 
and second end portions and said center portion relative to said top 

plate, said load-receiving surface of said center plate contacting said 
load-bearing surface of said top plate. 
A trackwork fastener according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 further characterized by 
said means for securing said rail including spring clip shoulders 

which are adapted for use with spring clips. 
A trackwork fastener according to Claim 3 further characterized by 
said spring clip shoulders being welded to said top plate. 
A trackwork fastener according to any of the 
preceding claims characterized by said first end portion and 

said second end portion including at least two bores in each 
for receiving first and second securing elements. 
A trackwork fastener according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterized by said first 

elastomer section being made of natural rubber elastomer, 
neoprene elastomer, urethane elastomer or styrene-butadiene 

elastomer. 
A trackwork fastener according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterized by said top plate 

being manufactured from plate steel having a thickness range 
between 0.6875 and 1.25 inches. 
A trackwork fastener according to any one of the 
preceding claims further characterized by said first plate 

being manufactured from plate steel having a thickness range 
between 0.125 and 0.375 inches. 
A trackwork fastener according to Claim 2 or any of 
Claims 3 to 8 when dependent on Claim 2, further 

characterized by said means for restraining movement of said 
center portion relative to said top plate including a 

channel and a tongue. 
A trackwork fastener according to Claim 2 or any 
one of Claims 3 to 8 when dependent on Claim 2, further 

characterized by said means for restraining movement of said 
center portion relative to said top plate including a tongue 

and a recess. 
A trackwork fastener according to Claim 2 or any of 
 

Claims 3 to 8 dependent on Claim 2, further characterized by 
said means for restraining movement of said center portion 

relative to said top plate including an adhesive securing 
said center portion to said top plate. 
A trackwork fastener according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further characterized by said means for 

restraining movement of said end portion relative to said 
top plate including two securing elements extending first 

through said top plate and then through said end portion. 
A trackwork fastener according to any one of the 
preceding claims, further characterized by said at least two 

securing elements including a washer, an inner member, a 
non-conducting sleeve and an elastomer section. 
A trackwork fastener according to Claim 2 or any 
one of Claims 2 to 13 dependent on Claim 2, further 

characterized by at least one of said center portion and 
said first and second end portions including a cored out 

area. 
A trackwork fastener according to Claim 2 or any 
one of Claims 2 to 14 when dependent on Claim 2, further 

characterized by said center portion exhibition a spring 
rate per unit length between the ranges of 10,000-20,000 

pounds/inch/inch. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
