<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616605</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOL-GEL PROCESS FOR FORMING A GERMANIA-DOPED SILICA GLASS ROD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B1912	C03B1912	G02B600	G02B600	C03B802	C03B37016	C03B802	C03B37016	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	C03B	G02B	G02B	C03B	C03B	C03B	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B19	C03B19	G02B6	G02B6	C03B8	C03B37	C03B8	C03B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAZAKI CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAZAKI CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRKBIR FIKRET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAYCHAUDHURI SATYABRATA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRKBIR, FIKRET
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAYCHAUDHURI, SATYABRATA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to sol-gel 
processes for producing glass rods suitable for use in 
producing optical fibers and, more particularly, to such 
processes for producing glass rods that are doped with 
germanium dioxide, making the rods suitable for use in 
producing optical fibers of high numerical aperture. One common family of processes for producing 
rods of this particular kind involves the vapor deposition 
of fine particles of silicon dioxide (SiO₂), or silica, and 
germanium dioxide (GeO₂), or germania. In one such 
process, called the outside vapor deposition (OVD) 
process, fine particles of silica and germania, often 
called soot particles, are deposited layer by layer on a 
horizontal, rotating mandrel. The deposition is performed 
at sufficiently high temperatures to partially sinter the 
particles and form a porous cylinder. A core of germania 
and silica is deposited first, followed by a pure silica 
cladding. At the conclusion of deposition, the mandrel is 
removed and the tube is sintered, or densified, at 1500° 
to 1600°C to a dense glass rod, or preform. A second vapor deposition process of this kind, 
called the vertical axial deposition (VAD) process, also 
forms a cylindrical body using soot particles, but 
deposition occurs from one end, or axially. The core and 
cladding are deposited simultaneously, using two torches. 
When complete, the cylindrical body is sintered to a dense 
glass rod, under conditions similar to those used in OVD 
process.  
 In a third vapor deposition process, called the 
modified chemical vapor deposition (MCVD) process, high-purity 
gas mixtures are injected into a rotating, high-quality, 
pure silica tube, which is mounted in a glass 
working lathe and heated by a traversing oxyhydrogen 
torch. A gas phase reaction occurs in the hot zone 
created by the torch, to produce particles that deposit 
downstream of the hot zone. The heat from the moving 
torch sinters this deposit to form dense glass layers. A 
number of layers of germania and silica soot particles are 
deposited in this fashion. The cladding layer consists of 
pure silica. In all of these vapor deposition processes, the 
core glass is composed of germania-doped silica, because 
germania increases the refractive index of the glass. The 
refractive index increases progressively with germania 
concentration. The glass used as cladding around the core 
is usually pure silica, which has a lower refractive index 
than germania-doped silica. This refractive index 
difference results in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for forming a germania-doped silica 
glass rod containing at least 10 mole percent germania, 

comprising the steps of:
 
   forming a first solution of tetraethyl 

orthosilicate, tetraethyl orthogermanate, and ethanol;
 
   forming a second solution of ethanol and 

deionized water;
 
   adding the second solution to the first 

solution at a controlled rate, under continuous stirring, 
to form a third solution in which hydrolysis of the silicon 

and germanium of the first solution is initiated;
 
   forming a fourth solution of ethanol, deionized 

water, and a catalyst comprising hydrofluoric acid;
 
   adding the fourth solution to the third 

solution at a controlled rate, under continuous stirring, 
to form a fifth solution in which condensation of the 

hydrolyzed silicon and germanium is initiated, thereby 
producing a wet gel matrix having an average pore radius of 

at least 4.5 nanometers, the matrix including hydroxyl 
groups;
 
   exchanging ethanol for fluid in the pores of 

the wet gel;
 
   drying the wet gel matrix under supercritical 

conditions of ethanol;
 
   chlorinating the dried gel matrix by exposing 

it to gaseous chlorine for at least one hour at a 
temperature of a least 700°C to substitute chlorine for the 

hydroxyl groups;
 
   oxygenating the chlorinated gel matrix by 

exposing it to gaseous oxygen for at least 24 hours at a 
temperature of at least 700°C to substitute oxygen for the 

chlorine;
 
   purging the oxygenated gel matrix of gaseous 

oxygen by exposing it to gaseous helium; and
 
   densifying the oxygen-purged gel matrix at a 

temperature above 1200°C for no longer than 30 minutes to  
 

densify the matrix into a clear, germania-doped silica 
glass rod and ensure that the glass rod subsequently can be 

raised in temperature to its softening point without 
causing it to bubble. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
molar ratio of tetraethyl orthosilicate to tetraethyl 

orthogermanate in the first solution is equal to or less 
than 9:1. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
step of exchanging is carried out at a temperature in the 

range of 20°C to 55°C for 24 hours. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
step of exchanging is carried out at least twice. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
step of drying the wet gel matrix under supercritical 

conditions of ethanol includes heating the wet get to a 
temperature of 250°C at a pressure of 75.4 to 82.3 bar 

(1100 to 1200 psi). 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
temperatures and time durations of the chlorinating, 

oxygenating, and purging steps ensure that the gel matrix 
shrinks by no more than 15 percent. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein:
 
   the step of chlorinating includes a step of 

exposing the dry gel to a gaseous mixture of chlorine and 
either helium, oxygen or helium and oxygen, for at least 

one hour, at a temperature of at least 700°C;
 
   the step of oxygenating includes a step of 

exposing the chlorinated gel to substantially pure gaseous 
oxygen for at least 24 hours, at a temperature of at least 

700°C; and
  
 

   the step of purging includes a step of exposing 
the oxygenated gel to gaseous helium for at least five 

hours, at a temperature of at least 700°C. 
A process as defined in claim 7, wherein the 
step of oxygenating includes exposing the wet gel to a 

constant flow of 100 percent, ultra pure oxygen for at 
least 24 hours. 
A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the 
step of densifying further includes a step of raising the 

temperature of the oxygenated gel at a rate of at least 5°C 
per minute, followed by a step of lowering the temperature 

of the oxygenated gel at a rate of at least 5°C per minute. 
A process as defined in Claim 1, wherein
 
   the molar ratio of tetraethyl orthosilicate to 

tetraethyl orthogermanate in the step of forming the first 
solution is equal to or less than 9:1;
 
   the step of exchanging ethanol for fluid in the 

pores of the wet gel includes maintaining the wet get at a 
temperature in the range of 20°C to 55°C for 24 hours;
 
   the step of drying the wet gel matrix under 

supercritical conditions of ethanol includes heating the 
wet gel to a temperature of 250°C at a pressure of 75.4 to 

82.3 bar (1100 to 1200 psi);
 
   the step of chlorinating the dried gel matrix 

includes exposing the dry gel to a gaseous mixture of 
chlorine and either helium, oxygen, or helium and oxygen, 

for at least one hour, at a temperature of at least 700°C;
 
   the step of oxygenating the chlorinated gel 

matrix includes exposing the chlorinated gel to 
substantially pure gaseous oxygen for at least 24 hours, at 

a temperature of at least 700°C;
 
   the step at purging the oxygenated gel matrix 

includes exposing the oxygenated gel to gaseous helium for 
at least five hours, at a temperature of at least 700°C; 

and
  
 

   the step of densifying the oxygen-purged gel 
matrix includes raising the temperature of the oxygenated 

gel at a rate of at least 5°C per minute, maintaining the 
oxygenated gel at a temperature greater than 1200°C for a 

time duration of less than 30 minutes, and then lowering 
the temperature of the oxygenated gel at a rate of at least 

5°C per minute. 
A process as defined in claim 1 or claim 10, 
wherein the step of exchanging is carried out at least 

twice. 
A process as defined in claim 1 or claim 10, 
wherein the second solution is added to the first solution 

at a drop-wise rate, and the fourth solution is added to 
the third solution at a drop-wise rate. 
A process as defined in claim 12, wherein:
 
   the first solution includes one mole of a 

mixture of tetraethyl orthosilicate and tetraethyl 
orthogermanate, and two moles of ethanol;
 
   the second solution includes one mole of 

ethanol and one mole of water;
 
   the second solution is added to the first 

solution at a rate of 20 drops per minute;
 
   the fourth solution includes one mole of 

ethanol, two moles of deionized water, and one-twelfth mole 
of hydrofluoric acid; and
 
   the fourth solution is added to the third 

solution at a rate of 20 drops per minute. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
