<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617034</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
2-Debenzoyl-2-acyl taxol derivatives and methods for making same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31335	A61K31335	A61K31337	A61K31337	A61P3500	A61P3500	C07D30500	C07D30514	C07D40500	C07D40512	C07D40900	C07D40912	C07F700	C07F718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07D	C07F	C07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61P35	A61P35	C07D305	C07D305	C07D405	C07D405	C07D409	C07D409	C07F7	C07F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to 2-debenzoyl-2-acyl 
taxol derivatives, analogues thereof and methods for 

making same. 
Compounds of the present invention include compounds 
having the general formula: 


   wherein R₁ is an alkyl or substituted alkyl; R₂ is 
selected from the group consisting of H and C(O)R
a
; R₃ is 
selected from the group consisting of H, protecting 

groups, R
b
, and C(O)R
b
; R₄ is selected from the group 
consisting of H and C(O)R
c
, and wherein R
a
, R
b
, and R
c
 are 
independently selected from the group consisting of 

alkyls, substituted alkyls, alkenyls, alkynyls, aryls, and 
substituted aryls; provided that R
a
 is other than phenyl 
and 3-hydroxyphenyl. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIRGINIA TECH INTELL PROP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VIRGINIA TECH INTELLECTUAL PROPERTIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAUDHARY ASHOK GOPAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHARPURE MILIND MORESHWAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUNATILAKA LESLIE A A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINGSTON DAVID G K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIMOLDI JOHN MATTHEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAUDHARY, ASHOK GOPAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHARPURE, MILIND MORESHWAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUNATILAKA, LESLIE A. A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINGSTON, DAVID G.K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RIMOLDI, JOHN MATTHEW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to 2-debenzoyl-taxol 
and methods for preparing same, 2-debenzoyl-2-acyl taxol 
analogues thereof, and methods for making same. The anti-cancer drug taxol 1 has shown excellent 
clinical activity against ovarian cancer and breast cancer 
and has also shown good activity against non-small cell 
lung cancer in preliminary studies. See "Taxol: A Unique 
Antineoplastic Agent With Significant Activity in an 
Advanced Ovarian Epithelial Neoplasms," Ann. Intern. Med., 
111, 273-279 (1989), and "Phase II Trial of Taxol, an 
Active Drug in the Treatment of Metastatic Breast Cancer," 
J. Natl. Cancer Inst., 83, 1797-1805 (1991). Taxol was 
first isolated and its structure reported by Wani, et al, 
in "Plant Anti-Tumor Agents. VI. The Isolation and 
Structure of Taxol. A Novel Anti-Leukemic and Anti-Tumor 
Agent From Taxus Brevifolia," J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1971, 93, 
2325. Taxol is found in the stem bark of the western yew, 
Taxusbrevifolia, as well as in T. baccata and T. 
cuspidata. All references cited herein are incorporated 
by reference as if reproduced in full below.     The preparation of analogues of taxol is an important 
endeavor, especially in view of taxol's clinical activity 
and its limited supply. The preparation of analogues 
might result in the synthesis of compounds with greater 
potency than taxol (thus reducing the need for the drug), 
compounds with superior bioavailability, or compounds 
which are easier to synthesize than taxol from readily 
available sources. Indeed, the synthesis of the taxol 
analogue taxotere 2, which differs from taxol only in the 
nature of the N-acyl substituent and in the absence of the 
10-acetyl group, indicates the usefulness of this 
approach, since taxotere is reported to be approximately 
twice as active as taxol in some assays. See "Chemical 
Studies of 10-deacetyl Baccatin III. Hemisynthesis of 
Taxol Derivatives." Tetrahedron, 42, 4451-4460 (1986),  
 
and "Studies With RP56976 (taxotere): A Semi-Synthetic 
Analogue of Taxol." J. Natl. Cancer Inst., 83, 288-291 
(1991). 
   Numerous analogues of taxol having modifications of 
the C-13 side chain have been prepared. See U.S. Patent 
5,059,699. Many of the derivatives bearing modifications 
on the C-13 side chain have demonstrated anti-cancer 
activity. See for example: "The Chemistry of Taxol," 
Pharmac. Ther., 52, 1-34 (1991) and references therein, 
"Synthesis and Evaluation of some water-soluble prodrugs 
and derivatives of taxol with anti-tumor activity, J. Med. 
Chem., 35,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Analogues of taxol having biological activity and 
comprising a substituted benzoyloxy group at the C-2 

position of the B-ring of the tetracyclic taxane nucleus 
provided that, when the para-substituent, the ortho-substituents 

and one meta-substituent is H, the other 
meta-substituent is other than a substituent selected from 

the group consisting of H and OH. 
The analogues of claim 1, wherein said substituents 
are independently selected from the group consisting of 

hydrogen, halogens, alkoxys, diatomics, and linear 
triatomics. 
The analogues of claim 2, wherein neither of said 
meta-substituents are H. 
The analogues of claim 2, wherein one of said 
substituents on the meta positions of the C-2 benzoyloxy 

group is H, and the other meta-substituent is selected 
from the group consisting of nitro, fluoro, methoxy, 

chloro, cyano, and azido. 
The analogues of claim 4, wherein the ortho 
substituents and the para substituents are H and wherein 

one of said substituents on the meta positions of the C-2 
benzoyloxy group is H, and the other meta-substituent 

comprises an azido moiety. 
Compounds having antineoplastic activity and having 
the general formula: 

 
   wherein R₁ is a substituted alkyl; R₅ is selected 

from the group consisting of H and acyls; R₂ is selected 
from the group consisting of H, OH, oxyprotecting groups 

and acyls; R₃ is selected from the group consisting of H, 
OH, and acyls, wherein said acyls are the same or 

different; R₄ is H or OH; and provided that R₅ is other 
than C(O)C₆H₅ and C(O)-3-hydroxyphenyl. 
The compounds of claim 6, wherein R₄ is OH and R₂ is 
OH or an oxyprotecting group or an acyl. 
The compounds of claim 7, wherein R₁ has the general 
formula: 

 
   wherein Ar is an aryl or substituted aryl; Z is 

selected from the group consisting of substituted alkyls, 
alkenyls, alkoxys, aryls and substituted aryls; X is H or 

a protecting group; and Y is selected from the group 
consisting of H, protecting groups, alkyloyls, substituted 

alkyloyls, substituted aryloyls, and aryloyls. 
The compounds of claim 8, wherein X is H and R₅ is 
C(O)Ra and Ra is an alkyl or a substituted alkyl. 
The compounds of claim 8, wherein X is H and R₅ is H. 
The compounds of claim 8, wherein Y and X are 
C(O)OC(CH₃)₃ and wherein Z and Ar are C₆H₅. 
The compounds of claim 8, wherein X is H, R₃ is 

OC(O)CH₃, Ar is phenyl or substituted phenyl, and Z is 
selected from the group consisting of phenyl, substituted 

phenyl and OC(CH₃)₃. 
The compound of claim 12, wherein R₂ is selected from 
the group consisting of OH and protecting groups. 
Compounds having the formula: 
 

wherein R is selected from the group consisting of H and 
C(O)Ra wherein Ra is selected from the group consisting of 

alkyls, substituted alkyls, aryls, and substituted aryls; 
provided that Ra is other than phenyl and 3-hydroxyphenyl. 
Compounds having the general formula:  
   wherein Z is C(O)OC(CH₃)₃; R₁ is C(O)OC(CH₃)₃; R₂ is 

selected from the group consisting of H and C(O)Ra, 
wherein Ra is selected from the group consisting of 

alkyls, substituted alkyls, aryls, and substituted aryls; 
and R₃ is a protecting group or hydrogen. 
The compounds of claim 15, wherein R₂ is C(O)C₆H₅ and 
wherein R₃ is selected from the group consisting of H, 

Si(C₂H₅)₃, and C(O)OC(CH₃)₃. 
The compounds of claim 6 having the general formula: 

 

   wherein T, U, V, W, and X are any substituents 
provided that T, U, V, W, and X are not all H and when T, 

U, V, and W are H, X is not OH, and when T, U, V, and X 
are H, W is not OH. 
The compound of claim 17, wherein R₄ is OH and R₁ has 
the general formula: 

 
   wherein Ar is an aryl or substituted aryl; Z is 

selected from the group consisting of substituted alkyls, 
alkenyls, alkoxys, aryls and substituted aryls; and Y is 

selected from the group consisting of H, protecting 
groups, alkyloyls, substituted alkyloyls, substituted 

aryloyls, and aryloyls. 
The compounds of claim 18, wherein Ar is phenyl or 
substituted phenyl and further wherein T, U, W, V, and X 

are independently selected from the group consisting of 
hydrogen, halogens, alkoxys, diatomics, and linear 

triatomics. 
The compounds of claim 19, wherein R₃ is OC(O)CH₃ and 
wherein R₂ is selected from the group consisting of OH, 

triethylsilyloxy, and t-butoxycarbonyloxy. 
The compounds of claim 20, wherein X is N₃ and T, U, 
W, and V are H. 
The compounds of claim 20, wherein T, U, and W are H, 
V is Cl, and X is Cl. 
The compounds of claim 20, wherein X is N₃. 
The compounds of claim 20, wherein X comprises an 
azido moiety. 
The compounds of claim 20, wherein Z is selected from 
the group consisting of C₆H₅ and OC(CH)₃, and Ar is C₆H₅. 
The compounds of claim 25, wherein T, U, and V are H 
and W and X are independently selected from the group 

consisting of chloro, azido, fluoro, and cyano. 
Compounds having the general formula:  
   wherein T, U, V, W, and X are any substituents 

provided that T, U, V, W, and X are not all H and when T, 
U, V, and W are H, X is not OH, and when T, U, V, and X 

are H, W is not OH. 
The compounds of claim 27, wherein T, U, W, V, and X 
are independently selected from the group consisting of 

hydrogen, halogens, alkoxys, diatomics, and linear 
triatomics. 
The compounds of claim 28, wherein V, W, and X are 
alkoxy groups and T and U are hydrogen. 
The compound of claim 28, wherein T, U, V and W are 
H and X is N₃. 
The compound of claim 28, wherein T, U, W, V, and X 
are fluorine. 
The compounds of claim 28, wherein T, U, and V are H 
and W and X are halogens. 
The compounds of claim 28, wherein T, U, V and W are 
H and X is selected from the group consisting of NO₂, Cl, 

F, and CN. 
The compound of claim 28, wherein T, U, and W are H, 
V is Cl, and X is Cl. 
The compound of claim 28, wherein W, V, and X are all 
methoxy and T and U are hydrogen. 
The compound of claim 28, wherein T and U are 
hydrogen and W, V, and X are fluorine. 
The compound having the formula: 

Analogues of taxol in which the substituent at the C-2 
position on the B-ring of the taxane tetracyclic nucleus 

is QC(O)O wherein Q is a heterocyclic compound. 
The compounds of claim 38, wherein Q is thiophene. 
Analogues of taxol in which the benzoyl group of 
taxol has been replaced by the acyl, C(O)Ra, wherein Ra is 

selected from the group consisting alkyl, substituted 
alkyl, aryl, and substituted aryl; 

   provided that Ra is not phenyl or 3-hydroxyphenyl. 
The analogues of claim 40, wherein Ra is a 
substituted alkyl. 
The analogues of claim 41, wherein said acyl has the 
formula shown below: 


A pharmaceutical composition, comprising an 
antineoplastically effective amount of at least one of the 

compounds of claim 1. 
Use of the taxol analogues of claim 1 in formulating 
pharmaceutical preparations for administration to patients 

suffering from cancer. 
Use of the taxol analogues of claim 6 in formulating 
pharmaceutical preparations for administration to patients 

suffering from cancer. 
Use of taxol analogues having the general formula: 
 

in formulating pharmaceutical preparations for 
administration to patients suffering from cancer;

 
   wherein R₁ is a substituted alkyl, R₂ is selected 

from the group consisting of H, OH, alkoxy groups, 
oxyprotecting groups and acyls, and R₃ is selected from 

the group consisting of H, OH, and acyls, wherein said 
acyls are the same or different and R₄ is H or OH; wherein 

T, U, V, W, and X are any substituents provided that T, U, 
V, W, and X are not all H and when T, U, V, and W are H, 

X is not OH, and when T, U, V, and X are H, W is not OH. 
The use of claim 46, wherein R₁ has the general 
formula: 


 
   wherein Ar is an aryl; Z is selected from the group 

consisting of alkyls, alkenyls, alkoxys, and aryls; and Y 
is selected from the group consisting of H, alkyloyls, 

substituted alkyloyls, substituted aryloyls, and aryloyls 
   and further, wherein R₄ is OH, R₃ is C(O)CH₃, R₂ is 

H, and Z is selected from the group consisting of C₆H₅ and 
OC(CH₃)₃. 
The use of claim 47, wherein T, U, V, W, and X are 
independently selected from the group consisting of 

halogens, alkoxys, diatomics, and linear triatomics. 
Use of the taxol analogues of claim 30 in formulating 
pharmaceutical preparations for administration to patients 

suffering from cancer. 
Use of the taxol analogues of claim 37 in formulating 
pharmaceutical preparations for administration to patients 

suffering from cancer. 
A method for making a first taxol analogue compound 

having a hydroxy or acyloxy substituent at the C-2 
position from a second taxol analogue compound having a 

benzoyloxy substituent at the C-2 position, comprising a 
step of base catalyzed hydrolysis under phase transfer 

conditions wherein the benzoyloxy substituent of said 
second compound is replaced by a hydroxyl; 

   wherein said first compound has the formula: 
 

   wherein R₁ is a substituted alkyl, R₅ is selected 
from the group consisting of H and C(O)Ra, R₂ is selected 

from the group consisting of H, OH, oxyprotecting groups 
and acyloxys, and R₃ is selected from the group consisting 

of H, OH, and acyloxys, wherein Ra is selected from the 
group consisting of alkyls, substituted alkyls, aryls, 

substituted aryls, and heterocyclic compounds; wherein 
said acyloxys can be the same or different, and R₄ is H or 

OH; 
   and said second compound has the formula:  

   wherein R₇ is a substituted alkyl, R₆ is selected 
from the group consisting of H, OH, oxyprotecting groups 

and acyloxys, and R₃ is selected from the group consisting 
of H, OH, and acyloxys, wherein said acyloxys can be the 

same or different, and R₄ is H or OH. 
The method of claim 51, wherein R₄ is OH and R₁ and 
R₇ are the same or different and have the general formula: 


 
   wherein Ar is an aryl or substituted aryl; Z is 

selected from the group consisting of alkyls, alkenyls, 
alkoxys, and aryls; and Y is selected from the group 

consisting of H, alkyloyls, substituted alkyloyls, 
substituted aryloyls, and aryloyls. 
The method of claim 52, wherein R₅ is C(O)Ra, and 
further comprising a reaction with an acylating agent 

occurring subsequently to the replacement of said benzoyl 
moiety by H. 
The method of claim 53, wherein R₁ and R₇ are the 
same, Ar is phenyl or substituted phenyl, Y is H, R₃ is 

OC(O)CH₃, and R₆ is OH, and further comprising a step of 
protecting the hydroxyl groups at the C-2' and C-7 

positions prior to said step of base catalyzed hydrolysis; 
and further comprising a step of deprotecting said C-2' 

and C-7 positions following said reaction with an 
acylating agent. 
The method of claim 54, wherein Ar is C₆H₅, Z is 
selected from the group consisting of C₆H₅ and OC(CH₃)₃, 

and further wherein said step of protecting the hydroxyl 
groups comprises reacting with a trialkylsilylhalide, and 

wherein said base catalyzed hydrolysis consists of 
reacting a 2',7-trialkylsilyl-protected derivative of said 

second compound in a mixture comprising aqueous sodium 
hydroxide, an organic solvent and a phase transfer 

catalyst. 
The method of claim 55, wherein said acylating agent 
comprises a carboxylic acid. 
The method of claim 56, wherein R₅ is QC(O) and Q is 
a heterocyclic compound. 
The method of claim 52, wherein Ar is phenyl or 
substituted phenyl, and R₅ is H, and further wherein said 

base catalyzed hydrolysis comprises reaction in a mixture 
comprising aqueous sodium hydroxide, an organic solvent 

and a phase transfer catalyst. 
The method of claim 53, wherein R₅ has the formula: 
 

   wherein T, U, W, V, and X are any substituents. 
The method of claim 59, wherein T, U, W, V, and X are 
independently selected from the group consisting of 

hydrogen, halogens, alkoxys, diatomics, and linear 
triatomics. 
The method of claim 60, wherein R₃ is C(O)CH₃, Ar is 
C₆H₅, Z is selected from the group consisting of C₆H₅ and 

 
OC(CH₃)₃, and Y is selected from the group consisting of 

H and triethylsilyl. 
The method of claim 61, wherein Y in said second 
compound is triethylsilyl and R₆ is triethylsilyloxy and 

further wherein said second compound is debenzoylated via 
reaction in a mixture comprising aqueous sodium hydroxide, 

a phase transfer catalyst, and an organic solvent, to 
yield a compound having a hydroxyl at the C-2 position. 
The method of claim 62, wherein T, U, W and V are H, 
and further comprising a step wherein said compound having 

a hydroxyl at the C-2 position is reacted with meta-C₆H₄X-COOH. 
The method of claim 63 where X is N₃. 
A method of debenzoylating the C-2 position of taxol 
or a taxol analogue bearing a benzoyloxy substituent at 

the C-2 position comprising the step of hydrolyzing said 
taxol or taxol analogue in a mixture comprising aqueous 

sodium hydroxide, an organic solvent and a phase transfer 
catalyst. 
A method for reacylating the product of the method of 
claim 65 comprising a step of reacting said product with 

an acylating agent. 
A method of acylating the C-2 position of taxol or a 
taxol analogue bearing a benzoyloxy substituent at said C-2 

position, wherein said taxol or taxol analogue comprises 
 

C-2' and C-7 hydroxyl substituents; and further comprising 
a step of protecting said hydroxyl substituents with 

trialkylsilyl groups, replacing said benzoyloxy 
substituent by a hydroxyl substituent via base catalyzed 

hydrolysis, and subsequent to said step of protecting, a 
step of reacylating to form an acyl at said C-2 position 

other than benzoyl. 
The method of claim 67 further comprising 
deprotecting said hydroxyl groups at said C-2' and C-7 

positions by removal of said trialkylsilyl groups. 
A method for making a taxol analogue having a hydroxy 
or acyloxy substituent, other than benzoyloxy and 3-hydroxybenzoyloxy, 

at the C-2 position of the B-ring of 
the taxane tetracyclic nucleus comprising the step of 

removing a benzoyl moiety from said C-2 position of a 
second compound having the tetracylic taxane nucleus and 

having a benzoyloxy group at said C-2 position. 
The method of claim 69, wherein said taxol analogue 
has the formula: 


 
   and said second compound has the formula: 

 
   and further wherein said second compound is converted 

to said taxol analogue compound by the addition of lithium 
hydroxide. 
The method of claim 69, wherein said second compound 
is taxol, comprising: a) reacting taxol with di-t-butyl 

dicarbonate in the presence of an activating agent; (b) 
reacting the product of step a) with a 

trialkylsilylhalide; c) reacting the product of step b) 
with di-t-butyl dicarbonate in the presence of an 

activating agent; d) reacting the product of step c) with 
lithium hydroxide to remove the benzoyl group from said C-2 

position; and e) reacting the product of step d) with an 
acylating agent to yield a taxol analogue having the 

formula:  
wherein R₃ is a trialkylsilyl protecting group and R is 

selected from the group consisting of alkyl, substituted 
alkyl, aryl, and substituted aryl. 
The method of claim 71, wherein said acylating agent 
comprises a reagent selected from the group consisting of 

acid halides, β-lactams, anhydrides, and carboxylic acids. 
The method of claim 72, wherein said acylating agent 
further comprises an activating agent. 
The method of claim 73, wherein said 
trialkylsilylhalide is triethylsilylchloride and said 

activating agent is dimethylaminopyridine. 
The method of claim 71, wherein said second compound 

has the formula: 
 

   and wherein R₃ is a trialkylsilyl and wherein said 
taxol analogue has the formula: 

 
   wherein R is selected from the group consisting of 

alkyl, substituted alkyl, aryl, and substituted aryl; and 
wherein said method further comprises the step of 

deprotection; said deprotection step occurring subsequent 
to said step of adding an acylating agent. 
The method of claim 75, wherein said deprotection 
step comprises the addition of formic acid. 
The method of claim 69 wherein said second compound 
has C-2' and C-7 positions having hydroxyl substituents 

and has a C-3' position having an amide substituent, and 
comprising: 


a) protecting said hydroxyl and amide substituents, 
and 
b) removing said benzoyl at said C-2 position of the 
compound resulting from step a) by reacting with lithium 

hydroxide; and 
c) reacting the compound resulting from step b) with 
an acylating agent. 
The method of claim 77 further comprising removing 
protecting groups from said hydroxyl and amide 

substituents of the compound resulting from step c). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
