<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643435</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Tunable filter
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01P700	H01P700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01P	H01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01P7	H01P7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A transmission line resonator is disclosed, the resonance frequency whereof 
being controllable electrically with a control voltage (V+). The transmission line 

is provided with two coupling points (1,2), wherebetween part of the length 
(TLIN2) of the transmission line is included. From said points a reactive circuit 

has been coupled in parallel with said part (TLIN2), the reactance value whereof 
being changed with the control voltage (V+). The reactive circuit can be 

inductive or capacitive, and the control voltage controls either the switch to 
couple said circuit in parallel with a part of the transmission line, or the 

capacitance value of the capacitance diode. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FILTRONIC LK OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FILTRONIC LK OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIIRANEN ERKKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIIRANEN, ERKKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a transmission line resonator for radio frequency
filters having a tunable resonance frequency.Using coils and capacitors as components in constructing filters is highly
common in the art. As the frequency increases, the effect of the losses in the
coils and capacitors starts to significantly influence the properties thereof. In
particular the loss due to the internal resistance of the capacitors and the series
inductance becomes significant, as well as stray capacitances and the loss
resistance of the coils. In order to maintain high performance of the filters at
higher frequencies than usually used with lumped elements, it is necessary to
use transmission line resonators.The use of transmission line resonators, in the present context meaning helical,
coaxial or strip line resonators, in filters in the frequency range from 50 to 2,000
MHz is well known in the art. With coaxial resonators, these being typically e.g.
ceramic and helical resonators, good high-frequency properties are achieved in a
small volume. By coupling several resonators in succession, filters generally
used in high-frequency technology can be implemented, such filters being
needed in widely varying types of radio apparatus. Strip line resonators and
microstrip resonators are widely used from about 1 GHz upwards. Typically in
the frequency range from 50 MHz to 1.5 GHz helical resonators are used. A
helical resonator is typically fabricated from a winding of silver coated copper
wire insulated by air from a metal coated housing into which the coil is placed.The manufacturers of radio apparatus insist on filters being smaller in height, or
at least in volume than before, and in spite of that, still having as good a
performance as before. A smaller filter volume can be obtained by reducing the
number of the resonators in the filter or by implementing the filter using
resonators of smaller size. Reducing the number of resonators is often near
impossible in practice, and reducing their size means in practice that the 
resonators are replaced by resonators with electrically poorer properties.In vehicular and mobile hand phones used in cellular telephone systems, various
different filters are used. In the NMT phones used in Scandinavia, a bandwidth
of 25 MHz is in use whereas in the E-TACS system used in Great Britain the
bandwidth is 33 MHz. Due to the bandwidth and certain technical reasons
required by the system, the size of the filters manufactured for E-TACS system
is greater than e.g. in filters for NMT
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A transmission line resonator having a reactance selectively connectable in
parallel thereto, wherein said reactance is conductively coupled to said

transmission line resonator and connectable to it at two coupling points (1, 2)
wherebetween a part (TLIN2) of the length of the transmission line resonator is

included, 
characterized
 in that

said transmission line resonator is a helical quarter-wave transmission line
resonator comprising a conductor wound in the shape of a cylindrical coil and

grounded at one end and open at the other end, and
the part (TLIN1) of said conductor which lies between said grounded end and the
coupling point (1) closest to said grounded end is essentially shorter than the part

(TLIN3) of said conductor which lies between said open end and the coupling
point (2) closest to said open end.
A transmission line resonator according to claim 1, wherein a change takes
place in a value of the reactance in response to an external control direct voltage

(V+), whereby a change in the reactance value leads to a change in the
resonance frequency of the transmission line resonator.
A transmission line resonator according to claim 2, wherein the reactance is
a series circuit formed by an inductive component and a controllable switch,

whereby when the controllable switch is shut, the series circuit is electrically
coupled in parallel with said part (TLIN2) of the transmission line resonator.
A transmission line resonator according to claim 3, wherein the inductive
component is a strip line (MLIN).
A transmission line resonator according to claim 2, wherein the reactance is
a series circuit formed by a capacitor (C) and a controllable switch, whereby when

the controllable switch is shut, the series circuit is electrically coupled in parallel
with said part (TLIN2) of the transmission line resonator. 
A transmission line resonator according to any of claims 3 to 5, wherein the
controllable switch is a PIN diode and the cathode thereof is coupled to a first

coupling point (1) of the transmission line resonator and the control voltage (V+) is
coupled to the anode of the PIN diode.
A transmission line resonator according to claim 1, wherein the reactance
comprises a capacitance diode (D) coupled in parallel with said part (TLIN2) of the

transmission line resonator, having a cathode thereof coupled to an external
control direct voltage (V+), whereby a change in said control direct voltage leads

to a change in the capacitance value of the capacitance diode, and thereby in the
resonance frequency of the resonator.
A transmission line resonator according to claim 7, wherein the reactance is
a series connection of the capacitance diode (D) and a capacitor (C), and the

control direct voltage (V+) is conducted to a point common therebetween.
A radio frequency filter, comprising at least two transmission line resonator
circuits and which is provided with terminals for conducting a radio frequency

signal into the filter and out therefrom, and a control terminal for conducting a
control direct voltage (V+) to a controllable resonator circuit in order to change the

resonance frequency thereof, wherein

the transmission line of the controllable transmission line resonator circuit is
provided with two coupling points (1, 2), wherebetween a part (TLIN2) of the

length of the transmission line is included, and from said points a reactance has
been conductively coupled in parallel with said part (TLIN2), and
the control terminal is operatively coupled to the reactance circuit, and the value
of the reactance is arranged to change in response to a change in the control

direct voltage (V+);
characterized
 in that

the transmission line of the controllable transmission line resonator circuit is a
helical quarter-wave transmission line resonator comprising a conductor wound in 

the shape of a cylindrical coil and grounded at one end and open at the other end,
and
the part (TLIN1) of said conductor which lies between said grounded end and the
coupling point (1) closest to said grounded end is essentially shorter than the part

(TLIN3) of said conductor which lies between said open end and the coupling
point (2) closest to said open end.
A radio frequency filter according to claim 9, wherein the reactance is a
series circuit formed by an inductive element and a controllable switch, and the

control direct voltage (V+) is the control voltage of said switch, whereby when the
voltage affecting the control terminal has a first value, the switch is shut and the

reactive circuit is electrically coupled in parallel with said part (TLIN2).
A radio frequency filter according to claim 9, wherein the reactance is a
series circuit formed by a capacitive element (C) and a controllable switch, and the

control direct voltage (V+) is the control voltage of said switch, whereby when the
voltage affecting the control terminal has a first value, the switch is shut and the

reactive circuit is electrically coupled in parallel with said part (TLIN2).
A radio frequency filter according to claim 10 to 11, wherein the controllable
switch is a PIN diode having a cathode thereof coupled to a coupling point (1) of

the transmission line resonator and the control voltage (V+) connected to the
anode of the PIN diode.
A radio frequency filter according to claim 9, wherein the reactance
comprises a capacitance diode (D) coupled in parallel with said part (TLIN2) of the

transmission line resonator, having a cathode thereof coupled to an external
control direct voltage (V+), whereby a change in said control direct voltage leads

to a change in the capacitance value of the capacitance diode.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
