<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617634</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONNECTION DEVICE WITH A PRE-SLIT SEAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M3900	A61M3900	A61M3902	A61M3902	A61M3904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M39	A61M39	A61M39	A61M39	A61M39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A connecting system is provided with a connector adapted to be mounted to the end of a conduit for removably engaging a blunt cannula to establish fluid communication between the conduit and cannula. The connector has a housing which defines a passage for communicating with the conduit and which defines an opening to the passage. The housing also defines a generally frustoconical seating surface which decreases in diameter in the direction toward the opening. A generally fluid-impervious, resilient seal is retained within the housing passage against the seating surface. The seal defines a slit which can accommodate penetration by the blunt cannula and which can reseal upon withdrawal of the blunt cannula.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARKIN MARK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARKIN, MARK, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to connecting
systems or coupling systems for connecting fluid
conduits together for use in medical procedures. The
present invention is particularly well-suited for use in
a two-part connecting system in which one part includes
a blunt cannula for being sealingly received in the
other part.Various medical procedures require the
transfer of fluid from one fluid-containment system or
fluid-conducting system to another fluid-containment
system or fluid-conducting system. Typically, one of
the two systems is connected directly to a patient in
some manner for a substantial period of time. The other
system may be connected to the first system for only a
short period of time, or intermittently, to collect an
effluent flow of a fluid or fluids from the patient or
to supply a fluid or fluids to the patient.The fluid flow system that is directly
connected to the patient may be regarded, for purposes
of discussion, as the first system and may include a
connection device which can function as a so-called
"injection site" for being penetrated by a transferring
device such as a hollow needle or cannula of a syringe.
A fluid may be dispensed from, or collected by, the
syringe needle or cannula through the injection site.
The syringe, along with its hollow needle or cannula,
and other fluid containers and transferring devices may
be regarded in this context as the second fluid flow
system. In other procedures, the first fluid flow
system that is connected directly to the patient may be
engaged with an appropriate cannula or other conduit
that is part of a second fluid flow system which also
includes flexible tubing connected to either a receiving
container (e.g., collection bag) or a supply reservoir
(e.g., container of a liquid agent to be introduced into
the patient).It is usually desirable, where possible, to
avoid the use of a needle or sharp cannula. A person
using, or exposed to, a needle may accidentally puncture
his or her skin, or may accidentally puncture the skin
of another person. Because such a needle may have been
used in patient treatment procedures and/or otherwise
brought into contact with patient fluids or other
contaminants, there is a risk of becoming infected as a
result of such an accidental puncture. Likewise an
accidental puncture may result in an adverse reaction to
a drug used in IV therapy. Accordingly, there is great
interest in developing and using systems which can
eliminate, where possible, the use of a hollow needle or
sharp cannula to establish fluid flow
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A connector suitable for mounting to the end of a first conduit and for removably engaging another conduit to establish fluid communication between said first conduit and said other conduit, said connector comprising: a housing defining a passage for communicating with said first conduit and defining an opening to said passage, said housing defining a generally frustoconical seating surface which decreases in diameter in the direction toward said, opening; and a generally fluid-impervious, resilient seal retained within said housing passage against said seating surface, said seal defining a slit through -said seal which can accommodate penetration by said other conduit and can reseal upon withdrawal of said other conduit.
2. The connector in accordance with.claim 1 in which said housing includes two sections joined together around said seal.
3. The connector in accordance with claim 1 in which said seal defines a pressure-bearing surface that extends around said slit within said housing and that is exposed to the interior of said passage for being subjected to internal fluid pressure from said first conduit to aid in resealing said slit; said frustoconical seating surface defines an angle of about 20 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis about which said seating surface is oriented; and said seal defines a frustoconical surface generally conforming to, and engaged with, said seating surface. 


 4. The connector in accordance with claim 1 in which said seal defines a generally concave, exterior surface at said housing opening for directing the distal end of said other conduit toward said slit.
5. A connector suitable for mounting to the end of a conduit and removably engaging a blunt cannula to establish fluid communication between said conduit and cannula, said connector comprising: a first housing section defining an opening and a generally frustoconical seating surface that surrounds said opening on the interior of said first housing section and that increases in diameter with increasing distance from said opening, said first housing section defining a peripheral retaining cavity located axially inwardly beyond said seating surface and having a diameter greater than the largest diameter of said seating surface; a generally fluid-impervious, resilient seal within said first housing section, said seal having a central body portion defining a frustoconical surface generally corresponding to, and in engagement with, said first housing section seating surface, said central body portion further defining a slit through said seal which can accommodate penetration by said blunt cannula and can reseal upon withdrawal of said blunt cannula, said seal further including a mounting flange extending from said central body portion for being received in said first housing section peripheral retaining cavity; and a second housing section joined to said first housing section, said second housing section defining an interior passage for communicating between said slit and said conduit, said second housing section defining a generally annular engaging wall for holding said seal flange in said retaining cavity. 


 6. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said first housing section defines a clearance space around a portion of said seal central body portion between said seal flange and said opening.
7. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said retaining cavity is defined in part by a cylindrical retaining surface on the interior of said first housing section; said first housing section has an interior, annular shoulder extending radially inwardly from said cylindrical retaining surface; and said seal defines a shoulder portion having a configuration generally conforming to the interior surface of said first housing section that extends between said seating surface and said retaining surface.
8. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said first housing section includes a frustoconical shoulder extending radially inwardly to define a portion of said retaining cavity opposite said second housing section annular engaging wall.
9. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said seating surface defines an angle of about 20 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis about which said seating surface is oriented.
10. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said seal central body portion defines a concave surface for guiding said blunt cannula toward said slit. 


 11. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said second housing section annular engaging wall is spaced radially inwardly of said first housing section peripheral retaining cavity and is axially located adjacent at least part of said first housing section peripheral retaining cavity.
12. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said first housing section includes an exterior peripheral flange for accommodating automated handling.
13. The connector in accordance with claim 5 in which said first housing section defines an external, raised, annular target ring around said opening.
14. A connecting system suitable for coupling a first flexible conduit to a second flexible conduit through a blunt cannula having a proximal end and a distal end, said system comprising: a housing defining a passage for communicating with said first conduit and having a proximal end for being mounted to said first conduit, said housing having a distal end defining an opening to said passage, said housing defining an interior, generally frustoconical, seating surface which decreases in diameter in the direction toward said opening; a generally fluid-impervious, resilient seal retained within said housing passage against said seating surface, said seal defining a slit through said seal which can accommodate penetration by said distal end of said blunt cannula and can reseal upon withdrawal of said blunt cannula; and a frame in which said blunt cannula is carried to accommodate connection of said proximal end of said blunt cannula with said second flexible conduit to 


establish fluid communication between said second flexible conduit and said blunt cannula.
15. The connecting system in accordance with claim 14 in which said frame includes latch means for engaging said housing when said distal end of said blunt cannula is inserted through said seal.
16. The connecting system in accordance with claim 15 in which said latch means includes a plurality of resilient fingers extending generally parallel to said cannula, each said finger having a distal end defining a lip extending radially inwardly for engaging said housing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
