<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623174</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HOMOCYSTEINE ASSAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3358	C07H1514	G01N33573	G01N3353	G01N33543	G01N3358	G01N3353	C12Q134	C07H1500	G01N3368	G01N3368	G01N33573	C12Q166	C12Q166	G01N33543	C07H1916	C12Q134	C12Q148	C07H1526	C07H1900	C12Q148	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	C07H	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	C12Q	C07H	G01N	G01N	G01N	C12Q	C12Q	G01N	C07H	C12Q	C12Q	C07H	C07H	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	C07H15	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	C12Q1	C07H15	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	C07H19	C12Q1	C12Q1	C07H15	C07H19	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided a method for assaying homocysteine in a sample, e.g. blood, plasma or urine, which comprises the steps of contacting said sample with a homocysteine converting enzyme and at least one substrate for said enzyme other than homocysteine, and without chromatographic separation assessing a non-labelled analyte selected from a homocysteine co-substrate and the homocysteine conversion products of the enzymic conversion of homocysteine by said enzyme.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXIS BIOCHEMICALS AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXIS BIOCHEMICALS AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNDREHAGEN ERLING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNDREHAGEN, ERLING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an assay for 
homocysteine in clinical samples. Homocysteine is an intermediary amino acid produced when 
methionine is metabolised to cysteine. Generally, 
homocysteine produced in the body is rapidly metabolised 
by one of two routes, (1) condensation with serine to 
form cystathione or (2) conversion to methionine, and 
its concentration (and that of its oxidised form 
homocystine) in the living body under normal conditions 
is virtually negligible. Homocysteine levels in biological samples may however be 
of clinical significance in a number of situations as 
homocysteine plays an important part in the complex set 
of pathways which make up sulphydryl amino acid 
metabolism and its accumulation may be indicative of 
various disorders occurring in these pathways, including 
in particular inborn errors of metabolism. Thus, for 
example homocystinuria (an abnormal build-up of 
homocysteine in the urine) is known to be a disorder of 
amino acid metabolism resulting from deficiencies -in the 
enzymes cystathione β synthetase or methyltetrahydrofolic 
acid methyltransferase (which catalyses the 
methylation of homocysteine to methionine). Sulphydryl amino acid metabolism is closely linked to 
that of folic acid and vitamin B12 (cobalamin), which act 
as substrates or co-factors in the various 
transformations involved. For this reason homocysteine 
accumulation has also been proposed as an indicator of 
malfunction of cobalamin or folate dependent enzymes, or 
other disorders or diseases related to cobalamin or 
folate metabolism.  
 Moreover since homocysteine conversion to methionine 
relies on a reaction requiring S-methyl tetrahydrofolate 
as the methyl donor, homocysteine metabolism may also be 
affected by anti-folate drugs, such as methotrexate, 
administered to combat other disorders, notably cancer. 
Monitoring of homocysteine has therefore also been 
proposed in the management of malignant disease 
treatment with anti-folate drugs. More recently, elevated levels of homocysteine in the 
blood have been correlated with the development of 
atherosclerosis (see Clarke et al., New Eng. J. Med. 
324:1149-1155 (1991)) and even moderate homocysteinemia 
is now regarded as a risk factor for cardiac and 
vascular diseases. Measurement of plasma or blood 
levels of homocysteine is thus also of importance in the 
diagnosis and treatment of vascular disease. Although immunological methods of determining 
homocysteine directly are not available as there is no 
available
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for assaying homocysteine in a sample, said 
method comprising the steps of (a) contacting said sample with 

the enzyme S-adenosyl homocysteine hydrolase and at least one 
of (i) S-adenosyl homocysteine and (ii) adenosine or an 

adenosine analogue, and (b) without chromatographic separation 
assessing a non-labelled analyte selected from adenosine, said 

adenosine analogue and S-adenosyl homocysteine. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sample is 
contacted with an antibody to said analyte and with a hapten 

for said antibody other than said non-labelled analyte, and 
wherein assessment of said analyte is effected indirectly by 

assessment of said hapten either bound or not bound to said 
antibody. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said hapten is a 
polyhapten. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said hapten is a 
labelled molecule having an epitopic structural unit which is 

also present in said non-labelled analyte. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein 
said antibody is a monoclonal antibody. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 5 wherein 
said antibody is a carrier matrix bound antibody. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sample is 
contacted with a second enzyme serving to convert said analyte 

and assessment of said analyte is effected indirectly by 
assessment either of a substrate of said second enzyme other 

than said analyte or of a product of enzymic conversion of 
said analyte by said second enzyme. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein 
said analyte is adenosine.  

 
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein said sample is 
further contacted with an adenosine converting enzyme other 

than S-adenosyl homocysteine hydrolase, said analyte is 
adenosine, and assessment of adenosine is effected indirectly 

by assessment of a co-substrate or a reaction product of 
adenosine conversion by said adenosine converting enzyme. 
A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said adenosine 
converting enzyme is adenosine kinase. 
A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said adenosine 
converting enzyme is adenosine deaminase. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein 
said analyte is S-adenosyl 
homocysteine. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein 
said sample is a blood, plasma or urine sample pre-treated 

with a disulphide bond cleaving reducing agent. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein 
the assessment of said analyte is effected photometrically. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein said assessment 
is effected spectrometrically or colorimetrically. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein said assessment 
is effected turbidimetrically or nephelometrically. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein said assessment 
is effected using fluorescence polarization detection. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, 12 to 15 
and 17 wherein assessment of said analyte is effected 

indirectly by detection of a chromophore or fluorophore on 
labelled S-adenosyl homocysteine or on a labelled furanose 6-thioether. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein a sample of blood,  
 

plasma or urine is treated with a reducing agent; the sample 
is contacted with adenosine and S-adenosyl-homocysteine 

hydrolase; the resultant mixture is incubated and then 
contacted with ATP and adenosine kinase and the mixture is 

incubated for at least one minute; the resulting mixture is 
contacted with luciferin and luciferase and light generated is 

detected. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein a sample of blood, 
plasma or urine is treated with a reducing agent; the sample 

is contacted with adenosine and S-adenosyl-homocysteine 
hydrolase; the resultant mixture is incubated and then 

contacted with adenosine deaminase, nucleoside phosphorylase, 
xanthine oxidase and a peroxidase and the UV absorption of the 

mixture is assessed. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sample is 
contacted with adenosine and an S-adenosyl-homocysteinehydrolase; 

the resultant mixture is incubated and then 
contacted with a fluorophore labelled S-adenosyl-homocysteine 

or a fluorophore labelled furanose 6-thioether; the resultant 
mixture is contacted with a monoclonal anti-S-adenosyl-homocysteine 

antibody; and the antibody-bound or non-antibody 
bound fluorophore labelled compound is assessed by 

fluorescence polarization whereby to provide an indication of 
the initial homocysteine level of the sample. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sample is 
contacted with adenosine and an S-adenosyl-homocysteine 

hydrolase; the resultant mixture is incubated and then 
contacted with a labelled S-adenosyl-homocysteine or a 

labelled furanose 6-thioether; the resultant mixture is 
contacted with carrier matrix bound monoclonal anti-S-adenosyl-homocysteine 

antibody; the antibody carrier matrix is 
washed; and the antibody-bound labelled compound is 

photometrically assessed whereby to provide an indication of 
the initial homocysteine level of the sample. 
A method as claimed in claim 22 wherein the label of the  
 

antibody bound labelled compound is reacted to generate a 
chromophore which is then photometrically assessed. 
A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein assessment is 
affected by assessment of the precipitation or agglutination 

of antibody:polyhapten conjugates. 
An analytical kit for use in the assay of homocysteine in 
a sample by a method as claimed in claim 1, said kit 

comprising: S-adenosyl-homocysteine hydrolase; a substrate 
selected from adenosine, adenosine analogues and S-adenosyl 

homocysteine; a signal forming agent; and, optionally, means 
for signal assessment. 
A kit as claimed in claim 25 comprising: S-adenosyl-homocysteine 
hydrolase; as a signal forming substrate for said 

enzyme, labelled S-adenosyl- homocysteine; an optionally 
carrier matrix bound anti-S-adenosyl homocysteine antibody; 

and, optionally, as said means for signal assessment, means 
for photometrically assessing said labelled S-adenosyl 

homocysteine or the detectable derivative thereof whereby to 
provide an indication of the homocysteine content of the 

sample. 
A kit as claimed in claim 25 comprising: S-adenosyl-homocysteine 
hydrolase; adenosine; an adenosine converting 

enzyme other than S-adenosyl homocysteine hydrolase; 
optionally, an adenosine co-substrate for said adenosine 

converting enzyme; and as said means for signal assessment, 
means for generating a photometrically detectable response 

from said co-substrate or from a product of enzymic conversion 
of adenosine by said adenosine converting enzyme. 
A kit as claimed in claim 27 wherein said adenosine 
converting enzyme is adenosine kinase and wherein said means 

for generating comprises ATP, luciferin and a luciferase. 
A kit as claimed in claim 27 wherein said adenosine 
converting enzyme is adenosine deaminase and said means for 

generating comprises nucleoside phosphorylase, xanthine  
 

oxidase and a peroxidase. 
A kit as claimed in claim 27 comprising: S-adenosyl-homocysteine 
hydrolase; adenosine; an optionally matrix 

particle bound anti-S-adenosyl-homocysteine antibody; a 
polyhapten for said antibody; and, optionally, as said means 

for signal assessment, means for photometrically assessing 
agglutination or precipitation of antibody:polyhapten 

complexes. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein as said hapten is 
used a compound of formula I 


 
(wherein R
1
 and R
2
 which may be the same or different denote 
hydrogen atoms or OR
4
 groups or R
1
 and R
2
 together denote an 
oxygen atom, R
3
 denotes an amino or carboxyl group, and R
4
 
denotes a C
1-6
aliphatic group) or a salt or ester thereof. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein as said hapten is 
used a labelled furanose 6-thioether, wherein the labelled 

moiety comprises a chromophore or fluorophore or a radioactive 
atom, and wherein the thioether moiety comprises a 

trimethylenethio moiety. 
A method as claimed in claim 32 wherein as said 
labelled thioether is used a labelled compound of formula I as 

defined in claim 31. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein as said enzyme is 
used inactivated SAH-hydrolase activated by contact with a 

reducing agent. 
A kit as claimed in claim 25 comprising in a first  
 

compartment inactive SAH-hydrolase and in a second compartment 
a reducing agent, whereby to produce on admixture of the 

contents of said first and second compartments activated SAH-hydrolase. 
A kit as claimed in claim 35 wherein said second 
compartment comprises dithiothreitol in an acid medium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
