<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618745</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cordless telephone terminal and network.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W416	H04W416	H04W6000	H04W6000	H04W7600	H04W7604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W4	H04W4	H04W60	H04W60	H04W76	H04W76	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cordless telephone handset comprises means for storing 
a handset identification code, means for storing a base station 

identification code, means for identifying the identification 
code of the base station on which the handset is currently 

operating, means for comparing the stored base station 
identification code with the current base station identification 

code, and reporting means for reporting the handset 
identification code and current base station identification code 

to the network, and means for replacing the base station 
identification code stored in the handset by the current base 

station identification code, so that the network can identify the 
location of the handset in relation to the network. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS JOHN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVIS, JOHN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to telephone terminals and 
networks. The invention is particularly suited to cordless 
telephone systems, in which cordless handsets communicate with 
base stations connected to a fixed telephone network. The 
cordless communication is by electro-magnetic radiation, usually 
radio frequency but sometimes other parts of the spectrum such 
as infra-red. However, the invention is also suitable for 
systems in which terminals are connected to a telephone network 
by, for instance, plug and socket connections. In conventional cordless systems, although handsets may be 
used with any compatible base station, the identity of the 
handset is invisible to the network, and thus any calls made from 
the handset will be charged to the person responsible for the 
base station, and any calls made to the handset have to be made 
by dialling the directory number of the base station, unless a 
call diversion has been deliberately set up. The invention allows mobility of handsets, in that it 
allows the owner of a handset to use it with any compatible base 
station to make and receive calls as if the handset were 
connected to the users own "home" base station. This implies 
that any charges incurred by use of the handset must be billed 
to the owner of the handset, not the owner of the base station, 
and that any calls intended for the owner of the handset must be 
directed to whichever base station it is connected to at the 
time. According to one aspect of the invention, there is 
provided a cordless telephone handset comprising means for 
storing a handset identification code, means for storing a base 
station identification code, means for identifying the 
identification code of the base station on which the handset is 
currently operating, means for comparing the stored base station 
identification code with the current base station identification 
code and reporting means for reporting the handset identification 
code, and current base station identification code to the 
network, and means for replacing the base station identification  
 
code stored in the handset by the current base station 
identification code, so that the network can identify the 
location of the handset in relation to the network. According to a second aspect of this invention, there is 
provided a telephone network for operation with one or more 
handsets according to any preceding claim, comprising a plurality 
of base stations for operating with the handsets, means for 
identifying to each handset an identification
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cordless telephone handset comprising means for storing 
a handset identification code, means for storing a base station 

identification code, means for identifying the identification 
code of the base station on which the handset is currently 

operating, means for comparing the stored base station 
identification code with the current base station identification 

code and reporting means for reporting the handset identification 
code, and current base station identification code to the 

network, and means for replacing the base station identification 
code stored in the handset by the current base station 

identification code, so that the network can identify the 
location of the handset in relation to the network. 
A telephone handset according to claim 1 arranged such 
that reporting takes place only if the stored and current base 

station identification codes are different. 
A telephone handset according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the 
previously stored base station identification code is also 

reported to the network. 
A telephone handset according to any of claims 1 to 3 
wherein the base station identification code is a directory 

number. 
A telephone handset according to any preceding claim 
wherein the handset identification code is a directory number. 
A telephone handset according to any preceding claim 
wherein reporting is initiated on attempting an outgoing call. 
A telephone handset according to any one of claims 1 to 5 
wherein reporting is initiated in response to a signal from a 

base station. 
A telephone terminal for connection to a telephone network 
comprising means for storing a terminal identification code, 

means for storing a network termination node identification code, 
means for identifying the identification code of the termination 

node on which the terminal is currently operating, means for 
comparing the stored termination node identification code with 

the current termination node identification code, and reporting 
means for reporting the terminal identification code and current 

termination node identification code to the network, and means 
for replacing the termination node identification code stored in 

the terminal by the current termination node identification code. 
A telephone network for operation with one or more 
handsets according to any any of claims 1 to 7, comprising a 

plurality of base stations for operating with the handsets, means 
for identifying to each handset an identification code associated 

with the base station with which it is operating and means for 
storing, for each handset, the handset identification code and 

base station identification code last reported to the system by 
that handset. 
A telephone network according to claim 9 wherein the base 
station identification codes are directory numbers. 
A telephone network according to claim 9 or 10 wherein the 
handset identification code is a directory number. 
A network as claimed in any of claims 9 to 11 further 
comprising means for routing calls directed to a handset to the 

base station last reported as connected to that handset. 
A network as claimed in any of claims 9 to 12 further 
comprising means for raising invoices for calls made according 

to the handset identification code. 
A network as claimed in either claim 12 or 13 comprising 
means for selecting whether calls are directed to the current 

base station or to a default station. 
A network as claimed in claim 14 wherein the selection is 
determined by the system wherein calls are diverted to a default 

station if the current base station is unable to receive incoming 
calls. 
A network as claimed in any of claims 9 to 15 wherein more 
than one base station have the same base station identification 

code. 
A network as claimed in any of claims 9 to 16 wherein the 
base stations periodically transmit a signal to invite any 

handsets in range to report. 
A network as claimed in claim 17 wherein incoming calls 
directed to any handset currently registered with a first base 

station which fails to report when that first base station 
transmits a signal inviting it to report are diverted to a 

default station. 
A network as claimed in claim 14, 15 or 18 wherein the 
default station is an answering or paging service. 
A network as claimed in any of claims 9-19, wherein each 
base station has means for storing an identity code and means for 

transmitting the code to a handset. 
A network as claimed in any of claims 9 to 19, wherein 
each base station comprises means for interrogating the network 

for the identification code of the line to which it is connected, 
 

and means for transmitting the identification code to the handset 
associated with the base station. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
