<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614334</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF THREE-DIMENSIONAL FOOD PRODUCTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A21C300	A21C304	A21C1100	A21C1100	A21C1110	A21C1116	B26D100	B26D100	B26D101	B26D104	B26D106	B26D129	B26D146	B26D308	B26D308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A21C	A21C	A21C	A21C	A21C	A21C	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A21C3	A21C3	A21C11	A21C11	A21C11	A21C11	B26D1	B26D1	B26D1	B26D1	B26D1	B26D1	B26D1	B26D3	B26D3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NABISCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NABISCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOPPA DANIEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALERMO JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORNILEY DENISE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN LENGERICH BERNHARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOPPA DANIEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALERMO JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THORNILEY DENISE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN LENGERICH BERNHARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF THREE-DIMENSIONAL FOOD PRODUCTSFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to apparatus and methods for producing three-dimensional food products, such as crackers, snacks, expandable half-products, pasta, confections, ready-to-eat cereals and pet foods.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The production of three-dimensional farinaceous-based food products using an extruder and rotating knives of different lengths is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,802,838 to Schaa£ Japanese Laid-Open Patent No. 61-274673 (published December 4, 1986), and Japanese Laid-Open Patent No. 61-280260 published December 10, 1986 both to Hold and assigned to Ohyama Foods Machinery Co., Ltd. A short knife is used to partially cut or make grooves in the extrudate as it exits the extruder. A long knife fully cuts the partially cut extrudate into pieces. However, all of the knives cut the extrudate from only a single die orifice.To increase production rates of the individual pieces, the extrusion rate through the single orifice must be increased together with an increase in speed ofrotation of the long and short knives. However, as these rates increase, cutting accuracy tends to decrease, and the pieces tend to get thrown with greater force which can result in excessive deformation or damage to the pieces. Production rates may be increased by adding more single orifice extruders to the production line. However, the cost involved in using multiple extruders may be prohibitive. 

 U.S. Patent No. 4,966,542 to Kobayashi discloses apparatus for the formation o a shaped food product wherein two pain of cutters are used to reduce production loss caused by scattering of cut food by centrifugal force. Each cutter rotates about its own axis and revolves orbitally. According to the Kobayashi patent, even if the cutters make their self rotation and orbital revolution at high speed, it does not cause scattering of food material, therefore making high speed production possible. However, the apparatus of U.S. Patent No. 4,966,542 does not partially cut the extrudate to obtain three-dimensional shaped products.U.S. Patent No. 4,920,572 to Repholz et al discloses a multi-orifice coextrusion method and apparatus for preparing dual-textured pet food. The mulύ-orifice coextruding apparatus comprises a slicing means which functions to slice the center- filled stream as it is discharged from the die passages. A preferred slicing means is a rotating knife assembly which comprises about six to eight knives
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for the production of three-dimensional food products comprising: a. means for feeding a food composition to a plurality of dies, b. a plurality of dies for receiving said food composition and shaping it into at least one shape conforming to the orifices of the dies, whereby a shaped extrudate rope is obtained from each die, c. first cutting means which passes across only a portion of the orifices of a plurality of said dies to only partially cut each of a plurality of the shaped extrudate ropes, and d. second cutting means which passes across the entire orifices of a plurality of said dies to completely cut each of a plurality of the shaped extrudate ropes to obtain three-dimensional food pieces.
2. Apparatus as daimed in daim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes heating means for baking the three-dimensional food pieces into baked farinaceous- based products.
3. Apparatus as claimed in daim 1 wherein said means for feeding comprises an extmder.
4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of said first and second cutting means are attached to a continuous moving band or chain. 


 5. Apparatus as claimed in daim 1 wherein each of said first and second cutting means comprises a plurality of blades each attached to a continuous moving chain, said first and second cutting means being placed on alternating positions on said chain.
6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said dies are arranged in two rows.
7. Apparatus as daimed in claim 6 wherein said first cutting means comprises a plurality of blades attached to first and second moving chains such that the blades of one chain pass over only a portion of each of the dies of one row and the blades of the other chain pass over only a portion of each of the dies of the other row.
8. Apparatus as daimed in daim 7 wherein said second cutting means comprises blades which connect said first and second chains and each of the blades of the second cutting means pass over the orifices of each of said rows.
9. Apparatus as daimed in daim 1 comprising a conveyor means for receiving the three-dimensional food pieces as they are cut from said extmdate ropes.
10. Apparatus as daimed in daim 2 wherein said heating means is a fluidized bed heater.
11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first cutting means comprises blades which are adjustable to vary the portion of the orifices which the blades pass over. 


 12. Apparatus as daimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second cutting means comprise blades arranged on opposite sides of a support, and said support moves in a substantially rectangular path.
13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said dies are arranged in two rows, and said first and second cutting means comprise a plurality of blades arranged on a support which moves in a substantially rectangular path.
14. Apparatus as daimed in daim 1 wherein said first and second cutting means cut said extmdate ropes in opposite directions.
15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second cutting means comprise blades arranged on a rotating shaft, and said plurality of dies are disposed around said shaft
16. Apparatus as claimed in daim 15 wherein said apparatus further includes heating means for baking the three-dimensional food pieces into baked farinaceous- based products.
17. Apparatus as daimed in daim 1 wherein said means for feeding includes counter-rotating rolls for feeding the food composition to said dies.
18. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 further comprising a guide assembly for limiting downward and lateral movement of the continuous moving band or chain.
19. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further comprising means for cleaning said first and second cutting means, said cleaning means being spaced below the dies so as to permit travel of the first and second cutting means across the dies. 


 20. Apparatus as claimed in claim 19 wherein said deaning means comprises dowels which are spaced at about the mid-point between successive die orifices.
21. A method for the production of three dimensional food products comprising: a. feeding a food composition through a plurality of dies to obtain a plurality of shaped extmdate ropes, b. partially cutting each of a plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes, and c. completely cutting each of the partially cut, shaped extmdate ropes to obtain three-dimensional food pieces.
22. A method as daimed in daim 21 wherein the partial cutting of the plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes is performed simultaneously.
23. A method as claimed in claim 22 wherein the complete cutting of the partially cut extmdate ropes is performed simultaneously.
24. A method as claimed in claim 21 wherein the three-dimensional food pieces are transferred to an oven and then leavened to obtain three-dimensional baked products.
25. A method as claimed in daim 24 wherein the three-dimensional food pieces are fluidized in the oven.
26. A method as daimed in daim 21 wherein the food composition fed through the dies is a farinaceous-based dough. 


 27. A method as claimed in daim 26 wherein the farinaceous-based dough is at least partially cooked prior to being fed through the dies and the three-dimensional food pieces are glassy matrix half-products which are puffable by subsequent heating.
28. A method as claimed in claim 26 wherein the farinaceous-based dough undergoes substantial expansion as it exits the dies.
29. A method as claimed in claim 26 wherein the farinaceous-based dough fed through the dies is essentially raw and the three-dimensional food pieces are leavened by subsequent heating.
30. A method as claimed in claim 21 wherein the food composition fed through the dies is a chewing gum composition.
31. A method as claimed in daim 21 wherein the partial cutting and the complete cutting of the shaped extmdate ropes are in opposite directions.
32. A method as daimed in claim 21 wherein the partial cutting and the complete cutting of the extmdate ropes are each in a straight line.
33. A method for the production of three-dimensional crackers comprising: a) feeding a cracker dough through a plurality of dies to obtain a plurality of shape-
*3
 extmdate dough ropes, b) partially cutting er - of a plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes, c) completely cutting each of the partially cut, shaped extrudate ropes to obtain three-dimensional dough pieces, d) transferring the three-dimensional dough pieces to an oven, and 


 e) heating the three-dimensional dough pieces in the oven to leaven them into three-dimensional crackers.
34. A method as daimed in daim 33 wherein the cracker dough comprises an enzyme composition comprising a proteolytic enzyme and water in amounts which promote leavening and a tender texture in the three-dimensional crackers.
35. A method as claimed in daim 34 wherein the enzyme composition comprises a papain derived protease, a microbial protease, and an amylase.
36. A method as daimed in claim 34 wherein said cracker dough is fed through said dies by an extrader comprising a plurality of screw feeds.
37. A method as claimed in daim 33 wherein the partial cutting of the plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes is performed simultaneously.
38. A method as claimed in claim 33 wherein the complete cutting of the partially cut extmdate ropes is performed simultaneously.
39. A method for the production of three-dimensional ready-to-eat cereals comprising: a) feeding a ready-to-eat cereal dough through a plurality of dies to expand it and obtain a plurality of shaped extmdate ropes, b) partially cutting each of a plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes, and c) coπφletely cutting each of the partially cut, shaped extmdate ropes to obtain three-dimensional ready-to-eat cereal pieces.
40. A method as daimed in daim 39 wherein the partial cutting of the plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes is performed simultaneously. 


 41. A method as daimed in claim 39 wherein the complete cutting of the partially cut extmdate ropes is performed simultaneously.
42. A method for the production of three-dimensional puffable half-products comprising: a) feeding an at least partially cooked dough through a plurality of dies to obtain a plurality of shaped extmdate ropes, b) partially cutting each of a plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes, and c) completely cutting each of the partially cut, shaped extmdate ropes to obtain three-dimensional pieces which are puffable upon subsequent heating into three-dimensional expanded food products.
43. A method for the production of three-dimensional crackers comprising: a) mixing ingredients in a mixing means to obtain a cracker dough, b) transferring the cracker dough from the mixing means to a means for feeding the cracker dough through a plurality of dies to obtain a plurality of shaped extmdate dough ropes, c) partially cutting each of a plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes, d) completely cutting each of the partially cut, shaped extmdate ropes to obtain three-dimensional dough pieces, e) transferring the three-dimensional dough pieces to an oven, and f) heating the three-dimensional dough pieces in the oven to leaven them into three-dimensional crackers. 



 44. A method as claimed in claim 43 wherein the ingredients are mixed in a continuous mixer to obtain the cracker dough, and the cracker dough is transferred to at least one extmder or at least one pair of counter-rotating rolls each equipped with a plurality of dies to obtain said plurality of shaped extmdate ropes.
45. A method as claimed in daim 43 wherein the ingredients are mixed in a batch mixer to obtain the cracker dough, and the cracker dough is transferred to at least one extmder or at least one pair of counter-rotating rolls each equipped with a plurality of dies to obtain said plurality of shaped extmdate ropes.
46. Apparatus for the production of three-dimensional food pieces from a shaped extmdate rope comprising: a) a continuous chain, b) first cutting means for only partially cutting of a shaped extrude rope, the first cutting means being connected to said continuous chain, and c) second cutting means for complete cutting of the partially cut shaped extmdate rope to obtain three-dimensional food pieces, the second cutting means being connected to said continuous chain.
47. Apparatus as claimed in claim 46 wherein said first and second cutting means are blades, and each blade is mounted on a blade support for attachment to the continuous chain, each blade support comprising pin means for preventing longitudinal movement of the blade relative to the blade support 


 48. Apparatus as claimed in claim 46 wherein the cutting angle of the blades of the first cutting means are substantially less than the cutting angle of the blades of the second cutting means.
49. Apparatus as claimed in claim 48 wherein the cutting angle of the blades of the first cutting means is about 10° or less.
50. Apparatus for cutting food comprising, a) a blade having a notch, and b) a blade support for holding said blade, said blade support comprising two ridges for applying compressive force to the blade to prevent movement of the blade relative to the blade support, and a pin extending through one of said ridges into the notch of said blade for preventing longitudinal movement of the blade relative to the blade support.
51. Apparatus for cutting food as daimed in daim 50 wherein the blade comprises angled portions which form notches in the blade for abutting against an end of the blade support
52. Apparatus for cutting food as claimed in claim 51 wherein said ridges form a dovetail joint with said angled portions of the blade.
53. Apparatus for cutting food as claimed in daim 50 wherein said blade support has leg-like portions and means for moving the leg-like portions so as to apply a clamping force to the blade via said ridges. 


 54. Apparatus as claimed in claim 50 wherein the bottom-most surfaces of the blade support are flush with the bottom-most surface of the blade.
55. ' A blade for cutting a shaped extmdate food rope as it exits from a die orifice comprising: a) a leading non-cutting edge, b) a leading cutting edge adjoining the leading non-cutting edge, c) a trailing edge adjoining the leading cutting edge, and d) a non-cutting end connecting the leading non-cutting edge and the trailing edge, wherein at least one of said leading non-cutting edge or trailing edge contains a notch for receiving a pin, and the blade surface which faces the die is essentially flat at least in the portion of the blade which passes over the die orifice so as to avoid entrapment of extmdate between said blade surface and the die.
56. A blade as daimed in daim 55 wherein said leading non-cutting edge contains a lateral notch for receiving a laterally directed pin.
57. A blade as claimed in claim 55 wherein said leading non-cutting edge and said trailing edge have angled portions for forming a dovetail joint
58. A blade as daimed in daim 55 wherein said leading cutting edge has a cutting angle of 10° or less.
59. A blade as daimed in daim 55 wherein said blade has a ridge extending from the junction of said leading non-cutting edge and said cutting edge at least substantially to the trailing edge. 


 60. A blade as daimed in daim 59 wherein said leading cutting edge and said trailing edge form a land.
61. A blade for cutting a shaped extmdate food rope as it exits from a die orifice comprising: a) a leading non-cutting edge, b) a leading cutting edge adjoining the leading non-cutting edge, c) a trailing edge adjoining the leading cutting edge, and d) a non-cutting end connecting the leading non-cutting edge and the trailing edge, wherein said blade has a ridge extending from the junction of said leading non-cutting edge and said cutting edge at least substantially to the trailing edge so that the cutting portion of the blade is thin to partially cut an extmdate without excessive spreading of the resulting partially cut portions, and the non-cutting portion of the blade is suffitiently thick so as to reduce wobbling of the blade as it partially cuts the extrudate.
62. A method for the production of three-dimensional crackers comprising: a) mixing ingredients to obtain a cracker dough in a mixing means having a plurality of dies, b) feeding the cracker dou - through saic plurality of dies to obtain a plurality of shaped extmdate dough ropes, c) partially cutting each of a plurality of the shaped extmdate ropes, 


 d) conφletely cuttmg each of the partially cut, shaped extmdate ropes to obtain three-dimensional dough pieces, e) transferring the three-dimensional dough pieces to an oven, and f) heating the three-dimensional dough pieces in the oven to leaven them into three-dimensional crackers.
63. A method as daimed in daim 62 wherein said mixing means having said plurality of dies is a continuous mixer.
64. A method as daimed in claim 62 wherein said mixing means having said plurality of dies is an extmder. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
