<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619015</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF TESTING A CONTAINER, TEST DEVICE, USE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01M302	G01M332	G01M300	G01M300	G01M332	G01M326	G01M302	G01M326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention concerns a method and device for testing containers, the method calling for a difference in pressure to be generated between the pressure inside the container and the pressure immediately surrounding the container, the behaviour of one of these pressures permitting the gastightness of the container to be assessed. A pressure value is stored and subsequently compared with one of the pressures, the stored pressure value being stored electronically and compared with at least one value of the output signal from a pressure sensor. The container (1) is housed in an enclosure (3) which is connected to a pressure or suction line (9), and a pressure-value storage unit (13), a comparator unit (15) and a pressure sensor (11) are associated with the pressure or suction line (9).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEHMANN MARTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEHMANN, MARTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMANN MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMANN, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method for testing a container (1), in which a 
differential pressure is built up between a pressure in 

the interior of the container and a pressure in the 
vicinity thereof, and conclusions are drawn from the 

behaviour of one of the pressures as to whether the 
container meets given testing conditions or not, and 

the electrical output signal of a pressure sensor (11) 

is stored for this purpose and then the electrical 
output signal of the sensor is compared with the stored 

signal value in a comparison unit (15), characterised 
in that the stored signal and the output signal of the 

sensor prevailing at the time of storage are applied to 
the inputs of the comparison unit (15) and a zero 

reference signal is produced therewith. 
A method according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that the electrical output signal of the sensor (11) is 

compared with one or more pre-entered values. 
A method according to one of Claims 1 or 2, 
characterised in that in order to build up the pressure 

difference the pressure in the interior of the 
container is increased or reduced and the internal 

container pressure is measured with the sensor. 
A method according to one of Claims 1 or 2, 
characterised in that in order to build up the pressure 

difference the pressure in the interior of the 
container is increased or reduced and the pressure in 

the vicinity of the container is measured with the 
sensor. 
A method according to one of Claims 1 or 2, 
characterised in that in order to build up the pressure  

 
difference the pressure in the vicinity of the 

container is increased or reduced and the internal 
container pressure is measured with the sensor. 
A method according to one of Claims 1 or 2, 
characterised in that in order to build up the pressure 

difference the pressure in the vicinity of the 
container is increased or reduced and the ambient 

container pressure is measured with the sensor. 
A method according to one of Claims 1 to 6, 
characterised in that the storage is effected by means 

of an analog-to-digital converter (21a) succeeding the 
sensor (11) and released for conversion at a given 

time. 
A method according to Claim 7, characterised in 
that the analog-to-digital converter (21a) is succeeded 

by a digital-to-analog converter (21b) and the signals 
are supplied in analog form to the comparison unit. 
A method according to one of Claims 1 to 8, 
characterised in that when supplying the stored signal 

value and the momentarily prevailing output signal of 
the sensor to the comparison unit the output signal of 

the comparison unit is detected and is stored as zero 
balance signal. 
A method according to Claim 9, characterised in 
that the stored zero balance signal is taken into 

account for the subsequent signal comparison by 
returning it via at least one amplifier stage (25). 
A method according to one of Claims 1 to 10, 
characterised in that after establishing the pressure 

difference the storage is effected after a given time 
period.  

 
A method according to Claim 11, characterised in 
that the output signal of the sensor in the time period 

passes through a maximum point. 
A method according to Claim 12, characterised in 
that a maximum point which has been passed through is 

detected by re-achieving a pressure value which had 
already occurred when building up the pressure 

difference. 
A test arrangement for containers, with a pressure 
or suction source (9) which can be brought into active 

connection in terms of its internal and/or external 
pressure with a container (1) to be tested, having at 

least one pressure sensor (11) which emits an 
electrical output signal, and a storage unit (13, 21, 

17) succeeding the pressure sensor output and a 
comparison unit (15) to which the output signal of the 

pressure sensor and the output signal of the storage 
unit are supplied, characterised in that when the 

sensor output signal is stored in the storage unit the 
output signal thereof and the output signal of the 

sensor are actively connected to the comparison unit. 
A test arrangement according to Claim 14, 
characterised in that a container connection (19) with 

sensor pressure input (11) and source connection (9) is 
provided, which can be applied in sealing manner to a 

container opening (1). 
A test arrangement according to Claim 14, 
characterised in that a container connection (19) with 

sensor input (11) is provided which can be applied in 
sealing manner to a container opening (1), and a 

chamber (3) which can be sealed closed for receiving 
the container (1), into which chamber the source (9) 

opens.  
 
A test arrangement according to Claim 14, 
characterised in that a container connection (19) is 

provided with the source connection (9), which can be 
applied in sealing manner to a container opening (1), 

and a chamber (3) which can be sealed closed for 
receiving the container (1), on or in which the sensor 

input (11) is provided. 
A test arrangement according to Claim 14, 
characterised in that a chamber (3) which can be sealed 

closed is provided for receiving the container (1), on 
or in which both the sensor input (11) and the source 

connection (9) are provided. 
A test arrangement according to one of Claims 14 
to 18, characterised in that the storage unit comprises 

an analog-to-digital converter, to the analog input of 
which the output of the sensor is actively connected. 
A test arrangement according to Claim 19, 
characterised in that the analog-to-digital converter 

is succeeded by a digital-to-analog converter, the 
output of which is actively connected to the comparison 

unit. 
A test arrangement according to one of Claims 14 
to 20, characterised in that the comparison unit has at 

least one amplifier stage, the output of which is 
actively connected to the input of an additional 

storage unit. 
A test arrangement according to Claim 21, 
characterised in that the storage unit and the 

additional storage unit are activated substantially 
simultaneously to store their respective input signals.  

 
A test arrangement according to Claim 22, 
characterised in that the output of the additional 

storage unit is returned to an input of an amplifier 
stage at the comparison unit. 
The use of the method according to one of Claims 1 
to 13 and/or the arrangement according to one of Claims 

14 to 23 for testing a container for leaks. 
The use according to Claim 24 for testing a closed 
container for leaks. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
