<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659614</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reel device for cable
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R16027	B60R16023	B60R1602	B60R1602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R16	B60R16	B60R16	B60R16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reel device for a flat cable through which electrical 
component parts mounted on a steering wheel are electrically 

connected with electrical component parts on a vehicle body side. 
The reel device is disposed between the steering wheel and a 

combination switch mounted on the vehicle body side and comprises 
a generally cylindrical frame (44) section inside which a shaft 

section (56) is 
disposed rotatable relative to the frame section. The frame section 

(44) is 
fixed to the combination switch, whereas the shaft section is fixedly 

mounted around the steering shaft. The flat cable is movably 
disposed in an annular cable storing space (17) formed between the 

frame section and the shaft section. A generally annular guide (21) 
member is movably disposed in the cable storing space (17) and located 

between the cable (22) wound on the outer peripheral surface of the 
shaft section and the cable wound on the inner peripheral surface of 

the frame section. The guide member (21) is formed with a slit (73) 
through 

which the flat cable (22) extending between inside and outside of the 
guide member (21) is passed upon being turned over. At least one linear 

projections (78,79) are formed on at least the inner peripheral surface 
of the 

guide member so as to be slidably contactable with the cable thereby 
to reduce a frictional resistance of the flat cable to the guide 

member. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIHON PLAST CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIHON PLAST CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANEKO KAZUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMOTO AKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKANO YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANEKO, KAZUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMOTO, AKIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKANO, YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE, KIYOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a reel device for a cable according to the precharacterizing
portion of claim 1.A corresponding reel device for a cable can be considered as being known from
US-PS 5 219 460. According to this document, a guide member of said reel device is
generally formed as a C-shaped member. Both of the leg-portions of said C-shaped
member are ending with a substantially semi-cylindrical end surface. Between both of said
surfaces, there is defined a through opening. The width of said through opening when
measured in a circumferential direction is larger than the radial thickness of said C-shaped
guide member.Hitherto, a variety of cable reel devices for connecting
members which make a relative rotation have been proposed and
put into practical use. A typical one of them is disclosed, for example,
in Japanese Patent Provisional Publication No. 5-56543. This cable
reel device is arranged such that electrical component parts disposed
at the vehicle body side of an automotive vehicle and electrical
component parts disposed at the side of a steering wheel rotatable in
right and reverse directions are electrically connected through a so-called
flat cable which is formed by arranging a plurality conductor
wires and by covering the wires with a plastic film. This flat cable is
stored inside a hollow and annular casing body fitted to a steering
shaft. The casing body is formed by combining a cylindrical frame
body fixed to a member on the vehicle body side and a cylindrical
shaft body disposed inside the frame body and rotatable with the
steering wheel, in a manner to make a relative rotation
therebetween. The flat cable is stored in a space formed between the
frame body and the shaft body under a condition that one end
section thereof is fixed to the frame body while the other end section
thereof is fixed to the shaft body. Additionally, a generally ring-shaped
guide body is stored in the space and formed at a part
thereof with a turning-over insertion section through which the flat
cable is inserted to be movably disposed around the shaft body.With this cable reel device, in a condition that the steering
wheel is operated to rotate in one direction, the flat cable is drawn
inside the guide body through the turning-over insertion section of
the guide body while being turned over in the U-shape, and wound
on the outer peripheral surface of the shaft body. In a condition that
the steering wheel is operated to rotate in a reverse direction, the 
unwound flat cable passes through the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reel device for a cable, comprising:

a casing including a generally cylindrical frame section (44), and a shaft section
(56) disposed rotatable in first and second directions relative to said frame

section, said first and second directions being opposite to each other; and
means defining a cable storing space (17) between said frame section and said

shaft section, the cable being stored in said cable storing space and having a first
end section connected to said frame section, and a second end section

connected to said shaft section, said cable being wound on an outer peripheral
surface of said shaft section in a third direction and on an inner peripheral surface

of said frame section in a fourth direction with a relative rotation between said
frame section and said shaft section, said third and fourth directions being

opposite to each other;
a guide member (21) disposed in said cable storing space and located between
the cable wound on the outer peripheral surface of said shaft section and the

cable wound on the inner peripheral surface of said frame section to guide said
cable, said guide member being generally annular and disposed around said

shaft section to be rotatable in a peripheral direction of said casing,
characterised in that
 said guide member including means (73) defining a slit
through which said cable passes and is turned over, said slit defining means

including means defining first and second surfaces (74,75) which axially extend
and face each other to define therebetween said slit; and
means (78,79;R
1
;R
2
;83A,83B;92;120) for smoothening a movement of the cable
through said slit and a rotational movement of said guide member, said

smoothening means being included in said guide member, said smoothening
means including means for guiding the cable to smoothly pass through said slit,

said guiding means including means (83A,83B) for securely connecting said first
and second surfaces (74,75) to maintain a predetermined dimension of said slit.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said frame section (44) is stationary,
wherein said shaft section (56) is generally cylindrical and rotatable around its

axis and relative to said frame section.
A reel device as claimed in claim 2, wherein said frame section (44), said shaft
section (56) and said guide member are arranged coaxial with each other, in

which said cable storing space is generally annular.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said slit (73) in said guide member
axially extends to communicate inside and outside of said guide member.
A reel device as claimed in claim 4, wherein said slit (73) defining means includes
means defining convex and concave surfaces which axially extend and face each

other to define said slit therebetween.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said smoothening means (78,79)
includes means for reducing a frictional resistance between the cable and a

surface of said guide member.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said smoothening means includes

means (120) for suppressing an axial movement of said guide member.
A reel device as claimed in claim 6, wherein said frictional resistance reducing
means includes at least one projection (78,79) which is located at at least an

inner peripheral surface of said guide member, said inner peripheral surface
facing said shaft section.
A reel device as claimed in claim 8, wherein said projection (78,79) extends in a
peripheral direction of said guide member.
A reel device as claimed in claim 8, wherein said projection (78,79) extends in an
axial direction of said guide member.
A reel device as claimed in claim 8, wherein said projection (78,79) extends in a
direction inclined relative to an axial direction of said guide member. 
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said casing includes a generally
annular plate section (41) fixedly connected to said frame section, said plate

section including means defining at least a generally annular groove on said plate
section, a part of said guide member is slideably fitted in said annular groove.
A reel device as claimed in claim 12, wherein said guide member has two
generally annular sections (71,72) which are coaxial with each other, wherein said

annular groove defining means includes means defining two coaxial annular
grooves (43a,43b) on a surface of said plate section to which an axis of said

frame section is perpendicular, the two generally annular sections of said guide
members being slidably fitted respectively in said two annular grooves.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said slit defining means (73) includes
means defining convex and concave surfaces (74,75) which axially extend and

face each other to define said slit therebetween, wherein said guiding means
includes means for arranging an inner peripheral surface of said guide member

such that a first apparent radial dimension (R
1
) of the inner peripheral surface at a
first position adjacent said convex is larger than a second apparent radial

dimension (R
2
) of the inner peripheral surface at a second position adjacent said
concave surface.
A reel device as claimed in claim 14, wherein said arranging means includes
means defining said first apparent radial dimension (R1) by a part of the inner

peripheral surface of said guide member, and means defining said second
apparent radial dimension (R2) by a projection formed on the inner peripheral

surface of said guide member and projecting radially inwardly.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said securely connecting means (92)
includes a bridge section (83A,83B) integral with said guide member to connect

the first and second surfaces.
A reel device as claimed in claim 7, wherein said axial movement suppressing
means includes at least one elastic member (120) fixedly disposed on an upper

surface of said guide member, said elastic member being in contact with an inner
surface of said casing and deformable in an axial direction of said guide member. 
A reel device as claimed in claim 17, wherein said elastic member includes a
deformable piece section (120) integral with said guide member, said deformable

piece section including a contacting portion (120b) which is spaced from the
upper surface of said guide member and contactable with the inner surface of

said casing.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said guide member (21) is formed of
a plastic.
A reel device as claimed in claim 19, wherein said plastic is polyacetal copolymer.
A reel device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cable (22) is flat and generally
belt-shaped, and includes a plurality of conductor wires (C), and a plastic film (F)

covering said conductor wires, said cable being perpendicular to a plane to which
an axis of said guide member is perpendicular.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
