<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647134</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR TREATING DEPRESSION AND OTHER DISORDERS USING OPTICALLY PURE (-) SIBUTRAMINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31135	A61K31135	A61P300	A61P304	A61P2500	A61P2524	A61P2526	A61P2528	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	A61P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61P3	A61P3	A61P25	A61P25	A61P25	A61P25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and compositions are disclosed utilizing the optically pure (-) isomer of sibutramine, which is a potent drug for treatment of depression, Parkinson's disease, cerebral function disorders, obesity, dementia and related disorders, as well as other conditions related to the activity of the compound as an inhibitor of the neuronal reuptake of monoamines. Further, methods and compositions are disclosed utilizing optically pure (-) sibutramine in order to avoid the adverse effects associated with the administration of racemic sibutramine.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEPRACOR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEPRACOR, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOUNG, JAMES W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR TREATING DEPRESSION AND OTHER DISORDERS USING OPTICALLY PURE (-) SIBUTRAMINE1. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to novel compositions of matter containing optically pure (-) sibutramine. These compositions possess potent activity in treating depression. These compositions also possess potent activity in treating depression while avoiding the adverse effects, including but not limited to, significant increases in heart rate, increased blood pressure, psychomotor activity, dry mouth, and nervousness which are associated with the administration of the racemic mixture of sibutramine. The novel compositions of the present invention avoid said adverse effects while exhibiting a more rapid onset of action than that exhibited by racemic sibutramine. Additionally, these novel compositions of matter containing optically pure (-) sibutramine are useful in treating obesity or weight gain in a human. These compositions also possess potent activity in treating obesity and weight gain while avoiding the adverse effects which are associated with the administration of the racemic mixture of sibutramine.In addition, these novel compositions of matter containing (-) sibutramine are useful in treating disorders ameliorated by inhibition of neuronal monoamine reuptake, because (-) sibutramine acts as a neuronal monoamine reuptake inhibitor. Several monoamines, the reuptake of which are inhibited by sibutramine include, but are not limited to, dopamine, noradrenaline (also known as norepinephrine) , and serotonin. (King et al . J. Clin 

Pharmac . 26.'- 607-611, 1989; Rees, United States Patent No. 4,871,774). Disorders ameliorated by neuronal monoamine reuptake inhibition include, but are not limited to, Parkinson's disease and depression. The novel compositions of the present invention also possess potent activity in treating disorders ameliorated by neuronal monoamine reuptake inhibition while avoiding the adverse effects associated with the administration of racemic sibutramine. Furthermore, these novel compositions of matter containing optically pure or substantially optically pure (-) sibutramine are useful in treating cerebral function disorders. Such disorders include, but are not limited to, senile dementia, Alzheimer's type dementia, memory loss, amnesia/amnestic syndrome, disturbance of consciousness, coma, lowering of attention, speech disorders, Parkinson's disease, Lennox syndrome, autism, hyperkinetic syndrome and schizophrenia. Cerebral function disorders may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method of treating depression in a human which comprises administering to a human in need of antidepressant therapy, an amount of (-) sibutramine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate depression.
2. A method of treating depression in a human according to claim 1 in which said amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, is sufficient to alleviate depression but insufficient to cause adverse effects associated with the administration of racemic sibutramine. 3. The method of claims 1 or 2 wherein (-) sibutramine is administered by intravenous infusion, transdermal delivery, or orally as a tablet or a capsule.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the amount administered is from about l mg to about 60 mg per day.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the amount administered is from about 2 mg to about 50 mg per day. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 45 mg per day.
7. The method of claim 3 wherein the amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is greater than approximately 90% by weight of the total amount of sibutramine.
8. The method of claim 3 wherein the (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, 


is administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
9. The method according to claim 3 wherein (-) sibutramine is administered as a hydrochloride salt.
10. A composition for the treatment of depression in a human which comprises an amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate depression.
11. A composition for the treatment of depression in a human according to claim 10 wherein said amount of (-) sibutramine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is sufficient to treat depression but insufficient to cause adverse effects associated with the administration of racemic sibutramine.
12. A composition according to claim 10 or 11 wherein said amount is from about 1 mg to about 60 mg.
13. A composition according to claims 10 or 11 wherein (-) sibutramine is in the form of a hydrochloride salt.
14. A composition according to claim 12 wherein said composition is adapted for oral administration.
15. A composition according to claim 12 adapted for intravenous delivery.
16. A composition according to claim 12 adapted for use in a transdermal patch.
17. The composition according to claim 12 which comprises (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 


 18. A method for treating obesity or weight gain in a human which comprises administering to a human in need of a reduction in weight, an amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate obesity or weight gain.
19. A method for treating obesity or weight gain in a human according to claim 18 wherein said amount is sufficient to alleviate obesity or weight gain but insufficient to cause the adverse effects associated with administration of racemic sibutramine.
20. The method of claims 18 or 19 wherein (-) sibutramine is administered by intravenous infusion, transdermal delivery, or orally as a tablet or a capsule.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein the amount administered is from about 1 mg to about 60 mg per day. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the amount administered is from about 2 mg to about 50 mg per day.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 45 mg per day.
■
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is greater than approximately 90% by weight of the total amount of sibutramine. 25. The method of claim 20 wherein the (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, is administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 


 26. The method according to claims 18 or 19 wherein (-) sibutramine is administered as a hydrochloride salt.
27. A composition for treating obesity or weight gain in a human which comprises an amount of
(-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate obesity or weight gain. 28. A composition for treating weight disorders in a human according to claim 27 wherein said amount is sufficient to alleviate obesity or weight gain in a human but insufficient to cause adverse effects associated with administration of racemic sibutramine.
29. A composition according to claims 27 or 28 wherein the amount is about 1 mg to about 60 mg.
30. A composition according to claim 27 or 28 wherein (-) sibutramine is in the form of a hydrochloride salt.
31. A composition according to claim 29 wherein said composition is adapted for oral administration.
32. A composition according to claim 29 adapted for intravenous delivery.
33. A composition according to claim 29 adapted for use in a transdermal patch.
34. The composition according to claim 29 which comprises (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
35. A method of treating disorders ameliorated by inhibition of neuronal monoamine reuptake in a human which comprises administering to a 


human in need of such treatment an amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate said disorders.
36. A method of treating disorders ameliorated by inhibition of neuronal monoamine reuptake in a human according to claim 35 in which said amount is sufficient to alleviate said disorders but insufficient to cause adverse effects associated with administration of racemic sibutramine.
37. A method of treating disorders ameliorated by inhibition of neuronal monoamine reuptake in a human according to claims 35 or 36 wherein said monoamine is dopamine.
38. A method of treating disorders ameliorated by inhibition of neuronal monoamine reuptake in a human according to claims 35 or 36 wherein said disorder is Parkinson's disease. 39. The method of claims 35 or 36 wherein
(-) sibutramine is administered by intravenous infusion, transdermal delivery, or orally as a tablet or a capsule.
40. The method of claim 39 wherein the amount administered is from about 1 mg to about 60 mg per day.
41. The method of claim 40 wherein the amount administered is from about 2 mg to about 50 mg per day. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 45 mg per day.
43. The method of claim 39 wherein the amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically 


acceptable salt thereof is greater than approximately 90% by weight of the total amount of sibutramine.
44. The method of claim 39 wherein the (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer is administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
45. The method according to claim 39 wherein (-) sibutramine is administered as a hydrochloride salt.
46. A composition for the treatment of disorders ameliorated by inhibition of neuronal monoamine reuptake in a human which comprises an amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate said disorders.
47. A composition for the treatment of disorders ameliorated by inhibition of neuronal monoamine reuptake in a human according to claim 46 wherein said amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is sufficient to treat said disorders but insufficient to cause adverse effects associated with the administration of racemic sibutramine.
48. A composition according to claims 46 or 47 wherein the amount is about 1 mg to about 60 mg.
49. A composition according to claims 46 or 47 wherein (-) sibutramine is in the form of a hydrochloride salt.
50. A composition according to claim 48 wherein said composition is adapted for oral administration.
51. A composition according to claim 48 adapted for intravenous delivery. 


 52. A composition according to claim 48 adapted for use in a transdermal patch.
53. The composition according to claim 48 which comprises (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
54. A method for treating cerebral function disorders in humans which comprises administering to a human an amount of (-) sibutramine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate cerebral function disorders. 55. A method for treating cerebral function disorders in a human according to claim 54 wherein said amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, is sufficient to alleviate cerebral function disorders but insufficient to cause adverse effects associated with administration of racemic sibutramine.
56. A method for treating cerebral function disorders in a human according to claims 54 or 55 wherein said disorder is caused by a cerebrovascular disease.
57. A method for treating cerebral function disorders in a human according to claims 54 or 55 wherein said cerebral function disorder is selected from the group consisting of senile dementia, Alzheimer's type dementia, memory loss and amnesia/amnestic syndrome.
58. A method for treating cerebral function disorders in a human according to claim 56 wherein said cerebrovascular disease is selected from the 



group consisting of cerebral infarction, cerebral bleeding, cerebral arteriosclerosis, cerebral venous thrombosis and head injuries.
59. The method of claims 54 or 55 wherein (-) sibutramine is administered by intravenous infusion, transdermal delivery, or orally as a tablet or a capsule.
60. The method of claim 59 wherein the amount administered is from about 1 mg to about 60 mg per day.
61. The method of claim 60 wherein the amount administered is from about 2 mg to about 50 mg per day.
62. The method of claim 61 wherein the amount administered is from about 5 mg to about 45 mg per day.
63. The method of claim 59 wherein the amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is greater than approximately 90% by weight of the total amount of sibutramine.
64. The method of claim 59 wherein the (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, is administered together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
65. The method according to claim 59 wherein (-) sibutramine is administered as a hydrochloride salt.
66. A composition for treating cerebral function disorders, which comprises an amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, said amount being sufficient to alleviate cerebral function disorders. 


 67. A composition for treating cerebral function disorders according to claim 66 wherein said amount of (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, is sufficient to treat cerebral function disorders but insufficient to cause the adverse effects associated with the administration of racemic sibutramine.
68. A composition according to claims 66 or 67 wherein the amount is about 1 mg to about 60 mg. 69. A composition according to claims 66 or
67 wherein (-) sibutramine is in the form of a hydrochloride salt.
70. A composition according to claim 68 wherein said composition is adapted for oral administration.
71. A composition according to claim 68 adapted for intravenous delivery.
72. A composition according to claim 68 adapted for use in a transdermal patch. 73. The composition according to claim 68 which comprises (-) sibutramine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of its (+) stereoisomer, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
