<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610615</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Non-radioactive DNA sequencing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A new process and kit are described that 
combines methods for generating the nucleotide base 

sequence of a DNA molecule with an ultra-sensitive silver 
staining protocol. This new combination of technologies 

allows for a direct, non-instrument based visualization 
of electrophoretically separated sequencing fragments. 

This non-radioactive system includes sequencing the DNA 
molecule by forming a set of fragments using an enzymatic 

dideoxy-mediated chain termination method, 
electrophoretically separating the DNA fragments on a gel 

medium, and exposing the gel medium to ultra-sensitive 
silver-staining solutions for a time determined by 

viewing the silver stain reacted primer extension 
products. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROMEGA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROMEGA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENDOZA LEOPOLDO GONZALEZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STORTS DOUGLAS RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENDOZA, LEOPOLDO GONZALEZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STORTS, DOUGLAS, RAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is directed to a method for
determining and visualizing the nucleotide base sequence
of a nucleic acid molecule. More particularly, the
invention is directed to a method for determining and
visualizing the nucleotide base sequence of a DNA or RNA
molecule utilizing a silver-staining protocol. The
invention is specifically directed to a direct, non-isotopic,
in-gel detection of DNA sequencing products
using an ultra-sensitive silver staining method. The
invention is a two component system employing (1) nucleic
acid sequencing and (2) silver staining.A full bibliographic citation of the references
cited in this application can be found in the section
preceding the claims.Nucleic acid is a polymer consisting of
chemically-linked sequences of nucleotides, which are the
primary genetic material of all cells. Nucleic acid is
found in two forms: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and
ribonucleic acid (RNA). Both forms carry within their
structure the hereditary information that determines the
structure of proteins, the basic building blocks of all
cells.The genetic material of all known organisms and
many viruses is DNA. RNA is the primary genetic material
in most plant viruses, some animal viruses and certain
bacteriophages. Additionally, RNA has a role in
governing protein formation in eucaryotes and
procaryotes.The basic structure of DNA and RNA is formed
from four nucleotide bases. In DNA, the nucleotide bases
are adenine (A), thymine (T), cytosine (C) and guanine
(G). In RNA, uracil (U) is found instead of thymine. The
nucleotide bases are linked into a polynucleotide chain
by a backbone consisting of alternating series of sugar
and phosphate residues. It is the order or sequence of 
the bases in the nucleic acid that determines which gene
is present and ultimately which protein will be
synthesized.Although the present invention is directed to
the visualization of sequenced nucleic acids as defined
above, for purposes of this disclosure the terms
"deoxyribonucleic acid" or "DNA" will be used
interchangeably with the term "nucleic acid."Accurately determining nucleotide base
sequences is a prerequisite to further understanding the
structure and function of the proteins produced by the
encoded information. One such method, DNA sequencing,
involves determining the order in which the nucleotide
bases are arranged within a length of DNA. Two DNA
sequencing techniques, which are widely known and in
current use, are the chemical degradation procedure
according to Maxam and Gilbert (1977, 1980) and the
enzy
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining the nucleotide base sequence of a
nucleic acid comprisi
ng:

a) sequencing the nucleic acid by forming a set of
fragments of the nucleic acid;
b) electrophoretically separating the set of fragments on
a gel medium;
c) exposing the gel medium to silver-staining solutions
for a time sufficient to react the set of fragments with the

silver-straining solutions; and
d) determining the sequence of the nucleic acid by viewing
the set of silver-stain reacted fragments.
The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is
sequenced according to the enzymatic dideoxy-mediated chain

termination method.
The method of claim 2, wherein the steps for determining
the nucleotide base sequence of the nucleic acid comprise:


a) hybridizing a primer to a nucleic acid template to be
sequenced;
b) extending the primer under sequencing conditions; and
c) separating the synthesized fragments according to their
size, whereby at least a part of the nucleotide base sequence

of the nucleic acid can be determined.
The method of claim 3, wherein the primer is an
oligonucleotide primer.
The method of claim 4 further comprising incorporating a
strand terminating nucleotide onto the extended primer under

conditions to yield a distinct population of nucleotide 
fragments beginning on the same 5' nucleotide position for all

populations and having a variable terminus at one of the
following four nucleotide bases: A, C, G and T.
The method of claim 3, wherein the sequencing conditions
comprise extending the primer with a DNA polymerase selected

from the group consisting of Klenow fragment of 
E. coli
 DNA
polymerase I, reverse transcriptase, bacteriophage T7 DNA

polymerase, thermal stable DNA polymerases and modifications
thereof.
The method of claim 6 wherein the thermal stable DNA
polymerase is selected from the group consisting of 
Thermus
aquaticus
 DNA polymerase, Stoffel fragment DNA polymerase,

Thermus thermophilus
 DNA polymerase, 
Bacillus caldotenax
 DNA
polymerase, 
Thermus flavus
 DNA polymerase, 
Bacillus
stearothermophilus
 DNA polymerase and modifications thereof.
The method of claim 3 wherein the DNA sequencing
conditions comprise extending the primer with a thermal stable

DNA polymerase under thermocycling conditions.
The method of claim 3 wherein the DNA sequencing
conditions comprise extending the primer with a DNA polymerase

under non-thermocycling conditions.
The method of claim 1, wherein in step a), the DNA is
sequenced by hybridizing a primer to a DNA template to be

sequenced, and then extending the primer with a DNA polymerase,
and then incorporating a strand-terminating nucleotide onto the

extended primer under conditions to yield a distinct population
of nucleotide fragments beginning on the same number 5'

nucleotide position for all populations and having a variable
terminus at one of the four following nucleotide bases: A, C, G

and T. 
The method of claim 10, wherein the sequencing conditions
comprise extending the primer with a DNA polymerase selected

from the group consisting of Klenow fragment of 
E. coli
 DNA
polymerase I, reverse transcriptase, bacteriophage T7 DNA

polymerase, thermal table DNA polymerases and modifications
thereof.
The method of claim 10, wherein the DNA polymerase is a
thermal-stable DNA polymerase.
The method of claim 12, wherein the thermal stable DNA
polymerases is selected from the group consisting of 
Thermus
aquaticus
 DNA polymerase, Stoffel fragment DNA polymerase,

Thermococcus litoralis
 DNA polymerase, 
Thermus thermophilus
 DNA
polymerase, 
Bacillus caldotenax
 DNA polymerase, 
Thermus flavus

DNA polymerase, 
Bacillus stearothermophilus
 DNA polymerase and
modifications thereof.
The method of claim 10, wherein the DNA template is
selected from the group consisting of single-stranded DNA and

double-stranded DNA.
The method of claim 10, wherein the determination of the
DNA sequence further comprises a set of four different

sequencing reactions, wherein each sequencing reaction contains
a different strand terminating nucleotide which terminates

nucleotide synthesis at a specific nucleotide base wherein each
reaction yields a distinct population of nucleotide fragments.
A silver staining sequencing kit for DNA sequencing,
comprising:


a) a container containing a DNA polymerase;
b) a container containing a DNA sequencing buffer; 
c) a container containing a fix/stop solution;
d) a container containing sequencing stop solution;
e) containers containing deoxynucleotide and
dideoxynucleotide mixes;
f) a container containing a silver staining solution;
g) a container containing a developer solution; and
h) instructions for use.
The kit of claim 16, further comprising sequencing primers
and DNA templates for use in a control reaction.
The kit of claim 16, wherein the primer is pUC/M13 forward
24mer and the DNA template is pGEM
R
-3Zf(+).
The kit of claim 16, wherein the silver staining solution
comprises silver nitrate and formaldehyde.
The kit of claim 16, wherein the developer solution
comprises sodium carbonate, formaldehyde and sodium

thiosulfate.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
