<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622344</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Large aperture device for controlling thickness of conductive coating on optical fibers
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C2512	G02B644	C03B3712	G02B644	C03C2512	G01B1502	C03B3710	G01B1502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	G02B	C03B	G02B	C03C	G01B	C03B	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C25	G02B6	C03B37	G02B6	C03C25	G01B15	C03B37	G01B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Described is a new method and apparatus for measuring the thickness of 
a thin conductive coating deposited on a moving elongated dielectric body. Of 

special use is an application of a carbon coating on an optical fiber. The conductive 
coating is measured by establishing an electromagnetic 

field in a resonator (10) including 
an elongated unshielded helix (11) and a pair of coupling 

loops (12,13). The helix (11) is suspended 
between the coupling loops (12,13) out of contact with 

either one of them. An 
electromagnetic energy is coupled into one loop as an input signal from a source of 

electromagnetic energy and coupled out from the other loop as an output signal. The 
difference between the magnitude of energy of an 

empty helix (11) or with an uncoated 
body, and the helix with a coated body, is used for controlling the coating process. 

The inner diameter of the helix (11) is large relative 
to the diameter of the elongated body 

being at least five times the diameter of the fiber and the spacing between the coils of 
the helix (11) being equal to the cross-sectional 

dimension of the rod, wire or tubing 
making up the coil. The general principles stated herein can be applied over a wide 

range of radio frequencies, typically from about 100 MHz to 100 GHz, and can be 
applied to a wide range of coating configurations by appropriately selecting a 

frequency range and equipment that is compatible with the selected frequency range. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATKINS ROBERT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON GEORGE EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATKINS, ROBERT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, GEORGE EARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus used in manufacturing
coated elongated insulators, such as optical fibers, and especially in the production of
hermetically sealed optical fibers.An optical fiber, after it is drawn from a preform, is coated typically
with at least one polymeric coating. These coatings significantly enhance the
mechanical and optical properties of the fiber. However, polymeric coatings are
generally permeable to environmental elements, such as water and hydrogen, which
are deleterious to the fiber. The interaction of water with the surface of a silica fiber
produces surface modifications which can reduce the strength of the fiber. Also,
over a period of time, hydrogen can diffuse into an optical fiber and increase the
optical loss in a signal carried by that optical fiber.In order to prevent deleterious environmental elements from interacting
with the fiber, a coating which acts as an impenetrable hermetic barrier to the
environment is applied between the fiber and the polymeric coating. One such
coating is a carbon coating applied to the outer surface of a silica cladding of the
fiber. By inducing decomposition of a suitable carbon containing organic precursor
gas, e.g., acetylene, a thin carbon film is formed on the surface of the fiber, for
example, as described by F. V. DiMarcello et al., in U.S. patent 5,000,541 issued
March 19, 1991, which is incorporated herein by reference. For optimum results, the
carbon coating must be applied in a particular thickness within close tolerances. If
the coating is too thin, e.g., thinner than 20 nm (200 Å), it does not sufficiently limit the
penetration of the undesirable environmental elements. On the other hand, if it is too
thick, e.g., greater than 200 nm (2000 Å), fiber strength can be reduced by microcracks which
can form in the carbon coating when the fiber is under high tensile force.An example of a dynamic manufacturing method to measure and control
the thickness of a hermetic coating being applied to an unjacketed optical fiber is
disclosed in U.S. Patent 5,013,130, issued to R. M. Atkins et al. on May 7, 1991, and
in U.S. Patent 5,057,781 issued to R. M. Atkins et al. on October 15, 1991, each of
which is incorporated herein by reference. This manufacturing method includes the
steps of depositing a hermetic coating, e.g. carbon, on a moving optical fiber being
drawn from a heated preform, and measuring contactlessly the thickness of the
coating deposited on the optical fiber. In FIG. 3 is shown a schematic representation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of fabricating an optical fiber comprising a core, a cladding,
and a hermetic coating on the surface of the cladding, which comprises:


a) drawing material from a heated end portion of an optical fiber
preform having a core and a cladding material into an elongated optical fiber

comprising a core and a cladding,
b) coating the surface of the optical fiber with a continuous layer of carbon
as a conductive material in a thickness sufficient to hermetically seal the optical fiber

while avoiding the vulnerability of the carbon coating to cracking, and
c) monitoring the thickness of the carbon coating by means of a
resonator operable within a frequency range of from 100 MHz to 100GHz, said

monitoring including:

(i) determining the magnitude of an electromagnetic field established in
a resonator,
(ii) moving the coated optical fiber coaxially of the resonator, and
(iii) in response to a change in the electromagnetic field due to the
introduction of the coated optical fiber into the resonator generating a signal

representative of the thickness of the conductive material on the optical fiber, wherein

   said monitoring is conducted by means of a resonator comprising an
unshielded elongated helix an inner diameter of which is large relative to the

diameter of the optical fiber, said helix being suspended between and out of contact
with a pair of coupling loops of a material permitting coupling of a magnetic energy

to the helix, said electromagnetic energy being coupled into one loop as an input
signal and being coupled out from the other loop as an output signal.
A method of determining the thickness of a semiconductive coating on
an elongated body of a dielectric material which comprises


determining the magnitude of an electromagnetic field established in an
elongate resonator with a frequency of oscillation in a range of from 100 MHz to 100

GHz,
moving a conductively coated elongated dielectric body coaxially of
said resonator, and,
in response to a change in the electromagnetic field, generating a signal
representative of the thickness of the conductive coating, in which 
said resonator comprises an unshielded elongated helix, an inner
diameter of which is large relative to the diameter of the optical fiber, said helix

suspended between and out of contact with a pair of coupling loops of a material
having magnetic properties permitting coupling of electromagnetic energy to the

helix, said electromagnetic energy being coupled into one coupling loop as an input
signal and being coupled out from the other coupling loop as an output signal.
A resonator for use in monitoring the thickness of a conductive
coating on an elongated dielectric body, the monitoring including establishing in a

resonator an electromagnetic energy field with a frequency of oscillation in a range
of from 100MHz to 100GHz moving a conductively coated elongated dielectric body

coaxially of said resonator, said body causing change in the electromagnetic energy
field, and generating, in response to the change in the electromagnetic field, a signal

representative of the thickness of the conductive coating,

said resonator comprising an elongated helix having an inner diameter
which is large relative to the diameter of the optical fiber, and
a pair of coupling loops, the helix being suspended between and out of
contact with the loops, each loop having a central aperture the diameter of which is

at least equal to the inner diameter of the helix and being of a material permitting
coupling of a magnetic energy to the helix.
The method of claim 1 or 2, or the resonator of claim 3, wherein the
helix is designed so that the spacing between individual coils is equal to the cross-sectional

dimension of the material of the coil, or so that

the inner diameter of the helix is at least five times the diameter of the
coated fiber, or so that
the length of the helix at least five times the inner diameter of the helix.
The method of claim 1 or 2, or the resonator of claim 3, wherein the
resonator operates within a frequency range of from 400MHz to 5GHz, or from

400MHz to 3GHz.
The method of claim 1 or 2, or the resonator of claim 3, wherein the
inner diameter of the coil ranges from 1.2 centimeters to 3.8 centimeters at an

operating frequency ranging from 400 MHz to 3GHz, respectively 
The method of claim 1 or 2, or the resonator of claim 3, wherein said
helix is designed so that 1≤βA≤1.5, where, A is the inner radius of the helix,


β=
4π
2
AN
λ
,

wherein λ
is the wavelength of the operation an
d

N=
1
P
,

with P being
the pitch of the helix.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
