<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631855</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vehicle seat forming tool having quick change style line inserts.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C3330	B29C3330	B29C3342	B29C3342	B29C5108	B29C5108	B29C5130	B29C5130	B29C6720	B29C6720	B60N200	B60N200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B60N	B60N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C33	B29C51	B29C51	B29C51	B29C51	B29C67	B29C67	B60N2	B60N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for producing trim covers for vehicle 
seats including a forming tool (11) of a standardized 

design which is adapted to receive different style line 
inserts (18) to produce different vehicle seat trim 

covers having different style lines, the forming tool 
having a contoured forming surface (14) which forms the 

basic shape for the trim cover, and each of the style 
line inserts having a style line surface (22) which forms 

an individually styled portion of a trim cover. In 
shaping the trim cover material, the material is pressed 

between the forming tool (11) and a pressing tool which 
has a forming surface that is complementary to the 

contoured forming surface of the forming tool (11) and 
generic to all of the style lines provided by the 

different style line inserts which are useable with the 
forming tool. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOVER UNIVERSAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NADEAU PHILLIP H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NADEAU, PHILLIP H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to vehicle seat assemblies, and more particularly, to 
a forming tool including a removable style line insert for use in producing vehicle 
seat trim covers. Typically, in the production of vehicle seat trim covers, forming tools are 
constructed and used which have a surface contour which is complementary to 
the final desired shape of the vehicle seat or back. One example of such 
forming tools is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,860,415, entitled "Vehicle Seat 
Assembly With Pour In Place Foam Body," which was issued August 29, 1989. 
In the process disclosed in this patent, material for a vehicle seat cover is placed 
inside out on a forming tool which has the desired complementary contours to 
the finished product. The material is shaped to the contours of the forming tool 
by vacuum forming. Another known method for producing vehicle seat 
assemblies uses complementary shaped forming tools. The seat cover material 
is shaped by pressing the material between the complementary shaped forming 
tools under conditions of heat and pressure. In both methods, the forming tools 
must be individually made with the desired surface contours. Consequently, any 
small change in the styling detail requires a completely new forming tool or set 
of forming tools that incorporates the final shape for the vehicle seat being 
produced. Moreover, changing a forming tool or forming tool set is a relatively 
difficult procedure because the forming tools are large and bulky and are 
relatively heavy. Also, when the cover fabric is shaped by pressing it between 
complementary forming tools, the forming tools are heated to a temperature of  
 
about 230° Fahrenheit. Consequently, special procedures are required for 
handling the forming tools during a changeover. In addition, when 
complementary forming tools are used, a tooling changeover requires that both 
of the forming tools be replaced and so the forming tools must be realigned with 
one another during the retooling operation. Forming tools having removable inserts which permit modification of the 
insert instead of replacement of the entire forming tool are described in U.S. 
patent No. 4,975,135 issued on December 4, 1990. The forming tools described 
in this patent allow interchange of styles for producing vehicle seat covers 
having differing contours as consumer demand dictates. However, the insert is 
used in shaping substantially the entire "A" surface of the vehicle seat, that is 
about 80% of the "A" surface. Because the insert in itself
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A forming tool assembly (10) for shaping a cover fabric (52) for the 
front surface of a vehicle seat back portion or the top surface of a vehicle seat 

cushion portion, said forming tool assembly comprising: a forming tool (11) for 
forming a basic shape for said surface of said seat portion, said forming tool 

having a contoured upper surface (14) with a cavity (16) therein, said contoured 
upper surface being complementary to said basic shape; and a style line insert 

(18) for stylizing part of said surface of said seat portion, said style line insert 
having a lower mounting portion (20) and an upper styling surface (22), said 

mounting portion being shaped and dimensioned to fit within said cavity in said 
contoured surface of said forming tool, said styling surface being complementary 

to the shape of said stylized part of said surface of said seat portion, said style 
line insert constituting about 8% to 15% of the area of said upper surface of said 

forming tool. 
The forming tool assembly according to claim 1, wherein said style line 
insert constitutes less than 10% of the area of said upper surface of said forming 

tool. 
The forming tool assembly according to claim 1, wherein said styling 
surface of said style line insert comprises a single upwardly projecting rib (24) to 

form a corresponding groove in said cover fabric. 
The forming tool assembly according to claim 1, wherein said styling 
surface of said style line insert comprises a plurality of upwardly projecting ribs 

(24a) to form corresponding grooves in said cover fabric. 
The forming tool assembly according to claim 1, wherein said style line 
insert comprises first and second insert portions (34a, 34b) and wherein said 

cavity in said contoured surface of said forming tool has first and second 
portions (37a, 37b), said first and second insert portions having respective first 

and second mounting portions and respective first and second styling portions 
(36a, 36b), said first and second mounting portions being shaped and 

dimensioned to fit into said first and second cavity portions, respectively, and 
said first and second styling portions projecting upwardly beyond said upper 

surface of said forming tool. 
The forming tool according to claim 1, wherein said contoured upper 
surface of said forming tool includes a styling rib (35) which projects upwardly 

beyond said upper surface to form a corresponding groove in said cover fabric. 
In an apparatus (40) for shaping a cover fabric for the entire front 
surface of a vehicle seat back portion or the entire top surface of a vehicle seat 

cushion portion, the combination comprising: a forming tool (11) for forming a 
basic shape for said surface of said seat portion, said forming tool having a 

contoured upper surface (14) with a cavity (16) therein, said contoured upper 
surface being complementary to said basic shape; a plurality of style line inserts 

(18, 18a, 18b) for stylizing part of said surface of said seat portion, each of said 
style line inserts having a lower mounting portion and an upper styling surface 

(22), said mounting portions of said style line inserts being substantially identical 
in size and shape and being shaped and dimensioned to fit one at a time within 

said cavity in said contoured surface of said forming tool, permitting said style 
line inserts to used individually with said forming tool for individually stylizing part 

of said seat portion, different ones of said style line inserts having different 
styling surfaces which are complementary to different desired shapes for said 

stylized part of said seat portion; and a pressing tool (42) having a contoured 
lower surface (44) which is complementary to said forming surface of said 

forming tool and which includes surface portions (46) which are complementary 
to the style line inserts that are provided by said plurality of style line inserts, 

enabling a common pressing tool to be used with said plurality of different style 
line inserts. 
Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said style line insert 
constitutes about 8% to 15% of said upper surface of said forming tool. 
Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said style line insert 
constitutes less than 10% of said upper surface of said forming tool. 
Apparatus according to claim 7, and wherein said styling surface (22) 
of one of said style line inserts includes at least a first upwardly projecting rib 

(24) to form a corresponding groove in said cover fabric, and a styling surface of 
another one of said style line inserts includes at least second and third upwardly 

projecting ribs to form a corresponding grooves in said cover fabric, and wherein 
said pressing tool includes grooves which are complementary to said first, 

second and third ribs. 
A method for shaping a trim cover fabric (52) for the entire front 
surface of a vehicle seat back portion or the entire top surface of a vehicle seat 

cushion portion, comprising the steps of: providing a forming tool assembly (10) 
having an individually stylized forming surface by inserting a style line insert (18) 

into a cavity (16) in a contoured upper surface (14) of a forming tool (11), said 
contoured upper surface of said forming tool being complementary to a basic 

shape for said seat portion and said style line insert having an upper styling 
surface (22) which is complementary to a desired stylized shape for part of said 

seat portion; positioning said trim cover fabric on said forming tool assembly; 
and pressing said cover fabric onto said forming tool assembly using a pressing 

tool (42) which has a contoured lower surface (44) which is complementary to 
said forming surface of said forming tool assembly, including said styling surface 

of said style line insert. 
The method according to claim 11, including the step of selecting one 
from a plurality of style line inserts (18, 18a, 18b) which are individually useable 

with said forming tool, different ones of said style line inserts having different 
 

styling surfaces and said styling surfaces of said style line inserts being 
complementary to desired stylized shapes for said individually stylized part of 

said seat portion; inserting the selected style line insert into said cavity in said 
forming tool, said pressing tool including surface portions (46) which are 

complementary to the style lines which are provided by said plurality of style line 
inserts, whereby a common pressing tool is useable with said plurality of 

different style lines. 
The method according to claim 11, including the step of heating said 
forming tool assembly with said cover fabric thereon to a temperature within a 

predetermined range of temperatures, and wherein said pressing tool is 
unheated during said pressing operation. 
The method according to claim 11, including the step of heating said 
pressing tool, and wherein said forming tool assembly is unheated during said 

pressing operation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
