<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635125</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ADJUSTABLE VALVE FOR PIPETTE GUN
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L302	B01L302	G01N114	G01N100	G01N114	G01N100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L3	B01L3	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A valve (10) is provided for use in a pipette gun for selectively providing different ranges of flow rates through a pipette (22) cooperating with the pipette gun. The valve (10) has a predetermined number of settings, each of which provides a range of fluid flow rated between zero and a different maximum flow rate. An operator controls the flow rate by depressing the gun trigger (14', 14") to a desired setting. The present valve (10) also eliminates the "piston effect" of prior art valve elements by isolating the pipette chamber (40) while the valve element (50) operably slides in and out of engagement with a port (37) thereby connecting the pipette (22) with a fluid source either under pressure or at a vacuum.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DRUMMOND SCIENT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DRUMMOND SCIENTIFIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEY JAMES W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEY, JAMES, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a valve for use
in a pipette gun for variably controlling the flow of
liquid samples through a pipette.It is known in the prior art to provide a pipette
gun to replace the dangerous and often prohibited
practice of mouth pipetting liquid samples. A
typical pipette gun comprises a hand-held unit in
communication with a laboratory pipette at one end and
connected to either a remote or local air pressure
source at the other end. A valve located within the
pipette gun regulates the flow of air through the gun
and to the pipette to control either the intake or
expulsion of liquid through the pipette. The operator
regulates air flow to the pipette by depressing either
the positive pressure trigger or negative pressure
trigger on the pipette gun. The magnitude of the
pressure is predetermined and controlled by the valve
located within the pipette gun housing.Some pipette guns are provided with a universal
nose piece attachment for cooperating and
communicating with pipettes of various lengths and
diameters. It is necessary for practical use of such
pipette guns to provide variable flow rates to
accommodate the different pipettes. For example,
while a low flow rate is preferred for precise
metering of liquid samples in small pipettes, a low
flow rate is inefficient for larger pipettes. The
range of flow rates of the pipette gun valve thereby 
effectively limits the size range of pipettes with
which the pipette gun may be used practically.The advantages of a pipette gun which can
variably control the liquid flow rate through the
pipette are recognized in the prior art. For example,
it is known to variably control the air pressure at
the pressure source by putting a speed control on the
pressure pump. When an operator increases the motor
speed, however, the pump diaphragm jerks irregularly
and causes a temporary irregular flow rate through the
pipette.It is known and recognized in Kenney U.S. Patent
No. 3,963,061, to provide a pipette gun having an
adjustable valve for continuously variably controlling
the pressure applied to the pipette from a constant
pressure source and, thus, continuously variably
controlling the liquid flow rate through the pipette.
The operator controls the liquid flow rate through the
pipette by limiting the extent to which the trigger on
the gun is depressed. In this manner the operator can
rapidly fill or void a major portion of the pipette by
depressing the trigger fully and then slowly meter the
pipette by depressing the trigger slightly.The type of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A valve (10) for use in a pipette gun for
variably controlling the flow of liquid samples into and out

of a pipette, comprising: an elongate valve chamber (34)
within a housing and having a longitudinal axis, a peripheral

surface, first flow means (36) connectable with the pipette
and providing fluid flow between the pipette and said

chamber (34), and second flow means (32) for connecting a
source of pressure fluid with said chamber (34), one of said

flow means ccmprising port means (37) in said peripheral
surface; an elongate valve element (50) having a length, an

cuter surface, and an outer dimension constructed and
arranged to slide along said longitudinal axis within said

chamber (34), said valve element having an axial,
longitudinal groove (58) in the outer surface shorter than

the length of said valve element (50); and an operator (14)
connected to said valve element (50); characterised in that

said outer surface of the valve element (50) is in
confronting sealing engagement with said port means (37) in

at least one position of the outer surface, which port means
extends inwardly from said peripheral surface, and in that

said operator is operable to move said groove (58) of said
valve element into and out of registry with said port means

(37), said groove (58) providing a fluid passage connecting said source and said pipette when the
said outer surface is in sealing engagement with said port

means (37) and the
groove is in registry with said port means (37), and closing

said fluid passage when the said outer surface is in sealing engagement with said port means (37) and said groove is out of registry with
said port means (37).
A valve according to Claim 1, characterised in
that said longitudinal groove (58) is tapered providing an

adjustable fluid flow area in said fluid passage between
said source and said pipette.
A valve according to claim 1 or 2, characterised
in that said valve element (50) has multiple surfaces (56)

on said outer surface, said operator (14) being operable to 
displace said element (50) to cause said multiple surfaces

(56) to alternatively confront said port means (37), each of
said surfaces (56) having a longitudinal groove (58).
A valve according to claim 3, characterised in
that each of said grooves (58) has a different size and

provides a different fluid flow area than the other(s), said
grooves (58) being arranged in an ordered sequence of

increasing size around the outer surface of said valve
element (50), said element being rotatable about its

longitudinal axis to effect said alternative confrontation.
A valve according to claim 3 or 4, characterised
in that the outer dimension of said valve element (50) is

less than the inner diameter of the valve chamber (34) to
allow rotation of said valve element (50) about its

longitudinal axis in said chamber for confronting said port
means (37) with a selected one of said multiple surfaces.
A valve according to claim 3, 4 or 5,
characterised in that detent means (66) are provided for

selectively positioning and holding one of said multiple
surfaces (56) in confrontation with said port means (37).
A valve according to claim 6, characterised in
that said detent means comprises an elastomeric sealing

element (66) positioned in said port means (37) to
resiliently bear against said surface (56) and compressible

by rotation of said valve element (50) about the
longitudinal
 axis to seat against a selected one of said
surfaces (56) and to provide fluid communication between

said port means (37) and said groove (58) through said
sealing element (66).
A valve according to claim 3, 4 or 5,
characterised in that said port means (37) comprises an

elastomeric sealing element (66) to seat against one of said
multiple surfaces (56) and to provide sealed fluid

communication between said port means and said groove (58). 
A valve according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that said valve element (50) has a

sealing section (52a), an action section (52b), a first end
proximal to said operator (14), and a second end remote from

said operator (14), said sealing section (52a) measured from
said first end to an intermediate point having a constant

dimension providing a sliding fit in said valve chamber
(34), said action section (52b) measured from said

intermediate point to said second end having multiple
surfaces (56) with a maximum outer dimension not greater

than the constant dimension of said sealing section (52a).
A valve according to claim 9, characterised in
that each of said multiple surfaces (56) has a longitudinal

groove (58) shorter than the action section (52b), said
grooves (58) defining a grooved portion (52c) of the action

section and a solid portion (52d) of the action section.
A valve according to claim 10, characterised in
that said valve chamber (34) has a vent (72) connecting said

chamber with the surroundings of the valve housing when said
groove (58) is out of registry with said port means (37),

said sealing section (52a) being positioned relative to said
groove (58) to seal said vent (72) and isolate said chamber

(34) from the surroundings when said groove (58) is in
registry with said port means (37).
A valve according to claim 11, characterised in
that at least one of said multiple surfaces (56) defines a

path of fluid flow from said source to said vent (72) when
said groove (58) is out of registry with said port means

(37).
A valve according to claim 11 or 12,
characterised in that said vent (72) comprises one end of

said chamber (34).
A valve according to claim 1, characterised in
that said valve element (50) has multiple longitudinal 

grooves (58) on the outer surface, each of said grooves
having a different size and providing a fluid flow area different than

the other(s).
A valve according to claim 14, characterised in
that the outer dimension of said valve element (50) is less

than the inner diameter of the valve chamber (34) to allow
rotation of said valve element (50) about its longitudinal

axis in said chamber (34) to align one of said grooves (58)
for registry with said port means (37).
A valve according to claim 14 or 15,
characterised in that a detent (66) is provided for

selectively positioning and holding said valve element (50)
aligned for registry of one of said grooves (58) with said

port means (37).
A valve according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that said first flow means

comprises a conduit located in said housing for containing
a volume of fluid, and said second flow means comprises a

further conduit located in said housing, the port means
separating the second conduit from the chamber so that the

volume of fluid in said second conduit remains substantially
unchanged while said groove is moving into and out of

registry with said port means.
A valve according to any one of the preceding
claims, characterised in that said port means (37) comprises

an annular seat having a seat surface engaging said outer
surface and a central bore in said seat surface forming a

passage, said groove affording fluid flow along the length
of said valve element between said chamber and said central

bore to comprise a fluid passage between said source and
said conduit.
A valve according to any one of preceding
claims, characterised in that the or each of said grooves

(58) is longitudinally tapered. 
A valve according to claim 18 and 19,
characterised in that the outer surface of the action

section is flat alongside said tapered groove, and said seat
surface comprises an elastomeric annular element having a

flat surface to slidably engage a flat surface of an action
section of the outer surface alongside said tapered groove.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
