<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634774</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Color cathode-ray tube
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J3110	H01J2987	H01J2902	H01J3100	H01J2902	H01J3120	H01J2987	H01J3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J31	H01J29	H01J29	H01J31	H01J29	H01J31	H01J29	H01J31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A color cathode-ray tube comprises a vacuum envelope 
(5) which includes a rectangular, flat face plate 

(1) and a rectangular, flat rear plate (3) opposing the 
face plate. A phosphor screen (8) is formed on an inner 

surface of the face plate, and fixing members (17) are 
fixed to an inner surface of the rear plate. A shadow 

mask (9) arranged in the envelope is supported by mask 
support members (18) to face the phosphor screen at a 

predetermined distance. Plate support members (11) are 
arranged in the envelope to support a load of 

atmospheric pressure acting on the face plate and the 
rear plate. The mask support members and the plate support 

members are fixed to the fixing members while being 

in close contact with the inner surface of the rear 
plate. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a cathode-ray tube
such as a color picture tube and, more particularly, to
a cathode-ray tube having a flat face plate, a flat
shadow mask opposing a phosphor screen formed on the
inner surface of the face plate, a mask support member
supporting the shadow mask, and a plate support member
supporting the face plate and a rear plate, wherein the
phosphor screen has a plurality of regions which are
scanned independently of one another.Recently, various researches have been made on
high-definition broadcasting and a high-resolution
picture tube with a large screen designed for the high-definition
broadcasting. In general, in order to
achieve high resolution of a picture tube, the spot
diameter of an electron beam on a phosphor screen must
be reduced.For this purpose, in the prior art, the structure
of an electrode of an electron gun has been improved, or
the caliber and/or length of the electron gun has been
increased. However, satisfactory achievement has not
been obtained. The main reason is that the distance
between the electron gun and the phosphor screen
increases in accordance with the increase in size of the
picture tube and the magnification of the electron lens
increases excessively. Accordingly, in order to achieve
high resolution, it is important to shorten the distance 
(depth) between the electron gun and the phosphor
screen. In addition, when the deflection angle of an
electron gun is increased, the difference in magnification
between the center area and peripheral area of the
phosphor screen increases. Thus, wide-angle deflection
is not advantageous for achieving high resolution.Under the circumstances, in the prior art, as
disclosed as in Jpn. Pat. Appln. KOKAI Publication
No. 48-90428, there is known a method of arranging a
plurality of independent small-sized picture tubes,
thereby constituting a high-resolution, large screen.
This kind of method is effective for large-scale screen
display with a large number of divided regions, which is
designed for outdoor installation. However, when this
method is applied to middle-scale screen display (e.g.,
the screen size is about 40 inches), connection portions
between the divided regions of the screen are conspicuous,
resulting in low-quality images. Thus, when the
display formed by this method is used for a household TV
receiver or computer-aided design (CAD) screen, the connection
portions on the screen are a serious defect.On the other hand, U.S. Patent No. 3,071,706
discloses a picture tube wherein a plurality
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A color cathode-ray tube comprising:

a vacuum envelope (5) having a substantially flat
face plate (1) and a substantially flat rear plate (3)

opposing the face plate;
a phosphor screen (8) formed on an inner surface of
the face plate;
a fixing member (17) fixed to an inner surface of
the rear plate;
a shadow mask (9) arranged in the envelope;
mask support means (18) for supporting the shadow
mask to face the phosphor screen at a predetermined

distance; and
plate support means (11) for supporting a load of
atmospheric pressure acting on the face plate and the

rear plate;

   characterized in that:

said mask support means (18) and said plate support
means (11) are fixed to the fixing member (17) while

being in close contact with the inner surface of the
rear plate (6).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1 characterized
by further comprising beam emitting means (13)

mounted on the rear plate (6), for emitting electron
beams for dividedly scanning a plurality of regions (R1

to R20) of the phosphor screen (8).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1,
characterized in that said fixing member (17) has an

opening (21), and said mask support means (18) has an
end portion (18a) which is in close contact with the

inner surface of the rear plate (6) through the opening.
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 3,
characterized in that said opening (21) has an area

larger than that of the end portion (18a) of the mask
support means (18).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said fixing member (17) has an

opening (22), and said plate support means (11) has an
end portion which is in close contact with the inner

surface of the rear plate (6) through the opening (22).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 5,
characterized in that said opening (22) has an area

larger than that of the end portion of the plate support
means (11).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1,
characterized by further comprising a coupling member

for coupling the mask support means (18) to the fixing
member (17).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 7,

characterized in that said coupling member has a leaf
spring (26) fixed to the fixing member (17) and the mask

support means (18).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 7,
characterized in that said coupling member is fixed to

the mask support means (18) and the fixing member (17)
by welding.
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1,
characterized by further comprising a coupling member

for coupling the plate support means (11) to the fixing
member (17).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 10,
characterized in that said coupling member has a ring-like

member (29) which is fixed to the end portion of
the plate support means (11) and the fixing member (17).
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 10,
characterized in that said coupling member is fixed to

the plate support means (11) and the fixing member (17)
by welding.
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1,
characterized in that said mask support means (18) is

fixed to the fixing member (17) by welding.
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1,
characterized in that said plate support means (11) is 

fixed to the fixing member (17) by welding.
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1,
characterized in that said fixing member (17) has a

plate-like shape and is fixed to the rear plate (6) with
frit glass coated on the fixing member to cover an edge

portion thereof.
A cathode-ray tube according to claim 1,
characterized in that said fixing member (17) has a

plurality of openings (21, 22) arranged side by side,
and said mask support means (18) and said plate support

means (11) respectively have end portions which are in
close contact with the inner surface of the rear plate

(6) through the openings.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
