<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647105</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CARRYING CASE FOR LAPTOP COMPUTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F116	G06F116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLLINGSWORTH DALE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLLINGSWORTH, DALE TARGUS GROUP INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLINGSWORTH DALE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLINGSWORTH, DALE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a carrying case for a laptop
computer or other delicate electronic instrument. More
particularly, this invention relates to a carrying case providing
very secure carriage of a delicate laptop computer as well as
convenient storage for floppy disks, peripherals and other
equipment, while not being excessively bulky or heavy.Recent years have seen a proliferation of so-called "laptop"
computers, that is, personal computers so reduced in size and
weight as to be conveniently carried and employed while traveling
or the like. The art has not provided a suitable carrying case
for such laptop computers. A suitable carrying case for a laptop
computer would provide substantial protection against: impact and
shock, as might commonly occur if the computer in its case were
dropped on the floor from a typical carrying height; impacts
against sharp corners of furniture or the like; and damage due to
rough handling by the owner, e.g., placing the case on a baggage
rack or the like. Such a carrying case for a laptop computer
would also desirably include a number of small pockets,
compartments or the like for storing floppy disks, printouts and
other documents such as owner's manuals, as well as other 
equipment such as modems, portable printers and connecting
cables. Similar considerations apply to the provision of
suitable carrying cases for other sorts of electronic
equipment and associated items, such as portable compact
disc players and the associated discs, video cameras and
associated microphones, and tapes. Such a case should not
be excessively costly, heavy or bulky. Further, it is
desirable that such a case provide a neat and professional
appearance, whether relatively full, that is, having each
of its compartments full of equipment or the like, or
relatively empty.US-A-5010988 discloses a carrying case for a laptop
computer comprising, in its upright position, a bottom
adapted to rest on a horizontal surface, a plurality of
walls and a top, together defining a principal compartment
for receiving the laptop computer, a handle and a shoulder
strap.According to the present invention, a carrying case
for a laptop computer, has the characterising feature that,
by comparison with the case disclosed in US-A-5010988, the
carrying case further comprises a suspension member affixed
to an upper portion of the case and appending downwardly
therefrom within the principal compartment, the suspension
member being configured to suspend the laptop computer
resiliently above the bottom of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A carrying case (10) for a laptop computer (26),
comprising, in its upright position:


a bottom (16) adapted to rest on a horizontal surface,
a plurality of walls (12,14,15,17) and a top (40), together

defining a principal compartment (22) for receiving the
laptop computer; and
one or both of a handle (43) and a shoulder strap
(45);

characterised in that the carrying case further
comprises a suspension member (24) affixed to an upper

portion of the case and appending downwardly therefrom
within the principal compartment, the suspension member

being configured to suspend the laptop computer resiliently
above the bottom of the case.
The carrying case of claim 1, wherein the suspension
member cradles the laptop computer and resiliently

stretches in order to absorb shocks and impact.
The carrying case of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
suspension member includes a cradle (28) configured to

receive the laptop computer and a resilient support capable
of stretching to provide a shock-absorbing, weight-bearing

connection between the cradle and the case.
The carrying case of claim 3, wherein the cradle
includes a padded panel of a flexible fabric.
The carrying case of claim 4, wherein the resilient
support includes at least one panel (30) of elastic fabric

joined at opposite edges thereof to the cradle and the
case.
The carrying case of any preceding claim, wherein said
walls are substantially planar and comprise planar

stiffening and impact-resistant members (18,20).
The carrying case of claim 6, wherein said stiffening
and impact-resistant members are encased by fabric (21).
The carrying case of any preceding claim, wherein said
top is hinged to the upper edge of the rear wall and is

releasably latched to the front wall. 
The carrying case of claim 8, wherein said top
comprises an upper section (40a) and a flap section (46),

said flap section being flexibly joined to said upper
section so as to depend over said front wall when said top

is latched to said front wall.
The carrying case of claim 9, further comprising
cooperating latch elements (48,50) fixed to said flap

section of said top and to said front wall.
The carrying case of claim 9, wherein said upper
section of said top comprises a stiffening member (44), and

further comprising means for carrying said carrying case
affixed to said stiffening member.
The carrying case of claim 11, wherein said means for
carrying comprises one or both of a handle (43) and a

shoulder strap (45).
The carrying case of claim 12, wherein said means for
carrying comprises a shoulder strap including an anti-slip

shoulder-engagement member (96).
The carrying case of claim 13, wherein said shoulder-engagement
member is flexible, defines an arcuate shape

when planar, and comprises first and second ends at which
said member is joined to first and second end sections of

said shoulder strap.
The carrying case of any preceding claim, further
comprising one or more releasable strap members (34,36)

extending transversely between upper edges of the front and
rear walls, to retain a laptop computer in the suspension

member.
The carrying case of any preceding claim, further
comprising means defining a further compartment (60) on the

outer surface of at least one of the front and rear walls.
The carrying case of claim 16, wherein said means
defining a further compartment comprises a panel of

substantially similar extent as the rear wall, said panel
being joined to the rear wall by means permitting said

panel to be spaced away from said rear wall, and means 
releasably retaining said panel in juxtaposition to said

rear wall.
The carrying case of claim 17, wherein said means for
releasably retaining said panel in juxtaposition to said

rear wall comprises cooperating strips of hook-and-loop
fastener material.
The carrying case of claim 18, wherein said means
joining said panel t
o said rear wall and permitting said
panel to be spaced away from said rear wall comprises one

or more V-creased fabric strip members forming side walls
and a bottom of said further compartment.
The carrying case of claim 19, wherein said V-creased
side and bottom members are of substantially continuous

width, whereby said panel may be spaced away from while
remaining substantially parallel to said rear wall.
The carrying case of claim 20, wherein said
cooperating strips of hook and loop fastener material are

disposed on opposed mating surfaces of said V-creased side
and bottom members.
The carrying case of claim 17, further comprising a
flap fixed to an upper portion of an outer surface of said

rear wall for depending over and closing an opening at the
top of said further compartment.
The carrying case of claim 22, further comprising
cooperating strips of hook and loop material on said flap

and said panel for releasably securing said flap over and
closing the opening of said further compartment.
The carrying case of claim 23, wherein said
cooperating strips of hook and loop material on said flap

and said panel are orthogonal to one another.
The carrying case of claim 16, comprising one or more
additional compartments formed on the outer surface of the

front wall.
The carrying case of claim 25, further comprising
internal pockets in one or more of said one or more

additional compartments.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
