<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649185</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements in or relating to antennas
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q1310	H01Q1310	H01Q2130	H01Q1318	H01Q500	H01Q2130	H01Q500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q13	H01Q13	H01Q21	H01Q13	H01Q5	H01Q21	H01Q5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dual frequency cavity backed slot antenna and method of tuning the 
antenna, wherein the antenna comprises a plurality of stacked layers including 

a layer having a substrate with an accessible surface, the surface including 
thereon a continuous slot, first electrically conductive metallization disposed 

within the slot and extending to the slot, second electrically conductive 
metallization disposed external to the slot and at least one pair of frequency 

adjusting devices, one such device associated with the first metallization and the 
other device associated with the second metallization. The device pairs are 

either a foil and a tab, a pair of foils or a pair of indentations, one in each of the 
metallizations. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYTHEON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAYTHEON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON ELDON L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, ELDON L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to dual frequency cavity backed slot antennas and,
more specifically, to such antennas which can be accurately tuned for operation
at both operating frequencies by adjustment made at a single accessible surface
thereof.One previously proposed dual frequency cavity backed slot antenna is a multi-layer microstrip
antenna that operates at two separate frequencies. Such an antenna is mounted
on a ground plane which has an opening around the edges having a width and
length selected according to the desired frequency characteristics of the antenna.
A first top resonant microstrip layer is aligned in the plane of the ground plane
and has a width and length less than the opening in the ground plane. Feed
throughs electrically connect the microstrip element to a feed network. A
container formed of a bottom and two sidewalls surrounds the antenna.
Separating the first top resonant microstrip element from a bottom ground plane
is a second resonant microstrip element mounted parallel to the first top
microstrip element and electrically coupled to the feed probes. The container is
electrically connected to the ground plane. The radiation slot or separation is
the difference in the dimensions of the resonant microstrip elements and the
opening or edges of the ground plane. The radiation slot may be covered with a
thin membrane or microwave absorber. At each frequency, the antenna circuit described above has very high
quality factor (Q) which yields a narrow bandwidth. Because of material and
manufacturing process variations, the resonant frequency or frequencies may
offset from the desired operating frequency or frequencies. This is not a problem
for one of the two resonant frequencies since the top resonant microstrip circuit
is readily accessible and can be tuned after assembly to its selected resonant
frequency. However, the second element is not accessible and therefore cannot
be tuned subsequent to manufacturing assembly. It is therefore apparent that
there exists the need of a capability to fine tune the antenna to either or both
resonant frequencies of the antenna after the manufacturing assembly is
complete.There is no known published prior art relating to tuning a dual frequency
cavity backed slot antenna. While stacked microstrip patch antennas are known
and, at first glance may appear to be similar to dual frequency cavity backed slot
antennas, these antennas differ from each other very significantly. In the
stacked patch antenna, the metallized area on the upper layer does not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dual frequency cavity backed slot antenna, including: a plurality of layers
forming a stack, one of said layers at one end of said stack being an electrically

nonconductive substrate (5) having a surface facing away from said stack; electrically
conductive metallization (55, 57) provided on said surface and having therein a slot (53)

which separates said metallization into a first section (57) and a second section (55) that are
free of electrical contact with each other, said slot extending entirely around said second

section so that said second section is disposed inwardly of said slot and said first section is
disposed outwardly of said slot; and frequency adjusting means for tuning two different

resonant frequencies of said antenna, said frequency adjusting means including a first
portion (58, 65, 71) and a second portion (61, 73) which are disposed on opposite sides of

said slot in alignment at a position along the length of said slot, said first portion being one of
a tab or indentation which is a part of said first section of said metallization, and said second

portion being one of a tab or indentation which is a part of said second section of said
metallization; wherein each of said frequency adjusting means includes an electrically

conductive sheetlike element which is physically trimmable, and which is physically
secured to a respective one of said first and second sections in electrical contact therewith,

and in the region of the tab or indentation thereof.
An antenna according to claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive sheetlike
element is formed by a third portion (63, 67) which is physically separate from each of said

first and second sections.
An antenna according to claim 2, wherein said sheetlike element (63, 67) is a
piece of metal foil.
An antenna according to claim 3, wherein said metal foil is made of copper,
and is physically secured to a respective one of said first and second sections by soldering.
An antenna according to any of claims 2 to 4, wherein said third portion (63)
is secured to said first section (57) of said metallization and wherein said frequency

adjusting means includes a fourth portion (67), said fourth portion being an electrically
conductive sheetlike element which is physically separate from each of said first and second

sections, which is physically trimmable, and which is physically secured to said second
section (55) in electrical contact therewith in the region of said second portion (61, 73)

thereof.
An antenna according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said first and second
portions (61, 65) are each a tab. 
An antenna according to any of claims 2 to 5, wherein said first and second
portions (58, 71, 73) are each an indentation.
An antenna according to any of claims 2 to 5, wherein one of said first and
second portions is a tab (61, 65) and the other thereof is an indentation (58, 73).
An antenna according to any of claims 1 to 5, 7, and 8, wherein one of said first
and second portions (58, 71, 73) is an indentation which is rectangular.
A method of tuning a dual frequency cavity backed slot antenna, including the
steps of: providing a plurality of layers which form a stack, one of the layers at one end of

the stack being an electrically nonconductive substrate (5) having a surface facing away
from the stack, the surface having thereon electrically conductive metallization (55, 57)

which has therein a slot (53) that separates the metallization into a first section (57) and a
second section (55), the first and second sections being free of electrical contact with each

other, and the slot extending entirely around the second section so that the second section is
disposed inwardly of the slot and the first section is disposed outwardly of the slot; and

tuning two different resonant frequencies of the antenna by providing a first portion (58, 65,
71) and a second portion (61, 73) which are disposed on opposite sides of the slot in

alignment at a position along the length of the slot, the first portion being one of a tab or
indentation which is a part of the first section of the metallization, and the second portion

being one of a tab or indentation which is a part of the second section of the metallization;
wherein said tuning step includes the step of physically securing and/or trimming an

electrically conductive sheetlike element (63, 67) in electrical contact with a respective one
of the first and second sections and in the region of the tab or indentation thereof, the

sheetlike element being physically trimmable.
A method according to claim 10, wherein said tuning step includes the step of
physically trimming the sheetlike element (663, 67) to change the size thereof.
A method according to claim 10 or claim 11, including the step of securing a
metal foil that is physically separate from each of the first and second sections to a

respective one of those sections as the sheetlike element, and wherein said step of physically
securing is carried out by soldering the metal foil to one of the first and second sections (55,

57).
A method according to any of claims 10 to 12, wherein said step of physically
securing is carried out by physically securing a sheetlike element (63) that is physically

separate from the first section to the first section (57), and wherein said tuning step includes
the step of physically securing a further electrically conductive sheetlike element (67) to the 

second section (55) in electrical contact therewith and in the region of the tab (61) or
indentation (73) thereof, the further sheetlike element (67) being physically separate from

the second section, and being physically trimmable.
A method according to any of claims 10 to 13, wherein said tuning step includes
the step of physically trimming at least one of the sheetlike elements (63, 67).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
