<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645245</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image output apparatus and image formation system for correcting density unevenness
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N1401	G06K1510	B41J1100	G06K1502	B41J221	B41J221	B41J1100	H04N1401	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	G06K	B41J	G06K	B41J	B41J	B41J	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N1	G06K15	B41J11	G06K15	B41J2	B41J2	B41J11	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A test image is formed by performing overlap 
printing using a plurality of printing heads provided 

for a printing agent of one color. Density data 
attained by reading this test image is averaged. On 

the basis of this average value, a common correction is 
performed for drive signals for the printing heads. 

This makes it possible to perform head density 
unevenness correction at a high efficiency in 

performing overlap printing by using the plurality of 
printing heads. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image output
apparatus for forming (outputting) an image on a
printing medium, an image formation system including
the image output apparatus and an image supply
apparatus for supplying image data to the image output
apparatus, an image output method, and a printed matter
which is printed by the image output method. For
example, the present invention relates to a textile
printing system which uses a piece or roll of cloth as
a printing medium and prints an image on the cloth.As an image output apparatus, those which perform
digital image printing by using a printing head of ink
jet type or thermal transfer type have spread rapidly
in recent years. Generally, such an image output
apparatus uses a printing head (to be referred to as a
multi-head in this section) in which a plurality of
printing elements are integrated, in order to increase
the printing speed.For example, as an ink jet printing head, a
so-called multi-nozzle head in which a plurality of ink
orifices and liquid passages are integrated is 
generally used. In addition, in a thermal head of
thermal transfer type or heat-sensitive type, it is
common practice to integrate a plurality of heaters.It is, however, difficult to uniformly manufacture
printing elements of a multi-head due to, e.g.,
characteristic variations in the manufacture process or
variations in the head constituent material. The
result is a variation to a certain degree in the
characteristics of the individual printing elements.
As examples, a variation is brought about in the shape
of orifices or liquid passages in the multi-nozzle
head, and the shape or the resistance of heaters varies
in the thermal head. This nonuniformity in the
characteristics of the printing elements appears as
nonuniformity in the size or the density of dots
printed by the individual printing elements.
Consequently, density unevenness takes place in a
printed image.To solve the above problem, the present applicant
has proposed, in Japanese Laid-Open Patent Application
No. 3-18358 and the like, an image formation apparatus
in which a density unevenness reading unit is provided
to periodically read the density unevenness
distribution within the range of an array of printing
elements, thereby reforming density unevenness
correction data. In this apparatus, even if the
density unevenness distribution of a head changes, the 
correction data is reformed in correspondence with the
change. Therefore, it is possible to ensure uniform
images free from unevenness at any
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image output apparatus for producing an image on
a printing medium by using a plurality of print heads (C,

C; M, M; Y, Y; BK, BK; S1, S1; S2, S2; S3, S3; S4, S4)
arranged to print the same color on the printing medium

and each having a plurality of print elements,
comprising:


image forming means (1011, 1014, 1022) for causing
said print heads to form a test image on a printing

medium;
image density information obtaining means for
obtaining image density information for correction of the

image formed by using said print heads from information
obtained by reading the test image; and
correcting means (1011, 1014) for correcting an
image signal for an image to be recorded on the basis of

the image density information obtained by said image
density information obtaining means so as to correct for

density variations, characterised in that the correcting
means (1011, 1014) is arranged to apply a common

correction amount to each of said plurality of print
heads so as to correct the image signal for the image to

be recorded or to correct drive signals to be supplied
to said print heads.
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the image
forming means (1011, 1014, 1022) is arranged to form the 

test image by performing overlap printing using said
print heads.
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said
correcting means (1011, 1014) is arranged to average

density data obtained by said image density information
obtaining means by the number of said print heads, and

to perform the common correction using the resulting
average value.
An apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3, further
comprising:


further image forming means (1011, 1014, 1022) for
causing said print heads to form respective test images;

and
further correcting means (1011, 1014) for separately
correcting the image signals for each print head on the

basis of individual density data obtained by said image
density information obtaining means.
An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said
further correcting means (1011, 1014) is arranged to

time-divisionally separately correct the image signals
corresponding to said print heads.
An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said
print heads are arranged in a conveyance direction of the 

printing medium so as to allow overlap printing or non-overlap
printing on the printing medium, and


further comprising control means (1011) for causing
the correcting means (1011, 1014) to perform a common

correction when the overlap printing is to be executed,
and the further correcting means (1011, 1014) to perform

separate correction when the non-overlap printing is to
be executed.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, comprising a plurality of print heads provided

for each of a plurality of different colors.
An apparatus according to any one of the preceding
claims, comprising print heads (C, M, Y, BK, S1, S2, S3,

S4) arranged to print on the printing medium by ejecting
ink.
An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said
print heads are arranged to eject ink using thermal

energy.
An image formation system comprising an image output
apparatus in accordance with any one of the preceding

claims and an image data supply apparatus (H) for
supplying image data relating to printing to said image

output apparatus. 
A textile printing system comprising an image
formation system according to claim 10, and means (B, C)

for supplying cloth as the printing medium.
An image output method for producing an image on a
printing medium by using a plurality of print heads (C,

C; M, M; Y, Y; BK, BK; S1, S1; S2, S2; S3, S3; S4, S4)
arranged to print the same color on the printing medium

and each having a plurality of print elements, comprising
the steps of:


causing said print heads to form a test image on a
printing medium;
obtaining image density information for correction
of the image formed by using said print heads, from

information obtained by reading the test image; and
correcting an image signal for an image to be
recorded on the basis of the image density information

obtained so as to correct for density variations,
characterised in that a common correction amount is

applied to each of said plurality of print heads so as
to correct the image signal for the image to be recorded

or to correct drive signals to be supplied to said print
heads.
A method according to claim 12, which comprises
forming the test image by performing overlap printing by

using said print heads. 
A method according to claim 12 or 13 which comprises
correcting the image signal by averaging density data

obtained in said image density information obtaining step
by the number of said print heads, and performing the

common correction using the resulting average value.
A method according to claim 12, 13 or 14, further
comprising:


causing said print heads to form respective test
images; and
carrying out a further correction step by separately
correcting the image signals for each of said print heads

on the basis of individual density data obtained in said
image density information obtaining step.
A method according to claim 15, which comprises
carrying out the further correction step time-divisionally

separately corrects the image signals for
said print heads.
A method according to claim 15, wherein said print
heads are arranged in a conveyance direction of the

printing medium to allow overlap printing or non-overlap
printing on the printing medium, and the method further

comprises performing the common correction when the
overlap printing is to be executed and performing

separate correction when the non-overlap printing is to 
be executed.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 17
which comprises using a plurality of print heads for each

of a plurality of different colors.
A method according to any one of claims 12 to 18
which comprises using print heads which print by ejecting

ink.
A method according to claim 19, which comprises
using print heads which eject ink by using thermal

energy.
A method of producing a printed product which
comprises using a method in accordance with any one of

claims 12 to 20 to correct image signals for an image to
be recorded and driving the print heads in accordance

with the corrected image signals so as to print the image

on the printing medium to form the printed product.
A method according to claim 21, further comprising
fixing the ink on the printing medium.
A method according to claim 22, further comprising
cleaning the printing medium after fixing. 
A method according to claim 21, 22 or 23, further
comprising applying a pretreatment agent to the printing

medium before printing.
A method according to any one of claims 21 to 24
which comprises using cloth as the printing medium.
A method according to any one of claims 21 to 25,
which comprises cutting the printed printing medium into

a desired size and processing the cut pieces to obtain
a final processed product.
A method according to claim 26 which comprises
processing the cut pieces by sewing them together.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
