<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656134</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
KEYBOARD AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J500	B41J510	G06F302	G06F302	G06F3023	G06F3023	H01H902	H01H902	H01H1100	H01H1100	H01H1370	H01H1370	H01H13807	H01H1384	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J5	B41J5	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	H01H9	H01H9	H01H11	H01H11	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A keyboard (12) having an array of non-planar keys (14, 16) and a method for manufacturing such a keyboard (12) is provided. In one embodiment (Figs. 1, 2 and 4), the non-planar array (14, 16) is a double-concave array. Electrical connection along the keys (14, 16) and/or from the keys (14, 16) to associated electronics (50) is provided by way of a circuit board (48). The circuit board (48) has a geometry and flexibility which permits the circuit board (48) to conform to a shape which is non-planar along two non-parallel axes. In one embodiment (Figs. 2, 4 and 5-8), the circuit board (48) can be configured in a double-concave shape. The circuit board (48) includes one or more slots (98a-d) defining two or more projections (96a-e). These projections (96a-e) can be placed in a configured non-coplanar configuration along a first axis and the circuit board (48) can be flexed to a non-planar configuration along a second non-parallel axis. Circuit board (48) is formed of a flexible substrate (86a, b), and with a plurality of conductive traces (88).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KINESIS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KINESIS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARGREAVES WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARGREAVES, WILLIAM, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 KEYBOARD AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING The present invention relates to an ergonomic keyboard with non-planar keys and a method of producing the keyboard, and in particular to a keyboard with a circuit board for providing electrical connection to non-planar keys.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONA number of attempts have been made to provide ergonomically-designed keyboards, e.g. to reduce fatigue and injury and/or to increase operation speed. One example is described in U.S. Patent application 07/683,980, filed April 10, 1991 by Hargreaves, et al., commonly assigned herewith and incorporated herein by reference. In several ergonomic designs, at least some of the keys of the keyboard are positioned in a non-planar fashion. In at least one design, the keys are non-planar along at least two non-parallel axes, e.g., such as to provide a double-concave or bowl-shaped key array.Although such ergonomic designs provide benefits to the user, it has been found relatively expensive to manufacture such keyboards in the past. At least part of the expense relates to non-planar, and particularly, double-concave configurations of a key array. Specifically, past designs have not provided for cost-effective electrical connection to the various key switches in the key array. Typically, previous ergonomic keyboards used individual wiring for connecting some or all of the keys in a non-planar key array. In one example of the individual wiring, individual wires are hand-soldered to each pin of each key switch and coupled at the opposite end to, e.g. , a junction, for connection to a bus or cable. Such individual wiring is not only expensive to achieve, but time- consuming, prone to error, and not conducive to automation. 

 Accordingly, it would be advantageous to provide an ergonomic keyboard, e.g., having a double-concave key array which does not require individual wiring to the keys thereof.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention includes the recognition of problems found in the prior art. According to the present invention, a circuit board is provided which can be placed in a configuration which is non-planar along at least two non- parallel axes. In one embodiment, a thin circuit board has a geometric pattern which allows it to conform to a surface which is concave in two directions. The geometric pattern, in one embodiment, includes providing one or more slots to define at least two regions of the circuit board that can be independently positioned in mutually non-coplanar configurations. Preferably, the circuit board is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A keyboard comprising: a key-switch support having a first region defining a plurality of holes for engaging and supporting key-switches, said first region being bowl-shaped; a plurality of key-switches disposed in said holes, each switch having electrical contacts on a bottom surface thereof, to provide a substantially bowl-shaped array of said electrical contacts; and a circuit board coupled to said contacts, said circuit board being flexible to permit the board to be bent along a first axis and said circuit board having a plurality of slots to permit the board to be shaped in a non-planar configuration along a second, substantially perpendicular axis, wherein the circuit board is substantially conformed to the shape of said bowl-shaped array of electrical contacts.
2. A keyboard comprising: a plate having at least a first plurality of key- switches mounted thereon, each of said first plurality of key switches having a user-activatable surface and an opposite surface, said opposite surfaces of said key switches having electrical contacts, said contacts forming an array which is non-planar along at least two axes; a circuit board having a plurality of substantially conductive traces, said circuit board positioned adjacent said array of electrical contacts, to form electrical paths from said contacts to said traces.
3. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 2, further comprising: electronics for converting a keypress into an electrical signal; and a bus connecting said circuit board to said electronics. 


 4. A keyboard, comprising: an upper and lower shell, having at least first and second openings in said upper shell; first and second bowl-shaped plates positioned in said first and second openings, said first and second plates each having a plurality of holes configured to accommodate key switches; a plurality of key switches positioned in said holes of said first and second plates, each key switch having an user-activatable upper surface and an opposite lower surface, with at least one electrical contact on said lower surface; said holes of each of said first and second plates arranged to positions said key switches in at least five groups, each group configured to place the upper surfaces of said key switches in said group in a concave configuration; a flexible circuit board having a plurality of conductive traces printed thereon and having a first integral region and at least five flat finger-like projections extending outward from said first region; each of said five projections positioned to couple the electrical contacts of the key switches of one of said five groups of key switches to at least one of said plurality of traces.
5. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 4, wherein said circuit board is curved along two orthogonal axes.
6. A keyboard comprising: a chassis having means for positioning a plurality of user-activatable keys in a predetermined configuration, at least some keys having electrical contacts, said contacts being non-planar over at least two non-parallel axes; a circuit board, having predetermined electrical traces, and having means for coupling said electrical contacts of said keys to said predetermined electrical traces. 


 7. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said circuit board includes a flexible substrate means for substantially conforming at least a portion of said circuit board means to a configuration adjacent at least some of said electrical contacts.
8. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said circuit board includes slot means separating a first region of said circuit board means from a second region of said circuit board, permitting said first region to be positioned in a configuration non-coplanar with said second region.
9. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said user-activatable keys comprise mechanical key switches.
10. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said user-activatable keys comprise membrane switches.
11. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said means for coupling comprises means for providing a solder connection to said key switches.
12. A keyboard, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said means for coupling comprises means for solderless connection to said key switches.
13. A circuit board comprising: a substrate; a plurality of substantially conductive traces formed on said substrate; said substrate having at least a first region and having at least a first slot, said first slot defining a second region and a third region of said substrate wherein said second and third regions can be located in non-coplanar positions. 


 14. A circuit board, as claimed in claim 13, at least said first region having sufficient flexibility to permit said substrate to be positioned in a curved configuration wherein at least a portion of the cross-section of said first region along a first plane is curved.
15. A circuit board, as claimed in claim 14, at least said second region having sufficient flexibility to permit said second region of said substrate to be positioned in a curved configuration wherein at least a portion of the cross- section of said substrate along a second plane, different from said first plane, is curved.
16. A circuit board comprising: a substrate; a plurality of substantially conductive traces formed on said substrate; said substrate being non-planar along at least two non-parallel axes wherein at least a portion of a first cross- section of said substrate along a first plane containing said first axis is non-linear, and a portion of a second cross- section of said substrate along a second plane, different from and angled to said first plane and containing said second axis, is non-linear.
17. A circuit board, as claimed in claim 16, wherein said substrate has a substantially concave shape.
18. A circuit board comprising: a substrate; a plurality of substantially conductive traces formed on said substrate; said substrate comprising at least a first region and at least second and third regions projecting outward from said first region of said substrate, each of said second and third regions being integral with said first region, said second and third regions being separated from each other by a first slot; 


 said substrate being formed of a flexible material wherein said first, second and third regions can each be placed in a curved configuration.
19. A circuit board, as claimed in claim 18, further comprising fourth, fifth and sixth regions projecting outward from said first region, each of said second, third, fourth fifth and sixth regions being separated from each other and integral with said first region.
20. A circuit board, as claimed in claim 19, wherein said plurality of substantially conductive traces includes at least a first trace running from said second region to said first region, at least a second trace running from said third region to said first region, at least a third trace running from said fourth region to said first region, at least a fourth trace running from said fifth region to said first region and at least a fifth trace running from said sixth region to said first region.
21. A circuit board comprising: a substrate having a first region and a second region; a plurality of conductive traces formed on said substrate; said second region having at least four slots to define five finger-like projections extending outward from said first region; said substrate formed of a flexible material to accommodate independently positioning said five finger-like projections.
22. A method for providing electrical connection to a plurality of keys in a chassis, comprising: positioning a plurality of user-activatable keys in a predetermined configuration, at least some keys having 


electrical contacts, said contacts being non-planar over at least two non-parallel axes; providing a circuit board having a plurality of electrical traces; placing said circuit board in a configuration which is non-linear over a first axis; placing said circuit board in a configuration which is non-linear over a second axis, non-parallel with said first axis; positioning said circuit board adjacent at least some of said keys to couple said electrical contacts with at least some of said plurality of electrical traces.
23. A method, as claimed in claim 22, wherein: said step of providing a circuit board comprises providing a circuit board which is flexible in at least a first region ; and wherein said step of placing said circuit board in a configuration which is non-linear over a first axis comprises bending at least said first region into a configuration which is curved along said first axis.
24. A method, as claimed in claim 21, wherein: said step of providing a circuit board comprises providing a circuit board which includes at least a first slot separating a first portion from a second portion; and wherein said step of placing said circuit board in a configuration which is non-linear over a second axis comprises positioning said first and second portions in non-coplanar configurations.
25. A method, as claimed in claim 24, wherein said step of positioning said first and second portions comprises bending said first portion to a curved configuration substantially along a first arc and bending said second portion to a curved configuration substantially along a second arc, different from said first arc. 


 26. A method, as claimed in claim 25, wherein said first arc has an approximate radius of curvature greater than the approximate radius of curvature of said second arc.
27. A method, as claimed in claim 25, wherein: said step of providing a circuit board comprises providing a circuit board which is flexible in at least a first region ; and wherein said step of placing said circuit board in a configuration which is non-linear over a first axis comprises bending at least said first region into a configuration which is curved along said first axis
28. A method, as claimed in claim 25, wherein at least said first portion has a substantially linear cross- section along a third axis, substantially parallel with said first axis.
29. A method, as claimed in claim 25, wherein at least said first portion has a curved cross-section along a third axis, substantially parallel with said first axis.
30. A method, as claimed in claim 22, wherein said step of positioning a plurality of user-activatable keys comprises: providing a region of said chassis with a plurality of holes configured to accommodate said keys and positioning said keys in said holes.
31. A method, as claimed in claim 30, wherein said step of providing a region of said chassis with a plurality of holes comprises coupling a non-integrally formed plate, having said holes formed therein, to said chassis.
32. A method, as claimed in claim 30, wherein said step of providing a region of said chassis with a plurality of holes comprises forming said holes in said chassis. 


 33. A method, as claimed in claim 30, wherein said chassis has an interior surface and an exterior surface and wherein said step of positioning said keys in said holes comprises pushing said keys partially through said holes in a direction from said interior toward said exterior surface.
34. A method, as claimed in claim 30, wherein said chassis has an interior surface and an exterior surface and wherein said step of positioning said keys in said holes comprises pushing said keys partially through said holes in a direction from said exterior toward said interior surface.
35. A method, as claimed in claim 31, wherein said plate has an upper and a lower surface, wherein said step of positioning said keys comprises pushing the keys partially through said holes in a direction from said lower surface toward said upper surface; and wherein said step of positioning said circuit board comprises positioning said circuit board substantially adjacent said lower surface of said plate.
36. A method, as claimed in claim 31, wherein said plate has an upper and a lower surface, wherein said step of positioning said keys comprises pushing the keys partially through said holes in a direction from said upper surface toward said lower surface; and wherein said step of positioning said circuit board comprises positioning said circuit board substantially adjacent said lower surface of said plate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
