<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636784</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spoked solenoid armature for an electromechanical valve.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02M5106	F02M5106	F02M5108	F02M5108	H01F708	H01F716	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	H01F	H01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02M51	F02M51	F02M51	F02M51	H01F7	H01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a high pressure fuel injector (10) for direct injection of fuel 
into 

an internal combustion engine, the armature (28) has a central hub 
member (38) 

connected by means of spokes (40) to a concentric ring member (42) . 
This construction reduces the amount of magnetic material in the 

armature (28) hence reduces magnetic losses and speeds up the actuation 
times. Spaces (44) between the spokes (40) allow for the passage of 

fluid from one 
side of the armature (28) to the other during actuation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AUTOMOTIVE LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS AUTOMOTIVE L.P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKEMAN RUSSEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAKEMAN, RUSSEL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates in general to solenoid operated or 
electromagnetically operated valves and more particularly to spoked 
armatures for use in such valves that inject high pressure fluids into high 
pressure volumes. High pressure valves such as high pressure fuel injectors for use in 
direct injection of fuel into internal combustion engines, have requirements 
for very high solenoid forces due to the fact that such valves must operate 
very fast. Since the valves open into high pressure volumes, they need 
high spring forces acting in a direction typically opposite to opening to bias 
the valves closed and to seal the valve. In order to work against these 
opposing forces, dual working gap solenoid stators and armature 
combinations have been used. The dual gap principle allows both gaps to 
provide useful force to attract the armature to the stator. In prior art high pressure valves, the armature has been a simple 
flat disk design. The reasons are many, from ease of fabrication to ease 
of design. Such a flat disk, however, is not particularly economical about 
its use of magnetic material and this makes the armature excessively 
heavy. In addition, when the armature seats against the pole pieces, any 
fluid captured therebetween must be squeezed out slowing the movement 
of the armature. Spaced apart apertures through the disk to remove such 
fluid unfortunately provide a high resistance path for the fluid to take as it 
flows from one side of the armature to the other. Magnetically the flat disk is subject to the circulation of eddy 
currents and since it has excessive magnetic material, energy dissipation 
in the magnetic path is costly. Structurally, the flat disk is relatively flimsy 
in the bending direction. With the dual gap and more particularly since the 
second gap is at the outer edge of the disk armature, the magnetic force 
in this gap have the maximum possible moment arm for bending in the 
cross sectional direction of the armature. When this happens, 
unsymmetrical magnetic gaps are created and performance of the  
 
magnetic circuit is degraded. Still other disadvantages arise since the 
length of the magnetic gap is also the stroke of the armature/needle in the 
opening and closing of the valve, the uneven magnetic gaps can have 
severe mechanical effects by limiting the travel of the armature and 
applying uneven stop forces to the armature. In order to overcome these and other disadvantages the spoked 
armature of the present invention is used in an electromechanical fuel 
i
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve having a cylindrical 

solenoid frame member having an inner tubular member and an outer 
tubular member radially displaced from each other and joined together at 

a one end forming a closed end; coil means located in said outer tubular 
member surrounding said inner tubular member and extending 

substantially the full depth of said frame from the open end to the closed 
end forming a stator member wherein each of said tubular members form 

outer and inner concentric pole piece members respectively at said open 
end; a valve seat means; elongated needle means having a valve 

member at one end and extending axially from said valve seat means 
toward said stator; and bias means located in said inner tubular member 

of said solenoid frame member to bias said elongated needle means 
against said valve seat; the electromechanical fuel injector comprising: 

   armature means secured to said elongated needle means at 
the end opposite said valve member, said armature being a spoked 

member with a central hub and concentric ring connected to said hub by 
means of a plurality of spokes, said hub being magnetically coupled to 

said inner concentric pole piece and said ring being magnetically coupled 
to said outer concentric pole piece providing dual working gaps, said 

armature means being magnetically attracted to said pole pieces when 
said coil means is actuated to axially displace said valve member from 

said valve seat. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 1 

wherein the nose and the tail of the cross section of said spokes 
connecting said ring to said hub in the axial direction are rounded. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 1 

wherein said spokes connecting said ring to said hub form a plurality of 
open axially aligned passages between adjacent spokes across the axial 

length of said armature. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 3 

wherein said hub surface is radially in line with said ring surface but 
radially displaced therefrom by means of a circumferential trough across 

said spokes and said spokes are blended into said ring in a smooth 
transition surface formed by a substantial curved surface. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 4 

wherein said hub surface additionally supports said bias means. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 1 

additionally including a magnetic disk means having a central aperture 
and substantially enclosing said coil means at said open end, said disk is 

connected to said outer concentric pole piece member providing a 
magnetic path to magnetically locate said outer concentric pole piece 

adjacent to the inner diameter of said central aperture. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 6 

wherein the axial cross section of said armature from said hub to said ring 
is "J" shaped wherein said hub surface is axially displaced from said ring 

surface. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 7 

wherein said spokes connecting said ring to said hub form a plurality of 
open axially aligned passages between adjacent spokes along the axial 

length of said armature. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 8 

wherein said ring of said armature has a outer diameter larger than said 
central aperture of said disk and said hub has a diameter substantially 

equal to the diameter of said inner concentric pole member. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 7 

wherein said spokes are blended into said ring in a smooth transition 
surface form by a substantial curved surface. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 6 

wherein said outer concentric pole piece has a length shorter in the axial 
di
rection than said inner concentric pole piece. 
An electromechanical fuel injector having a solenoid 
actuating system for opening and closing the valve according to claim 11 

wherein said ring of said armature has a outer diameter larger than said 
central aperture of said disk and said hub has a diameter substantially 

equal to the diameter of said inner concentric pole member and said ring 
surface and said hub surface are radially in line but radially displaced by 

means of circumferential trough across said spokes and said spokes are 
blended into said ring in a smooth transition surface formed by a 

substantial curved surface. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
