<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658764</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for measurement of a saturation magnetic flux density.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2772	G01N2772	G01N2774	G01N2776	G01R3312	G01R3312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to measure the magnetic saturation 
flux density of a sample material, a first and a second 

sample holder (11),(12) are symmetrically position on 
either side of a cylindrical permanent magnet (13). 

Coils (16),(17) are placed around the sample holders 
(11),(12) and the permanent magnet (13) is rotated. 

The signals induced in the coils (16),(17) in the 
absence of a magnetic material in one of the sample 

holders (11),(12) are applied to an amplifier/meter 
(19) in such a manner as to provide a null signal. 

When a sample is placed in one of the sample holders 
(11),(12), the magnetic saturation flux density can be 

measured. The present device finds particular 
application to determining the concentration of a 

magnetic particles dispersed in a fluid. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEFFERS FREDERICK J C O EASTMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEFFERS, FREDERICK J., C/O EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to the 
measurement of magnetic properties of a material and, 
more particularly, to providing a measurement of 
magnetic properties relevant to magnetic particles 
dispersed in a non-magnetic medium. In a non-magnetic medium, such as a fluid, in 
which magnetic particles are dispersed, a measurement 
of the magnetic properties has been used to determine 
parameters such as the magnetic particle concentration 
in the medium. In the prior art, the response of the 
medium to the application of a magnetic field to a 
magnetic particle-bearing fluid has been used to 
measure the properties of magnetic particles suspended 
therein and, consequently, to determine the properties 
of fluid itself. In US-A-4,651,092, a magnetic field 
generated by a set of coils is applied to fluid to 
determine characteristics of magnetic particles 
suspended in a fluid medium, for example, the 
concentration of magnetic particles in the medium. In 
the configuration disclosed, a relatively small 
magnetic field (approximately 10 Oe) is generated. In 
US-A-4,522,501, the concentration of magnetic particles 
in a fluid medium is determined by measuring the change 
in torque in a rotating conducting member resulting 
from the eddy current variation when the fluid medium 
is used to shield the rotating member from a magnetic 
field. Neither of the references provides sufficient 
accuracy for the determination of the magnetic 
properties of the magnetic medium. Apparatus is commercially available for 
measuring the magnetic properties of a material. For 
example, Model 7600A BH Meter available from  
 
LDJ Incorporated is a microprocessor-controlled device 
designed to measure magnetic properties of materials. 
Such devices are both expensive and bulky and can 
typically measure parameters which, in many situations, 
are not important for the characterization of the 
material. A need has therefore been felt for apparatus 
and an associated method for measuring the dispersion 
or the magnetic saturation of a fluid having magnetic 
particles suspended therein, the apparatus selected 
being relatively simple, accurate, and which does not 
involve undue complication. The present invention is directed to 
overcoming one or more of the problems set forth above. 
Briefly summarized, according to one aspect of the 
present invention, a cylindrical permanent magnet which 
is caused to physically rotate, has a sample coil and a 
reference coil symmetrically disposed with respect to 
the axis of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for measuring the magnetic 
properties of a material, the device comprising: 

   a radially magnetized cylindrical magnet (13); 
   rotational apparatus for rotating the magnet 

about a cylindrical axis (14A); 
   a first inductive pick-up coil (16) 

positioned on a first side of the magnet (13), the 
first coil having an axis in a plane perpendicular to 

the cylindrical axis; and 
   a second inductive pickup coil (17) having a 

generally symmetric position with respect to the first 
coil (16) on the opposite side of the cylindrical 

axis, the coils (16),(17) being electrically coupled 
to provide canceling of signals induced by the 

rotating magnet (13) when no material to be tested is 
present, wherein the material to be tested is inserted 

in the first coil (16). 
The device of claim 1 wherein the material 
to be tested produces a signal in the first coil (16) 

proportional to the time rate of change of magnetic 
flux produced by the material to be tested. 
The device of claim 2 wherein the voltage 
produced in the first coil (16) determines the 

saturation flux density of the material to be tested. 
The device of claim 2 wherein the voltage 
produced in the first coil (16) is approximately a 

simple sine wave for which the amplitude is 
proportional to the saturation flux density of the 

material to be tested. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the material 
to be tested is a fluid, the fluid flowing through the 

first coil (16). 
The device of claim 5 wherein the induced 
signals are combined to provide a monitoring 

 
signal, the monitoring signal determining at least one 

magnetic parameter of the material. 
The device of claim 1 wherein the device 
is calibrated by placing a sample with at least one 

predetermined magnetic property in one of the coils 
(16),(17). 
A method of determining magnetic 
properties of a material, the method comprising the 

steps of: 
   placing the material in a first inductive 

pick-up coil (16); 
   positioning a rotating cylindrical magnet 

(13) in a position proximate the first inductive pick-up 
coil (16); 

   positioning a second inductive pick-up coil 
(17) in a symmetrical position on an opposite side of 

the rotating cylindrical magnet (13); and 
   electrically coupling the first (16) and the 

second inductive pick-up coil (17) to provide a 
substantially null signal in the absence of the 

material. 
The method of claim 8 further including 
the step of selecting the second inductive pick-up coil 

(17) to be substantially identical to the first pick-up 
coil (16). 
The method of claim 8 further comprising 
the step of placing a sample with at least one 

predetermined magnetic property in a one of the 
inductive pick-up coils (16),(17) to calibrate an 

output signal provided by combining induced signals 
from the inductive pick-up coils (16),(17). 
The method of claim 8 wherein the 
material is a fluid, the method further comprising the 

step of measuring an output signal from the first 
inductive pick-up coil (16) when the fluid is flowing 

there through. 
The method of claim 8 further comprising 
the step of determining the saturation flux density of 

the material to be tested, the saturation flux density 
of the material to be tested being proportional to an 

amplitude of a signal induced in the first inductive 
pick-up coil (16) when the signal is a simple sine 

wave. 
Apparatus for measuring at least one 
magnetic parameter of a material, the apparatus 

comprising: 
   a first coil (16) surrounding a sample holder 

(11); 
   a cylindrical permanent magnet (13) polarized 

perpendicularly to the geometric axis (14A) of the 
cylindrical permanent magnet (13), wherein the first 

coil (16) has an axis in a plane perpendicular to the 
permanent magnet geometric axis (14A); 

   a second coil (17) positioned on an opposite 
side of the permanent magnet from the first coil (16) 

and generally symmetric with respect to the first coil 
(16); and 

   apparatus for rotating the cylindrical 
permanent magnet (13) about the permanent magnet 

geometric axis, wherein the first and the second coils 
(16),(17) are electrically coupled to provide a zero 

output voltage when a sample of the material is not in 
the sample holder (11). 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the 
apparatus can be calibrated by placing a sample of a 

material having a predetermined one parameter in the 
sample holder (11). 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the 
material is a fluid, the sample holder (11) being a 

tube through which the fluid flows. 
The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the 
apparatus is part of a process control system, 

 
measurements of the at least one parameter being used 

to control a portion of process control system. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein output 
signals from the first and the second coils (16),(17) 

determine a saturation flux density for the material. 
The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the 
saturation flux density can be integrated to provide a 

magnetic flux induced in the material by the rotating 
permanent magnet (13). 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein an 
amplitude of a voltage induced in the first coil (16) 

is proportional to the saturation flux density of the 
material to be tested when the voltage induced in the 

first coil (16) is a sine wave. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the 
combined output signals from the first and the second 

coils (16),(17) are approximately simple sine waves, 
the amplitude of output signals being proportional to 

the saturation flux density of the material to be 
tested. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
