<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618845</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FEED ACCELERATOR SYSTEM INCLUDING ACCELERATING VANE APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B04B100	B04B300	B04B120	B04B304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B04B	B04B	B04B	B04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B04B1	B04B3	B04B1	B04B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A feed accelerator system (10) for use in a centrifuge, the system comprising a conveyor hub (26) rotatably mounted within a rotating bowl (12), the hub including an inside surface and an outside surface. At least one feed slurry passageway is disposed between the inside surface (42) of conveyor hub and the outside surface of the conveyor hub, and at least one helical blade (24) having a plurality of turns is mounted to the outside surface of the conveyor hub. A vane apparatus is associated with the passageway and is disposed between two adjacent turns of the helical blade. The vane apparatus may include an inwardly extending baffle (58) and/or an outwardly extending accelerator vane (122). Alternatively, a U-shaped channel (84) may be associated with the passageway, the U-shaped channel including plurality partitions (142) attached to the discharge end of such channel so as to form a plurality of discharge channels and a flow directing and overspeeding vane (146) disposed within each channel, each vane having a different forward discharge angle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER HUGHES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEUNG WOON FONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAPIRO ASCHER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEUNG, WOON, FONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAPIRO, ASCHER, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a feed accelerator system for use in
a centrifuge, which system comprises a conveyor hub rotatably
mounted substantially concentrically within a rotating bowl,
the hub including an inside surface and an outside surface, at
least one helical blade to the outside surface of the conveyor
hub the blade having a plurality of turns, an accelerator
secured within the conveyor hub and including a distributor
having a distributor surface, a feed pipe mounted substantially
concentrically within the conveyor hub for delivering a
feed slurry to the centrifuge, the feed pipe including a discharge
opening positioned proximate to the distributor surface,
at least one feed slurry passageway between the inside
surface of conveyor hub and the outside surface of the conveyor
hub, and a vane apparatus associated with the passageway
and disposed between two adjacent turns of the helical blade.Such a feed accelerator of the generic kind is shown in
US-A-3368749. The vane apparatus of this accelerator is a
nozzle which can be considered as a vane element provided with
a shielding casing which opens into the passageway in alignement
with the inner surface of the hub. Further accelerator
vanes are provided which extend from the wall of the hub
radially inwardly promoting radial acceleration of the feed
slurry.Conventional sedimentation or filtration systems operating
under natural gravity have a limited capacity for separating a
fluid/ particle or fluid/fluid mixture, otherwise known as a 
feed slurry, having density differences between the distinct
phases of the slurry. Therefore, industrial centrifuges that
produce large centrifugal acceleration forces, otherwise known
as G-levels, have advantages and thus are commonly used to
accomplish separation of the light and heavy phases. Various
designs of industrial centrifuges include, for example, the
decanter, screen-bowl, basket, and disc centrifuge.Industrial centrifuges rotate at very high speeds in order to
produce large centrifugal acceleration forces. Several problems
arise when the feed slurry is introduced into the separation
pool of the centrifuge with a linear circumferential
speed less than that of the centrifuge bowl.First, the centrifugal acceleration for separation is not
fully realized. The G-level might be only a fraction of what
is possible. The G-level is proportional to the square of the
effective acceleration efficiency. The latter is defined as
the ratio of the actual linear circumferential speed of the
feed slurry entering the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A feed accelerator system for use in a centrifuge (10),
the system comprising


a conveyor hub (26) rotatably mounted substantially
concentrically within a rotating bowl (12), the hub (26)

including an inside surface and an outside surface,
at least one helical blade (24) mounted to the outside
surface of the conveyor hub (26), the blade (24) having a

plurality of turns,
an accelerator (28) secured within the conveyor hub (26)
and including a distributor having a distributor surface

(120), a feed pipe (34) mounted substantially concentrically
within the conveyor hub (26) for delivering a

feed slurry (32) to the centrifuge (10), the feed pipe
(34) including a discharge opening (38) positioned proximate

to the distributor surface (120), at least one feed
slurry passageway (44) between the inside surface of

conveyor hub (26) and the outside surface of the conveyor
hub (26), and
a vane apparatus (122) associated with the passageway
(44) and disposed between two adjacent turns of the

helical blade (24),

characterized in that
the vane apparatus (122) includes a baffle (58, 92)
extending radially from the passageway (44) inward into a

slurry pool (40) formed by the feed slurry (32) on the
inside surface of the conveyor hub (26)

said baffle opposing a Coriolis force which otherwise tends to
oppose the outflow of the feed slurry.
The feed accelerator system of claim 1 characterized in 
that the vane apparatus (122) includes an accelerator

vane (124) extending outwardly from the passageway (44)
and disposed between two adjacent turns of the helical

blade (24).
The feed accelerator system of claim 2 characterized in
that the baffle (58) and the accelerator vane (124) are

integral with one another.
The feed accelerator system of claim 2 or 3 characterized
in that the accelerator vane (124) extends outwardly from

the passageway (44) proximate to a surface (46A) of a
separation pool (46) located in a zone formed between the

conveyor hub (26) and the bowl (12).
The feed accelerator system of claim 2 or 3 characterized
in that the accelerator vane (124) extends outwardly from

the passageway (44) into a separation pool (46) located
in a zone formed between the conveyor hub (26) and the

bowl (12).
The feed accelerator system of claims 2 to 5 characterized
in that the accelerator vane (124) is forwardly

curved (124A) in the direction of rotation of the conveyor
hub (26).
The feed accelerator system according to one of the
preceding claims characterized by a smoothener apparatus

(132) disposed generally circumferentially about the
conveyor hub (26) and attached to one turn of the helical

blade (24) so that feed slurry (32) exiting the vane
apparaturs (122) impinges upon the smoothener apparatus

(132). 
The feed accelerator system according to claim 7 characterized
by a flow guiding skirt (130) disposed circumferentially

about the conveyor hub (26) and attached to a
first turn of the helical blade (24) at an angle, the

smoothener apparatus (132) being attached to a second
turn of the helical blade (24) adjacent to the first turn

at an angle so that feed slurry (32) exiting the vane
apparatus (122) is directed onto the smoothener apparatus

(132) by the flow guiding skirt (130).
A feed accelerator system according to claim 1 characterized
in that the baffle (92) extending inwardly from

the passageway (44) to direct the feed slurry into the
passageway communicates with U-shaped channel (84) extending

outwardly from the passageway (44).
A feed accelerator system according to claim 9 characterized
in that the baffle (92) extending inwardly from

the passageway (44) is L-shaped.
A feed accelerator system according to claim 9 or 10
characterized by at least one flow directing and overspeeding

vane (146) attached to the discharge end (89) of
the U-shaped channel (84) and extending outwardly from

the passageway (44) with a forward discharge angle (146A)
measured from the radial direction.
A feed accelerator system according to one of the claims
9 to 11 characterized by partitions (142) in the U-shaped

channel (84) which are parallel to its side walls (88).
The feed accelerator system according to one of the
preceding claims characterized in that the accelerator

(126) includes a cone-shaped inside surface (129) disposed 
between a small diameter section and an accelerator

base, wherein the distributor (120) is secured to the
small diameter section, and a plurality of cone vanes

(128) is disposed on the cone-shaped inside surface
(129).
The feed accelerator system according to any one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the distributor

(120) is a non-convex distributor including no sharp
bends or junctions.
The feed accelerator system according to one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the passageway

(44) includes a cross-sectional area having a longer axis
approximately parallel to the axis of rotation of the

conveyor hub (26).
A method for accelerating a feed slurry (32) in a centrifuge
(10), the centrifuge (10) comprising a conveyor

hub (26) having an inside, an outside and at least one
passageway (44) between the inside and the outside, in

which the feed slurry (32) flows from the inside to the
outside of the conveyor hub (26) through the passageway

(44), said method comprising the steps of opposing a
Coriolis force that otherwise tends to impede the outflow

of the feed slurry (32) from inside the conveyor hub
(26), so that the outflow of feed slurry (32) enters the

passageway (44), and directing the feed slurry (32)
through the passageway (44).
The method according to claim 16, wherein the feed slurry
(32) is accelerated as it flows through the passageway

(44). 
The method accoding to claim 16 or 17, wherein the feed
slurry (32) as it flows through and discharges from the

passageway (44) is converted from a concentrated stream
to a wide, smooth flow.
The method according to one of the claims 16 to 18 characterized
in that for opposing the Coriolis force a

baffle (58, 92) is provided which extends radially inward
from the passageway (44).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
