<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640534</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Panty packaging cartonette.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8518	B65D8518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D85	B65D85	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a blank (1) made of sheet 
material, such as flat cardboard, and a pack achieved 

with such a blank, for presentation of a pair of 
briefs (16) or similar, made up of two main sections 

(2, 2') joined together by, and symmetrical in relation 
to, a first central fold-line (3), each section including 

an upper flap (5, 5') joined to the upper part (6, 
6') of said section by a second fold-line (7, 7'), and a 

lower flap (8, 8') joined to the lower part (9, 9') 
of said section by a third fold-line (10, 10'), said lower 

flaps being spaced apart from one another at the level of 
the third fold-lines by a distance corresponding to at 

least the dimension of the crotch (18) of the pair of 
briefs. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLAYTEX APPAREL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PLAYTEX APPAREL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NESSIM PASCAL C O INSTITUTIONE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NESSIM, PASCAL C/O INSTITUTIONEL DESIGN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a blank made of sheet material, 
such as flat cardboard, for the presentation of a pair of 
briefs or similar. It also relates to a presentation pack for such a pair of 
briefs. It is particularly - though not exclusively - useful for 
purposes of presentation when selling women's undergarments, 
for example in department stores. Devices are already known for the presentation of panties or 
briefs which enable the potential customer to form an idea of 
the style and the pattern on the briefs being considered. For example, there are small hangers which are provided at 
each side with clips which grip the briefs at the waistband. Such a device has its disadvantages. It does not adequately protect the pair of briefs which risks 
being damaged for example in the vicinity of the fixing clips. 
Also it does not give a precise idea of the effect when 
stretched over the hips during wear. A presentation pack is also known with which the briefs are 
packed under a sheet of transparent material and are fixed by 
being stretched over a piece of cardboard which holds them in 
position. Such a pack protects the product but is costly to manufacture 
and use.  This invention aims to supply a blank and a presentation pack 
for a pair of briefs or similar, which better meets the demands 
of the trade than the ones previously known, particularly in 
that the pair of briefs is presented in a new, simple and 
compact way, with maximum visual impact for the buyer, and it 
is inexpensive and easy to use. Also the same blank can be used regardless of the size of the 
pair of briefs. With this aim in view, the invention especially proposes a 
blank made of sheet material, such as flat cardboard, for the 
presentation of a pair of briefs or similar, comprising two 
main sections joined together by, and symmetrical in relation to, 
a first central fold-line, each section having an upper flap 
joined to the upper part of said section by a second fold-line, 
and a lower flap joined to the lower part by a third fold-line, 
said lower flaps being separated from each other at the 
level of the third fold-lines by a distance corresponding to 
at least the dimension of the crotch of the pair of briefs. In advantageous embodiments, one also has recourse to all or 
any of the following arrangements: 
The second and third fold-lines are perpendicular to the 
first fold-line; the side edges of the sections, opposite to the first fold-line, 
are rounded off; the upper flaps are rectangular, of the same length 
perpe
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Blank (1) made of sheet material, such as flat cardboard, 
for the presentation of a pair of briefs (16) or similar, 

comprising two main sections (2, 2') joined together by, and 
symmetrical in relation to, a first central fold-line (3), 

each section including an upper flap (5, 5') joined to the 
upper part (6, 6') of said section by a second fold-line 

(7, 7'), and a lower flap (8, 8') joined to the lower 
part (9, 9') of said section by a third fold-line (10, 

10'), said lower flaps being spaced apart from each 
other at the level of the third fold-lines by a distance 

corresponding to at least the dimension of the crotch (18) 
of the pair of briefs. 
Blank according to Claim 1, characterized in that the 
second (7, 7') and third (10, 10') fold-lines are 

perpendicular to the first fold-line (3). 
Blank according to either of the above claims, 
characterized in that the side edges (4, 4') of the 

sections, opposite the first fold-line, are rounded off. 
Blank according to any of the above claims, 
characterized in that the upper flaps (5, 5') are 

rectangular, of the same length perpendicularly to the 
second fold-line, and of a smaller width than that of 

the sections (2, 2') at the level of said second fold-line 
(7, 7'). 
Blank according to any of Claims 2 to 4, characterized 
in that it includes two holes (12) disposed 

symmetrically on either side of the second fold-line (7) 
of an upper flap (5), 

and a notch (13) straddling the second fold-line (7') of 
the other upper flap (5'), 

the two holes (12) and the notch (13) being disposed 
symmetrically to one another in relation to the first 

fold-line (3). 
Blank according to any of the above claims, 
characterized in that the lower flaps (8, 8') are 

rectangular, symmetrical in relation to continuation 
of the first fold-line, and each one has, along the third 

fold-line (10, 10'), a slot (14, 14') starting from the 
inner edge of the corresponding flap and running inwards 

in said flap, this slot in each case being suitable for 
receiving half the crotch of the pair of briefs. 
Blank according to any of the above claims, 
characterized in that the length of each of the upper 

flaps (5, 5') and lower flaps (8, 8'), perpendicularly 
in relation to the second fold-line, is a little less 

than half the length of the corresponding sections (2, 2'). 
Presentation pack for a pair of briefs (16) or similar 
comprising 

a blank (1) made of sheet material including 

two main sections (2, 2'), which are joined together by, 
and symmetrical in relation to, a first fold-line (3), 

and are designed to allow the pair of briefs to be 
drawn onto said sections when said sections are flat, 
two upper flaps (5, 5') each respectively being joined 
to the upper part (6, 6') of a corresponding section by 

a second fold-line (7, 7'), 
and two lower flaps (8, 8') each respectively being 
joined to the lower part of a corresponding section by a 

third fold-line (10, 10') and provided along said third 
fold-lines with a slot (14, 14') for accommodating the 

crotch (18) of the pair of briefs, 
 
one of said upper flaps (5') and the lower flaps (8, 8') 

being folded onto the pair of briefs once it has been drawn 
onto the flat main sections, said main sections (2, 2') 

then being folded one on top of the other and the last 
upper flap (5) being folded onto the folded sections, 

 
and means (28) for fixing on top of each other the side 

edges opposite the first fold-line of the sections onto 
which the pair of briefs has been drawn. 
Pack according to Claim 8, characterized in that the 
side edges (4, 4') of the sections, opposite the first 

fold-line, are rounded off. 
Pack according to either of Claims 8 or 9, characterized 
in that in addition it includes, in the upper part, means 

(21, 12, 13) for hooking said pack onto a stand, 
made up of 


two holes (12) made in an upper flap (5) and the 
corresponding section (2), on either side of the 

corresponding second fold-line, 
a rectangular notch (13) straddling the second 
fold-line (7') joining the other upper flap (5') with 

the other section (2'), disposed opposite the holes in such 
a way that the pack has a hole passing right through it 

at its upper end, 
and a hook provided at the end (23) opposite the hook 
(22), on the one hand with a stud introduced into the 

hook opening and on the other hand with a closing tab 
suitable for engaging with said stud. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
