<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625864</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Differential microphone on a portable radio telephone.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M103	H04M103	H04M119	H04M119	H04R132	H04R138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04R1	H04R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a portable radio telephone with a removable 
rechargeable battery, a differential microphone having a first 

and a second microphone element is mounted. A front sound 
collecting hole is formed in the front of the casing of the 

telephone and includes the first microphone element. The front 
sound collecting hole constitutes a transmitter portion. A rear 

sound collecting hole is formed in a portion of the battery 
directly opposite in position to the front sound collecting hole. 

The rear hole is communicated by a passageway to a rear sound 
collecting portion included in the differential microphone. 

Speeches and noise around the telephone are input to the front 
hole while only noise, which is opposite in phase to the noise 

input to the front hole, is input to the rear hole. As a result, 
the noise input to the front and rear holes cancel each other. 

The rear hole is formed in a portion of the battery where a 
space is present. When the rear hole is directly formed in a 

generating member included in the battery, the inner periphery 
of the generating member defining the hole is covered with a 

member made of resin. If desired, the rear hole may be 
implemented by a through hole, in which case the differential 

microphone will be inserted in the through hole. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE YOSHIYUKI C O NEC CORPORAT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IDE, YOSHIYUKI, C/O NEC CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a structure for mounting 
a microphone on a portable radio telephone and, more 
particularly, to a structure for mounting a differential 
microphone on a portable radio telephone with a 
rechargeable battery. Since a portable radio telephone is, in many case, used 
outdoors, speeches seriously suffer from noise around the 
telephone. A conventional telephone of this kind has not been 
provided with a measure against such noise and has forced the 
user of the telephone to withstand the deterioration of 
speeches. A differential microphone is one of state-of-the-art 
implementations capable of reducing surrounding noise. A 
differential microphone consists of two microphone elements, 
i.e., a first element positioned to catch both speeches and noise, 
and a second element positioned to catch only noise. This type 
of microphone suppresses surrounding noise by using a 
difference in sound pressure between speeches input to the  
 
first microphone element and noise input to the second 
microphone element. Today, a portable radio telephone with a 
rechargeable battery is available in various forms. Generally, 
the rechargeable battery is removably mounted on the rear of 
the telephone. It is an object of the present invention to provide a new 
and useful structure which allows a differential microphone to 
be mounted on a portable radio telephone with a 
rechargeable battery, in order to prevent speeches from being 
deteriorated by surrounding noise. In order to achieve the above object, a microphone 
mounting structure for a portable radio telephone of the present 
invention comprises a receiver portion and a button or operating 
section on the front thereof, and a rechargeable battery 
removably mounted on the rear thereof. In one embodiment of the invention, the 
structure also has a transmitter portion implemented 
by a front sound collecting hole. A differential microphone has 
a first microphone element disposed in the font sound 
collecting hole; speeches and noise at the front are input to the 
microphone element. A rear sound. collecting hole for collecting 
sound at the sides and rear- is implemented by a space available 
in a generating member included. in the battery. The rear sound  
 
collecting hole and a rear sound collecting portion, which 
comprises a second microphone element of the differential 
microphone, are connected by a linear passageway. A through hole, or rear sound collecting hole, can be 
implemented by a space available in the battery below the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A structure for mounting a microphone on portable 
electronic eauipment comprising a body (5), and a rechargeable 

battery (10) removably mounted on a rear of said body; 
      CHARACTERIZED BY COMPRISING 

   a differential microphone (12) having a first microphone-element 
(1) and a second microphone element (16); 

   a front sound collecting hole (8) for inputting- sound at 
the front of said body into said differential microphone; and 

   a rear sound collecting hole (9) formed in said battery for 
inputting sound at the rear into said differential microphone. 
A structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said rear 
sound collecting hole (9) is formed in a portion of said battery 

(10) where a space is present. 
A structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
differential microphone (12) is inserted in a through hole (14) which 

is formed in said battery (10) and constitutes said rear sound 
collecting hole. 
A structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said body 
comprises: 

   a first and a second microphone element (1), (16) 
constituting said differential microphone (12); and 

   a circuit for suppressing surrounding noise; 
   said circuit comprising: 

   a subtractor (3) for receiving output signals of said first 
and second microphone elements (1), (16); and 

   an equalizer (4) for receiving an output of said subtractor (3). 
A structure as claimed in claim 3, wherein said 
through hole (14) is formed in a portion of said battery (10) 

where a space is present and directly opposite in position to 
said front sound collecting hole (8). 
A structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said front 
and rear sound collecting holes (8), (9) are communicated by a 

linear passageway. 
A structure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said front 
and rear sound collecting holes (8), (9) are communicated by a 

non-linear passageway. 
A structure for mounting a microphone on a portable 
radio telephone comprising a receiver portion (11), an operating 

section (7) having numeral keys and function keys, and a 
rechargeable battery (10) removably mounted on a rear of a 

casing of said telephone; 
      CHARACTERIZED BY COMPRISING 

   a differential microphone (12) having a first microphone 
element (1) and a second microphone element (16) ; 

   a front sound collecting hole (8) constituting a 
transmitter portion and including said first microphone element; 

   a rear sound collecting hole (9) formed in said battery and 
directly opposite in position to said front sound collecting 

hole; 
   a passageway communicating said rear sound collecting hole 

and a rear sound collecting portion which comprises said second 
microphone element; and 

   a rubber packing (15) interposed between said battery and 
said casing. 
A structure as claimed in claim 8, wherein said rear 
sound collecting hole (9) is formed in a portion of said battery 

(10) where a space is present. 
A structure as claimed in claim 8, wherein said 
differential microphone (12) is inserted in a through hole (14) 

formed in said battery and forming said rear sound collecting 
hole. 
A structure as claimed in claim 8, wherein the telephone 
comprises: 

   said first and second microphone elements (1), (16) of said 
differential microphone (12); and 

   a circuit for suppressing surrounding noise; 
   said circuit comprising a subtract (3) for receiving output 

signals of said first and second microphone elements (1), (16), 
and an equalizer (4) for receiving an output of said subtractor 

(3). 
A structure as claimed in claim 11,wherein said through 
hole (14) is formed in a portion of said battery (10) where a 

space is present and directly opposite in position to said front 
sound collecting hole (8). 
A structure for mounting a microphone on a portable 
radio telephone comprising a receiver portion (11), an operating 

section (7) comprising numeral keys and function keys, and a 
rechargeable battery (10) removably mounted on a rear of a 

casing (5) of said telephone; 
      CHARACTERIZED BY COMPRISING 

   a differential microphone (12) having a first microphone 
element (1) and a second microphone element (16); 

   a front sound collecting hole (8) including said first 
microphone element and constituting a transmitter portion;

 
   a rear sound collecting hole (9) formed in a portion of 

said battery where a space is present; 
   a non-linear passageway communicating said front and rear 

sound collecting holes; and 
  
 a rubber packing (15) interposed between said battery and 
said casing. 
A structure for mounting a microphone on a portable 
radio telephone comprising a receiver portion (11), an operating 

section (7) having numeral keys and function keys, and a 
rechargeable battery (10) removably mounted on a rear of a 

casing (5) of the telephone; 
      CHARACTERIZED BY COMPRISING 

   a differential microphone (12) having a first microphone 
element (1) and a second microphone element (16); 

   a front sound collecting hole (8) including said first 
microphone element and constituting a transmitter portion; 

   a rear sound collecting hole (9) formed in a generating 
member (13) of said battery and directly opposite in position to 

said front sound collecting portion; 
   a member (17) made of resin and covering inner periphery of 

the generating member defining said rear sound collecting hole; 
   a passageway communicating said front and rear sound 

collecting holes; and 
   a rubber packing (15) interposed between said battery and 

said casing. 
A structure as claimed in claim 14, wherein said 
differential microphone (12) is inserted in a through hole (14) which 

is formed in said battery (10) and constitutes said rear sound 
collecting hole. 
A structure for mounting a microphone on portable 
electronic equipment comprising a body (5), and a rechargeable 

battery (10) removably mounted on a rear of said body; 
      CHARACTERIZED BY COMPRISING 

   a differential microphone (12) having a first microphone 
element (1) and a second microphone element (16); 

   a front sound collecting hole (8) for inputting sound at 
the front of said body into said differential microphone; and 

   a rear sound collecting hole (9) formed in a generating 
member (13) of said battery for imputting sound at the rear 

into said differential microphone. 
A structure as claimed in claim 16, wherein said 
differential microphone (12) is inserted in a through hole (14) 

which is formed in said battery (10) and constitutes said rear 
sound collecting hole. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
