<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632764</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
KEYBOARD WITH TRANSVERSELY ACTIVATED NON-ALPHANUMERIC KEYS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J500	B41J510	B41J528	G06F302	G06F302	G06F3023	G06F3023	G06F3033	G06F3033	H01H2500	H01H2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J5	B41J5	B41J5	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	H01H25	H01H25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an ergonomic means for activation of non-alphanumeric keys on a computer or electronic typewriter keyboard comprising transverse force application on keys in lieu of, or in addition to, the standard downward force application. Several embodiments comprise means for cursor movement on a computer or word processor or for print mechanism movement on an electronic typewriter. The invention comprises use of one or more keys (40, 42) or levers (76, 78), which control cursor movement via pressure in different directions. A single key effects cursor movement in more than one direction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEYBOARD ADVANCEMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEYBOARD ADVANCEMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUBER ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUBER ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 KEYBOARD WITH TRANSVERSELY ACTIVATED10 NON-ALPHANUMERIC KEYSField of the InventionThis invention relates to activation of non-alphanumeric keys including cursor movement keys on keyboards for computers, electronic typewriters, word processors, and the like, and more 15 particularly, to an improved method and apparatus for activation of alpha-numeric keys which is easier, more efficient, more ergonomic, and permits the touch typist to activate non-alphanumeric keys without moving the eyes from the text or moving the hands from their accustomed touch typing position.20 Description of Prior ArtThe standard electronic and computer keyboards of prior art (See Figure 1) comprise a number of non-alphanumeric keys including "arrow" keys, 12,1 ,16 8, which cause a cursor (or perhaps a typing mechanism for electronic typewriters) to move around the screen (or paper for electronic typewriters.) These non-alphanumeric keys are located in positions on the keyboard which force the25 touch typist to avert his or her eyes from the copy to the keyboard in order to locate and use these . keys. Further, the typist must change the hand/finger location(s) and/or stretch uncomfortably to activate these keys.For the arrow (cursor movement) keys, in particular, the typist must change the hand/finger location from one arrow key to another to move in different directions. Typically, the typist must30 l) avert the eyes from the copy to the keyboard,2) remove the hands from their accustomed location,3) locate and depress the desired arrow key for movement in one direction,/4j^ 4) if another directional movement is then required, he or she must then move the hand/finger* to the next arrow key for movement in a different direction, 35 5) step 4) may need to be repeated for other arrow keys,6) look to the keyboard and return hands to original position, and then7) search the copy to find the proper location to begin inputting again. 

 This is not only an inconvenience but a waste of valuable time as well. Further, it adds to typist fatigue which can lead directly to lower efficiency and poorer quality work.This inconvenience, inefficiency, and fatigue is not only generated by activating the cursor movement keys, but by activating virtually all of the other non-alphanumeric keys as well. These other keys include the page up, page down, home, end, backspace/erase, delete, specific function such as Fl through F12, insert, escape, control, alt, backslash, caps lock, and tab keys, as well as function keys Fl, F2, etc. Though for reasons
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
I claim:
1. A keyboard for a computer, electronic typewriter, word processor, and the like comprising: a plurality of alphanumeric keys arranged corresponding to touch typing position, for automatically typing an alphanumeric character in response to downward actuation thereof; and at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator, for automatically effecting at least one non-alphanumeric function in response to actuation thereof in a direction other than downward.
2. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is positioned within reach of at least one thumb of a typist having fingers positioned on the alphanumeric keys in touch typing position.
3. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators has greater height than at least one other key.
4. The keyboard of claim 2 wherein the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator is two transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators located on either side of a spacebar.
5. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator is two transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators, and the two transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators comprise a first transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator which causes a print location device such as a cursor to move leftward when touch is applied on one side of said first transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator and to move in one of the upward and downward directions when touch is applied on a second side of said first transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator, and a second transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator which causes the print location device to move rightward when touch is applied on one side of said second transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator, and to move in one of the upward and downward directions when touch is applied on a second side of said second transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator. 


 6. The keyboard of claim 5 wherein the first transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator causes another non-alphanumeric function such as one of home, end, backspace/erase, delete, specific function such as Fl through
F12, page up, page down, tab, caps lock, badcslash, control, alt, insert, and escape to be effected when touch is applied to a third side of the first transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator, and the second transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator causes another non-alphanumeric function such as one of home, end, backspace/erase, delete, specific function such as Fl through
F12, page up, page down, tab, caps lock, backslash, control, alt, insert, and escape to be effected when touch is applied to a third side of the second transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator.
7. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is a spacebar wherein touch applied on a top face of said spacebar effects a space, and touch applied in a direction other than downward on a face other than the top face of said spacebar causes a non-alphanumeric function such as one of home, end, backspace/erase, delete, specific function such as Fl through F12, page up, page down, cursor right, cursor left, cursor up, cursor down, tab, caps lock, backslash, control, alt, insert, and escape to be effected.
8. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is also an alphanumeric key.
9. The keyboard of claim 8 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a numerical character in addition to a non-alphanumeric function.
10. The keyboard of claim 9 wherein the at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects one of the functions Fl through F12.
11. The keyboard of claim 1 further comprising at least one auxiliary non-alphanumeric actuator effecting a function such as one of control, alt, and shift which may be effected by either of transverse activation or downward activation wherein activation of at least one of the at least one auxiliary non-alphanumeric actuators in combination with at least one of the transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators causes a non-alphanumeric function such as home, end, cursor up, cursor down, cursor right, cursor left, 


backspace/erase, delete, specific function such as Fl through F12, page up, page down, tab, caps lock, backslash, insert, and escape to be effected.
12. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator is one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator, and touch applied on a first side of one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators causes a print location device such as a cursor to move leftward, and touch applied on a second side of said transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator causes the print location device to move rightward.
13. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein the transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator is a key.
14. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein the transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuator is a lever.
15. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators comprises activation of at least two different functions by applying pressure on at least two different sides of said actuator.
16. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators comprises activation of at least three different functions by applying pressure on at least three different sides of said actuator.
17. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located left of a left thumb of a touch typist with hands in touch typing position.
18. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located right of a right thumb of a touch typist with hands in touch typing position. 


 19. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located right of a right thumb of a touch typist with hands in touch typing position and at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located left of a left thumb of a touch typist with hands in touch typing position.
20. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a cursor right function.
21. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversety actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a cursor left function.
22. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversety actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a cursor up function.
23. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversety actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a cursor down function.
24. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversefy actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a home function.
25. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversefy actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects an end function.
26. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a backspace/erase function.
27. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a delete function. 


 28. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a page up function.
29. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a page down function.
30. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a tab function.
31. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a cursor right function.
32. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a caps lock function.
33. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a backslash function.
34. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects an insert function.
35. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects an escape function.
36. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a specific function such as one of Fl through F12. 


 37. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein the arrangement of alphanumeric keys conforms to international row and column designation standards.
38. The keyboard of claim 37 wherein at least part of at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located in row A
39. The keyboard of claim 37 wherein at least pait of at least one of the at least one transversefy actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located nearer to a touch typist than row A
40. The keyboard of claim 37 wherein at least part of at least one of the at least one transversefy actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located in at least one of rows B,CD, and E.
41. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversefy actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is positioned within one row of a row in which a spacebar is located.
42. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is positioned adjacent a spacebar.
43. The keyboard of claim i wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effects a cursor movement function, and said at least one actuator is within reach of at least one thumb of a touch typist having hands in touch typing position.
44. The keyboard of claim 43 wherein at least one of the at least one transversefy actuable non-alphanumeric actuators effecting a cursor movement function is at least two such actuators wherein at least one actuator is within reach of a left thumb of a touch typist having hands in touch typing position; and at least one actuator is within reach of a right thumb of a touch typist having hands in touch typing position. 


 45. The keyboard of claim 1 wherein at least one of the at least one transversely actuable non-alphanumeric actuators is located within reach of both thumbs of a touch typist having fingers positioned on the alphanumeric keys in touch typing position.
46. A keyboard for a computer, electronic typewriter, word processor, and the like comprising: a plurality of alphanumeric keys arranged corresponding to touch typing position, for automatically typing an alphanumeric character in response to downward actuation thereof; and at least two transversely actuable non-alphanumeric keys each of which automatically effects movement of a print location device such as a cursor in response to actuation thereof in a direction other than downward, wherein each of at least two of the at least two transversely actuable non-alphanumeric keys is positioned within reach of at least one thumb of a typist having fingers positioned on the alphanumeric keys in touch typing position. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
