<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630485</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DOWNHOLE MEASUREMENT OF FLUID CONDUCTIVITY AND HYDROCARBON VOLUME DURING FORMATION TESTING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B4900	E21B4908	G01R2722	G01R2722	G01V318	G01V330	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	G01R	G01R	G01V	G01V	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B49	E21B49	G01R27	G01R27	G01V3	G01V3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is disclosed in the present specification a method and apparatus for use of a downhole formation multi-tester instrument in the characterization of formation fluids, including measurement of the conductivity of water, often in the presence of hydrocarbons under dynamic flow conditions and determining the hydrocarbon volume of the formation fluid. Utilizing a coaxial transmission line as a flow tube (12) within the formation multi-tester instrument, an electromagnetic wave is generated which propagates through the formation fluid in a transverse electromagnetic mode. Measurement of the phase shift and attenuation of the electromagnetic wave at points (48, 50) within the flow tube (12) allow characterization of the fluid inside the cavity of the flow tube (12) for dielectric constant and conductivity. Dielectric constant and conductivity can then be related to fluid conductivity and hydrocarbon volume.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR, ROBERT, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DOWNHOLE MEASUREMENTOF FLUID CONDUCTIVITY AND HYDROCARBON VOLUMEDURING FORMATION TESTINGThis invention relates generally to the measurement of formation fluid for determination of fluid conductivity and fluid hydrocarbon volume to thereby enable various formation characteristics, including in situ formation fluid volume and hydrocarbon volume to be determined. More particularly, the present invention concerns a method and apparatus for measuring fluid conductivity and hydrocarbon volume of a formation fluid in the downhole environment by means of a formation multi-tester instrument capable of acquiring formation fluid from subsurface earth formations of interest and to characterize fluid samples as they are recovered from subsurface geological formations. Wireline formation testing is a process where a formation testing device is lowered into an open wellbore and positioned adjacent to the geological formation of interest. The device then seats a packer against the formation wall and forces a fluid extraction tube through the packer into the formation. Formation pressure is measured and a sample of formation fluids can then be extracted. Tool power and communication with surface telemetry is accomplished with a seven conductor wireline .Formation fluid samples are usually taken from points in the well in which previously recorded electrical logs indicate the possibility of hydrocarbons. Several liters of fluid are typically taken. Currently, the composition of these fluid samples cannot be determined until the device is returned to surface. A well that has been drilled for the purpose of producing hydrocarbons typically consists of a hole that is cylindrical in nature with diameters from a few inches to tens of inches and depths below the earth's surface ranging from a few hundred to tens of thousands of feet. After drilling has been completed electronic measurement devices 

are lowered into the well to record rock and fluid properties as a function of well depth for use in predicting the presence of hydrocarbons. Among these instruments is the formation testing device which is capable of extracting fluid samples from subsurface formations penetrated by the wellbore. Currently, the composition of these fluid samples cannot be determined until the formation testing device is returned to surface.A measurement technique has been developed to characterize a fluid sample in situ for fluid conductivity and, in some cases, hydrocarbon volume.Numerous methods for measuring complex
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A method of measuring fluid conductivity and hydrocarbon volume of formation fluid in the downhole environment by means of a formation multi-tester instrument capable of acquiring formation fluid from a subsurface earth formation, comprising:
(a) locating a formation multi-tester instrument within a well bore at the depth of a formation of interest;
(b) establishing fluid communication between said formation and said multi-tester instrument by means of a sampling probe of said instrument in communication with an internal flow passage thereof;
(c) introducing said formation fluid into said internal flow passage of said instrument;
(d) generating an electromagnetic wave within said formation fluid in said internal flow passage; (e) measuring the phase shift and attenuation of said electromagnetic wave within said internal flow passage for characterization of said formation fluid as to dielectric constant and conductivity; and
(f) relating said dielectric constant and conductivity of said formation fluid to hydrocarbon volume and fluid conductivity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said generating said electromagnetic wave comprises: generating an oscillating electrical radio frequency input signal within said internal flow passage.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said measuring of said phase shift and attenuation of said electromagnetic wave comprises: 


 (a) detecting said input signal at spaced locations along the length of said internal flow passage;
(b) providing a detected signal output at each of said spaced locations; and (c) detecting the ratio of phase shift and attenuation of said detected signal outputs in comparison with said input signal.
4. The method of claim 3 , wherein said relating said dielectric constant and conductivity of said formation fluid to hydrocarbon volume and fluid conductivity comprises: (a) comparing detected phase shift and attenuation signals at each of said spaced locations with known parameters of phase shift and attenuation; and
(b) providing a signal output presenting said phase shift and attenuation signals as a function of hydrocarbon volume of said formation fluid.
5. The method of claim 1 , wherein said internal flow passage is defined by a coaxial transmission line having a signal input port a near receiver port, a far receiver port and a reflection termination port located in spaced relation along the length thereof, said method including:
(a) introducing a radio frequency electronic input signal at said input port; (b) detecting phase shift and attenuation of said input signal at said near receiver port;
(c) detecting phase shift and attenuation of said input signal at said far receiver port;
(d) placing a load at said reflection termination port; (e) comparing said phase shift and attenuation signals detected at said near and far receiver ports with said input signal and providing amplitude and phase detector output signals; and
(f) relating said amplitude and phase detector output signals to known dielectric constant conductivity of formation fluid constituents for determination of 


hydrocarbon volume and fluid conductivity.
6. A method for characterization for fluid conductivity and hydrocarbon volume formation fluid being transferred from a subsurface earth formation into a formation multi-tester instrument located in a borehole intersecting the formation, said method comprising:
(a) providing a coaxial transmission line within said formation multi-tester instrument as a flow tube for said formation fluid;
(b) generating an electromagnetic wave within said formation fluid within said flow tube in a transverse electromagnetic mode; (c) measuring the phase shift and attenuation of said electromagnetic wave within said flow tube for characterization of said formation fluid as to dielectric constant and conductivity; and
(d) relating said dielectric constant and conductivity of said formation fluid to fluid conductivity and hydrocarbon volume.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said generating said electromagnetic wave comprises: generating an oscillating electrical radio frequency input signal within said internal flow passage.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said measuring of said phase shift and attenuation of said electromagnetic wave comprises:
(a) detecting said input signal at spaced locations along the length of said internal flow passage;
(b) providing a detected signal output at each of said spaced locations; and (c) detecting the ratio of phase shift and attenuation of said detected signal outputs in comparison with said input signal. 


 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said relating said dielectric constant and conductivity of said formation fluid to hydrocarbon volume and fluid conductivity comprises:
(a) comparing detected phase shift and attenuation signals at each of said spaced locations with known parameters of phase shift and attenuation; and
(b) providing a signal output presenting said phase shift and attenuation signals as a function of hydrocarbon volume of said formation fluid.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein said internal flow passage is defined by a coaxial transmission line having a signal input port a near receiver port, a far receiver port and a reflection termination port located in spaced relation along the length thereof, said method including:
(a) introducing a radio frequency electronic input signal at said input port;
(b) detecting phase shift and attenuation of said input signal at said near receiver port;
(c) detecting phase shift and attenuation of said input signal at said far receiver port;
(d) placing a load at said reflection termination port;
(e) comparing said phase shift and attenuation signals detected at said near and far receiver ports with said input signal and providing amplitude and phase detector output signals; and
(f) relating said amplitude and phase detector output signals to known dielectric constant conductivity of formation fluid constituents for determination of hydrocarbon volume and fluid conductivity.
11. Apparatus for downhole measurement of fluid conductivity and hydrocarbon volume during formation testing, comprising:
(a) a flow tube being disposed within a formation multi-tester instrument and adapted to receive a quantity of formation fluid therein; 


 (b) a signal input port being provided on said flow tube and receiving a radio frequency signal transmitter for generation of an electromagnetic wave within said formation fluid of said flow tube;
(c) a near receiver sensor being provided in said flow tube in spaced relation with said signal input port for enabling detection of attenuation and phase shift of said electromagnetic wave by said formation fluid;
(d) a far receiver sensor being provided in said flow tube in spaced relation with said near receiver sensor for enabling detection of further attenuation and phase shift of said electromagnetic wave by said formation fluid; (e) means for generating a radio frequency signal at said signal input port; and
(f) means for receiving and processing the signal outputs of said near receiver and said far receiver for identification of the attenuation and phase shift that is induced to said electromagnetic wave by said formation fluid and thus characterizing said formation fluid for dielectric constant and conductivity, said signal receiving and processing means further establishing a relationship relating said dielectric constant and conductivity to hydrocarbon volume and fluid conductivity of said formation fluid.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said means for generating a radio frequency signal at said signal input port comprises: an electronic radio frequency oscillator circuit being coupled in driving relation with said radio frequency signal at said signal input port and operatively exciting said signal transmitter at a predetermined frequency and amplitude for generation of said electromagnetic wave in said formation fluid.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said electronic frequency oscillator circuit includes:
(a) an oscillator for generation of a radio frequency signal of predetermined frequency; and
(b) a gain control amplifier and a power amplifier being coupled in series with said oscillator and being coupled in driving relation with said signal transmitter. 


 14. The apparatus of claim 11 , wherein said means for receiving and processing said output signals of said near and far receivers comprises:
(a) a local oscillator circuit providing a pair of amplified outputs;
(b) a pair of mixer circuits each being coupled in receiving relation with the outputs of respective ones of said near and far receivers;
(c) a phase detector circuit being coupled in receiving relation with each of said mixer circuits and providing an output representing the phase shift that occurs in said electromagnetic wave in said formation fluid over the distance between said near and far receivers; and (d) an amplitude detector circuit being coupled in receiving relation within each of said mixer circuits and providing outputs representing the signal amplitudes detected by each of said near and far receivers, said signal amplitude outputs representing attenuation induced to said electromagnetic wave by said formation fluid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
