<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631045</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fuel injection apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02M4700	F02F700	F02M5910	F02M3900	F02M4700	F02M6100	F02F700	F02M3900	F02M6114	F02M5900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02M	F02F	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02F	F02M	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02M47	F02F7	F02M59	F02M39	F02M47	F02M61	F02F7	F02M39	F02M61	F02M59	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fuel injection system for an internal 
combustion engine. The system includes an injector 

assembly (3) for injecting fuel under pressure into the 
combustion chamber of an engine. The system also 

includes an intensifier assembly (8) for intensifying 
the pressure of the fuel supplied to the injector 

assembly (3). This is incorporated in the cylinder head (1) 
or attached to the cylinder head (1) or an engine valve 

cover of the engine remote from the injector 
assembly (3). Intensified fuel passes from the 

intensifier assembly to the injector assembly via a 
conduit means (34). This arrangement of injector 

assembly (3), intensifier assembly (8) and fuel conduit 
means (34) reduces the over cylinder space required, 

particularly for a cylinder head arrangement with 
vertically projecting injector assemblies. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERKINS ENGINES CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERKINS ENGINES COMPANY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH PAUL JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, PAUL JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to fuel injectors
principally for the injection of fuel into the
combustion chambers of diesel engines.Injectors are known in which the means for
intensifying the pressure of fuel destined to be
injected is carried on the injector body the
advantage being that failure of any part of the
intensifier including the controls therefore does
not necessitate a dismantling of a whole
hydraulic/fuel system and allows quick replacement
of a faulty part. In certain cases as for instance
in the system shown in US Patent Re 33270 the
benefits include total containment of very highly
pressurised fuel within an injector assembly. Such
injectors are usually inserted into a bore in the
cylinder head so that a nozzle just protrudes into a
combustion space formed when the piston reaches the
top of its stroke. Such a combustion space can be
an antechamber formed in the cylinder head or it can
be a bowl formed in the crown of the piston. The
antechamber type of combustion system is called an
indirect injection system and the bowl-in-the-piston
is called a direct injection system. It is well
known that the direct injection system is a more
efficient system because air and gases do not have
to pass through a constriction, as in the indirect
injection system and hence more air can be fed into
it in a given time. In the search for methods of
allowing more air into the direct injection
combustion chamber of a diesel engine cylinder
multiple inlet valves are becoming commonly
employed. Whilst, in the case of a cylinder head
having one inlet and one exhaust valve per cylinder
the injector bore can be made in the side of the 
cylinder head where there is plenty of room, for an
injector in a cylinder head which carries for
instance two inlet and two exhaust valves there is
very little room for an injector except in the space
at the centre of the four valves. This necessitates
that the injector shall project vertically from the
top of the cylinder head. Problems consequent on
the adoption of this arrangement are a) that the
injector assembly is too tall and b) it interferes
with the valve gear which of necessity must occupy
the space.FR-A-2496170 discloses a fuel injection system
comprising an injector assembly adapted to be
inserted into a cylinder head of a internal
combustion engine; an intensifier assembly remote
from said injector assembly; a first port for the
supply of fuel to the intensifier assembly; a
second port for the supply of intensifier fluid to
the intensifier assembly; a third port for the
suppl
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fuel injection system comprising an injector
assembly (3) adapted to be inserted into a cylinder head

(1) of an internal combustion engine; an intensifier
assembly (8) remote from said injector assembly (3); a

first port (10) for the supply of fuel to the intensifier
assembly (8); a second port (11) for the supply of

intensifier fluid to the intensifier assembly (8); a
third port (9) for the supply of pressure intensified

fuel to said injector assembly (3) through conduit means
(34), whereby fuel supplied through said first port (10)

is intensified by fluid supplied through said second port
(11) and is delivered at intensified pressure to said

injector assembly (3), characterised in that several
intensifier assemblies are incorporated into a housing

(35) having all three ports (10,11, 9) formed therein,
the first and second ports for all of said intensifier

assemblies being supplied from an internal longitudinal
rail or rails extending through the housing for the

greater part of its length.
A fuel injection system as claimed in claim 1,
characterised in that the housing is adapted to be

attached to the side of the cylinder head (1). 
A fuel injection system as claimed in claim 1,
characterised in that the housing comprises an

arrangement of appropriate bores formed in the cylinder
head (1).
A fuel injection system as claimed in claim 1,
characterised in that a solenoid operated valve (7) is

incorporated in each said intensifier assembly (8) for
the purpose of regulating the timing of fuel

intensification.
A fuel injection system as claimed in claim 4,
characterised in that the solenoid operated valve (7)

also regulates the timing of the injection of the
intensified fuel by the injector assembly (3).
A fuel injection system as claimed in any of
claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the fluid supplied

through the second port (11) is fuel, the first and
second ports being supplied from a common internal

longitudinal rail.
A fuel injection system as claimed in any of
claims 2 to 5, characterised in that the fluid supplied

through the second port (11) is an auxiliary fluid, the
first and second ports being supplied from respective

first and second internal longitudinal rails. 
A fuel injection system as claimed in claim 6 or
7, characterised in that the fluid supplied through the

second port (11) is supplied at a pressure which is
continuously varied according to the degree of

intensification required at a given moment.
A fuel injection system as claimed in any
preceding claim, characterised in that the engine valve

cover (4) encloses the third port (9) and the conduit
means (34) connecting the third port (9) and the injector

assembly (3).
A fuel injection system as claimed in any one
of claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the third port

(9) lies outside the valve cover (4) and the conduit
means (34) passes through an aperture in the valve cover

(4), there being at least one further aperture in the
valve cover (4) to allow attachment of the conduit means

(34) to the injector assembly (3) by tools inserted
through the further aperture.
A fuel injection system as claimed in any one
of claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the third port

(9) lies outside the valve cover (4) and the injector
assembly (3) protrudes through an aperture in the valve

cover (4) such that the conduit means (34) between the 
third port (9) and the injector assembly (3) lies outside

the valve cover (4).
A fuel injection system as claimed in any one
of claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the third port

(9) lies outside the valve cover (4) and the conduit
means (34) between the third port (9) and the injector

assembly (3) comprises an external conduit section (42)
which connects with an internal bore (44) of a cylinder

head (1).
A fuel injection system as claimed in any
preceding claim, characterised in that the conduit means

(34) is a thick-walled pipe.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
