<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656085</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01D100	E01D2100	E01D200	F01D2104	F01D702	E01D10126	E01D2200	F01D2100	E04B523	E04B517	E01D200	E01D2200	E01D100	E01D10128	F01D700	E01D2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01D	E01D	E01D	F01D	F01D	E01D	E01D	F01D	E04B	E04B	E01D	E01D	E01D	E01D	F01D	E01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01D1	E01D21	E01D2	F01D21	F01D7	E01D101	E01D22	F01D21	E04B5	E04B5	E01D2	E01D22	E01D1	E01D101	F01D7	E01D21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of constructing a bridge using a two step composite construction process. In the first step, the region to be spanned is bridged with precast prestressed concrete elements (8) that are designed as beams and complete permanent formwork to carry the dead load of the bridge, to provide a high density concrete protective shell giving a greater degree of protection against deterioration from the elements and to provide a very high quality of finish and architectural design, to provide a complete working platform for construction, and to eliminate the need for temporary scaffolding and formwork. In the second step, additional poured in place concrete (14) is cast into the spaces (12) created by the precast elements (8) and serves as beams, post-tensioned (13) to carry the live loads of the bridge. A bridge is thus created comprised of precast elongated elements (8) supported on abutments at the sides of the spanned region, reinforced concrete beams contained by and between the adjacent elements (8), and a deck (14) supported by the beams and elongated elements (8).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TERON INTERNATIONAL BUILDING T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TERON INTERNATIONAL BUILDING TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERON WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TERON, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of constructing a bridge, and to a bridge so formed. In 
particular, the present invention is related to a method of constructing a bridge according to the 
preambles of claims 1 and 9, respectively. A corresponding method is inherently disclosed in FR-A-2 
074 643. In addition, the present invention is related to a bridge as defined by the preamble 
of claim 11. Such a bridge is for instance known from CIVIL ENGINEERING, vol. 42, no. 5, May 
1972, pages 73 - 76. Document DE-A-22 03 126 describes the use of U-shaped precast elements which are 
open to the top and which are filled with concrete from above. These elements must be supported 
from below during the casting process. Caps supported by the upright legs of ajacent U-shaped 
elements define a base over which the concrete of a roadway may be poured. Document GB-A-415 844 describes the use of inverted U-shaped elements bounded at 
the sides by vertical I-beams. Concrete is poured over the U-shaped elements and is trapped 
between their sides and their I-beam. Bridges are normally made using beams, which span a region to be covered, which are 
supported on abutments, and which have a flat deck spanning on top of the beams. The deck is 
always made of concrete that is poured in place into temporary formwork. While the beams have 
some problems, the deck is subject to many problems. These can be summarized in two main 
areas - the cost and difficulty of the forming and long term deterioration. For example, bridges have been constructed using multiple parallel steel beams. However 
these beams suffer from corrosion induced by atmospheric pollutants, road salt, vehicle emissions, 
rain and bird excrement. Steel by its nature is very subject to corrosion. The ledge design of steel 
beams harbours dirt and pollutants that accelerate corrosion. In order to avoid the problem of steel beams, precast prestressed concrete beams have 
been used. They are often referred to in the trade as "AASHTO" girders. Their configuration has 
a ledge design which inherently in the casting process leads to surface imperfections. The ledge 
also harbours dirt, pollutants, birds etc. which enter through the imperfections causing deterioration 
of the prestressing steel. Both of the above described bridges are constructed with an ordinary poured in place 
concrete flab slab on top of the beams serving as the top deck. Ordinary concrete decks suffer from severe long term deterioration. The deterioration is 
caused  
 
by water transmitted into
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of constructing a bridge comprising: 

(a) extending elongated U-shaped precast concrete elements (8) over a region to be 
covered, defining regions for containing the concrete of beams, 
(b) pouring concrete beams (12) into said regions, 
(c) reinforcing said beams as structural supports for said bridge, 
(d) the legs of separate concrete elements being mutually spaced so as to define the 
regions for containing the concrete of beams, and 
(e) spanning and closing the bottoms of the regions between the precast elements with 
temporary formwork (10) or permanent precast concrete formwork (8B,9A) prior to pouring the 

concrete beams, the precast concrete formwork being permanently held in place from legs of the 
precast elements, 
 
   characterized by: 


(f) supporting the ends of the concrete elements whereby they span the region to be 
covered, 
(g) the concrete elements being prestressed so as to support the concrete of the beams 
without support other than the end supports. 
A method as defined in claim 1 characterized by exposed 
surfaces of the concrete elements having a smooth finish to a polished quality. 
A method as defined in claim 1 or 2 in which exposed edges of said precast elements 
are rounded. 
A method as defined in claims 1 to 3 characterized by said 
spanning and closing step being comprised of suspending the temporary formwork (10) by cables 

(11) hung through the region between said precast elements. 
A method as defined in claim 1, characterized by supporting 
a pair of precast prestressed architecturally shaped side beam-defining permanent formwork (8A) 

at the edges of outwardly opposite legs of said elements to define a beam space between each 
formwork and an adjacent element, pouring concrete beams into said beam spaces, and pouring 

a concrete deck (14) over said beams and the exterior top sides of said precast elements, but  
 

avoiding top edges of said pair of formwork, whereby curb, rail and/or utility supporting surfaces 
for said bridge are provided thereby. 
A method as defined in claim 1, characterized by the elements forming at least one arch 
and cantilevered arms (8A) over a region to be spanned by supporting at its ends at least one 

permanent elongated precast concrete element defining at least two containers for containing the 
concrete of at least a pair of beams (30, 37), pouring said concrete beams and arms and a deck 

(14) over said beams and arms before the concrete of the beams has cured, retaining said 
elements in place as protective surfaces of said bridge, the beams and deck being poured in a 

single step. 
A method as defined in claim 1, characterized by the elements forming at least one arch 
and cantilevered arms over a region to be spanned by supporting at its ends at least one 

permanent elongated precast concrete element defining at least two containers for containing the 
concrete of at least a pair of beams (30, 32), pouring said concrete beams and arms and a deck 

(14) over said beams and arms before the concrete of the beams has cured, retaining said 
elements in place as protective surfaces of said bridge, said element being formed of plural 

abutting architecturally shaped segments (8A). 
A method as defined in claim 1, characterized by the elements forming at least one arch 
and cantilevered arms over a region to be spanned by supporting at its ends at least one 

permanent elongated precast concrete element defining at least two containers for containing the 
concrete of at least a pair of beams (30, 32), pouring said concrete beams and arms and a deck 

(14) over said beams and arms before the concrete of the beams has cured, retaining said 
elements in place as protective surfaces of said bridge, said arch being formed of a pair of 

identical abutting architecturally shaped elements (8A). 
A method of constructing a bridge comprising: 

(a) extending elongated U-shaped precast concrete elements (8) over a region to be 
covered, defining regions for containing the concrete of beams, 
(b) pouring concrete beams (12) into said regions, 
(c) reinforcing said beams as structural supports for said bridge, 
 
   characterized by: 


(d) said U-shaped elements facing upwardly with the open sides thereof, 
(e) said elements having arms (8D, 8E) extending outwardly from the free ends of said  
 

legs, abutting adjacent arms of adjacent elements, the legs of said elements forming elongated 
containers shaped for receiving and retaining the beam concrete and defining shapes of the 

beams, 
(f) supporting the ends of the concrete elements whereby they span the region to be 
covered, 
(g) the concrete elements being prestressed so as to support the concrete of beams 
without support other than the end supports. 
A method as defined in claim 9 including the further step of pouring a concrete deck 
(14) over said beams and the exterior top sides of said arms. 
A bridge comprised of precast U-shaped elongated elements (9), poured reinforced 
concrete beams (30) supported by the elements, a deck (14) supported by the beams, the beams 

being contained by adjacent legs of adjacent elements, the elements 
having their openings facing downwardly, precast prestressed architecturally shaped 

permanent formwork (8A) forming architectural sides to the bridge, extending at the sides of 
opposite ones of said elements and containing poured concrete beams between said opposite 

elements and said architecturally shaped formwork, characterized by the elements being 
supported by abutments at the sides of a spanned region, the elements being prestressed so as 

to support the concrete of the beams without support other than the abutments, and in which said architecturally shaped permanent formwork 
(8A) is abutted adjacent bottom edges thereof against arms (8B) extending from said opposite 

elements. 
A bridge as defined in claim 11, characterized by a traffic barrier (20) extending 
upwardly from and integral with upper edges of at least one of said architecturally shaped 

permanent formwork (8A). 
A bridge as defined in claim 11, characterized by the deck (14) being contained 
between upper edges of said architecturally shaped permanent formwork. 
A bridge as defined in claim 13 characterized by utility structures (20) extending 
upwardly from the upper edges of said architecturally shaped permanent formwork. 
A bridge as defined in claim 11, characterized by at least one of said elements 
supported right side up on said deck to form a walkway, or traffic barrier. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
