<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615575</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01B100	F01B106	F01B900	F01B904	F01B906	F02B100	F02B104	F02B7500	F02B7502	F02B7502	F02B7522	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01B	F01B	F01B	F01B	F01B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01B1	F01B1	F01B9	F01B9	F01B9	F02B1	F02B1	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	F02B75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A radial internal combustion engine, preferably two stroke, using a rotating cam unit (32) (RCU) coupled to a drive shaft (30) disposed along a centerline of the engine is disclosed. Raceways are located on the RCU. Pistons (28), preferably four, reciprocate in heads located in the engine. The pistons are each connected to one end of a rod (34). Followers (40) connected to the other end of each rod travel the raceways of the RCU as it rotates. The raceways are arranged so that some of the followers are pushed by the RCU and others are pulled by the RCU to cooperate with the reciprocating motion of the opposed pistons. Members attached to the connecting rods engage rod guides mounted on guide plates attached to the engine block. The engagement of these members on the rods with the rod guides effectively dissipates the forces acting upon the rod at the rod/RCU interface which act in any direction other than that which is parallel to the direction in which the piston reciprocates, and constrain movement of the rod and piston to the direction of reciprocation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES MACHINE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES MACHINE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCALF D JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON ROBERT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNCALF, D., JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON, ROBERT, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINEField of the Invention The present invention relates generally to internal combustion engines. More specifically, the present invention relates to an internal combustion engine driven by pistons housed within stationary cylinders arranged in a substantially radial layout and using a central Rotating Cam Unit (hereafter referred to as the "RCU") , preferably having three raceways to move the pistons and a valve train. This rotating RCU takes the place of the conventional crankshaft. Background of the InventionThe history of all internal combustion engines (e.g. , Otto cycle, Diesel, and two-stroke) can be traced to 1678 when a Frenchman named Abbe Hautefeuille proposed using the power of gunpowder in a cylinder to move a piston and obtain work. His principle is used today on aircraft carriers to thrust planes into the air. The first successful working engines used walking beams, (Street's engine 1794) and rack and gear arrangements (Barsanti's and Mateucci's 1856 and Otto's and Langen's 1866) to convert the piston's reciprocal motion into rotary motion. The steam engine was the most popular source of mechanical power those days and it was not long before the crankshaft of the steam engine became a standard feature of the internal combustion engine. The crankshaft worked very well on a steam engine. The pistons seldom reciprocated more than few hundred strokes per minute, well below destructive frequencies. The oily steam provided cooling and lubrication. The pistons were aligned so that there was no side pressure, only thrust, on the bores. The pressure was slow and steady and was often applied to bot'u sides of the piston. Compare to this environment inside the modern internal combustion engine. The pressure is not slow but explosive. The heat is high enough to melt many metals. The working fluid is not oily steam that lubricates but white hot flames containing caustic acids. This hot gas blows by the piston and turns the oil into an etching solution. 

 In light of this, one must admit that the modern internal combustion engines have been made very durable. However, while they may be regarded as highly developed, they are in fact less efficient than is possible since conversion of the heat energy to mechanical energy is done through the piston, connecting rod and crankshaft.The piston's linear movement in the power stroke is the initial conversion step from heat energy to mechanical energy. The linear motion is in turn converted to the angular motion of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An internal combustion engine comprising: an engine block; a drive shaft; a plurality of cylinders arranged in a radial pattern in a plane substantially perpendicular to said drive shaft; a plurality of pistons, one disposed in each of said cylinders; a plurality of connecting rods, each having first and second ends, each of said pistons being connected to one of said rods at said first end; a cam, rotatable about said shaft in said plane, and having a plurality of cam surfaces around said cam, first and second of said surfaces facing inwardly towards said drive shaft, a third of said surfaces facing outwardly away from said drive shaft, said first and second surfaces being on either side of said third surface; a plurality of cam followers coupled to each one of said rods at said second ends, first and second of said followers adapted to engage said first and second cam surfaces, respectively, and a third follower adapted to engage said third cam surface; so that, in use, when said cam rotates, said first and second cam surfaces engage said first and second cam followers to pull the connecting rod they are coupled to and said third cam surface engages said third cam follower to then push said connecting rod.
2. The engine of claim 1, wherein said followers comprise rollers. 3. The engine of claim 2, wherein said rollers are mounted to rotate about a common axis. 


 4. The engine of Claim 3, wherein said rollers are mounted on the same axle and said connecting rod is attached to said axle.
5. The engine of Claim 1, wherein said followers comprise skids.
6. The engine of Claim 1, wherein there are three followers, one of said followers engaging said third, central cam surface, and two of said followers engaging one each of said first and second, outer cam surfaces. 7. The engine of Claim 6, wherein said second ends of said rods are forked, and wherein said three followers are mounted to said forked end of each rod, one of said followers being mounted symetrically about the logitudinal axis of the rod, and one each of the other of said followers being mounted on either side of said axis.
8. The engine of Claim 1, further comprising: valve means, for introducing a mixture of fuel and air into each of said cylinders; and a plurality of cam extensions disposed on a circumferential surace of said cam, each of said extensions having a rising edge and a falling edge; whereby as said cam rotates, in use, about the axis of said drive shaft, said cam followers are displaced by said rising edges of said cam extensions thereby forcing said pistons into said cylinders, and said combustion of said fuel/air mixture forces said pistons downward in said cylinders and forces said cam followers to engage said falling edge of said cam extensions, thereby rotating said cam. 9. A radial internal combustion engine comprising: an engine block; a drive shaft rotatably disposed along a centerline of the engine block; a rotatable cam unit, said rotatable cam unit having a plurality of cam extensions, each of said 


 cam extensions having a rising edge and a falling edge, said rotatable cam unit being mounted to said drive shaft, said cam being rotatable in a plane substantially perpendicular to said drive shaft; a plurality of cylinders arranged in a radial pattern around said rotatable cam unit; a piston disposed in each of said cylinders; a number of connecting rods, the number of said rods corresponding to the number of said pistons, each piston having one end of one of said rods connected thereto; at least one cam follower coupled to the end of each rod located opposite the end attached to said piston, said cam follower adapted to engage said cam extensions on said rotatable cam unit; rod guide means for maintaining alignment of said rods and limiting the movement of each rod in all directions except along its longitudinal axis, said guide means comprising male and female engagement members, one category of said members being associated with said rod for movement therewith, the other category of said members being fixed with respect to said rod. 10. The engine of Claim 9, wherein said male engagement members comprise elongate members including a raised portion thereon, and said female enagement members comprise elongate members having a channel therein.
11. The engine of Claim 10, wherein each of said elongate members are arranged substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of said rod.
12. The engine of Claim 9, wherein said fixed members are attached, directly or indirectly, to said engine block.
13. The engine of Claim 9, wherein said male members are located on said rod and said female members are fixed, directly or indirectly, to said engine block. 


 14. The engine of Claim 9, wherein said guide means comprise four elongate members attached to each rod, said members being arranged in two pairs, one member in each pair facing in the opposite direction from the other. 15. The engine of Claim 9, wherein said rod guide means include at least one guide plate which is attached to said engine, whereby movement of said rod is limited through engagement of said rod with said guide plate.
16. The engine of Claim 15, comprising two series of guide plates, each series lying in a plane on either side of said cam plane.
17. The engine of Claim 16, wherein each of said guides plates in a series is spaced apart from adjacent members of the series to provide room for one of said rods to move therebetween, said adjacent plates providing facing guide surfaces for said rod to engage and move along.
18. A cam for an internal combustion engine for translating the reciprocating motion of pistons to the rotational movement of a drive shaft comprising: a central cam body; a central cam surface on said cam body; and two outer cam surfaces on said cam body, one each of said outer surfaces lying on opposite sides of said central cam surface. 19. The cam of Claim 18, wherein said central cam surface faces outwardly from said body, and said outer surfaces face inwardly towards said body.
20. The cam of Claim 18, wherein said outer surfaces lie in a plane circumferentially further away from a center of said cam body than the central cam surface.
21. The cam unit of Claim 18, wherein said cam body comprises a central core and two outer wings attached thereto, and wherein said central cam surface is located upon said central core and said outer cam surfaces are each located upon one of said wings. 


 22. A connecting rod assembly for attachment to a piston of an internal combustion engine, in which reciprocating motion of said piston is transmitted by said rod to a rotatable cam, said assembly comprising: a shaft having a longitudinal axis and two ends, a first end of which is adapted for attachment to said piston; a plurality of cam followers, each having a surface for engaging
'
 said cam and being mounted to said second end of said shaft with said surface substantially perpendicular to said axis, said followers comprising at least one primary cam follower mounted symetrically about said axis of said rod, and at least one secondary cam follower offset from said axis.
23. The rod assembly of Claim 22, wherein said followers are rollers.
24. The rod assembly of Claim 22, wherein said second end of said rod is forked, and wherein said primary follower is mounted between said forks.
25. The rod assembly of Claim 22, wherein there are three followers, with two secondary followers, one of each being mounted on either side of the primary follower.
26. The rod assembly of Claim 22, wherein said three followers are mounted on a common axis.
27. A rod assembly for connection to a piston of an internal combustion engine, comprising: a connecting rod having a centerline and two ends, one end of which is adapted for attachment to a piston, the other end of said rod having a forked shape; and a plurality of elongate guide members attached to said forked end of said rod, each of said elongate members having a longitudinal axis which is substantially parallel to the centerline of said rod. 


 28. The rod assembly of Claim 27, wherein said elongate members are arranged symetrically about said centerline.
29. The rod assembly of Claim 27, comprising four of said elongate members, said members being arranged in two pairs, one member in each pair facing in the opposite direction from the other.
30. The rod assembly of Claim 27, including a protruding surface upon each of said elongate members for engaging guide means in said engine. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
