<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612034</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for reading a bar code and a bar-code reader.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2612	G02B2612	G06K710	G06K710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B26	G02B26	G06K7	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention concerns a method and a device for 
reading a bar code from the face of an object. The 

ray of light (S₁) is brought from a source of light 
(10), preferably from a source of laser light, and 

the ray of light is deflected in a sector (β) onto a 
prism (13) in a plane (T₁). In the method, by means 

of the prism (13), the sweep beam (C₂) of the ray 
of light (S₂) is rotated so that, on departing from 

the prism (13), the ray of light (S₂) sweeps in a 
plane (T₂) that has been rotated through 90° in 

relation to said plane (T₁). The ray of light that 
sweeps in the plane (T₂) is applied to a mirror (16) 

and via the mirror onto the face of a product that is 
provided with a bar code. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALTON SYSTEM OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALTON SYSTEM OY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAEHKAENEN PEKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAEHKAENEN, PEKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention concerns a method for reading a bar code and a reader device for 
identification of a bar code. From the prior art, bar-code readers are known by whose means the bar code can be 
read, as a rule, in one precise position. Also, from the prior art, arrangements of 
equipment are known in which the bar code can be read by means of laser beams 
produced by a number of scanners irrespective of the position of the code on the 
face of the product. Solutions of equipment of said sort are, however, expensive. In the present patent application, a novel method and a solution of equipment are 
described by whose means the bar code V placed on the face of a product can be 
read irrespective of the position in which it is placed on the face of the product. In 
the present application, the designation bar code refers generally to a code label that 
comprises oblong dark and light fields. According to the invention, a ray of light, 
preferably a laser beam, is brought onto a rotated first mirror. By means of the 
mirror, the ray of laser light that has been brought onto the mirror is deflected as a 
sweep beam C₁ within the sector a and as a sweep beam C₂ within the sector β. In 
the sector a the ray of light S₁ is reflected in the plane T₁ to illuminate the dark and 
light areas in the bar-code label on the object to be read which areas are not parallel 
to the sweep plane T₁ of the ray of light. In the sector β the light is reflected from the mirror as a narrower sweep beam C₂ 
onto a prism that refracts light. The bottom plane of a so-called Dove prism of glass 
has been placed at an angle of 45° in relation to the sweep plane T₁ so that the beam 
of light S₂ is passed onto the light-refracting inlet face of the prism, from which face 
it proceeds, having been reflected from the bottom face of the prism, to the light-outlet 
face of the prism, from which face the ray of light S₂ is deflected in a plane  
 
T₂ that has been rotated through 90° in relation to the plane T₁. Thus, the sweep 
beam C₂ is rotated through 90°, and the beam of light C₂ is passed as additionally 
widened further to a second rotated mirror onto its light-reflecting mirror face. The function of the second mirror is to reflect the ray of light S₂ that oscillates in 
the plane T₂, so that, while oscillating in the reflection plane T₃, the ray of light S₂ 
passes through the entire reading area L in a way corresponding to the ray S₁ that 
was deflected by the first mirror. By means of the sweep beam C₂ of said second 
ray of light
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for reading a bar code from the face of an object, characterized 
in that the ray of light (S₁) is brought from a source of light (10), preferably 

from a source of laser light, and the ray of light is deflected in a sector (β) onto a 
prism (13) in a plane (T₁), and that in the method, by means of the prism (13), the 

sweep beam (C₂) of the ray of light (S₂) is rotated so that, on departing from the 
prism (13), the ray of light (S₂) sweeps in a plane (T₂) that has been rotated through 

90° in relation to said plane (T₁), said ray of light that sweeps in the plane (T₂) 
being applied to a mirror (16) and via the mirror onto the face of a product that is 

provided with a bar code. 
Method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that, in the method, 
the ray of light (S₂), preferably a laser ray, is applied from a first mirror (11) to the 

prism (13). 
Method as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the ray of light 
(S₁) is applied to the first mirror (11) in a plane (T₁) that is perpendicular to the axis 

of rotation and central axis (X₁) of the mirror (11), and that the ray of laser light 
(S₁) is applied to the mirror face (11an) of the mirror (11) in such a way that, in the 

sector (α), the ray of light (S₁) is displaced on the face of the object by moving the 
mirror (11), so that the ray (S₁) passes across the bar code whose dark and light 

fields are not parallel to the sweep plane (T₁) of the sweep beam (C₁) of the ray of 
light. 
Method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that, in the method, a light-transmitting prism (13), preferably a glass prism, is used, 

whose opposite side faces (13a₁,13a₃;13a₂,13a₄) are placed in planes parallel to one 
another and in which the end faces (14 and 15) of the prism are placed in such a 

way in relation to the bottom face (13a₁) of the prism that the angle (β₂) between the 
first end face (14) and the bottom face (13a₁) is 45° and the angle (β₃) between the 

second end face (15) and the bottom face (13a₁) is also 45°. 
Method as claimed in the preceding claim, characterized in that, in 
the method, a prism (13) is used, whose bottom face (13a₁) has been inclined 

through 45° in relation to the sweep plane (T₁) of the laser ray (S₂). 
Method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that the second mirror (16) is rotated around the axis of rotation and central axis 

(X₂) of the mirror (16), which axis (X₂) is perpendicular to the plane (T₁). 
Method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that, in the method, the first mirror (11) is rotated around the axis of rotation and 

central axis (X₁) of the mirror, which axis (X₁) is perpendicular to the sweep plane 
(T₁). 
Method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that, in the method, the ray of light is applied from the prism (13) in the plane (T₂) 

to one of the mirror faces (16a₁...16a₈) of the second mirror (16), on which mirror 
face the projection point of the ray of light passes as parallel to the axis (X₂) of 

rotation of the mirror, and that the ray that sweeps on said mirror face is reflected 
further from the mirror face (16a₁...16a₈) in the plane (T₃) onto the face of the 

product, which face includes a bar code in which the dark and light fields are not 
parallel to the plane (T₃). 
Method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that, in the method, the first mirror (11) is rotated at a speed of rotation substantially 

higher than that of the second mirror (16), and that in the method such a first mirror 
(11) is used in which the number of mirror faces (11a₁...11a₄) is substantially lower 

than the number of mirror faces (16a₁...16a₈) in the second mirror (16). 
Method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that, in the method, the rays of light (S₁,S₂) applied to the bar code are read by 

means of a receiver device (100), and that the reflected signal is amplified by means 
of the receiver device (100) and passed to the central unit (105). 
Method as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that, in the method, the reading ray (S₃) is applied from the bar-code label through 

the lens (101) and the polarization film (102) to the detector, preferably a photodiode 
(103), and further through the amplifier card (104) to the central unit (105) of the 

apparatus, preferably a microprocessor. 
Bar-code reader, characterized in that it comprises a source of light 
(10), preferably a source of laser light, which emits a ray of light, preferably a ray 

of laser light (S₁), and that the equipment comprises a first rotated mirror (11), at 
whose mirror face (11a₁...11a₄) the ray of light (S₁) is directed, and that the solution 

of equipment comprises a prism (13) and, at the proximity of the prism (13), a 
second rotated mirror (16), a ray of light (S₁) being applied by means of the first 

mirror (11) in a plane (T₁) to the face of the object to read bar-code marks, and 
that, by means of said first mirror (11), a ray of light is additionally applied to a 

prism (13) and through the prism to the second mirror (16) and further, from the 
second mirror (16), to the face of the object to read the bar-code marks, the sweep 

plane (T₁) of the sweep beam (C₂) of the ray of light (S₃) emitted from the mirror 
(11) being rotated by means of the prism (13) substantially through 90° in relation 

to the plane (T₁), whereby the ray of light can be made to sweep across the mirror 
face of the mirror (16) in a plane (T₂), the projection of the ray of light (S₂) on the 

mirror face (16a₁ or 16a₂... or 16a₈) of the mirror (16) running along a straight line 
which is substantially perpendicular to the plane (T₁) and parallel to the axis of 

rotation (X₂) of the mirror. 
Bar-code reader as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the equipment comprises a motor (M₁), by whose means the shaft 

(12) of rotation of the mirror (11) and, thus, the mirror faces (11a₂...11a₄) are 
rotated around the axis of rotation and central axis (X₁) of the mirror, and that the 

equipment comprises a second motor (M₂), by whose means the shaft (17) of the 
second mirror (16) and, thus, the mirror faces (16a₁...16a₈) are rotated, and that the 

planes of the mirror faces (11a₁...11a₄) are perpendicular to the plane (T₁) and, in 
a corresponding way, the mirror faces (16a₁...16a₈) of the second mirror (16) are 

 
perpendicular to the plane (T₁). 
Bar-code reader as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized 
in that the prism (13) comprises light-transmitting and light-refracting side 

faces (13a₁,13a₃), which are placed one opposite to the other and whose planes are 
parallel to one another, and, in a corresponding way, side faces (13a₂ and 13a₄), 

whose planes are also parallel to one another, and that the prism (13) comprises a 

first end face (14), whose plane is at an angle (β₂) of 45° in relation to the bottom 
face (13a₁) of the prism, and correspondingly a second end face (15), which is 

similarly at an angle (β₃) of 45° in relation to the bottom face (13a₁) of the prism, 
and that the plane of the bottom face (13a₁) of the prism (13) has been inclined 

through 45° in relation to the sweep plane (T₁). 
Device as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in 
that the speed of rotation (N₁) of the mirror (11) is about 100-fold as compared with 

the speed of rotation (N₂) of the second mirror (16). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
