<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639285</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRECISION COMPONENT POSITIONER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B624	G02B624	G02B642	G02B642	G02B700	G02B700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B7	G02B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEW FOCUS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEW FOCUS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNONE DAVID F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUECKE FRANCIS S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNONE, DAVID, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUECKE, FRANCIS, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRECISION COMPONENT POSITIONER BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention The present invention relates generally to apparatus for adjustably mounting and positioning precision components, elements and devices. More particularly, the present invention relates to apparatus for positioning optical elements, such as optical fibers and waveguides, where the position of the optical element can be precisely adjusted relative to three linear axes and two rotational axes.The use of adjustable mounting apparatus for supporting optical components, such as optical fibers, mirrors, beam splitters, lenses, gratings, and the like, is known. For example, it is frequently necessary to position a first optical element, such as an optical fiber or waveguide, relative to a second optical element, such as another optical fiber or waveguide, a microscope objective lens, or the like. Frequently, the relative positioning of such optical components must be very precise, with accuracies on the order of wavelength dimensions sometimes being necessary. In the future, it is expected that allowable tolerances will be even smaller.In order to provide for multiple positional adjustments, many previous component mounting devices have placed a series of independently positional stages or platforms on a single base. Each stage or platform is then adjustable in a single dimension relative to the underlying stage or base, thus permitting adjustment in as many dimensions as desired. While generally workable, such devices are mechanically complex and cumbersome. Moreover, each linkage between a stage and an underlying stage or base introduces six potential degrees of error in positioning. Thus, as the stages are built up one over another, the sources of error are compounded. For 

example, a component comprised of four stages mounted over a base will have twenty-four degrees of freedom, thus greatly reducing the overall stability of the platform. The model 19601 optical fiber positioner available from Oriel, Long Beach, California is exemplary of such systems having multiple independently positionable stage elements built in series over a common base.Another problem in the construction of precision component mounting devices arises from cross- coupling between position adjustment mechanisms. Cross- coupling refers to the disturbance of one positional parameter (in one degree freedom) arising from the change in another positional parameter (in another degree freedom) . For example, changing position along one linear axis may
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A device for mounting and positioning a precision component, said device comprising: a frame member defining axial and transverse directions; means on the frame member for securing the frame member to a surface; a stage member suspended relative to the frame member; means on the stage member for securing the component thereon; three axial actuators grounded through the frame member and engaging a transverse surface of the stage member, whereby selective translation of individual axial actuators relative to the frame member can rotate the stage member about a transverse axis or translate the stage member in an axial direction; and two transverse actuators grounded through the frame member and engaging first and second orthogonally disposed edge surfaces of the stage member, respectively, whereby selective translation of individual transverse actuators relative to the frame member can translate the stage member in a transverse direction.
2. A device as in claim 1, wherein the axial actuators each comprise threaded shafts threadably received in the frame member.
3. A device as in claim 2, further comprising means for selectively rotating the threaded shafts individually or in unison.
4. A device as in claim 3, wherein the means for selectively rotating comprises a drive gear mounted on each threaded shaft and a central pinion which mechanically couples each of the drive gears. 


 5. A device as in claim 4, wherein the means for selectively rotating further comprises a frictional clutch which mechanically couples each drive gear to its respective threaded shaft, wherein the clutches permit each threaded shaft to be individually rotated while causing rotation of all shafts simultaneously when torque is applied directly to a gear.
6. A device as in claim 1 , wherein the transverse actuators each comprise threaded shafts threadably received in the frame members.
7. A device as in claim 6, further comprising means for selectively rotating the threaded shaft at a unitary turn ratio or a reduced turn ratio.
8. A device as in claim 7, wherein the means for selectively rotating comprises a drive lever mounted on the threaded shaft and a frictional clutch which permits the threaded shaft to be rotated through the lever or directly without substantial rotation of the lever.
9. A device as in claim 8, wherein the means for selectively rotating each threaded shaft further comprises a second threaded shaft grounded in the frame member and disposed to laterally engage the lever, whereby rotation of the second threaded shaft causes rotation of the first threaded shaft at a reduced turn ratio.
10. A device for mounting and positioning a precision component, said device comprising: a frame member; means on the frame member for securing the frame member to a surface; 


 a stage member suspended relative to the frame member; means on the stage member for securing the component thereon; a first externally threaded shaft threadably received in the frame member and engaging a surface of the stage member, said first shaft having a driver connection; a lever threadably received on the first shaft; a second externally threaded shaft threadably received in the frame member and disposed to laterally engage the lever, said second shaft having a driver connection, whereby rotation of the first shaft directly provides coarse positioning of the stage member and rotation of the second shaft to rotate the first shaft through the lever provides fine positioning of the stage member.
11. A device as in claim 10, further comprising a mechanical slip clutch which couples the lever to the first externally threaded shaft.
12. A device as in claim 11, wherein the mechanical slip clutch comprises: a cap member threadably received on the first shaft in tandem with the lever; a compression spring member disposed between the drive member and the cap member; and means for linking the cap member to the lever so that they rotate in unison, whereby the spring can be compressed sufficiently to increase the frictional torque between the lever and first shaft so that turning of the lever will rotate the shaft while still permitting direct rotation of the first shaft independent of the lever.
13. A device for mounting and positioning a precision component, said device comprising: 


 a frame member defining axial and transverse directions; means on the frame member for securing the frame member to a surface; a stage member suspended relative to the frame member; means on the stage member for securing the component thereon; three axially oriented externally threaded shafts threadably received in the frame member and engaging a transverse surface of the stage member; a drive gear frictionally mounted on each of the threaded shafts; and a central pinion gear which engages and couples each of the drive gears; wherein the frictional force between the drive gear and the threaded shaft is sufficient to transmit rotational motion from the drive gear to the shaft but insufficient to transmit rotational motion from an individual shaft back through the drive gears and central pinion gear.
14. A device as in claim 13, further comprising a knob attached to one of the drive gears, whereby rotation of the knob rotates all threaded shafts in unison.
15. A device as in claim 13, wherein the drive gears are threadably mounted on the threaded shafts and coupled by mechanical slip clutches comprising: a cap member threadably received on the threaded shafts in tandem with the drive gear; a compression spring member disposed between the drive gear and the cap member; and means for linking the cap member to the drive gear. 


 16. A device as in claim 13, wherein the threaded shafts engage the stage member at three corners of a rectangle, with the element securing means eing located at the fourth corner of the rectangle.
17. A mechanical slip clutch comprising: an externally threaded shaft; a drive member threadably received on the shaft, wherein said drive member can rotate relative to the shaft with a first frictional torque; a cap member threadably received on the shaft in tandem with the drive member; a compression spring member disposed between the drive member and the cap member; and means for linking the drive member to the cap member so that they rotate in unison and maintain a constant compression on the spring member, whereby the resulting axial spring forces on the drive member and cap member increase the thread friction so that a second frictional torque greater than the first frictional torque is provided between the drive member and the threaded shaft.
18. A mechanical slip clutch as in claim 17, wherein the drive member is a drive gear.
19. A mechanical slip clutch as in claim 18, wherein the drive member is a lever.
20. A mechanical slip clutch as in claim 19, wherein the threaded shaft has a driver connection at one end.
21» A mechanical slip clutch as in claim 17, wherein the cap member is a threaded nut, the spring member is a spring washer, and the means for linking is a pin. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
