<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642555</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOAMED ASPHALT WITH MODIFIERS: METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L9500	C08L9500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L95	C08L95	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A low cost method for preparing foamed or aerated asphalt-rubber paving compositions is provided wherein a flowable mixture including respective quantities of asphalt and finally divided reclaimed rubber particles is first directed into a rocket-type reactor along with steam and/or water, thereby subjecting the mixture to conditions of elevated temperature, pressure and shear. Thereafter, the initially reacted mixture is passed into a pressurized, secondary reaction vessel system in order to complete the gelation reaction in a period of, e.g., 7-15 minutes. The preferred apparatus (10) includes a rocket-type primary reactor (12) presenting a confined reaction zone (20); asphalt-rubber and water/steam conduits (42, 48) communicate with the zone (20). The output (24) of the primary reactor (12) feeds directly into a pressurized tank (66) forming a part of the downstream secondary reaction and recovery system (14), where the gelation reaction is completed. The preferred system (14) includes a total of five serially interconnected tanks (66-74) housed within an insulative shell (108) and heated by means of burner (110).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUAX, DANIEL, A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRUAX, DANIEL, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FOAMED ASPHALT WITH MODIFIERS : METHOD AND APPARATUSBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention is broadly concerned with a method for preparing an asphalt composition useful for paving or road repair, and in particular, gelled asphalt- rubber compositions which provide an elastomeric matrix which has been found especially useful in paving applica¬ tions while also reducing the solid waste problems atten¬ dant to disposal of used automotive tires. The invention also comprehends an improved, quick reaction time appara- tus for the production of such gelled asphalt-rubber compositions which can if desired be of modular, mobile design permitting transport of the apparatus to a con¬ venient location. In addition, the invention includes a method and apparatus for the preparation of foamed mix- tures containing either asphalt and synthetic resin (e.g. , polyethylene or polyethylene terephalate) , or synthetic resin alone.2. Description of the Prior ArtU.S. Patent No. 3,891,585 describes elastomeric, gelled asphalt-rubber paving compositions which are made up of reacted fractions of paving grade asphalt and reclaimed rubber particles. These types of paving compo¬ sition have proven to be very useful and successful, both in terms of wear characteristics and by virtue of the fact that manufacture thereof uses reclaimed rubber derived from used automotive tires. The latter factor is impor¬ tant inasmuch as such tires present a considerable solid waste problem, and their use in asphalt compositions provides both an economic and environmental advantage. Indeed, recent legislation has mandated that by 1997, at 

 least 20% of federally funded highway asphalt paving projects will make use of asphalt-rubber.As described in the '585 patent, paving grade asphalt is first heated to a temperature of from about 350-500°F, followed by the addition of particulate rubber thereto. The resulting mixture is then thoroughly mixed in an atmospheric pressure mixer until the composition gels and is ready for mixing with aggregate. Generally speaking, the known process for obtaining asphalt-rubber compositions involves a reaction time on the order of 30- 45 minutes with continuous agitation, until a dramatic viscosity change occurs, signalling that the gelation has developed. In order to obtain an essentially continuous output of gelled product, it is generally necessary to employ a series of large (4,500 gallon) agitated tanks, which represents a considerable cost. In addition, the gelled product is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. A method of preparing an asphalt and/or synthetic resin composition comprising the steps of: forming a mixture including at least one of: (1) asphalt and reclaimed rubber particles; (2) asphalt and synthetic resin having a melting point of about 700°F or less; and (3) synthetic resin having a melting point of 700°F or less; directing said mixture into a confined reaction zone simultaneously with a quantity of a stream of water and/or steam, and subjecting the mixture in said confined reaction zone to conditions of elevated temperature and shear, and to a pres¬ sure of from about 100-800 psi, to agitate and foam the mixture and render it flowable; passing said agitated mixture from said confined reaction zone into a reaction vessel under pressure conditions above atmospheric but below the pressure of said confined reaction zone, and retaining the agitated mixture within said reac¬ tion vessel for a time sufficient to assure substantial homogeneity of the mixture; and recovering said homogeneous mixture.
2. The method of claim 1, said mixture includ¬ ing asphalt having a penetration number of from about 10- 300. 


 3. The method of claim 2, said penetration number being from about 60-300.
4. The method of claim l, said rubber parti¬ cles having a maximum average size which will pass through an 8-mesh screen.
5. The method of claim 4, said maximum average size which will pass through a 10-mesh screen.
6. The method of claim 1, said mixture com¬ prising from about 75-85% by weight asphalt, and from about 15-25% by weight reclaimed rubber particles.
7. The method of claim 1, said mixture having a temperature of from about 300-700°F prior to entrance thereof into said confined zone.
8. The method of claim 1, said mixture being subjected to a temperature of from about 300-700°F in said confined reaction zone.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein said temper¬ ature is from about 325-425°F. 


 10. The method of claim 1, said mixture being subjected to pressures of from about 300-600 psi in said confined reaction zone.
11. The method of claim 1, said agitated mixture being subjected to a pressure in said reaction vessel of from about 40-400 psi.
12. The method of claim 11, said pressure being from about 200-300 psi.
13. The method of claim 1, said agitated mixture being retained in said reaction vessel for a period of from about 1-20 minutes.
14. The method of claim 13, said time being from about 5-20 minutes.
15. The method of claim 1, including the steps of passing said agitated mixture from said confined reac¬ tion zones into and through a plurality of serially interconnected vessels while subjecting the agitated mixture to successively lower pressures until atmospheric pressure is reached. 


 16. The method of claim 15, including the steps of maintaining the agitated mixture at a temperature of from about 325-425°F during passage thereof through said serially interconnected vessels.
17. The method of claim 16, said temperature maintenance step comprising the step of heating each of said serially interconnected vessels.
18. The method of claim 1, including the step of venting moisture from said reacti an vessel prior to recovery of said gelled mixture.
19. The method of claim 1, including the step of directing water into said confined reaction zone in an amount of from about 1/4-2% by volume of the amount of said mixture.
20. The method of claim 1, including the steps of directing additives into said confined reaction zone together with said mixture, said additives being selected from the group consisting of asphalt modifiers and emulsi¬ fiers. 


 21. Apparatus for preparing asphalt and/or synthetic resin compositions, comprising: a primary reactor including structure defining a confined superatmospheric reaction zone for subjecting materials therein to a pressure of from about 100-800 psi, respective input con¬ duits in communication with said confined reac¬ tion zone for simultaneously directing into the confined reaction zone a mixture including at least one of: (1) asphalt and reclaimed rubber particles; (2) asphalt and synthetic resin having a melting point of about 700°F or less; and (3) synthetic resin having amelting point of 700°F or less, and water and/or steam, and an output conduit communicating with the reaction zone; a pressurized reaction vessel having a volume sub¬ stantially greater than that of said confined reaction zone and operable for maintaining a pressure therein above atmospheric and below the pressure maintained in said confined reaction zone, said output conduit communicating with said reaction vessel; and means for heating said pressurized reaction vessel. 


 22. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, said primary reactor including a check valve therein downstream of said inputs.
23. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, there being a plurality of serially interconnected reac¬ tion vessels, said output conduit being operably coupled with one of said vessels.
24. The apparatus as set forth in claim 23, including an insulating shell disposed about said plural reaction vessels.
25. The apparatus as set forth in claim 24, including burner means for heating the interior of said shell in order to heat the reaction vessels.
26. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, including means for venting moisture from said reaction vessel.
27. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, including means for directing additives into said confined reaction zone. 


 28. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, including a blender upstream of said primary reactor and operably coupled therewith.
29. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21, said reaction vessel comprising a plurality of intercon¬ nected reaction pipes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
