<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643785</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR THE SORTING OF A PULP SUSPENSION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B04B500	B04B512	B04C300	B04C300	B04C306	D21D500	D21D522	D21F166	D21F166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B04B	B04B	B04C	B04C	B04C	D21D	D21D	D21F	D21F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B04B5	B04B5	B04C3	B04C3	B04C3	D21D5	D21D5	D21F1	D21F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a centrifugal separator and a process for sorting a fibre suspension. Said centrifugal separator (10) comprises a rotor (24) coaxially inside a housing (12). The mantle of said rotor (24) has slots (26, 30) through which part of said suspension can be caused to pass from a space (25) inside of said rotor to a space (28) outside said rotor and from said space (28) outside said rotor to said space (25) inside said rotor. Said housing (12) comprises means (32) for introducing dilution water into the suspension. The separator according to the invention is particularly preferred for the use as a cleaner in the short circulation of a papermaking machine.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POM TECHNOLOGY OY AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POM TECHNOLOGY OY AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEINANDER PAUL OLOF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEINANDER, PAUL OLOF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Apparatus and process for the sorting of a pulp suspension.The present invention relates to a process and an apparatus for sorting a fibre suspension by separation of a relatively lighter and a relatively heavier fraction by means of centrifugation. Particularly the invention relates to the use of said process and apparatus for the cleaning of papermaking stock in the wet end short circulation of a paper machine. According to the invention the function of cleaners widely used in the pulp and paper industries can be optimized and made more efficient so that the fibre losses remain small and the cleaning effi¬ ciency high while cleaning the stock in one single cleaning stage.Cleaners known in the prior art are usually conical vessels, into the larger end of which the material to be cleaned is fed tangentially. A heavier fraction is removed from the narrower end of said vessel and a lighter fraction is removed centrally from the larger part of said vessel. In such cleaners the material can be split into two fractions, or in other words, either heavy particles can be removed from the suspension and rejected, or light particles, as for example plastics, may be removed. In either case a cleaned pulp suspension is obtained from the other outlet. Some times multiple outlets are arranged, aiming at the simultaneous separation of more fractions, whereby, however, the cleaning efficiency is not at its best.The problem by conventional cleaners thus remains the separation efficiency and the cleanliness of the desired fraction. It is clear that a cleaner can be built so, that it removes essentially all heavy debris from the processed material, but in this case also a comparably large proportion of acceptable material is lost. A corresponding problem can be observed when removing light debris. So for example in the pulp and paper industry solutions can be seen, where mul¬ tiple stage centrifugal cleaning is used, where the accept as well as the reject of the first cleaning stage are further treated even in multiple stages, in order to achieve the desired degree of cleanliness. So, the cleaning systems of a paper mill end up using huge cleaner batteries, consisting of up to tens of cleaners in every stage, and thus already the space required is very large. In addition because, as known, the cleaners are susceptible to wear due to the fast movement and high g-forces of sand and other heavy material along their surface, the huge number of cleaners lead to an increase of the damage sensi- 

tivity and maintenance need for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A centrifugal separator for sorting a fibre suspension, said separator (10) comprising an essentially cylindrical housing (12) having an inlet end (14) with a suspension inlet (16) and outlets (20, 22) for a lighter and a heavier fraction, respectively, at the opposite end (18) c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that
- a coaxial hollow rotating rotor (24) is arranged in said housing (12) for recei¬ ving the flow of said suspension or a substantial part thereof,
- said rotor (24) has slots or openings (26, 30) through which a part of said suspension can be brought to transfer from a sorting channel (25) inside said rotor (24) to a heavy fraction channel (28) surrounding said rotor, and from said heavy fraction channel (28) into said sorting channel (25), and
- said separator comprises means (32) for introducing dilution/washing liquid for improving the efficiency of separation between said lighter fraction and said heavier fraction of said suspension.
2. A centrifugal separator according to claim 1 wherein along the length of said separator 10 there are multiple means (32) for introducing a dilution/was¬ hing liquid, said means being shaped as essentially annular liquid inlets (35).
3. A centrifugal separator according to claim 1 or 2 wherein a coaxial, hollow, essentially cylindrical tube (40; 52) functioning as a channel (42; 50) for a light fraction and/or gas, is arranged in the center of said rotor (24) functioning as a separation channel (25) in the center of said housing ( 2).
4. A centrifugal separator according to claim 3 wherein said central tube (40; 52) rotates together with said rotor (24) preferably acting also as a shaft for said rotor, whereby there are preferably oblique, streamlined slots or openings (37, 39; 54) enabling the flow of suspension between said light fraction channel (42; 50) and said sorting channel (25).
5. A centrifugal separator according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 4 wherein the section of said heavy fraction channel (28) formed between said rotor (24) and said housing (12) changes at least in one place along the length of said separator (10) in order to cause a part of said suspension to pass between said separation channel (25) and said heavy reject channel (28). 


6. A centrifugal separator according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 5 wherein the mantle of said rotor (24) consists of at least two, preferably more parts, between which remain slots or openings (26, 30) for the suspension flow, said slots being preferably oblique so, that smoothly streamlined chan¬ nels in the desired direction of suspension flow result.
7. A centrifugal separator according to any of the previous claims 1 to 6 wherein vanes (46, 29, 31 ) are attached to the rotating shaft of said rotor (24) with the objective of recovering energy from said suspension, causing said suspension to rotate, divide said suspension into separate axial channels, and / or reinforcing the construction.
8. A centrifugal separator according to one any of the preceding claims 1 to 7 wherein at least one expansion (38) is arranged to said housing (12) preferably in connection with an essentially annular liquid inlet (35).
9. A centrifugal separator according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 8 wherein said channel (28) formed between said rotor (24) and said housing (12) is expanded to form a chamber (34) close to the outlet end (18) of said separator (10), said chamber (34) having an outlet (22) for said heavy fraction.
10. A centrifugal separator according to claim 9 wherein between the outlet end (18) of said rotor (24) and said housing (12) a preferably adjustable slot (36) is formed for providing a controlled flow from said chamber (34) of a lighter subfraction separating from said heavy fraction.
1 1. A process for sorting a fibre suspension in a centrifugal separator, in which process said fibre suspension is fed through an essentially cylindrical housing in said separator and said suspension is caused to rotate in said separator so that said suspension due to a centrifugal force is separated according to the density of its components into at least two fractions, c h a ¬ r a c t e r i z e in that said process comprises process stages whereby a) said fibre suspension is fed into the inlet end of said separator; b) said suspension flow or a substantial part thereof is caused to pass into a hollow rotor rotating coaxially inside said cylindrical housing; c) the heavier fraction of said suspension is brought to move toward the mantle of said rotor; 


d) the heavier fraction accumulating at said mantle of said rotor is conducted out from said rotor into a space between said rotor and said housing to form a heavy fraction; e) a dilution / washing medium is introduced into said heavy fraction; f) a lighter subfraction of said heavy fraction in said space between said rotor and said housing is conducted into the lighter fraction in said rotor; g) at least a part of the stages c) to f) is repeated if needed; and h) said heavy fraction cumulating outside said rotor at said housing and said lighter fraction cumulating inside said rotor are separately discharged from said separator.
12. A process according to claim 1 1 wherein essentially the whole of said suspension flow is conducted into said rotor and a lighter fraction of said suspension together with any gas contained therein, is conducted into a channel coaxially installed in said rotor to form a light fraction and at least part of said light fraction is removed as light reject.
13. A process according to claim 12 wherein a heavier subfraction is caused to separate from said light fraction and at least part of said heavier subfraction is caused to flow back into said suspension flow, preferably through slots or openings in said light reject channel.
14. A process according to any one of the preceding claims 11 to 13 wherein at least a part of said suspension flow is caused to flow between the space inside and the space outside said rotor through slots or openings in said rotor, by throttling the flow inside or outside the rotor and/or introducing dilution / washing liquid into said space between said rotor and said housing.
15. In a papermaking process the improvement comprising circulating back¬ water draining through a forming fabric as essentially air free separate flows without passing open vessels to said dilution means (32) of a separator (10) according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 10. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
