<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632344</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Heater and image heating device utilizing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G1520	G03G1520	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G15	G03G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image heating device having a heater (1) and a 
plastic film (10) contacting the heater (1) on a face and 

contacting the unfixed toner image on the recording 
sheet on the other face, thus transmitting heat from 

the heater (1) to the toner image through the plastic 
film (10), is provided with a hard carbon film (18), a hydrogenated 

amorphous carbon film or a diamond-like carbon 
film at the interface between the heater (1) and the 

plastic film (10) in order to improve the sliding performance 
and durability. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIGUCHI YASUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIGUCHI, YASUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image
forming apparatus such as a copying machine, a laser
beam printer or the like, and more particularly to
a heater and an image heating device, adapted for
heating an unfixed image.An image heating device utilizing a fixed heater
and a thin film sliding on the heater, as shown in
Fig. 51, is proposed for example in U.S. Patent No.
5,149,941. In Fig. 51 there are shown a heater 500,
a film 505 sliding on the heater 500, a driving roller
506 for driving the film 505, driven roller 507, and
a pressure roller 508 in contact with the heater 500
across the film 505. The heater 500 is provided with
a substrate 501, a resistance layer 502 provided on
the substrate 501 and generating heat by electric
current supply, an insulating protective layer 503
for protecting the resistance layer 502, and a supporting
frame 504 for supporting the foregoing elements.Thermal fixation of an unfixed image is achieved
by transmitting heat of the heater through the insulating
protective layer thereon and a sliding contact face
of the film. However, because of sliding contact 
between the insulating protective layer and the film,
there generally occurs significant abrasion of the
film when the total distance of sliding movement
reaches about 60 km. The resulting abraded powder
is unevenly deposited on the roller for driving the
film. As a result, the film driving speed becomes
irregular, so that the fixation of the unfixed image
also becomes ununiform.An object of the present invention is to provide
a heater provided with a protective layer excellent
in sliding performance to a film, and an image heating
device.Another object of the present invention is
to provide an image heating device provided with a
film excellent in sliding performance to a heater.Still another object of the present invention
is to provide a heater and an image heating device,
provided with a protective layer excellent in sliding
performance and thermal conductivity. Still other objects of the present invention
will become fully apparent from the following description.The objects are achieved by the heater defined in claim 1 and the image heating device defined in claim 17.Fig. 1 is a plan view of a heater of the present
invention, at the side of a heat-generating resistance
thereof;Fig. 2 is a plan view of a heater of the present
invention, at the rear side thereof;Fig. 3 is a cross-sectional view of a fixing
device, utilizing the heater embodying the present
invention;Figs. 4A to 4E are partial cross-sectional
views
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A heater comprising:

an insulating substrate;
a resistor layer provided on said insulating
substrate and adapted to generate heat by electric

current supply; and
a protective layer for protecting said resistor
layer; characterised in that
said protective layer includes, at
least on the surface thereof, a hard carbon film, a

hydrogenated amorphous carbon film or a diamond-structure
layer.
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said
hard carbon film has a hydrogen concentration in the

film less than 1 atom %, and a density not less than
2.0 g/cm
3
.
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said
diamond-structure layer is diamond-like carbon film.
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said
hydrogenated amorphous carbon film contains a metal.
A heater according to claim 4, wherein said
metal is Ta, W, Mo, Nb, Ti, Cr, Fe, B or Si, of which

concentration in the film is less than 30 atom %. 
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said
hydrogenated amorphous carbon film contains fluorine.
A heater according to claim 6, wherein the
concentration of said fluorine in the film is less than

30 atom %.
A heater according to claim 3, wherein said
diamond-like carbon film contains a metal.
A heater according to claim 8, wherein said
metal is Ta, W, Mo, Nb, Ti, Cr, Fe, B or Si, of which

concentration in the film is less than 30 atom %.
A heater according to claim 3, wherein said
diamond-like carbon film contains fluorine.
A heater according to claim 10, wherein the
concentration of said fluorine in the film is less

than 30 atom %.
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said

diamond-structure layer is formed by gaseous synthesis.
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said
protective layer is composed entirely of a hard

carbon film, a hydrogenated amorphous carbon film or 
a diamond-structure layer.
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said
insulating substrate is provided with a groove, and

said resistor layer is formed in said groove.
A heater according to claim 1, wherein said
hard carbon film or said hydrogenated amorphous

carbon film is removable by an oxidation treatment.
A heater according to claim 3, wherein said
diamond-like carbon film is removable by an oxidation

treatment.
An image heating device comprising:

a heating member; and
a film whose one face slides over said heating
member and the other face contacts with an image on a

recording material;
wherein the image on the recording material
is heated by the heat supplied from said heating

member through said film, characterised in that a hard carbon film, a
hydrogenated amorphous carbon film or a diamond-structure

layer is present at a sliding portion
between said heating member and said film.
An image heating device according to claim 
17, wherein said heating member includes an insulating

substrate; and a resistor layer provided on said
insulating substrate and adapted to generate heat by

electric current supply, and said hard carbon film,
hydrogenated amorphous carbon film or diamond-structure

layer is provided on said resistor layer.
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said heating member includes an insulating

substrate; a resistor layer provided on said
insulating substrate and adapted to generate heat

by electric current supply; and a protective layer
for protecting said resistor layer, and said hard

carbon film, hydrogenated amorphous carbon film or
diamond-structure layer is provided on said protective

layer.
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said hard carbon film, hydrogenated

amorphous carbon film or diamond-structure layer is
provided on said film.
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said hard carbon film has a hydrogen

concentration in the film less than 1 atom %, and a
density not less than 2.0 g/cm
3
. 
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said diamond-structure layer is a diamond-like

carbon film.
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said hydrogenated amorphous carbon film

contains a metal.
An image heating device according to claim
23, wherein said metal is Ta, W, Mo, Nb, Ti, Cr, Fe,

B or Si, of which concentration in the film is less
than 30 atom %.
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said hydrogenated amorphous carbon film

contains fluorine.
An image heating device according to claim
25, wherein the concentration of said fluorine in the

film is less than 30 atom %.
An image heating device according to claim
22, wherein said diamond-like carbon film contains a

metal.
An image heating device according to claim
27, wherein said metal is Ta, W, Mo, Nb, Ti, Cr, Fe, B 

or Si, of which concentration in the film is less than
30 atom %.
An image heating device according to claim
22, wherein said diamond-like carbon film contains

fluorine.
An image heating device according to claim
29, wherein the concentration of said fluorine in the

film is less than 30 atom %.
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said diamond-structure layer is formed by

gaseous synthesis.
An image heating device according to claim
18, wherein said insulating substrate is provided with

a groove and said resistor layer is formed in said
groove.
An image heating device according to claim
19, wherein said insulating substrate is provided with

a groove and said resistor layer is formed in said
groove.
An image heating device according to claim
17, wherein said hard carbon film or said hydrogenated 

amorphous carbon film is removable by an oxidation
treatment.
An image heating device according to claim
22, wherein said diamond-like carbon film is removable

by an oxidation treatment.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
