<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611365</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW REFRACTIVE INDEX PLASTICS FOR OPTICAL FIBER CLADDING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C2510	C03C2510	C03C2524	C03C2524	C08F2000	C08F2020	C08F2022	C08F22000	C08F22028	G02B104	G02B104	G02B600	G02B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	C03C	C03C	C03C	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C25	C03C25	C03C25	C03C25	C08F20	C08F20	C08F20	C08F220	C08F220	G02B1	G02B1	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC ALLISTER JEROME W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAVU PATRICIA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MC ALLISTER, JEROME, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAVU, PATRICIA, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Low REFRACTIVE INDEX PLASTICS FOR OPTICAL FIBER CLADDINGBackground of the Invention Field of the InventionThis invention relates to optical fiber claddings and more particularly to optical fibers comprising extrudable or solution coatable low refractive index optical fiber cladding.Description of the Related ArtOptical fibers have received widespread interest for information and data transfer. Fiber-guided modulated light beams are useful in many applications, for example, telecommunications, computer link-ups, and automotive controls. Advantageously, fiber optic linkages have a greater information carrying capacity as compared to metal wires carrying electrical signals. Furthermore, fiber optics are less likely to suffer from external interference, such as electromagnetic radiation.Typically, optical fibers comprise a light carrying core, for example an inorganic glass such as fused silica or a polymer such as polymethyl methacrylate, and a cladding material having a lower refractive index than the core. The cladding material serves to confine the light energy within the core and thereby allows propagation of light by a phenomenon generally known as "total internal reflection."Characteristically, glass optical fiber cores have very low optical loss and are generally preferred for long distance applications. On the other hand, the cost of connecting glass optical fiber cores tend to be cost prohibitive for short distance, connector intensive applications. Polymer fibers overcome the cost limitation for short distances. Furthermore, they are lighter weight, more flexible, and have a larger diameter than glass fibers. Although polymer fibers exhibit a greater optical loss than glass core fibers, they are preferred in shorter length applications. The most common commercial polymer optical fiber core material is polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA). 

 Transmission in optical fibers is typically improved by the use of a "cladding" having a lower refractive index to promote total internal reflection. Thus, the cladding acts like a mirror to keep the light in the fiber and reduces scattering losses of the optical fiber. EPO 250,996 describes a- and jδ-fluorinated acrylates and methacrylates as cladding materials for glass core optical fibers.EPO 256,765 describes a- and j8-fluorinated acrylates and methacrylates as a cladding composition for polymer core optical fibers wherein the cladding composition comprises (a) ultraviolet ray-cured monofunctional acrylic or α- fluoroacrylic monomer, (b) a polyfunctional
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A cladding composition for optical fibers comprising: (a) about 10% to 80% by weight of polymerizable fluorine- containing methacrylic monomer (A) or a mixture of polymerization fluorine- containing methacrylic monomer (A) and fluorine-containing methacrylic monomer (B), wherein monomer (A) can be represented by the formula
C i H J
CH, C
// C — 0 — CH, R .
0
Monomer (A) wherein R
f
 is a perfiuorocycloaliphatic or a perfluoroalkoxy group, having at least 6 carbon atoms and at least 11 fluorine atoms, and Rf indicates that the group is fully fluorinated, that is, all hydrogen atoms in the group are substituted with fluorine atoms, and monomer (B), if present, is present in an amount of up to 50% by weight of the mixture and can be represented by the formula
CH
3
CH
2
 = C
//C
- 0 - CH
2
 — R
1
,
O
Monomer (B) wherein R is a perfluoroaliphatic, perfiuorocycloaliphatic or perfluoroalkoxy group, having at least 6 carbon atoms and at least 11 fluorine atoms, and R 
f
 indicates that the group is fully fluorinated, that is, all hydrogen atoms in the group are substituted with fluorine atoms; and
(b) about 20% to 90% by weight of methyl methacrylate.
2. The cladding composition according to claim 1 further 


 comprising a free radical initiator.
3. The cladding composition according to claim 2 further comprising a vinyl-substituted adhesion promoter.
4. The cladding composition according to claim 1, wherein the fluorme-containing monomer (A) is selected from the group constiting of 1,1- dihydroperfluorobutoxyisoproxyisopropyl methacrylate, 1,1- dihydroperflurobutoxyisopropoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and perflurocyclohexylmethoxy-2-propoxy-l , l-dihydro-2-propyl methacrylate.
5. The cladding composition according to claim 1, wherein the fluorme-containing monomer (B) is selected from the group consisting of 1,1- dihydroperfluorocyclohexylmethyl methacrylate, 1,1-dihydroperfluorooctyl methacrylate, 1,1-dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, 1,1-dihydroperflurobutoxyisopropoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and perflurocyclohexylmethoxy-2-propoxy-l , l-dihydro-2-propyl methacrylate.
6. The cladding composition according to claim 1, wherein the fluorme-containing monomer (A) is 1,1- dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the fluorine- containing monomer (B) is 1,1-dihydroperfluorooctyl methacrylate.
7. The cladding composition according to claim 1, wherein the fluorme-containing monomer (A) is 1,1- dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the fluorine- containg monomer (B) is 1,1-dihydroperfluorocyclohexylmethyl methacrylate.
8. The cladding composition according to claim 1, wherein the fluorme-containing monomer (A) is 1,1- dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate. 


 9. The cladding composition according to claim 3, wherein the fluorine-containing monomer (A) is 1,1- dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the vinyl- substituted adhesion promoter is methacrylic acid.
10. The cladding composition according to claim 3, wherein the fluorine-containing monomer (A) is 1,1- dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the vinyl- substituted adhesion promoter is acrylic acid.
11. The cladding composition according to claim 3, wherein the refractive index is in the range of 1.37 to 1.47.
12. An optical fiber comprising a core coated with a cladding composition having a lower refractive index than the core, said cladding composition comprising:
(a) about 10% to 80% by weight of polymerizable fluorine- containing methacrylic monomer (A) or a mixture of polymerization fluorine- containing methacrylic monomer (A) and fluorine-containing methacrylic monomer (B), and monomer (A) can be represented by the formula
CH .
C H,
O — CH-
// R .
O
Monomer (A) wherein Rf is a perfiuorocycloaliphatic or a perfluoroalkoxy group, having at least 6 carbon atoms and at least 11 fluorine atoms, and Rf indicates that the group is fully fluorinated, that is, all hydrogen atoms in the group are substituted with fluorine atoms, and monomer (B), if present, is present in an amount of up to 50% by weight of the mixture and can be represented by the 


 formula
CH.
CHo=C
C— 0 — CH - 
■
 R
J
Monomer (B) wherein R 
f
 is a perfluoroaliphatic, perfiuorocycloaliphatic or perfluoroalkoxy group, having at least 6 carbon atoms and at least 11 fluorine atoms, and R indicates that the group is fully fluorinated, that is, all hydrogen atoms in the group are substituted with fluorine atoms; and
(b) about 20% to 90% by weight of methyl methacrylate.
13. The optical fiber according to claim 12 further comprising a free radical initiator.
14. The optical fiber according to claim 13 further comprising a vinyl-subst tuted adhesion promoter.
15. The optical fiber according to claim 12, wherein the fluorine- containing monomer (A) is selected from the group constiting of 1,1- dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, 1,1- dihydroperflurobutoxyisopropoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and perflurocyclohexyImethoxy-2-propoxy-l, l-dihydro-2-propyl methacrylate.
16. The optical fiber according to claim 12, wherein the fluorine- containing monomer (B) is selected from the group constiting of 1,1- dihydroperfluorocyclohexylmethyl methacrylate, 1,1-dihydroperfluorooctyl methacrylate, 1,1-dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, 1,1-dihydroperflurobutoxyisopropoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and perflurocyclohexylmethoxy-2-propoxy-l,l-dihydro-2-propyl methacrylate.
17. The optical fiber according to claim 12, wherein the fluorine- 


containing monomer (A) is 1,1-dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the fluorine-containing monomer (B) is 1,1- dihydroperfluorooctyl methacrylate.
18. The optical fiber according to claim 12, wherein the fluorine- containing monomer (A) is 1,1-dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the fluorine-containg monomer (B) is 1,1- dihydroperfluorocyclohexylmethyl methacrylate.
19. The optical fiber according to claim 12, wherein the fluorine- containing monomer (A) is 1,1-dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate.
20. The optical fiber according to claim 15, wherein the fluorine- containing monomer (A) is 1,1-dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the vinyl-substituted adhesion promoter is methacrylic acid.
21. The optical fiber according to claim 15, wherein the fluorine- containing monomer (A) is 1,1-dihydroperfluorobutoxyisopropoxyisopropyl methacrylate, and the vinyl-substituted adhesion promoter is acrylic acid.
22. The optical fiber according to claim 12, wherein the fiber core is selected from the group consisting of polymethylmethacrylate, polyfluoroacrylics, polystyrene, polycarbonate, amorphous polyolefins, and glass.
23. The optical fiber according to claim 22, wherein the refractive index of the cladding composition is in the range of 1.37 to 1.47. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
