<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630344</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GAS-CONTAINING PRODUCT SUPPORTING STRUCTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8100	B65D8100	B65D8105	B65D8107	B65D81113	B65D8105	B65D81107	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D81	B65D81	B65D81	B65D81	B65D81	B65D81	B65D81	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A supporting structure (11) for positioning a product within an outer shipping container takes the form of a plastic air bladder shaped on one side to provide a cavity (13) having internal dimensions matching external dimensions of the product and shaped on the other to have external dimensions matching internal dimensions of the shipping container. The air bladder may be either a vertical or a horizontal positioning element and is typically used in pairs within a single container. The air bladder is compact and can be discarded after use with minimal environment impact. In examples shown, the air bladder is of a plastic material such as polyethylene and is produced by blow molding, making it particularly suitable for disposal after use by a recycling process, thereby further reducing potential environmental impact.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEPAC TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEPAC TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEE MICHAEL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICKIE ROBERT G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEE, MICHAEL, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICKIE, ROBERT, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to product support 
packaging inserts and more particularly to ecologically 
advantageous packing inserts for supporting products within outer 
shipping cartons and protecting the supported products against 
external shock. When shipping fragile products, it is desirable to provide 
protection against external shock which is as complete as 
possible and, at the same time, minimize both packaging and 
shipping costs. In the past, both expanded polystyrene (EPS or 
styrofoam) and polyurethane or polyethylene (flexible foam) 
inserts have been used for such purposes with considerable 
success. In recent years, however, environmental concerns over 
both EPS and flexible foams have been growing. Both are very 
voluminous per pound and thus tend to exhaust landfill areas much 
too quickly. Any foamed plastic product is, moreover, both 
difficult and costly to reclaim or recycle back to its original 
non-foamed state. There is, therefore, an ongoing need for new 
packaging techniques which not only provide adequate protection 
to products against external shock and minimise both packaging 
and shipping costs but also present minimal ecological problems 
in the disposal of packaging material after they have served 
their intended purpose. US-3949878 describes a protective packing product which has 
a plurality of non-communicating chambers, some of which are 
provided with perforations which permit venting of those chambers 
to the atmosphere so as to provide a damped cushioning effect in 
the event that it is subjected to high impact shock. EP-A-325 070 describes a type of shaped inflatable bladder 
which is used as a packing material. The bladder only retains 
its shape whilst inflated. It is also not good at absorbing 
shocks. US-3 403 713 describes a preshaped rigid and self-supporting 
structure which is hollow. Shock absorbency is 
produced by the wall joining the inner and outer shells of the 
structure.  
 According to the present invention there is provided in 
combination, a supporting structure for positioning and 
supporting a product within an outer packing container, a product 
to be positioned and supported, and an outer packing container 
in which the supporting structure and the product are contained, 
wherein the product to be supported has a predetermined 
configuration at least at a predetermined portion thereof, and  
 
wherein the outer packing container has a predetermined 
configuration at least at a predetermined portion thereof where 
the supporting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In combination, a supporting structure (11,100) for 
positioning and supporting a product (55,102) within an outer 

packing container (57, 104), a product to be positioned and 
supported, and an outer packing container in which the supporting 

structure and the product are contained, wherein the product to 
be supported has a predetermined configuration at least at a 

predetermined portion (13, 112) thereof, and wherein the outer 
packing container has a predetermined configuration at least at 

a predetermined portion thereof where the supporting structure 
is to be placed, and wherein the supporting structure has a 

predetermined configuration for supporting the product at the 
predetermined portion thereof, and comprises: 


a blow-moulded semi-rigid and self-supporting 
monolithic gas containing bladder (11, 51, 53, 110) having 

an average wall thickness of about 0.8mm (about 1/32inch), 
and having a preformed product receiving portion (13, 67, 

112) in a first region of the bladder, wherein the product 
receiving portion has a predetermined configuration and 

dimensions so as to be co-operative with the predetermined 
portion of the product, so as to receive the predetermined 

configuration of the predetermined portion of the product, 
a packing container contacting portion (15, 17, 19, 
21, 114) in a second region of said bladder which is 

remote from and generally opposed to the first  
 

region, in which the packing container contacting portion 
is such as to be co-operative with the predetermined 

configuration of the predetermined portion of the outer 
packing container, and 
in which the product receiving portion of the gas-containing 
bladder retains its predetermined configuration 

and dimensions as a consequence of its own structure when 
the gas-containing bladder contains gas, and when the 

gauge pressure of that gas is approximately zero. 
The combination of Claim 1 in which the gas-containing 
bladder is sealed to its ambient surroundings. 
The combination of Claim 1 in which the gas-containing 
bladder has a sealable opening (116) therein. 
The combination of any preceding claim in which the 
gauge pressure of the gas within the gas-containing bladder is 

positive and is from about 0.01 to about 2.0 atmospheres above 
ambient pressure. 
The combination of any preceding claim in which the 
gas-containing bladder comprises a plurality of discrete chambers 

in fluid communication with one another, and further includes 
means for restricting gas flow and fluid communication between 

chambers.  
 
In combination, a supporting structure (11, 100) for 
positioning a product (55, 102) within an outer packing container 

(57, 104), a product to be supported, and an outer packing 
container into which the supporting structure and the product are 

inserted, wherein the product to be supported has predetermined 
external dimensions, and the outer packing container has 

predetermined internal dimensions, said supporting structure 
comprising : 


an at least partially inflated blow-moulded and 
sealed semi-rigid and self-supporting monolithic 

plastic resin gas-containing bladder (11, 51, 53, 110) 
having an average wall thickness of about 0.8mm (about 

1/32 inch), and having a preformed external product 
receiving cavity (13, 67, 112) at one side thereof, 

wherein that external cavity has a predetermined shape 
and predetermined dimensions so as to fit the 

predetermined external dimensions of the product, 
wherein the exterior of the gas-containing 
bladder at the other side thereof remote from the 

external cavity has a predetermined shape and 
predetermined dimensions (114) so as to fit the 

predetermined internal dimensions of the packing 
containers, and  

 
wherein the product receiving portion of the gas-containing 
bladder retains its predetermined 

configuration and dimensions as a consequence of its 
own structure when the gas-containing bladder contains 

gas and when the gauge pressure of that gas is 
approximately zero. 
The combination of Claim 6 in which the said at least 
partially inflated gas-containing bladder contains a plurality 

of interior sub-chambers formed by baffle members extending into 
the interior of the gas-containing bladder, whereby a damping 

effect on gas moving from one of the interior sub-chambers to 
another is exerted by the baffle members. 
The combination of Claim 7 in which the supporting 
structure has a plurality of corners, and at least some of the 

interior sub-chambers are positioned at those corners. 
The combination of any preceding claim in which the 
supporting structure is made of a plastics material which is 

polyethylene, polypropylene, and co-polymer thereof, vinyl, 
polyvinylchloride or nylon. 
The combination of any preceding claim in which the gas 
in the gas-containing bladder is air, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, 

sulphur hexafluoride, argon or krypton. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
