<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626084</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INTEGRATED CIRCUIT COMPUTING DEVICE COMPRISING DYNAMICALLY CONFIGURABLE GATE ARRAY HAVING A RECONFIGURABLE EXECUTION MEANS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F700	G06F700	G06F930	G06F930	G06F9318	G06F9318	G06F1576	G06F1578	G06F1580	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F7	G06F7	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F15	G06F15	G06F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrated circuit computing device (10) is comprised of a dynamically configurable Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) (12). This gate array (12) is configured to implement a RISC processor (14) and a Reconfigurable Instruction Execution Unit (16). Since the FPGA (12) can be dynamically reconfigured, the Reconfigurable Instruction Execution Unit (16) can be dynamically changed to implement complex operations in hardware rather than in time-consuming software routines. This feature allows the computing device (10) to operate at speeds that are orders of magnitude greater than traditional RISC or CISC counterparts. In addition, the programmability of the computing device (10) makes it very flexible and hence, ideally suited to handle a large number of very complex and different applications.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILSON KENT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GILSON KENT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INTEGRATED CIRCUIT COMPUTING DEVICE COMPRISING DYNAMICALLY CONFIGURABLE GATE ARRAY HAVING A RECONFIGURABLE EXECUTION MEANSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention generally relates to integrated circuit computing devices, and, more specifically, relates to an integrated circuit computing device comprising a dynamically configurable gate array which has a microprocessor coupled to a reconfigurable instruction execution unit. This device can implement complex, time-consuming operations by reconfiguring the instruction execution unit to perform a specific function very quickly in hardware rather than implementing complex operations in time- consuming software routines.2. Description of the Related ArtMost modern computers are based on a conventional Von Neumann architecture which executes software instructions in sequential fashion. Many modern computers are based on the microprocessor, which follows the traditional, sequential Von Neumann approach. In recent years the use of the microprocessor has become more widespread and varied, from special purpose microprocessors with special features suited to automotive and control applications (commonly known as microcontrollers) to the more highly-integrated general purpose microprocessors such as the Intel 80386 and 80486, which are used in IBM-compatible personal computers, and the Motorola 68020 and 68030, which are used in Apple Mclntosh- compatible personal computers.As the microprocessor matured from its infancy, its capabilities were increased by adding more circuitry to handle more complex functions. Many complex -functions were added by implementing complex instructions in a sequence of low-level instructions within the microprocessor known as firmware. In this manner a MULTIPLY instruction within a typical microprocessor causes the microprocessor to generate a sequence of ADD and SHIFT instructions to accomplish the desired MULTIPLY function. If this MULTIPLY function could be carried out in hardware, the execution 

time for the MULTIPLY function could be reduced by orders of , magnitude.The microprocessor evolved over many years to become a very complex and powerful general purpose processor, capable of high levels of performance due to the large amount of circuitry and firmware dedicated to complex, high level functions. These high power, complex, general purpose microprocessors are known as Complex Instruction Set Computers (CISC) , due to the features that would allow the execution of complex instructions.In the early
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An integrated circuit computing device comprising, in combination: a dynamically configurable gate array having a plurality of input/output (I/O) pads, a plurality of I/O blocks, a plurality of programmable logic blocks, a plurality of programmable routing resources for interconnecting said I/O pads, said I/O blocks and said logic blocks, and programming means for programming said I/O blocks, said logic blocks and said routing resources, said programming means defining an appropriate mode of operation for said gate array; a microprocessor implemented within said gate array by programming said programming means; and reconfigurable instruction execution means implemented within said gate array by programming said programming means and coupled to said microprocessor means for performing manipulation and computation of data contained within said logic blocks of said gate array.
2. The computing device of Claim 1 wherein said I/O blocks comprise input means for providing a plurality of input signals to said logic blocks and said routing resources, and output means for providing a plurality of output signals from said logic blocks and said routing resources to said I/O blocks.
3. The computing device of Claim 2 wherein said input means and said output means being implemented within said gate array by programming said programming means.
4. The computing device of Claim 1 wherein said microprocessor means comprises a Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) .
5. The computing device of Claim 1 wherein said programming means comprises Random Access Memory (RAM) and wherein said programming means is programmed by writing data into said RAM. 


 6. The computing device of Claim 5 wherein said RAM for said programming means comprises a shift register and wherein said programming means is programmed by shifting data into said shift register.
7. The computing device of Claim 2 wherein said microprocessor means comprises a Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) .
8. The computing device of Claim 7 wherein said programming means comprises Random Access Memory (RAM) and wherein said programming means is programmed by writing data into said RAM.
9. The computing device of Claim 8 wherein said RAM for said programming means comprises a shift register and wherein said programming means is programmed by shifting data into said shift register.
10. An integrated circuit computing device comprising, in combination: a dynamically configurable gate array having a plurality of input/output (I/O) pads, a plurality of I/O blocks, a plurality of programmable logic blocks, a plurality of programmable routing resources for interconnecting said I/O pads, said I/O blocks and said logic blocks, and Random Access Memory (RAM) programming means for programming said I/O blocks, said logic blocks and said routing resources, said RAM programming means defining an appropriate mode of operation for said gate array; a microprocessor comprising a Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) implemented within said gate array by programming said RAM programming means; and reconfigurable instruction execution means implemented within said gate array by programming said RAM programming means and coupled to said microprocessor means for performing manipulation and computation of data contained within said logic blocks of said gate array. 



 11. A computing system comprising, in combination: a plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays each having a plurality of input/output (I/O) pads, a plurality of I/O blocks, a plurality of programmable logic blocks, a plurality of programmable routing resources for interconnecting said I/O pads, said I/O blocks and said logic blocks, and Random Access Memory (RAM) programming means for programming said I/O blocks, said logic blocks and said routing resources, said RAM programming means defining an appropriate mode of operation for said gate array; a microprocessor comprising a Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) implemented within each of said gate arrays by programming said RAM programming means within said gate arrays; and reconfigurable instruction execution means coupled to said microprocessor means for performing manipulation and computation of data contained within said logic blocks and implemented within each of said gate arrays by programming said RAM programming means within said gate arrays. 

12. An integrated circuit computing device comprising, in combination: a dynamically configurable gate array based on Random Access Memory (RAM) , said gate array having a plurality of input/output (I/O) pads, a plurality of I/O blocks, a plurality of programmable logic blocks, a plurality of programmable routing resources for interconnecting said I/O pads, said I/O blocks and said logic blocks, and Random Access Memory (RAM) programming means for programming said I/O blocks, said logic blocks and said routing resources, said RAM programming means defining an appropriate mode of operation for said gate array; interface means implemented within said gate array for allowing data to be exchanged between said gate array and an external device coupled to said interface means; a microprocessor comprising a Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) implemented within said gate array by programming said RAM programming means; and reconfigurable instruction execution means implemented within said gate array by programming said RAM programming means and coupled to said microprocessor means for performing manipulation and computation of data contained within said logic blocks of said gate array. 

13. A method of high-speed computing comprising the steps of: providing a dynamically configurable gate array having a plurality of input/output (I/O) pads, a plurality of I/O blocks, a plurality of programmable logic blocks, a plurality of programmable routing resources for interconnecting said I/O pads, said I/O blocks and said logic blocks, and programming means for programming said I/O blocks, said logic blocks and said routing resources, said programming means defining an appropriate mode of operation for said gate array; providing microprocessor means implemented within said gate array by programming said programming means; implementing reconfigurable instruction execution means within said gate array by programming said programming means, said reconfigurable instruction execution means being coupled to said microprocessor means for performing manipulation and computation of data contained within said logic blocks of said gate array; and reconfiguring said reconfigurable instruction execution means by programming said programming means to change said reconfigurable instruction execution means so an operation on data within said reconfigurable execution means is carried out by circuits within said gate array after said reconfiguring is complete. 

14. The method of Claim 13 wherein said microprocessor remains unchanged when said reconfigurable instruction execution means is reconfigured by programming said programming means.
15. A method of high-speed computing comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays each having a plurality of input/output (I/O) pads, a plurality of I/O blocks, a plurality of programmable logic blocks, a plurality of programmable routing resources for interconnecting said I/O pads, said I/O blocks and said logic blocks, and programming means for programming said I/O blocks, said logic blocks and said routing resources, said programming means defining an appropriate mode of operation for said gate array; providing microprocessor means implemented within each of said gate arrays by programming said programming means; implementing reconfigurable instruction execution means within each of said gate arrays by programming said programming means, said reconfigurable instruction execution means being coupled to said microprocessor means for performing manipulation and computation of data contained within said logic blocks of said gate arrays; reconfiguring said reconfigurable instruction execution means by programming said programming means to change said reconfigurable execution means so an operation on data within said reconfigurable execution means is carried out by circuits within said gate arrays after said reconfiguring is complete; and programming a first of said plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays to perform computations while said host means dynamically reconfigures a second of said plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays. 

16. A computing system comprising, in combination: a plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays each having a plurality of input/output (I/O) pads, a plurality of I/O blocks, a plurality of programmable logic blocks, a plurality of programmable routing resources for interconnecting said I/O pads, said I/O blocks and said logic blocks, and Random Access Memory (RAM) programming means for programming said I/O blocks, said logic blocks and said routing resources, said RAM programming means defining an appropriate mode of operation for said gate array; a microprocessor comprising a Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC) implemented within each of said gate arrays by programming said RAM programming means within said gate arrays; reconfigurable instruction execution means coupled to said microprocessor means for performing manipulation and computation of data contained within said logic blocks and implemented within each of said gate arrays by programming said RAM programming means within said gate arrays; and host means coupled to said plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays for programming a first of said plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays to perform computations while said host means dynamically reconfigures a second of said plurality of dynamically configurable gate arrays. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
