<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657354</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
The packaging of cylindrical articles.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B2100	B65B2106	B65B3500	B65B3558	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B21	B65B21	B65B35	B65B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Equipment 10 for packing cylindrical articles 
includes a receiving station 18 for receiving articles 

to be packed. A displacing device is arranged in the 
receiving station 18 in proximity to a conveyor 16 for 

displacing articles from the conveyor 16. An 
accumulating station 22 is mountable relative to the 

conveyor 16 to receive articles displaced from the 
conveyor 16. The accumulating station 22 is 

displaceably arranged relative to the receiving station 
18 to facilitate formation of a predetermined close 

packed array in the accumulating station 22. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METAL BOX CO SOUTH AFRICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
METAL BOX SOUTH AFRICA LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUBSCHER STEPHEN KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'NEILL JAMES MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUBSCHER, STEPHEN KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'NEILL, JAMES MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
THIS INVENTION relates to the packing of 
cylindrical articles. More particularly, the invention 
relates to a method of, and equipment for, packing 
cylindrical articles. The cylindrical article of the type in 
question is a lightweight cylindrical article which can 
stand, unassisted, on an end. The cylindrical article 
is of a lightweight material such as a plastics 
material. The invention has particular application in 
the packing of lightweight plastics bottles. According to a first aspect of the invention, 
there is provided a method of packing cylindrical 
articles, the method including
 
   conveying articles to be packed to a receiving 
station; and
 
   displacing the articles from the receiving station 
to an accumulating station to form a predetermined, 
close packed array of the articles in the accumulating 
station, one of the accumulating station and the  
 
receiving station being displaceably arranged with 
respect to the other to facilitate arrangement of the 
articles in the accumulating station. The method may include conveying the articles 
to the receiving station, via a conveying means, with a 
principal axis of each article extending in a 
predetermined direction relative to a conveying 
direction and turning each article through a 
predetermined angle such that the principal axis of each 
article adopts a second orientation relative to the 
conveying direction. In most cases the articles to be 
packed will be elongate and the principal axis of each 
article may thus be a longitudinal axis thereof. Preferably, the method includes turning a 
plurality of the articles simultaneously at the 
receiving station and displacing said plurality of 
turned articles simultaneously into the accumulating 
station to form a row of the array in the accumulating 
station. The method may include utilising a pusher 
arrangement arranged at the receiving station to 
displace the turned articles from the receiving station 
into the accumulating station and also to turn the 
articles prior to displacing the articles into the 
receiving station.  The accumulating station may comprise a 
framework having a pair of opposed side members. The 
distance between the opposed side members may vary in 
dependence on the type of array to be formed. Thus, for 
example, in respect of a hexagonal array, each row of 
articles in the array will be of a different length 
relative to an adjacent row. Hence, to cater for this situation the method 
may include adjusting a length of the receiving station 
and,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of packing cylindrical articles, the 
method including 

   conveying articles to be packed to a receiving 
station; and 

   displacing the articles from the receiving station 
to an accumulating station to form a predetermined, 

close packed array of the articles in the accumulating 
station, one of the accumulating station and the 

receiving station being displaceably arranged with 
respect to the other to facilitate arrangement of the 

articles in the accumulating station. 
The method as claimed in Claim 1 which 
includes conveying the articles to the receiving station
 
with a principal axis of each article extending in a 

predetermined direction relative to a conveying 
direction and turning each article through a 

predetermined angle such that the principal axis of each 
article adopts a second orientation relative to the 

conveying direction. 
The method as claimed in Claim 2 which 
includes turning a plurality of the articles 

simultaneously at the receiving station and displacing 
said plurality of turned articles simultaneously into 

the accumulating station to form a row of the array in 
 

the accumulating station. 
The method as claimed in Claim 3 which 
includes utilising a pusher arrangement arranged at the 

receiving station to displace the turned articles from 
the receiving station into the accumulating station. 
The method as claimed in Claim 4 in which, to 
cater for the situation where adjacent rows of the array 

differ in length, adjusting a length of the receiving 
station. 
The method as claimed in Claim 5 which 
includes adjusting the length of the receiving station 

by adjusting the relative positions of the accumulating 
station and the receiving station. 
The method as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims which includes displacing the 

accumulating station relative to the receiving station. 
The method as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims which includes, after the accumulating 

station has been filled, ejecting the array from the 
accumulating station. 
Equipment for packing cylindrical articles, 
the equipment including

 
   a receiving station for receiving articles to be 

packed; 
   a displacing means arranged in the receiving 

station in proximity to a conveying means for displacing 
articles from the conveying means; and 

   an accumulating station mountable relative to the 
conveying means to receive articles displaced from the 

conveying means, one of the accumulating station and the 
receiving station being displaceably arranged with 

respect to the other to facilitate formation of a 
predetermined close packed array in the accumulating 

station. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 9 which 
includes a support arrangement on which the receiving 

station and the accumulating station are arranged. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 10 which 
includes an article turning means carried by the support 

arrangement at the receiving station for turning the 
articles prior to displacing the articles from the 

receiving station into the accumulating station. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 11 which 
includes a pusher arrangement mountable to one side of 

the conveying means, in use, with the accumulating 
station being mountable on an opposed side of the 

conveying means, the pusher arrangement fulfilling the 
 

function both of the displacing means and the article 
turning means by controlling a length of stroke of the 

pusher arrangement. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 12 in which, 
to cater for the formation of an array where one row of 

the array differs in length from an adjacent row, a 
length of the receiving station is adjustable. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 13 in which 
the accumulating station is displaceably arranged 

relative to the receiving station, displacement of the 
accumulating station controlling the length of the 

receiving station. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 14 which 
includes an adjustment means, part of which is arranged 

on the accumulating station and part of which is 
arranged at the receiving station for effecting 

adjustment of the length of the receiving station by 
displacement of the accumulating station relative to the 

receiving station. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 14 or Claim 
15 which includes a delivery device into which a packed 

array from the accumulating station is received for 
packing in a packaging element. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 16 in which 
the delivery device is mountable beneath the conveying 

means with the accumulating station being displaceable 
into alignment with the delivery device to facilitate 

transferral of the packed array from the accumulating 
station into the delivery device. 
The equipment as claimed in Claim 17 which 
includes an ejecting means for ejecting the packed array 

from the accumulating station into the delivery device. 
The equipment as claimed in any one of Claims 
16 to 18 inclusive in which the delivery device is 

stepped along its length so that an outlet end of the 
delivery device is of smaller cross-section than an 

inlet end. 
The equipment as claimed in any one of Claims 
9 to 19 inclusive which includes a detecting means for 

detecting when there is a sufficient number of articles 
in the receiving station. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
