<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642625</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HYDRAULIC JACK HAMMER, FOR EXAMPLE FOR MARINE SAMPLING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25D900	B25D914	E21B2500	E21B2518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25D	B25D	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25D9	B25D9	E21B25	E21B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydraulic, especially a hydrostatic impact device, for example for marine sampling or pile driving, comprises a low pressure reservoir (33) which is completely or partially filled with air or other gas under, for example, atmospheric pressure, and a piston cylinder (34, 35, 49), where the space (35) in the piston cylinder below the piston (10) is openly connected with the low pressure reservoir (33). The impact device's lifting stroke is activated by the opening of a filling valve (6, 71) to the top (34) of the piston from a fluid reservoir (32) at higher pressure than the low pressure reservoir, and the drop stroke is activated by the opening of a drain valve (52a-b) and the draining of fluid from the top of the piston to the low pressure reservoir while at the same time the filling valve closes and vice versa. Between the piston cylinder and, for example, a sampler tube (64, 65) there is provided a so-called jump slide valve (39, 40) which can convert the drop hammer's kinetic energy into potential energy for the entire impact device. The impact device can thereby continue the drop hammer's upwardly directed movement after the completion of the cylinder's lifting stroke.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SELANTIC IND AS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SELANTIC INDUSTRIER A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AARDAL KARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REE SIGURD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AARDAL, KARE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REE, SIGURD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HYDRAULIC JACK HAMMER, FOR EXAMPLE FOR MARINE SAMPLING.The invention concerns a hydraulic, especially a hydrostatic impact device, for example for marine sampling or for pile driving, according to the introduction to claim 1. The impact device according to the invention is used in order to drive a sampler tube down into the sedimentary layers on the seabed, the tube thus being more or less filled with samples of the sediments, which can then be pulled up to the surface together with the sampler. There are a number of versions of samplers of this kind in the prior art, of which two main types are most common.The simplest of these main types, the gravitation sampler, is based on the principle that weights are placed around an extension of the sampler tube, and that a device causes the weights with the sampler tube to fall freely from a height of 10-15 m above the seabed. There are several varieties of gravitation samplers, of which one group is the so-called piston corer which is characterized in that a piston is provided inside the actual sampler tube. The piston is connected to a surface vessel by a wire or the like, and this wire holds the piston approximately steady on a level with the seabed, while the weights drive the sampler tube closely past the piston and down into the sediments. In this way there is obtained under the piston a suction effect which improves the ratio between the tube's depth of penetration and the length of the sample. The advantage of the gravitation samplers is that they are relatively simple to operate provided they are not too heavy or the sampler tube is very long. However, depth of penetration and sample length are limited, especially when the sediments are relatively hard. Another problem has been the unfavourable weight distribution with the weight on top of the long tube, thus making it difficult to make the sampler hit the seabed vertically after the free fall.The second main type of marine sampler, the so-called "vibrocorer", is based on the principle that the sampler tube is located on a support frame which is lowered down to the desired position on the seabed, whereupon a mass which is placed on top of the sampler tube is caused to vibrate by means of an electrical or hydraulic motor. The vibrocorers have proved to be much more suitable than the gravitation samplers in hard sediments, but correspondingly uncompetitive in soft sediments where very long samples are desirable. The disadvantages with the vibrocorers have been that the support frame becomes large, heavy
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
PATENT CLAIMS
1. A hydraulic, especially a hydrostatic impact device, for example for marine sampling or pile driving, comprising a low pressure reservoir (33) filled completely or partially with air or another gas or water vapour under low or moderate pressure, for example atmospheric pressure, and a piston cylinder (34,35,49), where the space (35) in the piston cylinder below the piston (10) is openly connected with the said low pressure reservoir (33), where the lifting stroke is activated by the opening of a filling valve (6,71) to the top (34) of the piston from a fluid reservoir (32) at higher pressure than the low pressure reservoir, and where the drop stroke is activated by the opening of a drain valve (52a-b) and the draining of fluid from the top of the piston to the low pressure reservoir while at the same time the filling valve closes and vice versa, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that between the piston cylinder and a sampler tube (64,65), a pile or another tool there is provided a jump slide valve (39,40) which between two extreme positions (39a,39b) permits free axial movement of the impact device (1 etc.) relative to the sampler tube, the pile or the tool, thus enabling the entire impact device to continue the drop hammer's upwardly directed movement after the completion of the cylinder's (34) lifting stroke, until the upwardly directed kinetic energy is exhausted and a drop higher than the lifting cylinder's (34) stroke length can begin.
2. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the piston rod (8a-c,9) consists of an upper section (8) above the piston (10) and a lower section (9) below the piston (10), that the upper section (8) extends in a tight opening through the top (6) of the cylinder to the high pressure reservoir (32), that the lower section (9) extends in a tight opening through the bottom (13) of the cylinder to an area, e.g. a secondary cylinder (36), where it is exposed to pressure in the surrounding liquid, that the openings through the top and bottom of the cylinder respectively have approximately the same cross section, and that the surrounding liquid may be given access to the high pressure reservoir (32) and the secondary cylinder (36), with the result that the axial components of the pressure forces which influence the piston rod above the top of the cylinder and below the bottom of the cylinder respectively neutralize each other. 



3. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 1 and/or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that between the piston rod's lower part (9) or an extension of this (11) and the sampler tube (64,65), near the upper or lower part of the jump slide valve (39,40), there is provided a toggle joint (38) which enables the longitudinal axis of the sampler tube, the pile or the tool to be deflected preferably by approximately 0 - 90 degrees or more relative to the piston rod's (9,11) axis, and that the toggle joint comprises a locking mechanism (42) which blocks this freedom of movement in one or more positions (fig. 3 a, fig. 3b), a locked position (fig. 3a) making the longitudinal axes of the piston rod and the tool coincident or parallel.
4. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 3, wherein there is provided a sampler tube comprising an outer tube (65) made of steel or the like, which gives the construction the required rigidity, and a casing or an inner tube of plastic or the like which is designed to contain the sediment sample and is withdrawn from the steel tube (65) together with the sample, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the toggle joint (fig. 3) in an open position permits the plastic tube (64a) to be withdrawn from or pushed in from the same end as the toggle joint, without having to dismantle the steel tube (65).
5. A hydraulic impact device according to one or more of the preceding claims, wherin there is provided a sampler tube comprising an outer tube made of steel or the like (65), which gives the sampler tube the required rigidity, and an inner casing or an inner tube of plastic or the like (64a,64), which is designed to contain the sediment sample and is withdrawn from the steel tube together with the sample, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at the top of the plastic tube there is located a valve (41) which closes when the sample has to be pulled out of the sediments and a suction effect is obtained above the sample, while at the same time there are provided openings (91) which are connected to the gap (fig. 8) between the plastic tube (64) and the steel tube (65) at the top (fig. 3) and the bottom (fig. 8) of the sampler tube, the pressure thus being equalized between the bottom of the sample (66,94) and the environment at the top of the sampler tube when the sampler tube with the sample (95) have to be withdrawn.
6. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that in the bottom end of the sampler tube (fig. 8) there is mounted a sampler tube tip (90) attached to the steel tube (65), that 


there is mounted in the sampler tube tip a per se known core retaining device (93), that the said plastic tube (64) rests on the core retaining device, which in turn rests on the sampler tube tip (90), that there is mounted on or immediately above the core retaining device a packing (92) which seals the gap between the steel tube and the plastic tube, and that immediately above the said packing there are drilled openings (91) substantially radially through the sampler tube tip into the gap between the plastic tube and the steel tube, and that on the tip immediately above the said radial openings a moderate extension of the tip's outer diameter occurs, thus causing a gap to be created between the tip and the sediments outside the tip when the sampler tube is withdrawn from the sedi¬ ments, thus enabling water from the gap between the plastic tube and the steel tube to flow through the said radial openings (91) in the tip (90), on through the said gap between the sediments and the tip to the space (94) which is created under the core retaining device when the sample is withdrawn, thus approximately neutralizing the vacuum in the said space.
7. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that between the low pressure reservoir (33) and the surrounding liquid there is a blowout valve (20, fig. 7a-b) which opens when the pressure of the surrounding liquid is lower than the low pressure reservoir, and closes when the pressure of the surrounding liquid is greater than the low pressure reservoir, and that the said blowout valve (20, fig. 7) comprises a float valve (81,83) arranged inside the slide (82) on a slide valve, the float valve (81,83,84) thus approximately closing off the passage of fluid from the environment through the hollow slide valve to the low pressure reservoir (33) as soon as the impact device is submerged in a fluid and the float (83,84) floats up, while the slide (82) in the slide valve (80,82,85), which provides a more complete seal and resists greater pressure difference, only closes when the pressure difference becomes sufficiently great to overcome the slide's weight, friction and any other resistance.
8. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the blowout valve (20, fig.7) lacks return mechanisms in both directions, with the result that it is only influenced by the float's (83,84) buoyancy and the fluid pressure, and the slide (82) - when the environmental pressure drops below the pressure of the low pressure reservoir and the pressure difference becomes sufficiently great to open it - remains open 


regardless of the reduction in the extent of the pressure difference, until the pressure difference changes direction.
9. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the float (83,84) in the said float valve (81,83) is in the form of a cup (83) with the opening facing downwards, the gas volume (84) confined in the cup giving the float the necessary buoyancy until the pressure in the slide becomes great enough to overcome the slide's weight and friction, thus causing the slide valve to close.
10. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the filling valve and the drain valve are combined to form a unit (6) wherein the valve slide (43) moves between two extreme positions (fig. 4a, fig. 4b), one of which extreme positions (fig. 4a) simultaneously opens the filling valve (51) and closes the drain valve (52a), while the other extreme position simultaneously closes the filling valve and opens the drain valve (52a), movements of the valve slide being controlled by liquid which is alternately conveyed from the high pressure chamber (32) through channels (54a,b) in the upper part of the piston rod (8) to one or the other side of the valve slide while at the same time other channels (50a,b) are opened from the opposite side of the valve slide to the low pressure chamber (33), movements of the valve slide (43) being controlled by the position of the upper part of the piston rod (8).
11. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the inlet valve (6, fig. 5, fig. 6) is a globe valve (57a-b, 58) which when the drop hammer is lifted so that the piston (10) is in the lower end position is closed mechanically (fig. 5b) by a projection on the piston rod's extended part (8b), that the globe valve is thereafter kept closed by the pressure difference between the high pressure reservoir (32) and the piston cylinder (34,49), that the said pressure difference, provided that the drain valve (71, 52b) is closed, is neutralized again (fig. 6a) by a small passage (75a-b) which is created by the piston rod's extended part (8c) when the piston is in the upper position, and that the removal of the said pressure difference causes a spring force (76) to rapidly open the inlet valve (57b,58) completely (fig. 6b). 



12. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 11, characterized in that the small passage which neutralizes the pressure difference above the globe valve (57,58) is activated mechanically, the globe valve being in two parts (55a,57a), the pushing force from the piston's movement towards the upper end position being great enough to overcome the pressure difference on the smallest part (55a) of the globe valve, with the result that the spring force (76) thereafter opens the largest valve seat (57a) when the pressure difference is approximately neutralized.
13. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 11, characterized in that the small passage which neutralizes the pressure difference above the globe valve is created by a groove (75a) in the piston rod's extended part (8c), the groove (75a) neutralizing the sealing between the piston rod and the space (77) below the globe valve.
14. A hydraulic impact device according to claim 1, characterized in that the drain valve consists of a slide (71) which in the open position (fig.5a, fig.6a) partially closes a prechamber (77) between the filling valve (57,58) and the piston cylinder (49), and in the closed position (fig. 5b, fig.6b) opens between the said prechamber and the piston cylinder, thus causing the flow through the prechamber (77) to press the slide (71) in the drain valve (71, 52b) to the closed position when the filling valve is opened, while a spring mechanism (72) returns the slide to the open position when the filling valve closes and the flow through the prechamber ceases. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
