<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621844</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HANDLING SYSTEM FOR LIGHTWEIGHT CONTAINERS INCLUDING BALLAST DISPENSER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B920	B08B920	B08B944	B65G1500	B65G1500	B65G1528	B65G1700	B65G1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	B08B	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B9	B08B9	B08B9	B65G15	B65G15	B65G15	B65G17	B65G17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Lightweight containers such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET) beverage bottles (20) are rendered stable for conveyance on a horizontal conveyor (40) by temporary addition of water ballast (44). The ballast (44) is drained during washing/rinsing steps and thus does not add to the permanent weight of the bottle. Ballast in the amount of about 2 to 10 % of the bottle volume is sufficient to enable increased production line speed with fewer bottle jams due to the lightweight bottles falling over. The ballast may be added in an amount of 50 to 150 % of the empty container weight for a typical container, thus filling the bottle only 0.5 to 1.5 inches at the bottom. The bottles are arranged upright, for example at a depalletizer (30), and loaded with ballast from a reservoir or pressurized supply of water. The bottles can be loaded in a group and a plurality of valves (168) having valve bodies (166) on a movable common support open simultaneously. The ballast is removed at the bottle rinsing station, which inverts the bottles to drain the ballast as well as rinse water.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R 
&
 D INNOVATORS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
R 
&
 D INNOVATORS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINGLE FRANK G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRINGLE FRANK G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HANDLING SYSTEM FOR LIGHTWEIGHT CONTAINERS INCLUDING BALLAST DISPENSERBackground of the Invention1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to the field of container handling, fo example in bottling plants, and in particular to an improvement i handling systems for lightweight plastic bottles. A limite quantity of ballast is inserted into the bottles so as to plac temporary additional weight adjacent the bottoms of the bottle during handling prior to filling, thereby lowering the center o gravity of the bottles for stable transport on horizonta conveyors.2. Prior ArtBottling systems and similar container processing devices us automated handling apparatus to provide as high a throughput rat as possible. The handling apparatus typically carries the bottle in serial order through a number of processing steps such a washing, rinsing, filling and capping. The handling apparatu normally includes various runs of horizontal conveyor sections which move the bottles while supporting them from below. Su automated handling apparatus are effective provided the bottles ca be handled smoothly at the required rate.In a known bottling system, for example, empty bottles ar supplied on pallets wherein levels of bottles are stacked on o another with interleaved panels providing a supporting surface fo the bottles on each level or rank. A depalletizer removes ea topmost level or rank of bottles from the pallets, and places t rank at a receiving platform defining the input section of horizontal conveyor. The receiving platform has a horizont support surface leading to a funnel-like constriction where successive decreases in width along the conveying path force t bottles into single file, from which the bottles proceed serial 

one after another through continuously operating processing steps. The funnel-like section serves to accumulate the bottles because each rank from the depalletizer requires a certain time to be converted from an X-Y array of bottles to a single file. Theoretically, the next rank is supplied just as the previous rank is exhausted.The bottles in the single file are then carried by a conveyor typically having one or more endless loops of conveyor belt, horizontally attached link plates, rollers or the like, which define a moving horizontal platform for supporting the bottles while advancing the bottles to the next processing station. Each bottle simply rests on a horizontal surface which is moved to advance the bottle. The bottles move through stations typically including the depalletizer and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A method for handling lightweight open containers, comprising the steps of: arranging the containers in an upright orientation; dispensing a limited quantity of ballast into the containers so as to fill a lowermost portion of the containers and thereby lower a center of gravity of the containers as compared to said containers when empty; moving the containers along a conveyor, the ballast tending to keep the containers stable on the conveyor.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising inverting the containers to remove the ballast.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the ballast is dispensed to at least one of: a volume of about 2 to 10% of an empty volume of the containers; a weight of about 50 to 150% of an empty weight of the containers; a height of about 4 to 10% of a height of the containers; and, a height of about 0.5 to 1.0 inch.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the containers are plastic bottles, said conveyor moving the containers to a rinsing apparatus, the containers being inverted at the rinsing apparatus.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the containers essentially comprise polyethylene terephthalate and the ballast is water.
6. The method according to claim 1, comprising arranging the containers in an array in said upright orientation and dispensing 


 the ballast into the containers substantially simultaneously fo
~
~ each of the containers in the array.
7. The method according to claim 6, comprising providing group of the containers from a rank in a pallet of containers, dispensing said ballast into the containers and forming the grou of containers into a row.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the ballast i water dispensed from a reservoir by opening a plurality of valves.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the valves ar defined by a plurality of openings in a reservoir wall controllabl plugged by valve bodies attached to a common support, and wherei said dispensing includes displacing the common support t simultaneously open the valves.
10. An improved handling system for empty lightweigh containers which are prone to fall over in handling, the handlin system having a conveyor operable to support and transport th containers when rested thereon, and means for delivering th containers to the conveyor in an upright orientation, th improvement comprising: a ballast dispensing apparatus operable to dispense a limite quantity of ballast into the containers when in the uprigh orientation, the ballast dispensing apparatus having a dispensin flow rate and duration sufficient to fill the containers onl adjacent bottoms thereof, the ballast thus lowering a center o gravity of the containers and stabilizing the containers whe transported on the conveyor.
11. The improved handling system according to claim 10 


wherein said ballast dispensing apparatus is operable to dispense the limited quantity in an amount corresponding to at least one of: a volume of about 2 to 10% of an empty volume of the containers; a weight of about 50 to 150% of an empty weight of the containers; a height of about 4 to 10% of a height of the containers; and, a height of about 0.5 to 1.0 inch.
12. The improved handling system according to claim 10, further comprising a container inverting apparatus associated with a destination of the conveyor, operable to invert the containers for removing the ballast.
13. The improved handling system according to claim 12, wherein the containers are bottles, the means for delivering the containers being a bottle depalletizer operable to remove a rank of bottles from a pallet and to funnel the rank of bottles into a line, the ballast dispensing apparatus being disposed adjacent the depalletizer and operable to dispense ballast into a plurality of the bottles prior to being funneled into the line.
14. The improved handling system according to claim 12, wherein the container inverting apparatus is associated with a container rinser operable to invert the containers and to rinse the containers via a rinse fluid directed upwardly into the inverted containers.
15. The improved handling system according to claim 14, wherein the handling system is a bottling system and further comprises a filling station.
16. The improved handling system according to claim 11, 


wherein the ballast dispensing apparatus includes a fluid suppl with at least one valve directed toward the containers and mean for opening the valve when a container is in position to receiv the ballast.
17. The improved handling system according to claim 16, wherein the ballast dispensing apparatus includes a plurality o valves operable to dispense the ballast into a plurality o containers simultaneously.
18. The improved handling system according to claim 17, wherein the fluid supply includes a reservoir disposed over th containers and the valves are defined by a plurality of openings i a reservoir wall controllably plugged by valve bodies attached t a common support, and further comprising means for displacing th common support to simultaneously open the valves.
19. A bottling system, comprising: a depalletizer operable to accept bottles in stacked ranks an to move the bottles in each rank successively to a receivin platform; a guideway associated with the receiving platform and operabl to funnel the rank of bottles into a line; a conveyor having a substantially horizontal movable suppor surface for carrying bottles rested thereon, the conveyor receivin bottles in the line and transporting the bottles to a rinsin apparatus; a ballast dispensing device disposed along a path of th bottles from the depalletizer to the rinsing apparatus, the ballas dispensing device being operable to dispense a limited quantity o weight ballast into each of the bottles so as to fill the bottle adjacent bottoms of the bottles and thereby lower a center o gravity of the bottles; 



 the rinsing apparatus having bottle handling means operable to invert the bottles, whereupon the weight ballast is removed due to gravity; and, a bottle filling and capping apparatus receiving and processing bottles from the rinsing apparatus.
20. The bottling system according to claim 19, wherein the ballast dispensing device includes at least one controllable valve operable to open a flow path of ballast fluid from a fluid source to the bottles.
21. The bottling system according to claim 20, wherein the ballast dispensing device is operable to open the flow path for a duration sufficient to add ballast in an amount corresponding to at least one of: a volume of about 2 to 10% of an empty volume of the containers; a weight of about 50 to 150% of an empty weight of the containers; a height of about 4 to 10% of a height of the containers; and, a height of about 0.5 to l.o inch.
22. The bottling system according to claim 21, wherein the ballast fluid is passed through the valve by at least one of fluid pressure in the fluid source and gravity.
23. The bottling system according to claim 22, comprising a plurality of valves operable to dispense the ballast fluid simultaneously into a plurality of the bottles.
24. The bottling system according to claim 23, wherein the valves define a plurality of valve seats in a wall defining the fluid source and a plurality of valve bodies movable relative to 


the valve seats, the valve bodies being attached to a commo support and simultaneously movable by displacement of the support and further comprising means for displacing the support upo detection of bottles in position for receiving ballast. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
