<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626634</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Force-feedback data input device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B522	A61B522	G05G900	G05G9047	G06F300	G06F300	G06F301	G06F301	G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3038	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G05G	G05G	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	G05G9	G05G9	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A force sensation exhibiting device has a housing which can
be grasped by a hand, at least one rotatably or linearly movable

motor contained in the housing , an input section where
repulsive force informations are input, and control circuit for

driving and controlling said motor according to the repulsive
force informations, wherein a force sensation is given to said

hand by a drive of the motor.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYAMA YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITO YOSHITERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUI KEIZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OZEKI MASATAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOYAMA, YOSHIAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITO, YOSHITERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUI, KEIZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OZEKI, MASATAKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a force sensation 
exhibiting device, a data input device and a data input equipment 
which are applicable to the one which makes an operator feel as 
if a virtual object as a data within a calculator is actually 
present, to make a modeling operation done in the computer and to 
experience preliminarily how to use the product without 
manufacturing a prototype, or the one in which the operator can 
operate the object in a remote area while feeling as if it is in 
hand. Fig. 13 is a view showing the structure of a conventional 
simulator by means of an input method by fingers and an image 
display device. This is to experience preliminarily how to use 
by operating an object which does not actually exist by fingers. 
The operator 120 is equipped with a system glove 110 for 
inputting informations so that the machine can read the 
positional data of the fingers. As the system glove 110 for 
inputting the informations, there can be mentioned a data glove 
of V.P.L. Research Co. in U.S.A. (hereinafter referred to as "VPL 
Co."). The data glove of VPL Co. is to detect the bending angle  
 
of the fingers by sewing an optical fiber on an usual thin glove 
to utilize the change of the light transmittance of the optical 
fiber by the bending of the optical fiber caused by bending the 
fingers. The thus obtained mechanical positional data of the 
fingers is sent to the contacting force-sensing type calculating 
means 112 in the information processing means 2. The contacting 
force-sensing type calculating means 112 calculates the shape 
data 115 of the virtual object and the input positions of the 
fingers input to calculate the positional relations between the 
fingers and the object. For example, when the fingers are on the 
surface or in minutely inner side than the surface of the virtual 
object, it is when the fingers touch the virtual object. And 
when there are more than two faces to be touched, it is possible 
to operate to lift the virtual object. Thus obtained positional 
relations of the virtual object and the hand and fingers are 
displayed as an image by the display means 4 via the image-forming 
means 113, which can let the operator 120 know the 
positional relations of his fingers and the virtual object. 
Thus, it is realized that the operator 120 operates the virtual 
object by his fingers. Such a position detecting method by the optical fibers can 
provide the wide range of positional informations of the 
fingers, since it does not restrict the movement of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A force sensation exhibiting device comprising 
   a housing which can be grasped by a hand, 

   at least one rotatably or linearly movable motor contained 
in the housing , 

   an input section where repulsive force informations are 
input, and 

   control means for driving and controlling said motor 
according to the repulsive force informations, wherein 

   a force sensation is given to said hand by a drive of said 
motor. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 1, 
wherein 

   a motor corresponding to a force vector is intermittently 
driven in a direction reverse to a force vector of the force 

sensation to be exhibited. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 2, 
wherein 

   a motor corresponding to a force vector is intermittently 
driven so that a torque is proportional to a magnitude of said 

vector, and 
   in the intermittently driving, a period of turning off the 

motor is longer than a period until said activated motor stops. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 2, 
wherein 

   activating motion, moving in the reverse direction, and 
stopping motions are repeated , in which 

   a motor corresponding to a force vector is activated so 
that a torque is proportional to a magnitude of said vector, and 

after being moved in a certain distance or a certain angle, 
activated in an extremely low torque in a direction reverse to 

that of the former activation, and after returns to a position or 
an angle before said activation is initiated, said motor is 

stopped. 
A data input device comprising 
   a housing which can be grasped by a hand, 

   said housing being equipped with detection means for 
detecting a displacement or a pressure at a portion on which 

fingers are put at a time of the grasping of the hand, to make it 
possible to input a data. 
A data input equipment which comprising 
   a data input device according to claim 5, and 

   control means for controlling bending of remote or virtual 
fingers or the like in response to output of said detection 

means. 
A data input equipment which comprising 
   a data input device according to claim 5,

 
   calculating means for carrying out image display 

calculations based on the input data thereof, and 
   image display means for displaying a state of at least two 

fingers, such as positions, postures and bending on a basis of 
the calculations. 
A force sensation exhibiting device comprising 
   a housing which can be grasped by a hand, 

   said housing being equipped with detection means for 
detecting a displacement or a pressure and repulsive force 

generating means for generating a pressure in a direction reverse 
to that of said detected displacement or pressure ,at a portion 

on which fingers are put at a time of the grasping of the hand. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 8, 
wherein 

   the repulsive force generating means can change a position 
of the detection means for detecting said displacement or 

pressure, and is equipped with control means therefor. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 
8, comprising 

   vibrating means which can generate a vibration at a portion 
where a repulsive force is given when the repulsive force is 

required, instead of the repulsive force generating means. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 
10, wherein

 
   the vibration generated by the vibrating means is an 

vibration which repeats to change abruptly in a direction of said 
repulsive force and change moderately in a reverse direction 

thereof. 
A force sensation exhibiting device comprising, 
   a housing which can be grasped by a hand, 

   said housing being equipped with detecting means for 
detecting forces of plural axes respectively and repulsive force 

generating means for generating a pressure in a direction reverse 
to the detected forces of said axes, at a portion on which 

fingers are put when being grasped. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to any one 
of the claims 8 to 12, comprising 

   control means for controlling the repulsive force generating 
means so that the detected pressure becomes substantially equal 

to a desired value of a force sensation to be exhibited. 
A data input equipment which comprising 
   a force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 8, 

   calculating means for calculating a force sensation value 
for exhibition based on output from said force sensational 

exhibiting device, and 
   image display means for displaying positions, postures and 

bending states of at least two fingers on a basis of calculation 
results from said calculating means. 
A data input device comprising 
   any one of force sensation exhibiting devices or data input 

devices of claims 1 to 13, and 
   auxiliary input means for inputting state informations such 

as positions and postures of a whole fingers. 
A data input device according to claim 15, wherein 

   said auxiliary input means is composed of force detecting 
means of plural axes. 
A data input device according to claim 16, wherein 
   as inputs to said force detecting means of plural axes, 

changes of position and posture of the force sensation exhibiting 
device of claim 13 are input. 
A data input device ,wherein 
   the auxiliary input means and the force sensation 

exhibiting device or the data input device of the any one of the 
claims 15 to 17 are mounted on a common housing. 
A data input device according to claim 18, wherein 
   the force sensation exhibiting device or the data input 

device and said auxiliary input means are disposed so that they 
can be operated by separate hands of one operator. 
A data input device which comprising 
   a force sensation exhibiting device or a data input device 

according to any one of the claims 1 to 13, 
   an arm portion and

 
   a polyaxes force sensor section, 

   said force sensation exhibiting device or a data input 
device being connected to one end of said arm portion and said 

polyaxes force sensor section being connected to the other end of 
the arm portion, so that by an operation to change a whole 

position of said force sensation exhibiting device or the data 
input device, a force input corresponding to the operation to 

change is applied to said polyaxes force sensor section. 
A device according to claim 5 or claim 8, wherein 
   the shape of a section grasped by hand is substantially 

cylindrical. 
A data input equipment wherein 
   a data input device according to claim 5 is mounted at a tip 

of a manipulator which is possible and controllable to shift a 
plural degrees of freedom of positions and postures, and 

   a repulsive force is generated to said data input device by 
said manipulator. 
A force sensation exhibiting device comprising 
   a barrel shaped leaf spring, 

   an adjusting means for changing a radius of said beam, and 
   control means for controlling said adjusting means, wherein 

a force sensation is given to fingers put on an approximately 
central portion of an arc of said beam. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 
 

23 comprising 
   means for oscillatingly changing the radius of the spring, 

wherein 
   said oscillating wave form has a wave form which repeats 

abruptly increasing hardness in a direction of giving a repulsive 
force, and moderately decreasing the hardness in a reverse 

direction to the direction of giving the repulsive force. 
A data input equipment according to claim 6, 7 or 14, 
wherein 

   a switch operable by fingers is provided, by which input of 
a change of bending of fingers is temporarily stopped. 
A data input equipment according to claim 6, 7 or 14 
comprising 

   detecting means for detecting a position or a posture of a 
housing and 

a switch operable by fingers not participating in the grasp is 
provided, wherein 

   a utilization of informations of positions or postures from 
said detecting means is temporarily stopped by said switch. 
A data input equipment according to claim 15, wherein a 
switch operable by hand or an auxiliary input means is provided, 

by which input of the change of bending of fingers is temporarily 
stopped. 
A data input equipment according to claim 15, wherein 
   a switch operable by a hand or auxiliary input means is 

 
provided, and 

   input of informations of positions or postures of the whole 
fingers is temporarily stopped by the switch. 
A device/equipment according to any one of the claims 5 
to 28, wherein 

   data is input based on an integral value or incomplete 
integral value of a force detected by the detecting means. 
A device/equipment according to claim 29, wherein 
   the integral value or the incomplete integral value are 

utilized when a value of the detected force exceeds a certain 
value, and 

when the value of the detected force is below a certain value, a 
data is input by the value itself of the detected force. 
A device/equipment according to any one of the claims 5 
to 28, wherein 

   a data is input by utilizing a value of a maximum value or 
the like of the detected force for a certain period by holding 

the maximum value or the like . 
A device/equipment according to claim 31, wherein 
   when the force value exceeds a certain value, the maximum 

value or the like is used and when the force value is below a 
certain value, a data is input by the force value itself. 
A data input device according to claim 5 comprising 
   a housing portion which can be grasped by a hand, wherein 

a data can be input by providing detecting means for detecting a 
 

displacement or a pressure at each section of the housing with 
which finger belly portions between each joint of a finger 

contacts when being grasped. 
A data input equipment comprising 
   a data input device according to claim 33, which controls 

bending of each joint of fingers or the like in a remote area, or 
of virtual fingers according to the detected force. 
A data input device according to claim 21 comprising 
   diameter-adjusting means for adjusting a size of a diameter 

of said substantially cylindrical shape. 
A data input device according to claim 35, comprising 
   said diameter-adjusting means is provided at a portion with 

which a hand does not contact when being grasped by hand. 
A data input device according to claim 35, wherein 
   when being grasped by a hand, said diameter-adjusting means 

is so provided as to be in outer side than between a thumb and a 
little finger of the fingers. 
A data input device according to claim 35, wherein 
   said diameter is adjusted by a plastic body equipped in a 

part of a portion where a hand is located when being grasped by a 
hand. 
A data input device comprising 
   a housing portion which can be grasped by a hand, and 

   detecting means for detecting a displacement or a pressure 
 

being provided respectively in respective parts with which each 
finger belly portion contact when being grasped, wherein 

   the detecting value is to be a difference between the 
detected values of two detecting means among respective detecting 

means. 
A data input device according to claim 5, wherein 
   a low-pass filter is provided against the detected 

displacement or pressure and a value passed through the filter is 
to be the input data. 
A data input device according to claim 5, wherein 
   means for calculating a dead zone is provided which regards 

as there is no input when the detected displacement or pressure 
is below a certain value, and 

   value passed through said means for calculating the dead 
zone is to be as the input data. 
A data input device comprising 

   a housing portion which can be grasped by a hand, 
   detecting means for detecting a displacement or a pressure 

provided at a portion of the housing portion on which fingers are 
put when being grasped, 

   a low-pass filter through which the detected displacement or 
the pressure being made to pass , and 

   means for calculating a dead zone which regards as there is 
no input when the displacement or the pressure passed through the 

filter is below a certain value, wherein
 

   value passed through the means for calculating the dead zone 
is to be the input value . 
A data input device according to claim 5, which 
subtracts a detected resulting value which is a minimum but not 

zero among the detected resulting values of the plural detecting 
means which are provided at such portions of the housing with 

which finger belly portions between each joint of the fingers 
contact at a time of grasping , from the respective detected 

resulting values , and makes the subtracted value to be the input 
data. 
A data input device according to claim 5, which 
subtracts a sum of the detected resulting values which are below 

a certain value , from the respective detected resulting values 
of the plural detecting means which are provided at such 

portions of the housing with which finger belly portions between 
each joint of the fingers contact at a time of grasping, and 

makes the subtracted value to be the input data. 
A data input device according to claim 5, which 
subtracts a sum of the detected resulting values which are below 

a certain value which is obtained from a maximum displacement or 
pressure detected by the plural detecting means which are 

provided at such portions of the housing with which finger belly 
portions between each joint of the fingers contact at a time of 

grasping, from the respective detected resulting values of the 
plural detecting means , and makes the subtracted value to be 

 
the input data. 
A data input device according to claim 5, which 
identifies in advance an interrelationship between the detected 

resulting value of the displacement or pressure and an intention 
to bend fingers of a person who grasps , by using a neural 

network calculating means in which the detecting resulting value 
is to be an input and the intention is to be an output, and 

   inputs the detected resulting values to the identified 
neural network to take out fingers bending informations as an 

output to use it as the input data. 
A force sensation exhibiting device which is equipped 
with an ultrasonic vibration motor comprising an electric-mechanical 

transducing element and an elastic body sticked 
thereon which generates a force in a same face as a finger belly 

portion face , at such portions with which the finger belly 
portion contacts at a time of grasping, and also equipped with 

detecting means for detecting a displacement or a pressure in a 
vertical direction against the face of the finger belly portion 

at a lower part of said ultrasonic vibration motor, and drives 
said ultrasonic vibration motor by using the detected output of 

the detecting means. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 
47, which comprises a reciprocal converting means for detecting a 

displacement or a pressure in the vertical direction against the 
face of the finger belly portion to determine a reciprocal of 

 
the displacement or the pressure, and means for determining a 

product of an objective value of a force to be given in the face 
of the finger belly portion and said reciprocal , and drives said 

ultrasonic vibration motor in proportion to the product. 
A force sensation exhibiting device according to claim 
47 or claim 48, wherein the electric-mechanical transducing 

element is an piezoelectric ceramics. 
A force sensation exhibiting device which is equipped 
with an ultrasonic vibration motor comprising an electric-mechanical 

transducing element and an elastic body sticked 
thereon which generates a force in a same face as a finger belly 

portion face , at such portions with which the finger belly 
portion contacts at a time of grasping, and makes an average 

current of the ultrasonic vibration motor to be a magnitude of a 
force in a contacting face of said finger belly portion ,, and 

drives said ultrasonic vibration motor based on the magnitude of 
the force. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
