<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611214</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Acidic composition and process of using same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09D900	C09D900	C11D702	C11D708	C11D722	C11D726	C11D732	C11D750	C11D750	C11D1700	C11D1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09D	C09D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09D9	C09D9	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D7	C11D17	C11D17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Acidic compositions having pH ranging from about 
2.0 to about 5.0 are described which are characterized 

by a water-soluble organic solvent, an acid present in 
sufficient amount to provide the desired pH, and water. 

Preferably, the compositions comprise an organic acid 
present in an amount to render the composition pH from 

2.0-5.0, a combination of water-soluble glycol ether 
solvents having differing numbers of ether groups, with 

the balance being water. The compositions are 
advantageous in that they do not require surfactants, 

couplers or other wetting agents to remove coatings 
containing polymers having free amine groups. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ONWUMERE FIDELIS C C O MINNESO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ONWUMERE, FIDELIS C., C/O MINNESOTA MINING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention pertains to acidic compositions 
useful for removing floor finishes and other coatings, 
especially to acidic compositions containing a water-soluble 
glycol ether. As noted by Bingham in U.S. Pat. No. 5,096,610, 
conventional floor finish removers have employed amines 
(such as ammonia, ethanolamines, or diethylamine) or 
organic solvents (such as ethylene glycol monobutyl 
ether) and mixtures thereof. Bingham notes that such 
solvent-only formulations have resulted in sluggish 
removal of the finish (typically an acrylic, acrylicstyrene 
or polyurethane polymer) and incomplete 
removal, so that two or more applications of the 
stripping solutions were often required. Bingham 
discloses a floor finish remover composition containing 
a conventional solvent, such as an amine, glycol ether, 
or mixture thereof, water, and an organosilicon complex 
formed from a silicate such as sodium meta silicate and 
a linear, 6-10 carbon (optimally, 8 carbon), organic 
compound such as caprylic acid or sodium n-octane 
sulfonate. It is not apparent from the reference what 
the pH of the composition is, however the composition 
appears to have a pH greater than 7. Numerous acidic cleaning compositions have been 
patented, for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,431,209; 
3,253,941; and 4,587,030. However, the compositions 
disclosed in these references either require a 
surfactant and/or coupler to perform their intended 
function, or do not have a pH within the range of the 
present invention (i.e., from about 2.0 to about 5.0). It would thus be advantageous and an advance in 
the floor finish remover art if compositions having a 
pH ranging from about 2.0 to about 5.0 could be 
developed which are effective without the inclusion of 
surfactants, couplers, and other wetting agents.  Other references disclosing the use of water-soluble 
glycol ether organic solvents such as used in 
this invention include U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,077,896 and 
4,348,292 (propylene glycol-mono-tert-butyl ether). 
Arco Chemical Co. trade literature for the glycol ether 
known under the trade designation "ARCOSOLV PTB", 
published 1985, discloses that the addition of another 
organic co-solvent, such as lower alcohols or other 
glycol ethers, greatly increases the effective 
solubility in water of propylene glycol mono-tert-butyl 
ether. However, there is no suggestion or teaching of 
the use of a combination of glycol ethers in an acidic 
composition to remove floor finishes or other coatings. 
U.S. Pat. No. 5,061,393 discloses an acidic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An acidic composition suitable for removing 
coatings containing free amine functionality, the 

composition characterized by: 

(a) an effective amount of a first water-soluble 
organic solvent, said first water-soluble 

organic solvent selected from the group 
consisting of water-soluble glycol ethers 

and water-soluble alkylene carbonates; 
(b) an acid present in sufficient amount render 
the composition pH within the range of about 

2.0 to about 5.0; and 
(c) water. 
The composition of claim 1 further 
characterized by said first water-soluble organic 

solvent being a first water-soluble glycol ether. 
The composition of claim 2 further 
characterized by including a second water-soluble 

glycol ether organic solvent which is different from 
said first glycol ether by having at least one more 

ether group, said second water-soluble glycol ether 
present in an amount just sufficient to render said 

composition phase-stable. 
The composition of any one of claims 1 to 3 further 
characterized by said first water-soluble glycol ether 

being selected from the group consisting of ethylene 
glycol mono-n-butyl ether and propylene glycol mono-n-butyl 

ether. 
The composition of any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein 
said second water-soluble glycol ether being selected from the 

group consisting of diethylene glycol mono-n-butyl 
 

ether, 1-butoxyethoxy-2-propanol, diethylene glycol 
mono-ethyl ether, diethylene glycol mono-n-butyl ether, 

diethylene glycol mono-n-hexyl ether, methoxytriglycol, 
ethoxytriglycol, butoxytriglycol, and combinations 

thereof. 
The composition of any one of claims 1 to 5 further 
characterized by sufficient water-soluble compatible 

thickening agent to render the composition viscosity at 
least 500 cps at 25°C. 
The composition of any one of claims 1 to 6 further 
characterized by sufficient compatible surfactant to 

enhance wetting of the composition on a coating to be 
removed. 
The composition of any one of claims 1 to 7 further 
characterized by sufficient compatible water-soluble 

film-forming resin to inhibit the evaporation of the 
first water-soluble glycol ether organic solvent and 

the water-soluble acid for a time sufficient to permit 
substantially complete softening of a coating to be 

removed, wherein said film-forming resin is selected 
from the group consisting of sodium carboxymethyl 

cellulose and hydroxymethyl cellulose. 
The composition of any one of claims 1 to 8 further 
characterized by said acid being selected 

from acids having the general formula RC0₂H wherein R 
may be any hydroxyalkyl group or any hydroxyaryl group 

with the proviso that the acid is at least partially 
soluble in water. 
The composition of claim 1 further 
characterized by said first water-soluble organic 

solvent being an alkylene carbonate. 
The composition of any one of claims 1 to 10 further 
characterized by including a sparingly soluble organic 

solvent. 
A sprayable composition contained within a 
non-aerosol container, said composition being suitable 

for removing coatings containing free amine 
functionality, the composition characterized by: 


(a) about 80 parts by weight water; 
(b) about 5 to 20 parts by weight ethylene 
glycol mono-n-butyl ether; 
(c) a sufficient amount of diethylene glycol 
mono-n-butyl ether to render the composition 

phase stable; and 
(d) a water-soluble acid in sufficient amount to 
render the composition pH with a range of 

from about 2.0 to about 5.0. 
A sprayable composition according to claim 12, the 
composition characterized by : 


(a) about 80 parts by weight water; 
(b) about 5 to 20 parts by weight of ethylene 
glycol mono-n-butyl ether; 
(c) a sufficient amount of diethylene glycol 
mono-n-butyl ether to render the composition 

phase stable; 
(d) a water-soluble acid present in sufficient 
amount to render the composition pH within a 

range of from about 2.0 to about 5.0; and 
(e) sufficient aerosol propellant to expel said 
composition from an aerosol container. 
A process for treating and preserving 
materials, the process comprising applying to a surface 

a coating precursor composition characerized by an 
aqueous ungelled dispersion of a free amine-containing 

 
polymer having a plasticizer dispersed therein, permitting said 

coating precursor composition to dry to a coating, and after a 
period of wear, removing said coating with an acidic composition 

according to claims 1 to 13, and then reapplying said coating 
precursor. 
Process in accordance with claim 14 wherein said 
remover composition including a first water-soluble glycol ether 

organic solvent and a second water-soluble glycol ether organic 
solvent which is different from said water-soluble glycol ether 

by having at least one more ether group, said second water-soluble 
glycol ether present in an amount just sufficient to render 

the composition phase-stable, and wherein said acid is present 
in sufficient amount to render the composition pH within a range 

from about 2.0 to about 5.0. 
Process in accordance with claims 14 or 15, further 
characterized by said coating precursor composition being an 

aqueous ungelled dispersion of a polyurethane, the polyurethane 
being the reaction product of : a prepoly
mer which is the reaction 
product of (i) a molar excess of organic polyisocyanate sufficient 

to promote substantially equal access of reactants (ii) - (iv) to 
isocyanate groups ; (ii) an active hydrogen-containing material ; 

(iii) a difunctional sterically hindered amine having the general 
formula 

 
and combinations thereof ; and 

(iv) an internal emulsifier having the general formula  
and combinations thereof ; a chain-extending monomer ; an organic 

compound having a pKb of at most about 7 ; and a silane coupling 
agent represented by the general formula ASi (OR²)₃ and combinations 

thereof, the coupling agent present in an amount sufficient to 
partially crosslink the polyurethanes but insufficient to gel the 

aqueous dispersion wherein ; 
   Q is a negatively charged moiety selected from COO and 

SO₄²⁻ ; 
   X, Y, Z, R, and R¹, are independently selected from the 

group consisting of cyclic and aliphatic organic radicals free of 
reactive functional groups, and with the provisos that 


(i) at least 75 %, preferably 100 % of the Z 
groups have at least 4 carbon atoms ; 
(ii) R can be hydrogen ; 
(iii) R¹ is not required if Q is COO ; and 
(iv) X, Y, Z, R, and R¹ are chosen to afford the 
isocyanate-terminated prepolymer an equivalent 

weight not exceeding about 2,000 ; 
 
   A is an organic radical having a functional group reactive 

with isocyanate (-NCO) groups ; and 
   R² is independently selected from C₁-C₄ inclusive alkyl 

radicals. 
A process for removing coatings containing free amines 
from a surface, the process characterized according to any one of 

claims 1 to 13. 
A system for removing coatings containing free 
amine functionality, the system characterized by : 


(a) a nonwoven article which is an open, lofty, three-dimensional 
nonwoven web comprising a plurality 

of thermoplastic organic fibers, and a binder which 
adheres said fibers at points of mutual contact and ; 
(b) an acidic composition according to claims 
1 to 13 applied to the article or the coating to 

be removed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
