<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654245</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ultrasonic transesophageal probe for the imaging and diagnosis of multiple scan planes
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R102	G01N2926	A61B812	A61B1005	H04R1700	G01N2926	A61B812	H04R102	A61B1005	H04R1700	G01Q9000	G01Q8000	G01Q1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	G01N	A61B	A61B	H04R	G01N	A61B	H04R	A61B	H04R	G01Q	G01Q	G01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R1	G01N29	A61B8	A61B1	H04R17	G01N29	A61B8	H04R1	A61B1	H04R17	G01Q90	G01Q80	G01Q10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiplane TEE probe is provided in which 
rotation of the ultrasonic transducer is motor 

controlled. The motor is controlled to rotate the 
transducer either clockwise or counterclockwise, and 

at either a high rotational speed or a low rotational 
speed. The motor is also automatically controlled to 

drive the transducer to a predetermined home 
position. The transducer tip of the probe is 

detachably connected to the gastroscope tube. An 
aluminum sheet is embedded in the acoustic lens in 

front of the transducer to dissipate heat which 
accumulates in the lens. The gastroscope tube 

includes an articulating section formed of a 
plurality of matching cylindrical links which form 

alternating pivot axes from one link to the next. 
The pivot range of each link with respect to an 

adjoining link is controlled by opposing limit stops 
orthogonally located with respect to the pivot points 

of the links. Preferably the limit stops are formed 
by a plurality of opposing and meshing fingers to 

provide the articulating section with high torsional 
stability. The articulating section is controlled 

from the handle of the probe, with the articulation 
limit stops located in the handle. The articulating 

section may be locked in a given bent position, but 
the lock will be overcome by the force of the 

esophagus against the transducer tip if the probe is 
withdrawn in a locked and bent position. When the 

articulating section is locked an indication signal 
is displayed on the handle of the probe and on the 

display of the ultrasound system. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to probes for ultrasonic
diagnostic systems which scan the body from within
the patient's esophagus or stomach. In particular,
the probes of the present invention are ideally
suited for imaging in any one of a number of planar
orientations, and are often referred to as multiplane
TEE (transesophageal echocardiography) probes.The heart is one organ for which ultrasonic
diagnosis has always been difficult. This is because
the heart is located in the thoracic cavity,
surrounded by the ribs and lungs. Ultrasonic
scanning through the ribs is not a viable option due
to the absorptive and reflective characteristics of
bone structure. Accordingly, the accepted clinical
procedure is to scan the heart intercostally. But
the transmission and reception of ultrasound through
the intercostal windows is sometimes not clinically
useful, because of acoustic reflections from normal
body structures such as the cartilage connected to
the ribs.The advent of endoscopic technology whereby
medical devices can be introduced into the body and
manipulated external to the body, led to the
development of a new technique for ultrasonically
scanning the heart: transesophageal
echocardiography. By this technique an ultrasonic
transducer is located at the end of an elongated
probe, which is passed through the patient's mouth
and into the esophagus or stomach. From such a
position within the thoracic cavity, the ribs no
longer pose an impediment to the transmission and
reception of ultrasound. The typical transesophageal 
scanhead includes a control mechanism external to the
body, enabling the clinician to manipulate the end of
the probe so that the transducer on the probe end is
directed as desired toward the heart. This
technique, which places the ultrasonic transducer in
close proximity to the heart itself, has been found
to be most effective in the diagnosis of disease
conditions of the heart.U.S. Patent 4,543,960 (Harui et al.)
describes a transesophageal
echocardiographic (TEE) scanhead in which a phased
array or linear array transducer is mounted on a
rotating base inside the scanhead. As shown in the
drawings of that patent, the array transducer is a
square or rectangular shaped array of piezoelectric
elements which is mounted on a cylindrical rotatable
base. A pulley is mounted on a shaft extending from
the rotatable base, whereby the base and transducer
array may be rotated inside the scanhead. A control
cable from the control unit of the scanhead passes
around the pulley. As the control cable moves by
co
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ultrasonic transducer probe having a
piezoelectric transducer (30) located at a

distal tip (14) thereof for ultrasonic scanning of a
plurality of planes in the body from within a cavity of

the body, and which is rotatably movable,

further comprising rotation control means (20, 22)
for controlling the rotation of said transducer while

located within the body, between first and second
positions, at each of which a respective plane may be

scanned, and an articulating mechanism (70) for articulating
the probe tip,
characterized in that
 it further comprises:

a motor (160) driven mechanism for rotating the
transducer (30), in two directions, with two speeds of

rotation,
and an articulation control mechanism (24, 26) for
controlling the articulating mechanism (70)

which can be locked by a lock mechanism (28, 28').
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in claim 1,
wherein said rotation control means (20,22) are responsive

to selection by a user for rotating said transducer (30)
in at least one direction at a first predetermined speed

and at a second predetermined speed which is lower than
said first speed.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in claim 2,
wherein said motor driven mechanism (160) is responsive to

said rotation control means (20,22), for moving said
transducer (30) from said first position to said second

position. 
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in claim 3,
wherein said motor driven mechanism (160) comprises a two-speed

motor for moving said transducer (30) from said
first position to said second position

and wherein said rotation control means (20,22)
comprises means for selecting either said first

predetermined speed or said second predetermined speed
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in Claim 4,
wherein the rotation control means (20, 22) comprises

two transducer rotation buttons (20, 22) located within a
handle of the probe (10), and each transducer rotation button is a

three position switch having a first detent position and a
second detent position for controlling the first and

second speeds of rotation of the transducer;

   and wherein said first and second switches (20, 22)
respectively control the rotation of the transducer in the

clockwise direction and in the counter clockwise
direction.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in claim
1, wherein the motor driven mechanism comprises a

transducer drive gear (36) with a limit stop system (190,
192, 172) for stopping the transducer rotation in a first

position at a first stationary transducer orientation from
which a first plane may be electronically scanned, or in a

second position at a second stationary transducer
orientation from which a second plane may be

electronically scanned.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in claim
6, wherein said rotating transducer has a home position

which is fixed in relation to said distal end of said
probe, for terminating the movement of said transducer,

and wherein said rotation control means (20, 22) comprises 
selection means responsive to user activation for

automatically moving said transducer (30) from its current
position to said home position.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in Claim
1, wherein the articulation control mechanism (24, 26, 28,

28') comprises:

means for articulating the probe tip in any of four
directions from the handle (10) by a right-left

articulation control means (24) and a forward-back
articulation control means (26)
and means to lock and unlock the articulation control
mechanism (24, 26) using break control means (28, 28')

that are located within a handle of the probe (10).
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in Claim 8,
comprising:


a bendable articulation section (70) connected to
said distal end (14);
a gastroscope tube section (12) connected between the
handle (10) and said bendable articulation section (70);

and
articulation control knobs (24, 26), located at the
handle, coupled to said gastroscope tube section (12) and

connected to said bendable articulation section (70) for
controlling the movement of said bendable articulation

section in said four directions,
including limit stops (134, 136, 138, 138'), located
with said articulation control knobs (24, 26), for

limiting the range of movement of said bendable
articulation section (70) in each of said four directions.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in Claim 9,
further comprising: 


connector means (50, 51) for disconnecting said
distal end from, and reconnecting said distal end to, said

gastroscope tube section, for enabling the user to change
the transducers.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in
Claim 1, further comprising:


means for locking said articulation section in its
current position when located within the body, said

locking means being of a force small
enough to be overcome while said articulation section is removed from a

passageway of the body while being locked in said
significantly arcuate position, so that the articulate

section is not maintained in the arcuate position.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in
Claim 1, further comprising:


means, responsive to the locking of said articulation
section locking mechanism, for displaying an indication

signal indicating that said articulation section is
locked.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in Claim
9, further comprising:


a plurality of cylindrical links interconnected with
each other at orthogonally alternating pivot axes, each

link having pivot limit steps opposing each other at sides
of said links which are separated by the pivot axis of the

link so that the axes extending through said opposing
pivot limit stops alternate from one interconnected link

to the next.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in
claim 1, wherein said transducer (30) comprises an array 

of transducer elements for electronically scanning a plane
in the body.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in
claim 1, wherein said transducer has a transmitting

surface from which ultrasonic energy is emitted comprising
an acoustic lens covering said transmitting surface of

said transducer and having an outer, patient contacting
surface; and means for dissipating heat embedded in lens

material.
An ultrasonic transducer probe as claimed in
claim 1
5, wherein said means for dissipating heat embedded
in lens material further comprises:


a covering layer, located between said transmitting
surface of said transducer and said patient contacting

surface of said lens, and covering a substantial area of
said transmitting surface for dissipating heat generated

by said piezoelectric transducer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
