<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653625</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reading devices for teststrips
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2186	G01N2186	G01N3700	B01L300	G01N3700	B01L300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	B01L	G01N	B01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	G01N37	B01L3	G01N37	B01L3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of "reading" the result of an assay effected by 
concentrating a detectable material in a comparatively 

small zone of a carrier in the form of a strip, sheet or 
layer through the thickness of which electromagnetic 

radiation such as visible light is transmissible, wherein 
at least a portion of one face or the carrier is exposed to 

incident electromagnetic radiation which is substantially 
uniform across the entire portion, the portion including 

the small zone, and electromagnetic radiation emerging from 
the opposite face of the carrier is measured to determine 

the assay result. Preferably the radiation is diffuse 
light. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVERNESS MEDICAL SWITZERLAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVERNESS MEDICAL SWITZERLAND GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATT MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNDILL PAUL HENRY CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRIOR MICHAEL EVANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CATT, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNDILL, PAUL HENRY CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRIOR, MICHAEL EVANS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to devices for reading the results
of assays, to assay devices for use in conjunction with
reading devices, and to methods using such devices.An objective of the invention is to provide assay result
reading devices and associated sample testing devices which
can provide accurate quantitative assay information in a
simple, quick and cost effective manner. Such devices can
be used in a wide range of situations such as hospitals,
clinics, doctors' offices, and the home. Depending on the
circumstances, the analyte under investigation can also
vary widely. Examples are infectious disease organisms or
markers, metabolites in body fluids indicative of a change
in the health or condition of a patient, and administrable
or ingestable substances such as medicaments or drugs of
abuse.The invention is particularly, although not exclusively,
concerned with assays which can be performed by
comparatively untrained people and especially in the home.Home-use assay devices such as pregnancy tests are now well
established. In the case of a pregnancy test, which merely
needs to provide the user with a "yes/no" result, the
technology now available enables the assay result to be
read easily by eye without the need for any ancillary
equipment.Home-use assays are intended primarily to detect
physiological changes in the human body, with the objective
of promoting the health, general well-being or lifestyle of
the individual. The consumer is becoming increasingly
health conscious, and the ability of the consumer to
monitor his or her bodily functions is being encouraged.
In some instances this can facilitate the interaction 
between the individual consumer and the medical profession (GP).There are many assays indicative of physiological changes in the human body which
currently can only be performed using sophisticated laboratory techniques. In order to
provide useful information concerning the individual under test, such assays generally need
to yhield a result in precise numerical terms, e.g. the concentration of a specific analyte in a
body fluid.Accordingly there is a need for an assay system, especially applicable to the testing of body
fluid samples in the home, which combines convenience of sample testing together with
simple and cost-effective numerical determination of the assay result.Many assay devices are described in the technical literature with suggestions that the assay
result can be read using optical equipment. The use of fluorescence emission, or light
reflectance, is often suggested.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An assay result reader (302), for use in conjunction with an assay device (300)
comprising a porous liquid-permeable carrier in the form of a strip or sheet (101) through the

thickness of which electromagnetic radiation is transmissible, said carrier including a
det
ection zone (102, 103) in which an assay result is revealed by specific binding of a
detectable material directly or indirectly to a binding agent immobilised in said detection

zone, detection of said material being effected as a response to said electromagnetic
radiation, said assay result reader comprising:


a) receiving means (301) for receiving at least a portion of said assay device, said
portion including said detection zone;
b) reading means associated with said receiving means, said reading means comprising:

i) at least one source of diffuse electromagnetic radiation (303, 307); and
ii) one or more sensors (321) capable of detecting the intensity of said electromagnetic
radiation; 
characterised in that
 said assay result reader comprises a diffuser (308) in front of
said one or more sensors such that electromagnetic radiation from said diffuse source must

pass through said diffuser before reaching said one or more sensors; said source and said
sensors(s) being positioned such that when said portion of said assay device is received

within said receiving means, said detection zone is disposed in the path between said source
and said sensor(s) between said diffuse source and said diffuser.
An assay result reader according to claim I wherein said electromagnetic radiation is
light.
An assay result reader according to claim 2, wherein said light is pulsed. 
An assay result reader according to claim 3, wherein said light is pulsed at a pulse
frequency of at least about 1 kHz.
A test kit comprising an assay device and assay result reader wherein:

a) said device comprises a porous liquid-permeable carrier strip or sheet (101) through
the thickness of which electromagnetic radiation is transmissible diffusely, said carrier

preferably being within a casing or cover (200, 201), said carrier including at least one
detection zone (102, 103) in which an assay result is revealed by specific binding of a

detectable material directly or indirectly to a binding agent immobilised in said detection
zone;
b) said casing or cover, if present, has electromagnetic energy transmitting regions (205,
209) enabling electromagnetic radiation from an external source to be passed through said

device, said detection zone lying in the path between said transmitting regions;
c) and said assay result reader is in accordance with claim 1.
A test kit as claimed in claim 5, wherein the receiving means of the assay result
reader incorporates interlocking means (506) engagable with corresponding interlocking

means (709) on said device to ensure that upon receipt of said device by said reader said
detection zone(s) is located and maintained in predetermined spacial relationship relative to

said reading means.
A test kit as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6, wherein said receiving means includes
actuating means (504) triggered by said receipt of said device, said actuating means causing

said reading of said detection zone(s) to be initiated.
A test kit as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein said device has a casing or
cover which includes internal registration means (707) which engages with corresponding

registration means (708) associated with said carrier such that said detection zone within said 
device casing or cover is located in a predetermined spacial relationship relative to said

interlocking means (709) on said device casing or cover.
A test kit according to claim 8, wherein said internal registration means comprises a
pin or the like, engagable with a hole or indentation in said carrier, said detection zone being

at a predetermined location on said carrier relative to said hole or indentation.
A test kit as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein said electromagnetic
radiation from said source is diffuse.
A test kit as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 10, wherein said electromagnetic
radiation is light.
A test kit as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 11, wherein said electromagnetic
radiation from said source is pulsed.
A test kit as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 12, wherein said carrier strip or sheet
comprises paper, nitrocellulose or the like, preferably having a thickness not exceeding

1mm.
A test kit as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 13, wherein said detectable material
comprises a particulate direct label.
A test kit as claimed in claim 14, wherein said electromagnetic radiation is visible
light of a wavelength that is strongly absorbed by said particulate direct label.
A test kit as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 15, wherein the assay device is one of
a plurality of identical such devices provided as part of the kit.
Use of a test kit according to any one of claims 5 to 16, for determining the
concentration of an analyte in a sample liquid. 
An assay result measuring device which device comprises: an assay result reader in
accordance with any one of claims 2 to 4, further comprising electronic means (435, 436)

connected to said sensors, said electronic means being programmed to derive from sensed
incident light a measure of the extent to which said detectable material has become

concentrated in said detection zone.
A device according to claim 18, wherein said diffuse light is pulsed, and said
electronic means is programmed to control said sensors such that said sensors only sense

incident light in phase with said pulsed light, said light preferably having a pulse frequency
of at least about 1 kHz.
A method of "reading" the result of an assay effected by concentrating a detectable
material in a comparatively small zone (102, 103) of a carrier in the form of a strip, sheet or

layer (101) through the thickness of which electromagnetic radiation is transmissible,
wherein at least a portion of one face of said carrier is exposed to incident electromagnetic

radiation which is substantially uniform across the entire portion, said portion including said
zone, and wherein electromagnetic radiation emerging from the opposite face of said carrier

is passed through a diffuser prior to being measured to determine said assay result.
A method according to claim 20, wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is
of substantially uniform intensity across said exposed portion of said carrier.
A method according to claim 20 or claim 21, wherein said incident electromagnetic
radiation is diffuse.
A method according to any one of claims 20-22, wherein said electromagnetic
radiation is light, preferably visible light.
A method according to claim 21 or any one of claims 20-23, wherein said detectable
material is a particulate direct label.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
