<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637275</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTARY FORMING APPARATUS AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D2802	B21D2836	B23D2512	B23D2500	B21D2812	B21D2836	B23D2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B23D	B23D	B21D	B21D	B23D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D28	B21D28	B23D25	B23D25	B21D28	B21D28	B23D25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotary apparatus (10) for forming materials such as sheet metal has upper and lower rotary members (12, 14) rotating in unison on opposite sides of a moving strip of material, at least one die support (30, 32) movably supported on each rotary member for carrying forming die means (34, 36), each die support being movable in a semi-rotary manner relative to its rotary member, a first pair of guide pins (40, 44) located at opposite ends of each die support and offset from one another towards the leading and trailing edges respectively, first guides (50, 52, 54, 56) for the first pairs of guide pins located at respective ends of each rotary member, second pairs of guide pins (42, 46) on each die support, located at opposite ends, and offset from one another towards the trailing edge and leading edge respectively, second guides (60, 62, 64, 66) located at each end of each rotary member, the second guides engaging the second pairs of pins at a point just before the die supports close, and during closure of the die supports, and being disengaged from the second guides just after opening of the die supports. Also disclosed is an improved form of rotary die (36) having an ejection opening (84) for ejecting scrap pieces of material. Also disclosed is a method of forming materials using the apparatus described.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BODNAR ERNEST R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BODNAR, ERNEST R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BODNAR ERNEST R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BODNAR, ERNEST R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to rotary apparatus for 
forming a workpiece, according to the preamble of claim 1 
and to a method for forming moving workpieces according to the 
preamble of claim 7 (US-A-5040 397). Roll forming of moving materials such as sheet metal 
is a well-known procedure, which results in high 
production speeds, and minimizes costs. However, in 
general, roll forming is suitable only for forming 
longitudinal formations along the length of the 
continuously moving strip. If the material had to be cut, or if transverse 
formations were formed in it, then usually such 
formations or cuts were carried out by what is known as 
"flying dies". Such flying dies were reciprocated to and 
fro lengthwise along the length of the material, and 
closed on the material, when they had been accelerated up 
to the speed of the line. In the great majority of cases however such flying 
dies were used only as cut off dies at the end of the 
line for simply cutting the material to the desired 
length. In most cases, forming operations other than 
straight forward roll forming, were carried out on 
stationary punch presses, or a series or such stationary 
punch presses in what was known as "progressive dies". 
This technique however is much slower, and consequently 
production costs are greatly increased. It will be appreciated from this background 
description, that most of these systems have reference to 
the forming of sheet metals, whether steel or other types  
 
of metal. However, many of these techniques have also 
been applied to the forming of a wide variety of other 
materials. For example, materials as various as plastic 
materials, cork, rubber, leather, carpet, paper, 
cardboard and textiles, to name only a few, have all been 
conventionally formed with some form of press operation 
with various types of different forming dies, both for 
cutting and/or forming impressions in such materials. In U.S. Letters Patent No. RE 33,613 and U.S. 
Letters Patent No. 5,040,397, granted to E. R. Bodnar, 
there are disclosed a rotary forming apparatus for 
forming and punching material in a continuously moving 
strip. This apparatus and method is a substantial 
advance over prior art forming methods. In that 
apparatus, upper and lower rotary members were provided 
on opposite sides of the strip. On each of the rotary 
members there was at least one die support which was 
movable in a semi-rotary manner relative to the rotary 
member. Guide pins were provided at opposite ends of 
each die support. Guide pins
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotary apparatus (10) for forming a workpiece having 
upper and lower rotary members (12,14), adapted to rotate 

in unison on opposite sides of a workpiece (W) at least 
one die support (30,32), movably supported on each said 

rotary member for carrying forming die means (34,36) 
whereby the same may close and open relative to said 

workpiece, each said die support being movable in a semi-rotary 
manner relative to its rotary member and having 

leading and trailing edges and having
 
   a first pair of guide pins (40,44), said first pair 

of pins being located at opposite ends of each said die 
support and offset from one another towards the leading 

and trailing edges of each said die support respectively;
 
   first guide means (50,52,54,56) for said first pair 

of guide pins located at respective ends of each said 
rotary member, for guiding said first pair of guide pins;
 
   characterised by 

a second pair of guide pins (42,46) on each said die 
support, located at opposite ends thereof, and offset 

from one another towards the trailing edge and leading 
edge respectively of each said die support, and,
 
   second guide means (60,62,64,66) located at each end 

of each said rotary member, said second guide means being 
adapted to engage said second pair of guide pins at a 

point just before said die supports close, and during 
closure of said die supports, and being disengaged from 

said second guide means just after opening of said die 
supports. 
A rotary apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, and 
wherein said first pairs of guide pins (40,44) define a 

predetermined first spacing, and wherein said second 
pairs of said guide pins (42,46) define a predetermined 

second spacing, and wherein said second predetermined 
spacing is less than said first predetermined spacing. 
A rotary apparatus as claimed in Claim 2, and 
wherein said first guide means (50,52,54,56) for said 

first guide pins define a predetermined spacing apart  
 

from one another, at opposite ends of said rotary 
members, and wherein said second guide means 

(60,62,64,66) for said second guide pins define a second 
predetermined spacing from one another, at each end of 

said rotary members, and wherein said second spacing is 
less than said first spacing. 
A rotary apparatus as claimed in Claim 3, and 
wherein said first guide means (50,52,54,56) comprise a 

pair of guide grooves, located at opposite ends of each 
said rotary member, and shaped and adapted to receive 

respective first guide pins therein, and wherein said 
second guide means (60,62,64,66) comprise guide cam 

means, at respective ends of each said rotary member, and 
wherein said guide cam means at one end of said rotary 

members are located upstream, and wherein said guide cam 
means at the other end of said rotary members are located 

downstream, with respect to the axis of rotation of said 
rotary members. 
A rotary apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein 
said forming die (36) includes ejection opening means 

(84) for receiving a scrap piece of workpiece from said 
die and adapted for discharging the same. 
A rotary apparatus as claimed in Claim 5, and 
wherein said forming die (36) defines a recess, with a 

lower opening, and ejection passageway means (84) 
communicating with said lower opening of said die recess 

(36), whereby said scrap piece of said workpiece may be 
discharged directly through said die recess and out of 

said ejection passageway means. 
A method of forming moving workpiece including 
passing said workpiece the same between pairs of rotary 

members (12,14) each having at least one die support 
(32,34) movably mounted thereon for supporting die means 

(32,34);
 
   guiding said die supports (32,34) by first guide 

means (40,44) around a first guide path, from each end of 
said rotary members, around the complete axis of rotation  

 
of said rotary members whereby the same close and open 

relative to said workpiece and characterised by;
 
   guiding said die supports (32,34) by second guide 

means (42,46) on second guide portions (60,62,64,66) 
around a fraction of the arc of rotation of each said 

rotary member, said fraction of said arc comprising that 
portion of said arc commencing just before closure of 

said die supports, until a point just after opening of 
said die supports, whereby said die supports are guided 

both by said first guide means and by said second guide 
means, over that portion of said arc from just prior to 

closing to just after opening thereof. 
A method of forming continuously moving material as 
claimed in Claim 7 and including the step of punching a 

portion of said workpiece, when said die means close, and 
passing said punched out portion through opening means 

(84) in said die means (36). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
