<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629275</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HEATING BUILDING AND VENTILATION AIR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24D900	F24D1000	F24D300	F24D300	F24D900	F24D1000	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24D	F24D	F24D	F24D	F24D	F24D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24D9	F24D10	F24D3	F24D3	F24D9	F24D10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method for heating room space of a building. According to the method, heat is conveyed from district heating water to a heating liquid of heating circuits (6, 7) for heating the building, tap water and supply air (A) of ventilation. According to the invention, the heating circuits (6, 7) for heating the building and the supply air are connected in series in such a manner that the heating liquid flowing in piping (5) heats, after passing a heat exchanger (4), first the heating circuit (6) for heating the building and thereafter the heating circuit (7) for heating the supply air (A). On account of the invention, the temperature of the district heating return water is lower than in the known apparatuses.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLAEKT AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB FLAEKT AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESKINEN SEPPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LESKINEN, SEPPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for heating 
room space of a building, comprising conveyance of heat 
from a district heating liquid to a heating liquid of 
heating circuits for heating the building and the 
ventilation air or the like. The invention also relates 
to an apparatus for heating room space of a building. In district heating plants and boiler plants, 
the temperature of supply water conducted from the plant 
is usually 90...110°C, depending on the plant. The water 
required for the heating, ventilation and tap water of 
buildings is generally heated in a heat exchanger, the 
temperature of the water supplied therefrom to the 
building being normally 70...90°C. In a peak load 
situation, according to which heating networks are 
usually designed, the temperature of return water conducted 
from the building cannot normally be dropped 
below 40°C. The temperature of the district heating 
return water is thus approximately 50°C when minimum 
costs are to be achieved. In view of the investment 
costs, pumpage rates, heat losses, etc., of district 
heating networks, it would be advantageous to drop the 
temperature of the return water even more, but the costs 
of heat exchangers would increase rapidly even with a 
small additional drop, as the temperature difference 
even in the present apparatuses is rather small, about 
10°C. In conventional buildings, the proportion of 
ventilation in the heating energy consumption of the 
building is approximately 35...50%, depending on the 
type of building and the systems utilized in it. Both 
the heat losses of the building and the heat requirement 
of ventilation are directly proportional to the  
 
difference between indoor and outdoor temperature, i.e. 
the ratio between them is approximately constant. The 
overall heat balance encompasses, in addition, the 
internal heat evolution of the building (lighting, 
electric appliances, people, etc.) and hot tap water, 
which are both independent of outdoor temperature and 
have opposite effects. The proportion of ventilation 
varies thus very little with changes in the outdoor 
temperature. The object of the present invention is to 
provide a method by means of which the temperature of 
district heating return water can be dropped more than 
in known apparatuses without significant extra investments. 
The method of the invention is characterized in 
that one of said liquids is arranged to flow in such a 
manner that it conveys heat first to the heating of the 
building and thereafter to the heating of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for heating room space of a 
building, comprising conveyance of heat from a district 

heating liquid to a heating liquid of heating circuits 
(6,7) for heating the building and the ventilation air, 


characterized
 in that in order to obtain 
low temperature of the district heating return liquid 

one of said liquids is arranged to flow in such a manner 
that it conveys heat needed for the heating of the 

building and thereafter heat needed for the ventilation 
air. 
A method according to claim 1, comprising 
conveyance of heat from exhaust air (B) of the building 

to supply air (A) by means of a heat recovery circuit, 

characterized
 in that the heating liquid 
heating the ventilation air is arranged to flow through 

a heat exchanger (11) in said heat recovery circuit, in 
which heat exchanger the liquid conveys heat to the 

supply air (A). 
A method according to claim 2, 
characterized
 
in that the heating liquid is removed 

from the heat recovery circuit prior to the heat 
exchanger of exhaust air (B) or after it has passed 

through the heat exchanger of the exhaust air. 
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that said flowing liquid is the heating 

liquid of the heating circuit which is circulated 
from the heat exchanger (4) through the heating circuit 

(6) for heating the building and thereafter through the 
heating circuit (7) for heating the ventilation air back 

to the heat exchanger (4). 
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized
 
in that said flowing liquid is  

 
district heating water, which is circulated from the 

district heating network (1,2) through the heat 
exchanger (16) of the heating circuit for heating the 

building to the heat exchanger (17) of the heating 
circuit for heating the ventilation air and therefrom 

back to the district heating network (1,2). 
An apparatus for heating room space of a 
building, comprising heat exchanging means (4;16,17) for 

conveying heat from a district heating liquid to a heating 
liquid flowing in heating circuits (6,7) for heating 

the building and the ventilation air, 
characterized
 
in that in order to obtain low temperature 

of the district heating return liquid the heating 
circuits (6,7) for heating the building and the ventilation 

air are connected in series, and that one of said 
liquids is arranged to flow in the apparatus in such a 

manner that it conveys heat needed for the heating of 
the building and thereafter, when it is colder, heat 

needed for the ventilation air. 
An apparatus according to claim 6, comprising 
a heat recovery circuit for conveying heat from 

the exhaust air (B) of the building to the supply air 
(A), 
characterized
 in that the circulation 
piping of the heating liquid for heating the ventilation 

air is connected to the heat recovery circuit in such 
a manner that the heating liquid circulates through the 

supply air heat exchanger (11) and is removed from said 
circuit prior to the exhaust air heat exchanger or 

thereafter. 
An apparatus according to claim 6, 
characterized
 
in that the heating circuits (6,7) 

for heating the building and the ventilation air have 
common heating liquid circulation piping (5), wherein 

the heating liquid is arranged to circulate from the 
heat exchanger (4) heating the liquid to the heating  

 
circuit (6) for heating the building and further to the 

heating circuit (7) for heating the ventilation air. 
An apparatus according to claim 6, 
characterized
 
in that the heating circuits (6,7) 

for heating the building and the ventilation air are 
each provided with a separate heat exchanger (16,17) for 

heating the heating liquid in the circuit, the district 
heating liquid being arranged to flow first through the 

heat exchanger (16) of the heating circuit for heating 
the building and thereafter through the heat exchanger 

(17) of the heating circuit for heating the ventilation 
air. 
An apparatus according to claim 9, comprising 
a heating circuit for heating hot tap water, 


characterized
 in that the heat exchanger 
of the heating circuit for hot tap water is connected 

in parallel with the heat exchanger of the heating 
circuit for heating the ventilation air. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
