<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617375</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Graphics apparatus and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K948	G06K948	G06T760	G06T760	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G06K9	G06T7	G06T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus (10) and computer-implemented polygon bounding method 
generate, in a first step, a binary array representation of a closed 

contour input object relative to a reference coordinate system. 
Subsequently, in a single pass through the binary array, a bounding 

polygon is generated as a sequence of parallel "bands," each representing 
a pair of opposing sides of the polygon. The polygon bands are oriented 

at successive generally uniform rotations of the reference coordinate 
system and are positioned to define the bounds of the closed contour for 

each rotation angle. The spacing and positioning of the bands can thus 
be used to define polygon size and position at each angle. In this way, 

comparisons between a plurality of polygons can be made systematically 
using defined geometrical criteria. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEALEY PAUL DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEALEY, PAUL DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to closed contour object 
characterization, and more particularly to the isolation and 
classification of closed contour objects using convex-polygon bounding 
structures. It is sometimes convenient to isolate and characterize objects in 
two dimensional and three dimensional space by enclosing them within a 
defined polygon (or polyhedron in 3D) whose size and shape provide 
information about the objects they enclose. For example, bounding 
polygons can be used to distinguish the components of an array of objects 
and determine rough approximations of their shape. Specific applications 
in which polygon bounding has proven useful include pattern recognition, 
in the case of two dimensional objects, and virtual imaging in the case 
of objects defined in three dimensional space. In the field of pattern recognition, a convex-polygon bounding 
method has been proposed by K. Yamamoto et al, Recognition of Hand-Printed 
Characters By An Outermost Method, Pattern Recognition, Vol. 12, 
pp. 229-236 (1980). The Yamamoto et al method approximates the convex 
hull of a discrete set of points. Approximate convex hull structures are 
generated by identifying, in the object to be bounded, a series of 
"outermost" contour points. Those points are sequentially connected to 
form the sides of the bounding polygon. For example, the letter "A" 
might be bounded by a polygon having a short horizontal upper side, a 
long horizontal lower side, and a pair of slanted intermediate sides. Each side of the polygon so generated is inherently oriented at 
some angular rotation with respect to a fixed frame of reference. The 
angular rotations are determined solely by the positions of the contour 
points, which in turn are determined by the shape of the closed contour 
to be bounded. Thus, in the prior method, the angular rotations of the 
polygon sides, and even the number of sides, typically differ from 
polygon to polygon when different contours are considered. For example, 
the sides of a polygon constructed to bound the letter "A" would 
generally be fewer in number and have different angular rotations than a 
polygon bounding the letter "B". Polygons generated for different 
contours in accordance with the Yamamoto et al method therefore have few, 
if any, characteristics in common, and cannot be easily compared.  It is submitted that contour analysis could be significantly 
improved using convex-polygons having common characteristics, such as a 
predetermined number of sides and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data processing system including a character bounding system for 
evaluating closed contour images of objects, comprising: 

   a central processing unit; 
   a data input system for inputing data representing objects to be 

evaluated; 
   a data output system; 

   one or more data storage resources; 
   means for generating a binary array representation of one or more 

closed contour objects to be evaluated with respect to a reference 
coordinate system; and 

   means for generating from said binary array representation one or 
more convex-polygon representations of said objects of a form that 

includes a set of polygon bands oriented relative to said reference 
coordinate system and to generally uniform angular rotations of said 

reference coordinate system, said bands defining the contour bounds of 
the closed contour objects with respect to each rotation of said 

reference coordinate system. 
A data processing system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said polygon 
bands include pairs of minimum and maximum contour displacement values 

representing the bounds of the closed contour objects for each rotation 
of said reference coordinate system. 
A data processing system as claimed in any of claims 1 or 2 further 
including means for comparing plural convex-polygon representations of 

said closed contour objects in order to isolate said objects and 
approximations of their shape. 
A data processing system as claimed in any of the preceding claims 
wherein said means for generating convex-polygon representations include 

a first means for scanning said binary array representation, a second 
means for determining the contour bands relative to said reference 

 
coordinate system, and a third means for incrementally rotating said 

reference system contour bands and adjusting them to bound the closed 
contour objects in the rotated directions. 
A data processing system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said third 
means includes fourth means for mapping minimum and maximum contour 

displacement values from the reference coordinate system through 
successive rotations thereof by successively incrementing and 

decrementing the reference coordinate system contour displacement values 
in accordance with a predetermined sequence. 
A data processing system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said fourth 
means includes fifth means for limiting said predetermined sequence upon 

determination that the change in minimum and maximum contour displacement 
values between successive scan lines of the binary array has reached a 

critical threshold. 
A data processing system as claimed in claim 6 wherein said 
critical threshold is the approximate angle by which the reference 

coordinate system has been rotated. 
A method for convex-polygon bounding of closed contour images in a 
data processing system comprising the steps of: 

   inputing data representing an image to be evaluated; 
   generating a binary array representation of a closed contour input 

image relative to a reference coordinate system; and 
   generating, in a single pass through said binary array, a data 

output structure defining the contour bounds of said input image relative 
to successive, generally uniform rotations of said reference coordinate 

system. 
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein said contour bounds are 
defined by parallel lines or bands passing through minimum and maximum 

contour points on said image relative to each rotation of said reference 
coordinate system. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 8 or 9 wherein said data 
output structure generating step includes the steps of scanning 

successive lines of said binary array and identifying, for each scan 
line, contour displacement minimum and maximum values relative to each 

rotation of said reference coordinate system, and adding said values to 
said data output structure if they represent global minimum and maximum 

values of said input image. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 8 or 9 wherein said data 
output structure generating step includes the steps of: 

   generating and initializing an interval table for representing the 
bounds of the closed contour input image with respect to each rotation of 

said reference coordinate system, said interval table defining a set of 
rotation angle approximation values, and a pair of minimum and maximum 

contour displacement values associated with each of said rotation angle 
approximation values; 

   filling in said interval table in order to define a contour-bounding 
convex-polygon by scanning successive lines of said binary 

array, and for each scan line; 
   identifying successive bounding contour interval pairs representing 

minimum and maximum contour displacements with respect to each rotation 
of said reference coordinate system; and 

   storing in said interval table one or both of the contour minimum 
and maximum displacement values if they excee
d the values previously 
stored at corresponding locations in said interval table. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 8 to 11 wherein said data 
output structure generating step includes rotating said reference 

coordinate system by mapping maximum and minimum contour displacement 
values relative to said reference coordinate system using angular 

approximation values. 
A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein said coordinate system 
rotating step includes determining the maximum and minimum contour 

displacement values "xl,y" and "xr,y" relative to said reference 
coordinate system directly from said binary array, and generating mapped 

 
minimum and maximum contour displacement values "lΘ" and "rΘ"by modifying 

said "xl,y" and "xr,y" coordinates in accordance with said angular 
approximation values. 
A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said angular approximation 
values are a sequence of rational tangents of a form mΘ/nΘ, wherein 

successive mΘ and successive nΘ values differ by at most one. 
A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein said rational tangents m/n 
are selected to divide the angular range 0 
<
 Θ 
<
 π into 2n+2 parts in 
accordance with the predetermined sequence: 

{0/2n,..., 2n/2n, 2n/2n-1,..., 
2n/0, 2n/-1,..., 2n/-2n, 

2n-1/-2n,..., 1/-2n}. 
A method as claimed in claim 15 wherein said coordinate system 
rotating step includes determining the mapped minimum and maximum contour 

displacement values "lΘ" and "rΘ" in accordance with the relationships lΘ 
= nΘxl(y) + mΘy, and rΘ = nΘxl(y) + mΘy, over the predetermined sequence of 

m/n rational tangent values. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 13 to 16 wherein said 
coordinate system rotating step includes, for each scan line "y" of the 

binary array in said reference coordinate system, the step of mapping the 
minimum and maximum contour displacement values "xl,y" and "xr,y" to the 

rotated coordinate system values "lΘ" and "rΘ" by placing the values "xl", 
"xr" and "y" in data storage register locations and performing shift and 

add operations on said values. 
A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said coordinate system 
rotating step includes a first step of placing the "xl" and "xr" 

displacement values in first and second data storage register locations, 
and placing the scan line value "y" in a third data storage register 

location, a second step of determining the values "nΘxl" and "nΘxr" for 
the start of the predetermined m/n tangent sequence by performing a 

logical shift left on the "xr" and xl" values, and a third step of 
determining the mapped interval pair values "lΘ = (nΘlx + mΘy)" and "rΘ = 

(nΘxr + mΘy)" by successively adding and subtracting the values "y", "xl" 
and "xr" in accordance with the change in m and n over the predetermined 

sequence of m/n tangent values. 
A method as claimed in claim 18 further including the step of 
limiting the sequence of tangent m/n values over which said reference 

coordinate system is rotated upon determination that the difference 
between the "xl" and "xr" values for successive scan lines of the binary 

array are greater than or less than, respectively, the m/n tangent value. 
A method for convex-polygon bounding of closed contour objects in a 
data processing system, comprising the steps of: 

   generating a binary array representation of a closed contour input 
object relative to a reference coordinate system; 

   generating, in a single pass through said binary array, a data 
output structure defining the contour bounds of said input object 

relative to successive, generally uniform rotations of said reference 
coordinate system, said contour bounds being determined by mapping pairs 

of interval endpoint values of the reference coordinate system by 
successively incrementing and decrementing the "x" and "y" coordinate 

values thereof in accordance with a predetermined sequence. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
