<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648064</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pliant electrical heating panel and method and device for the fabrication thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B334	H05B334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	H05B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Electrical heating blanket with layers of material (1,2,8) which are stitched together with 
stitching seams (9) and with a heating wire (3) laying between the layers of material (1,2,8) in a 

zig-zag pattern, whereby the stitching seams across the heating wire (3) in order to keep the 
wire (3) in its desired position. Such a heating blanket is fabricated by again and again, feed a 

piece of heating wire in the transverse direction between the layers of material coming together 
and thereafter stitching together these layers of material in the transporting direction of the 

material. 
A device intended therefore comprises a list moveable to and fro for pressing that 
piece of heating wire again and again between the layers of materials in front of the stitching 

place. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLLEMAN J E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOLLEMAN, J.E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLEMAN J E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLEMAN, J.E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a pliant electrical heating panel comprising at least one panel part and a 
heating wire which lies in a desired pattern thereon and is held on his position by at least one 
line-shaped seam. The invention further relates to a method and divice for the fabrication of 
such a heating panel. The term heating panel not only comprises a elektrical blanket, but each in 
substance pliant flat heating means, for example a pillow or a mat serving as a heatied 
substratum for a carpet, which heating means is composited of layers which are compounded 
with a heating wire therebetween. Such an electrical heating panel is known from the Dutch 
patent specifications 121671 and 143401. In these patent specifications an electrical heating 
blanket is described, whereby an electrical heating wire passes therein in a zig zag fashion and 
is kept in position by attaching to each other two blanket halves laying onto each ohter with 
seams, along lines which extend between the parts of the electrical heating wire laying next to 
each other and parallel thereto. By this known electrical blanket the electrical heating wire can 
freely move through sockets formed by two connecting seams laying next to each other, as a 
result thereof parts of the wire can be lie close to each other, only separated by a seam, or at a 
distance from each other which nearly corresponds with the width of two sockets. A 
disadvantage thereof is that the heat-release of the electrical blanket per unity of area can show 
undesirable great differences, depending on parts of the electrical heating wire lie closer to each 
other or farther from each other. Another disadvantage is that the flexibility of the known 
electrical blanket can show undesirable differences when the electrical heating wires are shifted 
in the sockets. Furthermore, an electrical blanket in which the electrical heating wire passes 
through the sockets formed in the blanket in a meandering way does not look out attractive. The 
invention has the object to provide an electrical heating panel of the type mentioned in the 
beginning which does not show these disadvantages. According to the invention this object is 
attained with a pliant electrical heating panel in that a line at which the seam lies intersects the 
electrical heating wire and in that the seam at the intersection between said line and the 
electrical heating wire is intersected. By this in a simple way it is reached that the electrical 
heating wire is locked at the panel part in its corrects
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Pliant electrical heating panel comprising at least one panel part (1,2) and an electrical heating 
wire (4) which lies in a desired pattern thereon and is held in its position by at least one line-shaped 

seam (9) characterised in that a line at which the seam (9) lies intersects the electrical 
heating wire (3) and in that the seam (9) is interrupted at the intersection between said line and 

the electrical heating wire (3). 
Heating panel according to claim 1, having at least two panel-parts(1,2,8) laying onto each 
other an wherebetween the electrical he
ating wire (3) lies, characterized in that the seam (9) 
connects the panel-parts (1,2,8,) laying onto each other thereby enclosing the electrical heating 

wire (3). 
Heating panel according to claim 1 or 2, having a zig-zag extending wire-pattern with parallel 
wire-parts (4), characterized in that each of a number of lines whereupon the seam (9) lies 

intersects these parallel wire-parts (4). 
Heating panel according to one of the claims 1-3, characterized in that the seam is formed by 
a stitching-seam. 
Heating panel with an electrical heating wire (3) connectable to the public mains voltage and 
having a signal wire (45) separated from the heating wire (3) by a layer of electrical insulating 

material, characterized in that a neon-lamp (49) is connected in series with a thyristor (48) 
which can be triggered via a heating wire (3) short-cut via the signal wire (45). 
Heating panel comprising a coaxcable wherein an electrical heating wire and a signal wire are 
contained characterized in that the electrical heating wire (3) and the signal wire (45) at their 

ends where they come out of the coaxcable are connected to different phases (6,7) of the 
public mains voltage and in that between the electrical heating wire (3) and the signal wire (45) 

on the one hand and the not-current supporting fase (7) on the other hand a first and a second 
switch (S1,S2) are present and between the signal wire (45) and the current supporting fase (6) 

a diode (46) is connected, with the trigger-connection for a current detection device, i.e.a. 
thyristor (48) between said diode (46) and the signal wire (45). 
Heating panel according to claim 6, characterized in that parallel to said second switch (S2) in 
the heating wire (3) a third switch is present which is connected in series with a diode (52). 
Method for the fabrication of a pliant electrical heating panel according to one of the claims 
1-7, whereby at least one (35,36) layer of web-like material (36) is fed (33) and is sewed by 

means of needles (32) being on a line which extends in a direction transverse to the feeding 
direction of the material thereby fixing an electrical heating wire (37) formed in a zig-zag pattern 

onto the web-like material (35,36),characterized in that, again and again, first forming a new 
part of the zig-zag pattern on stationary of slowly moving web-like materials by, seen in the 

material feed direction, pressing a straight part of the wire to beyond the line (33) of the needles 
and thereafter feed the web-like materials further and sewing over a distance which corresponds 

to the distance between straight parts of the zig-zag pattern to be formed. 
Device for carrying out the method according to claim 8 automatically comprising at least a 
holder for a roll of web material (35,36,38) and a holder for a roll of electrical heating wire (37), 

as well as a table (30) onto which the web of material can be fed and, by means of a multiple-needle 
sewingmachine (31), can be stitched, whereby the needles (32) lie on a line (33) 

extending transverse to the web transporting direction and a wire lay out device (40) for the lay 
out of the electrical heating wire onto the web material (35) characterized in that in the space 

above the web material (35,36) a strip (41) is present which is moveable between a first 
position in which an aligning edge(42) of the strip(41) which is faced to the line (33) of needles, 

seen in the web transporting direction, lies before the line (33) and a second position in which 
said aligning edge (42) seen in the same direction, lies beyond this line (33) of the needles (32) 
Device according to claim 9, characterized in that the aligning edge (42) of the strip (41) is 
provided with notches (43) which, seen in the web transporting direction, each lie on a line with 

the stitching seam to be formed. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
