<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645324</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for identifying products or product carriers in a production process and an identification system for carrying out such a method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22B500	A22B500	B23Q4102	B23Q4102	B65G4748	B65G4749	G07C300	G07C300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22B	A22B	B23Q	B23Q	B65G	B65G	G07C	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22B5	A22B5	B23Q41	B23Q41	B65G47	B65G47	G07C3	G07C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an identification system with 
label exchanger for identifying products or product carriers 

in an automated production process. The identification labels 
are automatically removed from the products or from the 

product carriers at the end of the production process. Then 
these identification labels are transferred to the beginning 

of the production process through a label transport system. 
This transport takes place by means of compressed air or 

vacuum, the labels being blown or sucked through a tube. At 
the beginning of the production process, the labels are 

automatically attached to the products or the product 
carriers. Defective labels can be removed during this 

transport. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITS ERIC THEODORUS E M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TE BRAAKE THEODORUS G J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITS, ERIC THEODORUS E.M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TE BRAAKE, THEODORUS G.J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for identifying 
products or product carriers in an at least partly automated 
production process. The invention also relates to an identification system 
comprising identification labels for identifying products or 
product carriers in an at least partly automated production 
process. The invention is particularly important if the product 
carriers referred to are also used outside the production or 
operating process. As an example, the identification of 
slaughter hooks in slaughterhouses can be mentioned. The 
slaughter hooks which are used for this purpose are 
standardized with regard to their design and dimensions and 
circulate between the distributors of slaughter products and 
the slaughterhouses. For the purpose of the identification, 
these slaughter hooks can be provided with a contactless 
identification label, such as, for instance, according to 
applicant's U.S. Patent No. 4,196,418. If these slaughter hooks are to be identified in the 
slaughterhouse by means of this contactless identification 
label in order to automate the slaughter process, 
comparatively speaking most identification labels are located 
outside the slaughterhouses. This requires a considerable investment and it is not 
very profitable. The present invention provides a solution to this problem 
and can also be used in all similar automation situations 
where the product carrier and/or products circulate between 
the supplier and the processer. A method according to the invention is characterized in 
that in a first section of the production process products or 
product carriers are automatically provided with 
identification labels; in a second section of the production  
 
process, located downstream of the first section, 
identification labels are automatically removed from the 
products or product carriers; and at least some of the removed 
identification labels are transported to another section of 
the production process, where they can be attached to products 
or product carriers again. According to a variant of the invention, now only a 
limited number of the product carriers in circulation need to 
be provided with identification labels, viz. those product 
carriers which are located in the production process. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, not 
any product carrier needs to be provided with an 
identification label since the products themselves are 
provided with such a label. However, both variants entail a 
comparable saving on the numbers of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for identifying products or product carriers in 
a production process, characterized in that in a first section 

of the production process products or product carriers are 
automatically provided with identification labels; in a second 

section of the production process, located downstream of the 
first section, identification labels are automatically removed 

from the products or product carriers; and at least some of 
the removed identification labels are transported to another 

section of the production process, where they can be attached 
to products or product carriers again. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that at 
least some of the removed identification labels are returned 

to the first section, where they can be attached to products 
or product carriers again. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the removed identification labels are tested before being 

attached to a product or product carrier again. 
A method according to claim 3, characterized in that 
identification labels which the test demonstrates to be 

defective are not attached to a product or product carrier 
again. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the identification labels comprise 

magnets to temporarily attach the identification labels to the 
products or product carriers. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said transport of the removed 

identification labels is carried out by means of a tube 
 

through which the identification labels are blown from one end 
to the other by means of compressed air or are sucked from one 

end to the other by means of vacuum. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that identification labels which have been 

removed from products or product carriers are stored in a 
buffer before being attached to products or product carriers 

in the production process again. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the identification labels comprise 

contactless electromagnetic responders. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the first section is located at the 

beginning of the production process. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the second section is located at the end 

of the production process. 
An identification system comprising identification labels 
for identifying products or product carriers in a production 

process, characterized in that the system further comprises a 
label fitting mechanism for attaching identification labels to 

products or product carriers in a first section of the 
production process; a label detachment mechanism for removing 

identification labels from the products or product carriers in 
a second section of the production process, located downstream 

of the first section; and a transport mechanism for returning 
at least some of the removed identification labels to another 

section of the production process, where they can be attached 
to products or product carriers again. 
An identification system according to claim 11, 
characterized in that the transport mechanism returns at least 

some of the removed identification labels to the first 
section, so that they can there be attached to products or 

product carriers again. 
An identification system according to claim 11 or 12, 
characterized in that the system further comprises testing 

means for testing removed identification labels before they 
are attached to a product or product carrier again. 
An identification system according to claim 13, 
characterized in that the testing means separates from the 

other labels those identification labels which the test has 
identified as being defective, so that these defective labels 

are not returned again to the production process to be 
attached to products or product carriers. 
An identification system according to any one of the 
preceding claims 11-14, characterized in that the 

identification labels comprise magnets to temporarily attach 
the identification labels to the products or product carriers. 
An identification system according to any one of the 
preceding claims 11-15, characterized in that the transport 

means at least comprise a tube through which the 
identification labels are blown from one end to the other by 

means of compressed air or sucked from one end to the other by 
vacuum. 
An identification system according to any one of the 
preceding claims 11-16, characterized in that the system 

further comprises a buffer unit in which detection labels 
which have been removed from products or product carriers are 

stored in a buffer before being attached to products or 
product carriers again in the production process. 
An identification system according to any one of the 
preceding claims 11-17, characterized in that the first 

section is located at the beginning of the production process. 
An identification system according to any one of the 
preceding claims 11-18, characterized in that the second 

section is located at the end of the production process. 
An identification system according to any one of the 
preceding claims 11-19, characterized in that the 

indentification labels comprise contactless electromagnetic 
responders. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
