<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655324</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of forming compacted layer
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B28B740	B28B302	B28B302	B30B1102	B28B736	C04B3000	B30B1500	B30B1500	B30B1102	F16L5900	F24C702	F16L5900	C04B3000	B28B736	F24C702	B28B744	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B28B	B28B	B28B	B30B	B28B	C04B	B30B	B30B	B30B	F16L	F24C	F16L	C04B	B28B	F24C	B28B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B28B7	B28B3	B28B3	B30B11	B28B7	C04B30	B30B15	B30B15	B30B11	F16L59	F24C7	F16L59	C04B30	B28B7	F24C7	B28B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A layer (13A) of compacted powdery microporous material is 
formed in a container (1) of substantially air-impervious 

material by providing at least one air outlet region (2) in 
the container together with barrier means (3) which is 

adapted and arranged to substantially prevent passage 
therethrough of microporous material during compaction 

thereof, whilst permitting permeation of air displaced 
therefrom during such compaction. Also provided in the 

container is means (4, 5; 14A, 14B; 15, 16; 17, 18; 19, 20; 
21; 22) to enable the displaced air permeating at least 

part of the barrier means (3) during compaction of the 
microporous material (13) to flow laterally of the 

direction of movement of a press tool (11) between at least 
part of the barrier means and the base of the container (1) 

toward the at least one air outlet region (2) so as to be 
displaced from the container therethrough. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMASPEED LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCWILLIAMS, JOSEPH ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to microporous materials, 
particularly but not exclusively to microporous thermal 
insulation materials, and more especially to a method of 
forming compacted layers of such materials in powder form 
in containers formed of substantially air-impervious 
material. The invention is especially, but not exclusively, 
applicable to the formation of a layer of compacted powdery 
microporous thermal insulation material in a supporting 
dish for a radiant electric heater such as is used in 
smooth top glass ceramic cooking appliances. The term 'microporous' is used herein to identify porous or 
cellular materials in which the ultimate size of the cells 
or voids is less than the mean free path of an air molecule 
at NTP, i.e. of the order of 100 nm or smaller. A material 
which is microporous in this sense will exhibit very low 
transfer of heat by air conduction (that is collisions 
between air molecules). Such microporous materials include 
aerogel, which is a gel in which the liquid phase has been 
replaced by a gaseous phase in such a way as to avoid the 
shrinkage which would occur if the gel were dried directly 
from a liquid. A substantially identical structure can be 
obtained by controlled precipitation from solution, the 
temperature and pH being controlled during precipitation to  
 
obtain an open lattice precipitate. Other equivalent open 
lattice structures include pyrogenic (fumed) and electro-thermal 
types in which a substantial proportion of the 
particles have an ultimate particle size less than 100 nm. 
Any of these materials, based for example on silica, 
alumina or other metal oxides, may be used to prepare a 
composition which is microporous as defined above. Known forms of microporous materials comprise compacted 
microporous metal oxide particles, particularly silica, and 
typically including ceramic fibre or glass filament 
reinforcement and rutile powder opacifier. Alumina is 
sometimes included to improve high temperature performance 
by reducing shrinkage, this being particularly important in 
radiant electric heater applications. In the manufacture of radiant electric heaters for glass 
ceramic top cooking appliances, microporous thermal 
insulation material is compacted into a metal dish to form 
a thermal and electrical insulating base which is used 
directly or indirectly as a support for one or more 
electrical heating elements. In a method of producing such 
a base according to the prior art, a sheet of air-pervious 
paper, such as filter paper, is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a layer (13A) of compacted powdery 
microporous material in a container (1) of substantially 

air-impervious material, which method comprises the steps 
of: 


providing a container (1) of substantially air-impervious 
material, the container having a base, side walls and at 

least one air outlet region (2); 
providing a press tool (11) for compacting powdery 
microporous material into the container, the press tool 

being movable in a direction toward and away from the base 
of the container; 
providing barrier means (3) adjacent at least the base of 
the container, the barrier means being adapted and arranged 

to substantially prevent passage therethrough of 
microporous material during compaction thereof, whilst 

permitting permeation of air displaced therefrom during 
such compaction; 
introducing powdery microporous material (13) between the 
container and the press tool; and  

 
compacting the microporous material into the container by 
means of the press tool (11) whereby air is displaced from 

within the microporous material, 
 
characterised by the step of providing means (4, 5; 14A, 

14B; 15, 16; 17, 18; 19, 20; 21; 22) to enable the 
displaced air permeating at least part of the barrier means 

(3) during compaction of the microporous material (13) to 
flow laterally of the direction of movement of the press 

tool (11) between the at least part of the barrier means 
and at least the base of the container (1) toward the at 

least one air outlet region (2) so as to be displaced from 
the container therethrough. 
A method according to claim 1, characterised in that 
the microporous material (13) comprises microporous thermal 

insulation material. 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that the at least one air outlet region (2) is provided at 

a peripheral region of the container (1). 
A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, characterised 
in that the at least one air outlet region (2) comprises at 

least one hole in the container (1).  
 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that a plurality of air outlet regions (2) 

is provided. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the barrier means (3) comprises at 

least one layer (4, 5) of an inherently air-pervious 
material. 
A method according to claim 6, characterised in that 
the air-pervious material is selected from: air-pervious 

paper; fine mesh or gauze material; cloth material, for 
example of woven, mat or felt form. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, 
characterised in that the barrier means (3) comprises at 

least one sheet of material provided with an array of holes 
(17) therein dimensioned to allow displacement of air 

therethrough while substantially preventing passage of 
microporous material. 
A method according to claim 8, characterised in that 
the at least one sheet of material is of a material which 

is pervious or impervious to air and selected from: paper; 
card; metal foil; plastics; cloth material. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the means to enable lateral flow of  

 
the displaced air permeating the barrier means (3) to the 

at least one air outlet region (2) is provided separate 
from the barrier means. 
A method according to claim 10, characterised in that 
the means to enable lateral flow of displaced air to the at 

least one air outlet region (2) comprises a stand-off 
arrangement (21, 22) located on or integral with the inside 

surface of the container (1) and serving to maintain 
sufficient separation of the barrier means (3) and the 

container during compaction of the microporous material 
(13) to enable the displaced air permeating the barrier 

means to flow laterally to the at least one air outlet 
region. 
A method according to claim 11, characterised in that 
the stand-off arrangement comprises a sheet of woven 

material (19, 20), for example a woven mesh material, or a 
framework arranged between the barrier means (3) and the 

container (1). 
A method according to claim 11, characterised in that 
the stand-off arrangement comprises at least one protrusion 

(21, 22) on the inside of the container and facing the 
barrier means. 
A method according to claim 13, characterised in that 
the at least one protrusion (21, 22) is formed integrally  

 
with the container, for example in the form of at least one 

pip (21) and/or at least one rib (22). 
A method according to claim 13, characterised in that 

the at least one protrusion is applied to the container, 
for example in the form of a raised pattern of paint or 

lacquer or enamel, or in the form of at least one 
adhesively-secured discrete component. 
A method according to claim 10, characterised in that 
the means to enable lateral flow of the displaced air 

comprises at least one channel recessed into the container 
and facing the barrier means, the at least one channel 

communicating with the at least one air outlet region. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, 
characterised in that the means to enable flow of the 

displaced air permeating the barrier means (3) to the at 
least one air outlet region is provided integral with the 

barrier means. 
A method according to claim 17, characterised in that 
the barrier means is formed with stand-off and/or channel 

means (14A, 14B; 15; 17, 18) on that surface thereof facing 
the container (1). 
A method according to claim 18, characterised in that 
part of the material of the barrier means (3) is displaced  

 
in a direction toward the container (1), for example by 

providing at least one plunged aperture (17) through the 
barrier means from that side of the barrier means adjacent 

to the microporous material (13). 
A method according to claim 17 or 18, characterised in 
that the barrier means (3) is formed so as to present a 

quilted or ribbed surface profile, or a surface profile 
comprising a pattern of elevations (15) and/or channels 

(14A, 14B), on that surface thereof facing the container. 
A method according to claim 17, characterised in that 
the barrier means is constructed from first and second 

sheets (4, 5) of air-pervious material, for example air-pervious 
paper, bonded together at predetermined spaced-apart 

discrete regions, for example in the form of a dot 
pattern, whereby the displaced air permeating the first 

sheet (4) of the air-pervious material adjacent to the 
microporous material (13) flows laterally between the first 

and second sheets to the at least one air outlet region 
(2). 
A method according to claim 17, characterised in that 
the barrier means (3) is constructed in the form of a woven 

mesh material (19, 20), whereby that surface thereof facing 
the container is naturally profiled such that it inherently 

serves to channel the air displaced through the barrier 
means to the at least one air outlet region (2).  

 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the area of the press tool (11) 

corresponds substantially to the area of the base of the 
container (1). 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the press tool (11) is provided with 

at least one hole (11A) therethrough for the passage of air 
displaced from the microporous material during compaction 

thereof. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the container (1) comprises a metal. 
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterised in that the container (1) comprises a 

supporting dish of a radiant electric heater. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
