<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643864</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POWER SAVING APPARATUS FOR A MONITOR AND METHOD THEREFOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F132	G09G500	G09G500	G06F132	G09G100	G09G100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G09G	G09G	G06F	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G09G5	G09G5	G06F1	G09G1	G09G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for saving power by cutting off the power supplied to a monitor when an input signal does not exist for a given time period. An input signal is checked to see if it is sensed from input means of the monitor. A power circuit is operated each time the input signal is sensed and simultaneously a time value for performing a power saving mode is set in a reference buffer. The receiving time of the input signal is counted by updating the time value set in the reference buffer each time an interrupt signal is received from a timer, and then the time value of the reference buffer is read. If the input signal is not sensed until a setting time elapses, an operationg voltage of the monitor is cut off by controlling the operation of the power circuit.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM YONG HEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIM, YONG HEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a monitor, and more particularly to an
apparatus and method for saving power by controlling the supply of the power
when a system is not used.Generally, monitors display video signals received from a computer etc.
connected thereto. Since these monitors should drive a CRT (Cathode Ray
Tube), which is a display unit, by using a high voltage, the power consumption
is large. In a system using the monitor, if the power supplied to the monitor is
controlled when a user does not utilize the system, the power consumption of the
monitor can be reduced.There is a screen blanker for blanking data image being displayed on the
monitor when a key input is not entered for a given time period in a computer
system using the monitor. Such a screen blanker is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No.
5,059,961 by Te J. Cheng. The screen blanker as described in the above patent
sets a time period to blank the data image on the display screen of the monitor.
If there is no input for the preset time period, the data image being displayed on
the monitor is cleared. If the key input is again generated, the screen blanker
releases a blank function of the monitor. Thus, the data image which had
disappeared is re-displayed on the monitor.The above patent, however, clears only the data image being displayed on
the monitor. Hence, during a blank interval, the power is still supplied to the
monitor and the power consumption is almost identical to that during a normal
operation. Since the blank function is performed not by the monitor but by a
main controller of the computer, additional cables are needed between the
monitor and the computer. Further, since a time period to blank the screen is
fixed by a counter, the blank setting time period can not be variably employed. EP-A-0 265 209 discloses a remote control system which
remotely switches an electric power supply to the display
section of a display apparatus whose display data
control section and display section are located far from
each other and separately supplied with power from their
respective local commercial power sources. The control
system comprises an oscillator, a counter adapted to
output a switch opening signal after counting out a predetermined
number of pulses output from the oscillator,
and a relay switch inserted in the power supply to the
display section and adapted to be opened by the switch
opening signal from the counter. The counter receives at
its reset terminal the clock signals transmitted to the
display section from the control
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for saving power of a monitor comprising the steps of:

receiving an externally generated input signal;
generating a first interrupt signal in response to receipt of the input signal;
generating a second interrupt signal every given time period;
setting first and second different time values with receipt of the input
signal and generating simultaneously power supply signals in response to

which first and second operating voltages are applied to different
respective parts of the monitor;
upon receipt of the second interrupt signal decrementing each of said time
values and if said decremented time values equal zero generating

respective power control signals for sequentially cutting off supply of the
respective operating voltages.
Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the decrementing step comprises
the steps of:


counting down from each of said time values until said input signal is
received for newly setting said time values; and 
reading said decremented time values for cutting off the operating
voltages when said input signal is not received before the time values

equal zero.
Method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said externally generated input
signal comprises a key clock signal generated from a keyboard.
Method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said externally generated input

signal comprises a signal generated from a mouse. 
Method as claimed in any one of claim 1 to 4, wherein said second predetermined time
value is twice said first predetermined time value.
Power saving apparatus for a monitor, comprising:

power supply signal generating means (31) for generating a first
interrupt signal (INT 1) in response to an externally generated input

signal;
timer interrupt means (TIMER) for generating a second interrupt
signal (INT 2) every given time period;
power means (32) for generating and switching first and second
operating voltages for different respective parts of the monitor (12)

in response to first and second power supply signals (SSP,POT)
generated through first and second power control ports;
memory means (SSP-REG,POT-REG) for storing first and second
different time values of first and second power saving modes;
control means (CPU) for controlling said power means (32) so as to
provide said operating voltages (V1,V2,V3) to said monitor (12) and

simultaneously setting said time values of said first and second
power saving modes in said memory means, when said first 

interrupt signal is received, decrementing said time values stored in
said memory means when said second interrupt signal is received,

checking said time values of said memory means and sequentially
generating said first and second power supply signals (SSP,POT)

to control said power means (32) for sequentially cutting off said
operating voltages when said time values equal zero.
Power saving apparatus as claimed in claims 6, wherein said
memory means (SSP-REG,POT-REG) comprises:


reference buffer means for storing values representative of said first and
second predetermined time periods.
Power saving apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said power
means (32) comprises:


power generating means (41) for generating said first and second
operating voltages (V1,V2) of said monitor; and 
power switch means (42) connected to said power generating
means (41), for switching the supply of said first and second

operating voltages in response to an output signal of said control
means.
Power saving apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said power
supply signal generating means (31) comprises:


means connected to a keyboard (14) for sensing a first externally
generated input signal in response to a key clock signal;
means connected to a mouse (15), for sensing a second externally
generated input signal in response to one of said mouse clock

signal and said mouse data; and
means connected to said first and second input signals, having a
photocoupling device (PC), for generating said power supply signal

in response to said input signals and providing said power supply
signal to said power control means.
Power saving apparatus as claimed in one of claims 6 to 9, wherein
said power means (32) comprises:


analogue power generating means (41) for generating said first
power operating voltage (V1) to drive said monitor (12) and said

second power operating voltage (V2) to drive a heater (44) in the
monitor (12), by rectifying and regulating a supply voltage, and

cutting off said first and second power voltages when said second
power supply signal (POT) is received from said control means

(CPU);
power switch means (42) connected between said analogue power
generating means (41) and said driving means of said monitor (12), 

for cutting off said first voltage (V1) when said first power supply
signal (SSP) is received from said control means (CPU); and
digital power generating means (43) for generating a third voltage
(V3) to be supplied to said control means (CPU,31) by rectifying

and regulating the supply voltage.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
