<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653134</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CALL TRANSFER WITHIN CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M346	H04M346	H04M354	H04M354	H04W416	H04W416	H04W3600	H04W3628	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04W4	H04W4	H04W36	H04W36	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method provides multiple sequential call-forwarding transfers to a sequence of C-numbers within a conventional cellular radio communications system by providing a unique identifier for each call and enabling a home location register (HLR) (14) to coordinate and disseminate multiple calls made to the same mobile station. The HLR (14) stores, within a subscriber database, a sequence of C-numbers on a call-forwarding priority list to which calls are to be forwarded in the event a call cannot be completed to the mobile station. Each C-number is associated with sets of unique identification numbers and time stamps. When an incoming call is received at an originating mobile switching center (MSC) (11), a transfer-to-number request message (86), containing a unique number identifying the request, is transmitted from the MSC (11) to the HLR (14) containing the subscriber database. In response, the HLR (14) analyzes the request, searches the C-number priority list, and transmits to the MSC (11), the optimum C-number for completing the call. The HLR (14) then updates the time stamp associated with that particular C-number and unique identifier. The MSC (11) then attempts to complete the call. If the call cannot be completed, the process is repeated until the call is completed, the call is terminated, or the call-forwarding priority list is exhausted.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINTER THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINTER, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CALL TRANSFER WITHIN CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to call handling within cellular radio communication systems and, more particularly, to the transfer and redirection of calls within said systems. History of the Prior ArtCall handling within telecommunications systems has, in recent years, become increasingly sophisticated. For example, subscribers have greater numbers of call handling features available to them as a result of the implementation of more sophisticated software within modern stored-program control-switching systems. Features such as call forwarding, call waiting, and selective call blocking are now commonly incorporated into a "service profile" of each subscriber.Cellular radio telecommunications systems have also offered increasing numbers of special subscriber features. These features are commonly provided by an operator of the cellular system. In general, each mobile telephone subscriber in a cellular system is associated with a specific "home location" to which calls for that subscriber are normally routed by the telecommunications network, based upon the directory number assigned to that subscriber. Each subscriber' s home location is further associated with a particular mobile switching center (MSC) and/or a home location register (HLR) which contains a database of information about the subscriber. The database includes the service profile of that subscriber, including a list of all of the special service features to which the subscriber subscribes as well as information concerning the most likely current location of the mobile 

subscriber within the network. A subscriber' s home MSC or HLR is consulted each time a call is received for the subscriber, and the call is routed to another location within the network if the HLR database indicates that the subscriber is currently located elsewhere.All of the systems operating within a cellular radio telecommunications network use specific and common procedures to handle calls so that the systems can communicate with one another and behave in a uniform fashion. These call-handling procedures are set forth in so-called "Standards" which must be complied with by the manufacturers and operators of cellular network infrastructure equipment in order to provide commonality and compatibility within the network. One such Standard used in North America is entitled "Cellular Radio-telecommunications Intersyste s Operation" established by the Telecommunications
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of forwarding a telephone call for a mobile station to a sequence of call-forwarding numbers within a conventional cellular radio telephone system, said method comprising the steps of: associating said mobile station with a home location register (HLR); storing said sequence of call-forwarding numbers in a database in said HLR; transmitting a request message to said HLR requesting a call-forwarding number; and identifying said request message with a unique identifying number, thereby enabling the HLR to retrieve and forward a sequence of call-forwarding numbers to a single calling party.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of programming the HLR to retrieve and forward the next in a sequence of call-forwarding numbers each time a request message is received by said HLR.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of programming the HLR includes associating each of said call-forwarding numbers with sets of unique identification numbers and corresponding time stamps reflecting the most recent time each of said call- forwarding numbers was retrieved in association with each of said unique identification numbers.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of programming the HLR includes instructing the HLR to retrieve a call-forwarding number with the highest probability of completing the call from said HLR database utilizing said sequence of call-forwarding 


numbers and programmable logic instructions within said HLR.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of attempting to forward said telephone call to said retrieved call-forwarding number.
6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of updating said sets of unique identification numbers and time stamps for each attempt to forward said telephone call.
7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of sequentially retrieving a next highest priority call-forwarding number from said HLR database utilizing said updated sets of unique identification numbers and time stamps and said programmable logic instructions.
8. The method of claim 7 further comprising repeating the steps of sequentially retrieving said call-forwarding numbers and attempting to forward said telephone call until said call is completed, said call is terminated, or said sequence of call-forwarding numbers is exhausted.
9. A method of forwarding telephone calls to a sequence of C-numbers on a call-forwarding priority list for a mobile station within a conventional cellular radio communications system having a mobile switching center (MSC) in communication with a home location register (HLR) associated with said mobile station, said method comprising the steps of: storing in said home location register, a sequence of C-numbers to which calls are to be 


 forwarded in the event a call cannot be completed to said mobile station; transmitting a transfer-to-number request message from said MSC to said HLR; identifying said transfer-to-number request message with a unique number; analyzing within said HLR, said transfer-to- number request message and said call-forwarding priority list, to determine the optimum C-number to complete the call; and transmitting from said HLR to said MSC, the optimum C-number from said call-forwarding priority list in response to said request message.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of attempting to complete said call from said MSC to said optimum C-number.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of sequentially retrieving said C-numbers from said call-forwarding priority list, and attempting to complete said call, until said call is completed, said call is terminated, or said call-forwarding priority list is exhausted.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein said step of identifying said transfer-to-number request message with a unique number includes identifying said request message with a Billing ID number.
13. A system for forwarding a telephone call for a mobile station to a sequence of call-forwarding numbers within a conventional cellular radio telephone system, said system comprising: 


 a home location register (HLR) associated with said mobile station; means for storing said sequence of call- forwarding numbers in a database in said HLR; means for transmitting a request message to said HLR requesting a call-forwarding number; and means for identifying said request message with a unique identifying number, thereby enabling the HLR to retrieve and forward a sequence of σall- forwarding numbers to a single calling party.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein said means for storing said sequence of call-forwarding numbers in a database in said HLR includes means for storing sets of unique identification numbers and time stamps associated with each of said call-forwarding numbers.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein said HLR includes means for retrieving and forwarding the next in a sequence of call-forwarding numbers each time a request message is received.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the means for retrieving and forwarding includes means for associating each of said call-forwarding numbers with sets of unique identification numbers and corresponding time stamps reflecting the most recent time each of said call-forwarding numbers was retrieved in association with each of said unique identification numbers.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the means for retrieving and forwarding includes programmable logic instructions which utilize said sequence of call- forwarding numbers to direct the HLR to retrieve a 


call-forwarding number with the highest probability of completing the call.
18. The system of claim 17 further comprising means for attempting to forward said telephone call to said retrieved call-forwarding number.
19. The system of claim 18 further comprising means for updating said sets of unique identification numbers and time stamps for each attempt to forward said telephone call.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein said means for retrieving and forwarding includes means for sequentially retrieving a next highest priority call- forwarding number from said HLR database utilizing said updated sets of unique identification numbers and time stamps and said programmable logic instructions.
21. The system of claim 20 wherein said means for retrieving and forwarding includes means for repeating the steps of sequentially retrieving said call- forwarding numbers and attempting to forward said telephone call until said call is completed, said call is terminated, or said sequence of call-forwarding numbers is exhausted.
22. A system for forwarding telephone calls to a sequence of C-numbers on a call-forwarding priority list for a mobile station within a conventional cellular radio communications system having a mobile switching center (MSC) in communication with a home location register (HLR) associated with said mobile station, said system comprising: 


 means for storing in said home location register, a sequence of C-numbers to which calls are to be forwarded in the event a call cannot be completed to said mobile station; means for transmitting a transfer-to-number request message from said MSC to said HLR, said transfer-to-number request message containing a unique number identifying said request message; means for analyzing within said HLR, said transfer-to-number request message and said call- forwarding priority list, to determine the optimum C- number to complete the call; and means for transmitting from said HLR to said MSC, the optimum C-number from said call-forwarding priority list in response to said request message.
23. The system of claim 22 wherein the means for storing in said home location register, a sequence of C-numbers to which calls are to be forwarded in the event a call cannot be completed to said mobile station includes means for storing sets of unique identification numbers and time stamps associated with each of said call-forwarding numbers.
24. The system of claim 23 further comprising means for attempting to complete said call from said MSC to said optimum C-number.
25. The system of claim 24 further comprising means for sequentially retrieving said C-numbers from said call-forwarding priority list, and attempting to complete said call, until said call is completed, said call is terminated, or said call-forwarding priority 
.
 list is exhausted. 


 26. The system of claim 25 wherein said unique identification number is a Billing ID number. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
