<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650404</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LASER ENGRAVING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23K2600	B23K2600	B23K2602	B23K2603	B23K2608	B23K2608	B23K2638	B41C102	B41C105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B23K	B41C	B41C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B23K26	B41C1	B41C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for preparing a printing medium (2) such as an anilox roller is arranged to support and rotate the medium about a longitudinal axis. An engraving head (6) is mounted for movement substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis and engraves a series of cell sites on the printing medium. A control circuit (3, 40) controls the engraving parameters of the engraving head (6). The apparatus includes a monitoring device (30) which monitors the profile of the cells (9) engraved by the head (6) and produces a control signal depending on the monitored profile. The control circuit (40) varies the engraving parameters in response to the control signal so as to maintain a desired cell profile. The monitoring device may include a confocal optical system which samples the cross section of engraved cells at a selected depth. The optical system may be astigmatic and arranged to focus light reflected from the surface of the printing medium onto a photodetector (25) comprising at least two adjacent photosensitive elements (A, B). A servo mechanism driven by the control signal may be used to vary the height of the optical system (30) above the surface of the printing medium so as to track the surface.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZED INSTR LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZED INSTRUMENTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PROCTOR MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS SIMON HUGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PROCTOR, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROBERTS, SIMON, HUGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LASER ENGRAVING APPARATUSBACKGROUND TO THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the preparation of cylinders for use in printing, and in particular to the engraving or exposure of cells on an anilox roller.In a conventional system for preparing an αnilox roller, the roller is rotated about its longitudinal axis whilst a laser engraving head is moved along the roller parallel to this axis. The engraving head focuses laser light onto the surface of the roller to engrave a cell. The combination of the rotation of the roller and the longitudinal position of the laser engraving head is able to produce a helical pattern of cells in which each cell corresponds to a single pulse of the laser. Generally, the cells are arranged in a hexagonal, square or other pattern by synchronisation of the roller rotation with the speed of the engraving head.When engraving cells on an anilox roller, it is essential that each cell should have substantially the same volume and profile within a very tight tolerance. This is necessary to produce a uniform rate of ink delivery when the roller is used in a press. For a typical roller having a surface area greater than 10,000 cm2, and a cell density of 22,000/cm2, for an engraving rate of 10 kHz, such a roller takes at least six hours to engrave. During this long engraving period, the engraving conditions are liable to change, and drifts in any of the parameters could effect the cell's volume and profile significantly. In our earlier International Patent Application No. PCT/GB 91/01829 (WO 92/09399) , we disclosed a method and apparatus for improving the quality of the engraved cells, and the speed at which they can be engraved using an acousto-optic deflector. However, this process still takes some hours to engrave all the cells on a roller, and therefore there remains the possibility of drift in the engraving parameters. 

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAccording to the present invention, an apparatus for preparing a printing medium for use in a printing process comprises means to support the printing medium and rotate it about a longitudinal axis; an engraving head mounted to move substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the printing medium for engraving a series of cell sites on the printing medium and control means for controlling the engraving parameters of the head, characterised by means for monitoring the profile of the engraved cells and for producing a control signal depending upon the monitored profile, the control means being responsive to the control signal to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An apparatus for preparing a printing medium (2) for use in a printing process comprising means (1) to support the printing medium and rotate it about a longitudinal axis; an engraving head (5,6) mounted to move substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the printing medium (2) for engraving a series of cell sites (9) on the printing medium (2) and control means (3,4) for controlling the engraving parameters of the head (6) , characterised by means (30) for monitoring the profile of the engraved cells and for producing a control signal depending upon the monitored profile, the control means (3,4) being responsive to the control signal to vary the engraving parameters to maintain a desired cell profile.
2. An apparatus according to claim l, in which the printing medium (2) is an anilox roller.
3. An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, in which the engraving head (5,6) is a laser engraving head. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 3, in which the means (30) for monitoring includes a confocal optical system which is arranged to sample the cross-section of the engraved cell (9) at a selected depth. 5. An apparatus according to claim 2, in which the confocal optical system is an astigmatic confocal optical system arranged to focus light reflected from the surface (23) of the printing medium (2) onto a photodetector (25) comprising at least two adjacent photosensitive elements (A,B). 6. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, in which the means (30) for monitoring is arranged to move substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the printing medium to allow monitoring of the engraved cells
(9). 7. An apparatus according to any proceeding claim, in which the means (30) for monitoring are arranged to monitor only a selection of the total number of engraved cells (9) . 


8. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, in which the confocal optical system comprises a point illumination source, an objective lens (12,22,46) positioned to focus light from the point illumination source onto the surface of the printing medium and a photodetector (14,25) arranged to receive via the objective lens (12,22,46) scattered and reflected light froΩ the surface of the roller.
9. An apparatus according to claim 4 or claim 6 when dependent on claim 4 , in which the confocal optical system further comprises a beam splitter (20) , a collimator (21) and a wedge (24) , wherein light is initially reflected towards the surface of the roller by the beam splitter (20) , passes through the collimator (21) , and subsequently through the objective lens (22) before being directed onto the surface (23) of the roller, the light reflected from the surface passing back through the objective lens (22) , collimator (21) and the beam splitter (20) and through the wedge (24) onto the photodetector (25) . 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, in which the illumination source and the photodetector share a common aperture and the optical system includes a beam splitter on the opposite side of the aperture to a target cell. 11. An apparatus according to any preceding claim, in which the illumination source for the optical system comprises a light source and a length of fibre optic, in use, light being introduced from the light source to one end of the fibre optic and output to the confocal optical system from the other end of the fibre optic. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11, in which the light from the illumination source is introduced into the fibre optic with an angular offset so that the output beam has a generally hollow conical configuration. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12, in which the angular offset is in the range from approximately 5° to approximately 10°. 


14. An apparatus according to claim 11, 12 or 13, in which the light source comprises one of a laser diode or a xenon lamp.
15. An apparatus for preparing a printing medium (2) including means for engraving a plurality of cells (9) on the medium, characterised by means (30) for monitoring the depth of the cells (9) , the means (30) for monitoring including an astigmatic confocal optical system arranged to focus light reflected from the surface of the medium onto a photodetector (25) .
16. An apparatus according to claim 15, in which the photodetector (25) comprises at least two adjacent photosensitive elements (A,B) .
17. An apparatus according to claim 5, 15 or 16, including a servo system controlled in accordance with an output of the photodetector which varies the height of the optical system (30) above the surface so as to track the surface.
18. An apparatus according to claim 17, in which a servo system (29) is arranged to operate on low frequencies only and the higher frequency signals are used to monitor the cell depth.
19. A confocal optical system characterised by an illumination system comprising an illumination source and a fibre optic, light from the illumination source being introduced into the fibre optic with an angular offset so that the output beam has a generally hollow conical configuration.
20. An apparatus according to claim 19, in which the angular offset is in the range from approximately 5° to approximately 10°. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
