<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648395</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYNCHRONIZED OFFSET EXTRACTION IN A DATA RECEIVER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G08B522	G08B522	H04L2506	H04L2506	H04W8800	H04W8802	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G08B	G08B	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G08B5	G08B5	H04L25	H04L25	H04W88	H04W88	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A selective call receiver (106) receives a radio frequency signal having digital signals contained within symbols. The signal demodulated by the receiver (804) comprises a substantially constant DC offset voltage and an AC voltage (1810) indicative of the information contained within the symbols. A threshold level extraction circuit (808) which extracts the offset voltage is synchronously controlled (1840) providing for sampling of the received signal by the threshold level extraction circuit in substantially the center of each symbol.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORERA DANIEL ALEJANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETREYE DAVID ROYCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORERA, DANIEL, ALEJANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETREYE, DAVID, ROYCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYNCHRONIZED OFFSET EXTRACTION IN A DATA RECEIVERField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to the area of recovery of digital data from a radio signal. In particular, this invention relates to the synchronous control of receiver circuitry used to acquire a frequency offset voltage in order to extract data contained within symbols modulated thereon.Background of the InventionRadio frequency signals received by portable receivers such as pagers, are mixed down to an intermediate' frequency and demodulated. The demodulated signal comprises a substantially constant offset voltage with information modulated thereon. The offset voltage is a function of the radio frequency carrier offset, the frequency tolerance of the receiver's local oscillator, and individual characteristics of the demodulator circuit. These characteristics vary from one receiver to another, as well as with the ambient temperature and battery voltage. Thus the offset voltage varies over time and must be determined periodically in order to extract the information modulated thereon. The information is extracted and digitized by comparing the offset voltage to the output of the demodulator.Extracting the offset voltage (otherwise referred to as a threshold voltage) has been a subject of numerous inventions. However, as digital signalling protocols for portable devices such as pagers move into both higher symbol rates and multi-level symbol signalling systems, the problems in this area are compounded. In simulcast environments (as well as Gausian environments) , the rapidly changing signals may combine with noise in the receiver's IF to produce noise spikes during the transitions between symbols . These noise spikes interfere with the acquisition 

of the offset voltage. Thus it is desirable to determine the location of the noise spikes and block their interference with the acquisition of the offset voltage.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of this invention to provide a method and apparatus which extracts a received offset signal during intervals synchronized with received symbols . It is a further object of this invention to provide a method of digitizing a received signal having a substantially constant offset signal and a symbol stream having a predetermined baud rate modulated thereon, said method comprising the steps of enabling determination of the offset signal for a portion of each symbol in synchronization with the symbol stream, and disabling determination of the offset signal for a portion of the symbol exclusive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A selective call receiver comprising: receiving means for receiving and demodulating a radio frequency signal having digital information contained within symbols modulated thereon and producing a received signal having substantially constant DC offset voltage with and AC voltage representing the symbols combined therewith; determining means for determining the DC offset voltage; digitizing means comparing the determined DC offset voltage with the received signal and for producing a digital signal indicative of the information contained within the symbols; synchronizing means for synchronizing to the digital signal and thus the symbols decoding means for decoding the information in response to the synchronizing means and storing and alerting the reception of information directed to the selective call receiver; and control means responsive to the synchronization means for enabling said determining means substantially in the center of each symbol .
2. The selective call receiver of claim 1 wherein: said synchronizing means operates in a sync acquisition mode when initially determining the substantial center of each symbol, and operates sync maintenance mode thereafter; and further wherein: said control means enables said determining means for each entire symbol while said synchronizing means operates in the sync acquisition mode, and enables said determining means substantially in the center of each symbol while said synchronizing means operates in the maintenance mode. 



3. A method of digitizing a received signal having a substantially constant offset signal and a symbol stream having a predetermined baud rate modulated thereon, said method comprising the steps of: enabling determination of the offset signal for a portion of each symbol in synchronization with the symbol stream; and disabling determination of the offset signal for a portion of the symbol exclusive of said step of enabling.
4. The method according to claim 3 wherein said step of enabling occurs substantially during the center of each symbol, and wherein said step of disabling occurs substantially during transitions between symbols.
5. The method according claim 3 further comprising the steps of: acquiring synchronization to the symbol stream; and enabling determination of the offset signal for each entire symbol during said step of acquiring.
6. The method according to claim 3 further comprising the step of decoding the symbol stream and generating an alert in response to the symbol stream having an address matching a predetermined address.
7. The method according to claim 3 further comprising the steps of: determining the average magnitude of the offset signal; comparing received signal to the determined average magnitude of the offset signal; generating a first digital state if the received signal is greater than the determined average magnitude of the offset signal; 


 generating a second digital state if the received signal is less than the determined average magnitude of the offset signal; and processing the first and second digital states in order to recover digital information contained within the received signal.
8. The method according to claim 7 wherein said step of determining the magnitude of the offset signal during said step of enabling includes the steps of: periodically sampling the received signal to generated sampled magnitude; comparing the sampled magnitude to a maximum magnitude; equating the maximum magnitude to the sampled magnitude if the sampled magnitude is greater than the maximum magnitude; comparing the sampled magnitude to a minimum magnitude; equating the minimum magnitude to the sampled magnitude if the sampled magnitude is less than the minimum magnitude; and said step of disabling further includes the step of: maintaining the minimum and maximum magnitudes; and both said steps of enabling and disabling further include the step of : averaging the minimum and maximum magnitudes to generate the determined magnitude of the offset . 

9. The method according to claim 7 further comprising the steps of: determining the magnitude of the offset signal; comparing received signal to the determined magnitude of the offset signal; generating a first digital state if the received signal is greater than the determined magnitude of the offset signal and less than the determined magnitude plus a first value; and generating a second digital state if the received signal is less than the determined magnitude of the offset signal and greater than the determined magnitude minus a second value; generating a third digital state if the received signal is greater than the determined magnitude plus the first value; generating a fourth digital state if the received signal is less than the determined magnitude minus the second value; and processing the first, second, third and forth digital states in order to recover digital information contained within the received signal.
10. The method according to claim 9 wherein the first and second values are predetermined.
11. The method according to claim 9 wherein said step of determining the magnitude of the offset signal during said step of enabling includes the steps of: periodically sampling the received signal to generated sampled magnitude; comparing the sampled magnitude to a maximum magnitude; equating the maximum magnitude to the sampled magnitude if the sampled magnitude is greater than the maximum magnitude; 


 comparing the sampled magnitude to a minimum magnitude; equating the minimum magnitude to the sampled magnitude if the sampled magnitude is less than the minimum magnitude; and said step of disabling further includes the step of : maintaining the minimum and maximum magnitudes; and said steps of disabling and enabling further includes the steps of: averaging the minimum and maximum magnitudes to generate the determined magnitude of the offset; and further wherein: said first value is determined by averaging the determined magnitude of the offset and the maximum magnitude; and said second value is determined by averaging the determined value of the offset and the minimum magnitude.
12. An apparatus for digitizing a received signal having a substantially constant offset signal and a symbol stream having a predetermined baud rate modulated thereon, said apparatus comprising: determining means for determining the magnitude of the offset signal; and control means for enabling said determining means for a portion of each symbol in synchronization with the symbol stream.
13. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said control means enables said determining means substantially during the center of each symbol, and disable said determining means substantially during transitions between symbols.
1 . The apparatus according to claim 13 further comprising: 


 synchronizing means for determining the occurrence of the substantial center of each symbol and the transitions between symbols, and further wherein: said control means enables said determining means for each entire symbol while said synchronizing means is acquiring synchronization to the symbols.
15. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said determining means further includes: averaging means for determining the average magnitude of the received signal; and said apparatus further includes : comparison means for comparing the received signal with the average magnitude to produce a digital signal substantially equivalent to information contained within the symbol stream.
16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said averaging means further includes: peak detecting means for determining the maximum magnitude of the received signal in response to a clock signal; valley detecting means for determining a minimum magnitude in response to the clock signal; and summing means for averaging the maximum and minimum signals to produce the average magnitude; and wherein said control means generates the clock signal for the portion of each symbol.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said control means generates one clock cycle substantially in the center of each symbol.
18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said control means generates a multiplicity of clock cycles substantially symmetrical with respect to the substantial center of each symbol . 


19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the offset signal is represented by a substantially constant DC voltage, and the symbol stream is represented by an AC component added to the DC voltage, and wherein said averaging means further includes : charge storage means coupled the received signal; current limiting means interposed between the received signal and said charge storage means; whereby said current limiting means and said charge storage means produce the average magnitude by time averaging the received signal; and wherein said control means comprises a switching means interposed between the received signal and said charge storage means, wherein said determining means is enabled when said switching means couples said charge storage means to the received signal.
20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said control means couples said charge storage means to the received signal substantially around the center of each symbol. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
