<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644795</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A GAS PURIFYING METHOD AND APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5386	B01D5388	B01D5388	B01D5386	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	B01D53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method of purifying gases which are polluted by hydrocarbons and the like in an apparatus comprising two reactors, each reactor comprising a catalyst bed and a ceramic bed. According to the invention the method is characterized by the combination of the following moments: the gas that shall be purified is forced to stream alternately through a passage comprising the first reactor (1) and the second reactor (2) (clockwise streaming) and the second reactor (2) and the first reactor (1), respectively (counterclockwise streaming), the purification of the gas is made by the fact that the hydrocarbons in the gas are oxidized to carbon dioxide and water in the catalysts (5, 6); the temperature of the gas streaming through the reactors (1, 2) is measured and when the temperature exceeds a certain level, a portion of the gas is taken out from the apparatus during the passage of the catalyst bed (5) of the second reactor (2) if the gas streams in a clockwise direction, whereas a portion of the gas is taken out from the apparatus during the passage of the catalyst bed (4) of the first reactor (1), if the gas streams in a counterclockwise direction. The invention also relates to an apparatus which is useable for carrying out the method.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MODO CHEMETICS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MODO-CHEMETICS AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THUNSTROEM ALF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THUNSTROEM, ALF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of purifying gases which are polluted by 
hydrocarbons and the like. The invention also relates to an apparatus which is usable for 
carrying out the method. Authorities and the public have lately strongly increased the demands for a reduction 
of outlets of substances polluting the environment. Such substances can be hydrocarbons in 
solvents which are admixed to the ventilation air from an industrial plant. There is today in the market an apparatus for purifying gases, for instance ventilation 
air having an admixture of hydrocarbons, the purification being made by catalytic combustion 
so that the hydrocarbons damaging for the environment are transformed to carbon dioxide and 
water. This apparatus comprises two reactors, each of which having a catalyst bed and a 
ceramic bed. The combustion reaction is exothermic, i.e. it emits heat. If the concentration 
of pollutions, i.e. in this case the content of hydrocarbons, is high enough, the combustion 
process becomes self-supporting, which means that no external energy needs to be supplied. Heat emitted during the combustion reaction increases as the content of pollutions 
increases in the gas that shall be purified. This means that the temperature in the purification 
apparatus can be so high that the material is damaged. Owing to that the apparatus known in 
the market has limitations regarding the possibility to manage purification of gases having 
high contents of pollutions. According to known technique there has been an attempt to solve this problem by 
making possible to take out gas to atmosphere at an area between the two reactors (see for 
instance EP-337 143). In order that this shall be acceptable from an environmental point of 
view, however, such a channel going out to the atmosphere has to be provided with a separate 
catalyst. This solution is of course both complicated and expensive. This invention intends to offer a solution of the problem of purifying gases having 
high contents of pollutions, which solution is uncomplicated, relatively spoken, and attractive 
from an expenditural point of view. This has been made possible by a method of the kind 
mentioned by way of introduction, which is characterized by the steps mentioned in 
claim 1 and by an apparatus as claimed in claims 2 to 5. A preferred embodiment of an apparatus according to the invention, useable for 
carrying out the method shall be described more closely below with reference to the 
accompanying drawing. Referring to the drawing is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of purifying gases which are polluted by hydrocarbons and the like in 
an apparatus comprising two reactors, each reactor comprising a catalyst bed (4, 5) and a ceramic 

bed (6, 7), 
characterized
 by the combination of the following moments: 

The gas that shall be purified is forced to stream alternately through a passage 
comprising the first reactor (1) and the second reactor (2) (clockwise streaming) and the 

second reactor (2) and the first reactor (1), respectively (counter-clockwise streaming) such 
that the gas passes succesively through one of the ceramic beds, one of the catalyst beds, the 

other catalyst bed and the other ceramic bed, the 
purification of the gas being made by the fact that the hydrocarbons in the gas are oxidized 

to carbon dioxide and water in the catalysts (4, 5); 
The temperature of the gas streaming through the reactors (1,2) is measured in the 
upper portion of the apparatus and when the temperature exceeds a certain level, a portion 

of the gas is taken out from the apparatus when the gas passes the border layer (26, 27) 
between the catalyst bed (4, 5) and respective ceramic bed (6, 7) of the second reactor (1, 

2), seen in the streaming direction of the gas. 
An apparatus usable for carrying out the method according to claim 1, comprising 
two reactors (1, 2), which are positioned at a distance from each other and are connected with 

each other by a pipe means (3), the first reactor (1) comprising a first catalyst bed (4) and 
av first ceramic bed (6), whereas the second reactor (2) comprises a second catalyst bed (5) 

and a second ceramic bed (7), and respective catalyst bed (4, 5) being arranged in connection 
to respective ceramic bed (6, 7), and wherein there is a border layer (26, 27) between the 

catalyst bed (4, 5) and respective ceramic bed (6, 7), 
characterized
 in that said 
border layer (26,
 27) is connected to means (22, 25) which allow a taking out of gas from 
respective reactor (1, 2) at said border layer for a further transport to the atmosphere. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, 
characterized
 in that the means (22-25) 
allowing a connection to the atmosphere comprises a plurality of conduits (22, 23) and 

two shut-off valves (24, 25), arranged in these ones, the one valve (24) being intended to 
open or to close the connection between the first reactor (1) and the atmosphere, whereas the 

second valve (25) is intended to open or to close the connection between the second reactor 
and the atmosphere, and the one valve (24) being intended to be open when the other valve 

(25) is closed and vice versa. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, 
characterized
 in that the means (22-25) 
allowing a connection to the atmosphere, comprise a first conduit (22) which connects the 

two reactors (1, 2) with each other, and that this conduit is connected to a second conduit 
(23) in such a way that the first conduit (22) is divided into two conduits portions (22a, b),  

 
the one conduit portion (22) connecting the first reactor (1) with the second conduit (23), 

whereas the second conduit portion (22) connects the second reactor (2) with the other conduit 
(23), and that the first shut-off valve (24) is positioned in the first conduit portion (22a), 

whereas the second shut-off valve (25) is positioned in the second conduit portion (22b). 
An apparatus according to claim 4, each reactor (1, 2) having an essentially 
vertical extension, and respective catalyst bed (4, 5) being placed on the top of connecting 

ceramic bed (6, 7), 
characterized
 in that the first conduit (22) is connected to 
respective reactor (1, 2) in the border layer between the catalyst bed (4, 5) and the ceramic 

bed (6, 7). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
