<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645924</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for exposing photosensitive media with multiple light sources.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J244	B41J244	B41J2447	B41J245	B41J245	B41J2455	B41J2455	B41J246	H04N1195	H04N1195	H04N150	H04N150	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-beam color exposure system which comprises 
a plurality of mono-color light sources (LED's or laser diodes) 

arranged to 
emit a plurality of light beams which are focused to 

form a plurality of writing spots on a photosensitive 
material. The light sources are moved with respect to 

the photosensitive material in a fast scan direction 
and in a slow scan direction. The light 
sources form a 
plurality of writing spots on the photosensitive 

material as a plurality of substantially parallel lines 
of the writing spots, with the lines of individual 

images disposed substantially parallel to the fast scan 
direction. The light sources forming the writing spots 

in a single line produce substantially the same color 
light, and the light sources forming the writing spots 

in at least one of the lines producing a different 
color light than the color of the light produced by the 

light sources in the other lines. Each of the light 
sources is provided with an information signal to 

generate the writing spots on the photosensitive 
material, whereby each information signal for a given 

color is provided sequentially to each mono-color light 
source in that column as the writing spots are scanned 

onto the photosensitive material to thereby repeat each 
signal by each mono-color light source in that column 

onto substantially the same image location on the 
photosensitive material. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APPEL KAREN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARSON JOHN F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERENCE ROY B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH DOUGLAS H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
APPEL, KAREN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARSON, JOHN F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERENCE, ROY B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, DOUGLAS H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to the 
field of electronic printing of digitized images and, 
specifically, to electronic printing systems that 
utilize a rotor with an improved LED write head having 
multiple light sources to record information by 
scanning photosensitive media. Photographic printing of digitized images is 
accomplished by modulating the intensity of a light 
beam that forms a writing spot on photosensitive media 
as the beam moves relative to the photosensitive media. 
One common motion pattern moves the light beam rapidly 
along a single line as a single row of image pixels and 
the light beam is modulated with "clocked out" image 
informationstarting from a fixed margin location on a 
page. The beam or the media is then indexed to the 
next line of the page and the beam is returned to the 
margin before writing the next row of pixels. One such printer using lasers is disclosed in U.S. 
Patent No. 5,026,133 which illustrates a system for 
printing photographic images from digitized data that 
utilizes a laser beam to write on a photographic media. 
The laser beam is incident on a pentaprism that is 
rotated within a support cylinder by a drive motor. 
The pentaprism reflects the laser beam to a surface of 
photographic media retained within the support 
cylinder. The pentaprism and associated drive motor 
are mounted on a lead screw which is turned by an index  
 
motor. The movement of the lead screw causes the 
pentaprism to be indexed to the next line location. Another example of a printer using lasers for 
digitally writing on photosensitive media is disclosed 
in U. S. Patent No. 4,479,133 which discloses a 
rotating print head which scans the photosensitive 
media on a stationary print shoe. The rotating head 
carries four laser beam-projecting sections equispaced 
about the periphery of the head. Each of the sections 
comprises four laser projecting systems for projecting 
four spaced beams of light onto the photosensitive 
media. This printer only discloses single color light 
sources, so it would not be useful with full color 
photosensitive material. Both of the foregoing patents disclose the use of 
laser light sources which are more expensive than other 
light sources, thus reducing their economic viability 
in the marketplace. Moreover, unless bulky, expensive 
gas lasers are used, which require complex and 
expensive control and operational circuitry, it is 
still not possible to produce full color photographs on 
conventional photographic paper. This is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-beam color exposure system comprising 
a plurality of mono-color light sources arranged to 

emit a plurality of light beams which are focused to 
form a plurality of individual writing spots on a 

photosensitive material, and 
   means for moving said light sources with 

respect to said photosensitive material in a fast scan 
direction, means for moving said light sources in a 

slow scan direction, 
   said light sources being arranged to form a 

plurality of writing spots on said photosensitive 
material as a plurality of substantially parallel lines 

of said writing spots, said lines of writing spots 
being disposed substantially parallel to the fast scan 

direction, the light sources forming the writing spots 
in a single line producing substantially the same color 

light, and the light sources forming the writing spots 
in at least one of the lines producing a different 

color light than the color of the light produced by the 
light sources in the other lines. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 1 wherein said photosensitive material is 

sensitive to light of at least two different colors and 
said mono-color light sources produce light having a 

color to which the photosensitive material is 
sensitive. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 2 wherein said light sources produce colors 

selected from the visible and the IR spectrum. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 2 wherein said photosensitive material is 

conventional photographic paper and said light sources 
produce red, green and blue light. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 4 wherein the light sources producing the 

writing spots in each of the lines produce one of the 
light colors. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 1 wherein means is provided to supply each of 

said light sources with an information signal to 
generate said writing spots on said photosensitive 

material, and each information signal for a given color 
is provided sequentially to each mono-color light 

source in that line as the writing spots are scanned 
onto the photosensitive material to thereby repeat each 

signal by each mono-color light source in that line 
onto the same image location on the photosensitive 

material. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 6 wherein each of said information signals is 

arranged to actuate said light sources to produce a 
light output related to said information signal whereby 

a continuous tone image is produced on said 
photosensitive material. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 1 wherein said light sources comprise an array 

of light emitting diodes disposed in a corresponding 
line order as said writing spots. 
A multi-beam color exposure system as claimed 
in claim 1 wherein said light sources comprise an array 

of laser diodes disposed in a corresponding line order 
as said writing spots. 
The method of generating a multi-color image 
using a multi-beam color exposure system comprising a 

light array formed of a plurality of mono-color light 
sources arranged in columns and rows to emit a 

plurality of light beams which are focused to form a 
plurality of writing spots on a photosensitive material 

comprising the steps of: 
   moving said light array with respect to a 

photosensitive material in a fast scan direction and in 
a slow scan direction, wherein said light array 

comprises a plurality of individually addressable light 
sources arranged to form a plurality of writing spots 

on said photosensitive material as a plurality of lines 
of said writing spots with the lines disposed 

substantially parallel to the fast scan direction, 
   forming the writing spots in a single line 

with light sources in a single column producing 
substantially the same color light, 

   forming the writing spots in at least one of 
the lines of said writing spots with light sources in a 

column producing a different color light than the color 
of the light produced by the light sources in the other 

columns, 
   supplying each of said light sources with an 

information signal and generating said writing spots on 
said photosensitive material, and 

   supplying each information signal for a given 
color sequentially to each mono-color light source in 

that column as the writing spots are scanned onto the 
photosensitive material to thereby repeat each signal 

 
by each mono-color light source in that column onto the 

same image location on the photosensitive material. 
The method of generating a multi-color image 
using a multi-beam exposure system comprising a 

plurality of mono-color light sources arranged to emit 
a plurality of light beams which are focused to form a 

plurality of writing spots on a photosensitive 
material, comprising the steps of: 

   moving said light sources with respect to 
said photosensitive material in a fast scan direction 

and in a slow scan direction, 
   forming a plurality of individual images on 

said photosensitive material as a plurality of lines of 
said writing spots substantially parallel to the fast 

scan direction by sequentially exposing each of the 
image locations in said lines with said light sources 

as said photosensitive material is scanned past said 
light sources, and 

   supplying an information signal sequentially 
to each of said light sources to activate said light 

sources to form said writing spots on said 
photosensitive material thereby providing each of said 

signals to each of said light sources to impart the 
same image to the same portion of said photosensitive 

material as that to which that image is imparted by 
said other light sources. 
The method of generating a multi-color image 
as claimed in claim 21 including the step of actuating 

said light sources with said information signal to 
produce a light output level related to said 

information signal whereby a continuous tone image is 
produced on said photosensitive material. 
The method of generating a multi-color image 
as claimed in claim 21 wherein said light sources are 

arranged in columns and rows with the columns arranged 
substantially parallel to the fast scan direction and 

including the step of actuating said light sources in a 
single column with an information signal for a single 

color to produce a light output level related to said 
information signal and supplying a different color 

signal to said light sources in each of said columns 
whereby a continuous tone multi-color image is produced 

on said photosensitive material. 
The method of generating a multi-color image 
as claimed in claim 23 wherein said columns of said 

light sources are spaced apart to produce writing spots 
on said photosensitive material which are spaced apart 

an integral number of scan lines. 
The method of generating a multi-color image 
as claimed in claim 23 wherein said light sources in a 

column are spaced apart to produce writing spots on 
said photosensitive material which are spaced apart an 

integral number of pixel spacings. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
