<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638695</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An apparatus for making decorations on tarred membranes for surface covering of buildings.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D06N500	D06N500	E04D500	E04D502	E04D512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D06N	D06N	E04D	E04D	E04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D06N5	D06N5	E04D5	E04D5	E04D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an apparatus for 
realising decorations on tarred membranes for 

covering surfaces in the construction industry. 
The decorations (6) are realised by the use of 

solid particles (7) in the form of scales, sands 
or granules, which are deposited on and adhere to 

the hot tarred surface of the membrane (1). The 
apparatus further comprises at least one mobile 

organ (formed by a rotating cylinder (10) or a 
rotating ring-wound belt (14-17) or a rotatable 

plate (19) provided with shapes (8) having a same 
shape as the final decorations (6) on the membrane 

(1) will have. The mobile organ is associated to a 
hopper (9) containing the solid particles (7) in 

such a way that the particles (7) fall by force of 
gravity from an outlet mouth of the hopper (9) on 

to the mobile organ and thence from the shapes (8) 
cut into the mobile organ on to the transiting 

membrane (1), forming the decorations (6) on the 
membrane (1). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDEX SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDEX S.P.A. TECNOLOGIE IMPERMEABILI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIOSO SILVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIOSO, SILVIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an apparatus for making 
monochromatic or polychromatic decorations on 
traditional-type waterproof tarred membranes, 
used for surface covering in the construction 
industry. Obviously the invention is only intended for use 
in connection with surfaces that will be on view, 
so it finds particular application on roof or 
terrace covering and the like. Normally membranes used for such purposes, known 
as "self-protecting", are surface-treated with 
mineral grits, or plastic or metal scales, sands 
or granules, all of which protect the membranes 
from weathering caused above all by the sun's 
ultraviolet rays. The invention is intended for application to 
membranes of the above-mentioned type which remain 
on view, and makes use of the above materials. Hoppers are normally used to apply the layer of 
grit on the tarred membrane, usually in 
conjunction with a cylindrical roller having a 
smooth or slightly corrugated surface, which is  
 
positioned below the outlet mouth of the hopper 
and on the tarred membrane moving below it. The 
grit falls by force of gravity on to the roller 
and is conveyed by the latter on to the membrane, 
being distributed thereupon uniformly so as to 
form a protective layer. Using this method no 
decorative pattern on the membrane is possible. The known system for making decorations on the 
surface of the membrane with grit envisages the 
use of one or more hoppers which are mobile 
transversally with respect to the advancement 
direction of the membrane. The hopper movement 
thus consists in a side-to-side movement while the 
grit is being laid by the hopper itself on to the 
underlying membrane. This is a system that 
exhibits a considerable drawback, however, since 
the only decorations possible are those deriving 
from a combination of the two straight movements 
of the membrane and the at least one hopper, 
mutually perpendicular, so that the decorations 
produced are extremely rudimentary, consisting 
essentially in straight lines, zig-zags and 
serpentine patterns. The principal aim of the present invention is to 
obviate the above drawbacks in the prior art by  
 
providing an apparatus which simply and 
economically makes it possible to create any kind 
of design on tarred membranes using solid 
particles. This and other aims are attained by the apparatus 
for making decorations on tarred membranes for 
surface covering of buildings, the decorations 
being made by using solid particles, in the form 
of scales or sands or grit, which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for making decorations (6) on tarred 
membranes (1) for surface covering in the 

constuction industry, the decorations (6) being 
made by use of solid particles (7), in the form of 

scales or sands or grit, which particles (7) 
adhere to a tarred surface of a membrane (1), the 

apparatus being positioned along a production line 
of the membrane (1) downstream of an impregnation 

bath (3) of the membrane (1) in such a way that 
the membrane (1), travelling continuously in an 

advancement direction, passes below the apparatus, 
characterised in that the apparatus 

comprises at least one mobile organ exhibiting 
decorative shapes (8), each of which shapes (8) is 

identical in form to the decoration (6) to be made 
on a surface of the membrane (1), which mobile 

organ is associated to at least one hopper (9) 
containing the solid particles (7), such that the 

particles (7) fall from an outlet mouth of the 
hopper (9) and on to the mobile organ, thereafter 

 
falling from the shapes (8) in the mobile organ 

and on to a transiting surface of the membrane 
(1), creating the decorations (6) on the surface 

of the membrane (1). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the mobile organ is constituted by a motorised 

cylinder (10) rotating about its own axis and 
arranged transversally to and above an advancement 

direction of the membrane (1) and lightly touching 
the outlet mouth of the hopper (9), and in that a 

plurality of shapes (8) are recessed into a 
surface of the motorised cylinder (10). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the mobile organ is constituted by a ring-wound 

motorized conveyor belt (14) arranged above the 
membrane (1) and touching the outlet mouth of a 

hopper (9), and in that a plurality of shapes (8) 
are recessed into a surface of the motorised 

conveyor belt (14). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the mobile organ is constituted by a motorised 

ring-wound conveyor belt (17) positioned above the 
 

membrane (1), wherein a rotating cylinder (18) is 
positioned between the belt (17) and the outlet 

mouth of the hopper (9), which cylinder (18) 
touches the outlet mouth, and in that a plurality 

of shapes (8) are formed by means of a plurality 
of through holes cut into the conveyor belt (17). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that 
the mobile organ is constituted by a plate (19) 

parallel to the membrane (1) and rotatable about a 
perpendicular axis to the membrane (1) and in that 

each of a pluality of shapes (8) is constituted by 
a through hole made in the plate (19). 
An apparatus as in claim 5, characterised in that 
a motorised rotating cylinder (20) is positioned 

between the plate (19) and a hopper (9), which 
cylinder (20) lightly drags against an outlet 

mouth of the hopper (9). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that, 
according to an advancement direction of the 

membrane (1), downstream of the mobile organ a 
distributor of particles (11) is situated, which 

distributor spreads the particles (11) uniformly 
 

on the membrane (1). 
An apparatus as in claim 7, characterised in that 
the distributor of particles (11) comprises a 

hopper (15) which unloads the particles (11) on to 
an underlying ring-wound motorised mobile belt 

(16) positioned above the membrane (1). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that 
it is arranged immediately in proximity of the 

impregnation bath (3) of the membrane (1). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that, 
according to an advancement direction of the 

membrane (1), the apparatus is arranged 
immediately downstream of a heating station (5) of 

the membrane (1). 
An apparatus as in claim 10, characterised in that 
the heating station (5) comprises a battery of 

burners (5) arranged in proximity of the membrane 
(1). 
An apparatus as in claim 1, characterised in that 
according to an advancement direction of the 

 
membrane (1) the apparatus is arranged immediately 

downstream of a spreading station of tar or a 
mixture of tar and a polymer or another adhesive 

substance. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
