<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0900944</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adhesive fastener
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16B1100	F16B1100	F16B3704	F16B3704	F16B3708	F16B3708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16B	F16B	F16B	F16B	F16B	F16B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16B11	F16B11	F16B37	F16B37	F16B37	F16B37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To provide an adhesive fastener which has no need of a
vacuum cup or a tab.
An adhesive fastener 1 comprises a body member 2 and a
tank member 3. The tank member 3 forms an adhesive

container 10 in which adhesive material is contained. One
end of the tank member is open but the other end is closed

by a rigid end wall 13 and a frangible thin portion 14. The
body member 2 has a plunger 18 which is slidably inserted

from the opening side into the adhesive container 10 and
forces out the adhesive from the frangible end, and an

adhesive surface 22 which is formed outside the tank member
so as to move together with the plunger and comes into

contact with the surface of an attachment member to be
bonded to the attachment member by means of the adhesive

material. On the frangible and of the tank member, a
protrusion 6 protruding axially outwardly is provided in the

centre or axis. In the initial state that the adhesive
material contained in the adhesive container 10 is sealed by

the plunger 18, the adhesive surface 22 is positioned
farther from the frangible end than the surface of the

attachment member is. When the protrusion 6 is brought into
contact with the attachment member and the body member 2 is

pressed, the plunger 18 presses the adhesive material in the
tank member and breaks the frangible thin portion 14 to

cause the adhesive to material flow out onto the surface of
the attachment member. When the body member is pressed

further, the adhesive surface comes into contact with the 
surface of the attachment member and is fixed to the

attachment member by means of the adhesive which has flowed
out.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMHART INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EMHART INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARUI HIDEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARUI, HIDEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an adhesive fastener
which has a tank for an adhesive to be contained therein and
a plunger to push out the adhesive from the tank onto the
surface of an attachment member when pressed onto the
attachment member, so that the fastener is fixed to the
attachment member by means of the adhesive.Japanese Patent No. 2,541,649 (corresponding to U.S.
Patent No. 5,004,852) and Japanese Patent National Laid-Open
No. 60-500679 (International Publication No. WO 84102960)
disclose adhesive fasteners comprising a tank for an
adhesive to be contained therein and a plunger to push out
the adhesive from the tank onto the surface of an attachment
member when pressed onto the attachment member, so that the
fastener is fixed to the attachment member by means of the
adhesive pushed out. These fasteners are convenient in that
they can eliminate the need to make a hole in an attachment
member such as a panel, and the need to fix a stud by
welding or some other means, and can be fixed to the
attachment member simply by pressing on to the attachment
member.Nevertheless, the above conventional adhesive fasteners
still have room for improvement. For instance, the adhesive
fastener of Japanese Patent No. 2,541,649 uses vacuum
suction, for which a vacuum cup has to be formed in the
body. Additionally, the vacuum suction is insufficient, if 
the surface of the attachment member is coarse. Since the
vacuum cup has a large diameter, it interferes with accurate
positioning as the mounting position on the attachment
member is occupied by the vacuum cup. In the adhesive
fastener of Japanese Patent National Laid-Open No.
60-500679, in order to increase the contact area with the
attachment member or to strengthen the connection between
attachment members, it is necessary to form tabs to extend
radially outwardly from the tank on pressing the plunger.
In this adhesive fastener, as the adhesive expands around
the outwardly extended tabs, there is a risk of coming into
direct contact with a finger of the operator.It is an object of the present invention to provide an
adhesive fastener which does not need a vacuum cup or a tab.The present invention provides an adhesive fastener
comprising tank means for containing an adhesive and plunger
means to push out the adhesive in the tank means onto the
surface of an attachment member by pressing it onto the
attachment member, whereby the pushed out adhesive causes
the fastener to be fixed to the attachment member;
characterised in that the tank means comprises a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An adhesive fastener comprising tank means for
containing an adhesive and plunger means to push out the

adhesive in the tank means onto the surface of an attachment
member by pressing it onto the attachment member, whereby

the pushed out adhesive causes the fastener to be fixed to
the attachment member; characterised in that the tank means

comprises a tubular tank member hollowed to receive the
adhesive and including one end which is open while the other

end is closed but is frangible, and the adhesive fastener
includes, as a separate member from the tank member, a body

member having a plunger which is slidably inserted from the
open end into the hollow portion of the tank member and

pushes out the adhesive out of the frangible end, and an
adhesive surface which is formed outside the tank member so

as to move together with the plunger, comes into contact
with the surface of the attachment member, and is bonded to

the attachment member by means of the adhesive; the
frangible end of the tank member being provided with a

protrusion protruding axially outwardly in its axis; and
wherein in the initial state that the plunger is fitted

within the hollow portion of the tank member to seal up the
adhesive member contained in the hollow portion, the

adhesive surface is located farther from the frangible end
of the tank member than the attachment member surface; when

the protrusion is brought in contact with the attachment
member and the body member is pressed, the plunger pushes

the adhesive in the tank member to break the frangible end
of the tank member to cause the adhesive to flow out onto

the surface of the attachment member; and further pressing
the body member allows the adhesive surface to come into

contact with the surface of the attachment member to be
fixed to the attachment member by means of the adhesive

which has flowed out.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 1 wherein at
the centre of the frangible of the tank member, a guide pin

extends oppositely to the protrusion, and a tubular adhesive
container is formed between the outer wall of the guide pin

and the inner wall of the outer tubular portion; the plunger
is formed with a guide hole which is longer than the guide

pin to ensure that the plunger moves; along the axis of the
tank member.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 2 wherein the
frangible end comprises a rigid end wall and a frangible

thin portion between the rigid end wall and the guide pin;
and the thin portion closes said end of the tank member

before the break thereof.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 3 wherein the
size of the thin portion is selected so as to increase the

flow velocity of the adhesive flowing out from an exit
formed by the break of the thin portion.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 3 wherein, in
order to facilitate the insertion of the plunger into the

tubular adhesive container, a circumferential slit is formed
in the leading end portion of the plunger throughout the

circumference to give radial resiliency, and the inner wall
of the outer tubular portion of the tank member is formed

with a circumferential projection for full circumferential
contact with the outer wall of the plunger to seal up the

adhesive within the adhesive container.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 1 wherein the
contact surface of the body member is formed in a circular

disc extending radially outwardly from the outer tubular
portion of the tank member, and is provided with a plurality

of radial ribs extending radially and a plurality of
circumferential ribs having different diameters to form

surplus adhesive receiving recesses which are independent
from each other radially as well as circumferentially.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 6 wherein the
adhesive surface has an integrally moulded 
tubular
supporting portion formed to surround the outer tubular

portion of the tank member; the tubular supporting portion
is connected to the end of the plunger, and a space to

receive the outer tubular portion of the tank member
slidably is defined between the tubular supporting portion

and the plunger.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 7 wherein the
tubular supporting portion is provided with a vent hole for

allowing air pressurised or depressurised in said space by
the movement of the plunger to escape from the space.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 8 wherein at
the upper end of the tubular supporting portion to join the

plunger and the adhesive surface together, an integrally
moulded, rod-like engagement portion is formed with threads

or circumferential grooves for fixing another member.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 9 wherein said
another member is attached to the rod-like engagement

portion after the adhesive surface is fixed to the
attachment member.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 10 wherein
said another member is attached to the rod like engagement

portion before the adhesive surface is fixed to the
attachment member.
The adhesive fastener according to Claim 7 wherein the
side of the tubular supporting portion to join the plunger

and the adhesive surface together are formed with threads or
circumferential grooves to fix another member.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
