<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634875</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Solid state image pick-up apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B2714	G02B2714	H04N904	H04N904	H04N909	H04N909	H04N9097	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B27	G02B27	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A solid state image pick-up apparatus including 
an objective lens for forming an image of an object, and 

a color separation optical system for dividing said image 
of the object into four color images, e.g. first and 

second green images, a red image and a blue image, one 
of said four color images being right and left reversed, 

first to fourth solid state image sensors for receiving 
said four color images respectively to derive first and 

second green color signals, a red color signal and a blue 
color signal. Light receiving elements of said first 

solid state image sensor are shifted with respect to 
those of the second solid state image sensor by a half 

of a pitch at which these light receiving elements are 
arranged in a horizontal scanning direction to perform a 

so-called offset-site pick-up. The first and second 
green image signals are mixed with each other at an ideal 

ratio of 1:1 to derive a green color signal. An image 
signal derived from one of said four solid state image 

sensors which receives said right and left reversed image 
is processed by a reverse cir
cuit. Said green color 
signal, red color signal and blue color signal are 

supplied to a luminance matrix and are mixed therein to 
produce a luminance signal having a high resolution. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKEGAMI TSUSHINKI KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IKEGAMI TSUSHINKI CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUEYOSHI KENICHI C O IKEGAMI T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGASAWA MASAYUKI C O IKEGAMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO KAZUMI C O IKEGAMI TS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUEYOSHI, KENICHI, C/O IKEGAMI TSUSHINKI CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUGASAWA, MASAYUKI, C/O IKEGAMI TSUSHINKI CO., LTD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO, KAZUMI, C/O IKEGAMI TSUSHINKI CO., LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a solid state 
image pick-up apparatus, and more particularly to a 
color solid state image pick-up apparatus comprising a 
color separation optical system for dividing an image of 
an object to be picked-up into red, green and blue color 
images and a plurality of solid state image sensors for 
receiving these color images. In the solid state image pick-up apparatus, a 
charge coupled device (CCD) has been generally used as a 
solid state image sensor. Not only in video cameras for 
domestic use, but also in television cameras for broadcasting 
use, CCD camera has been widely used. In order 
to improve the resolution of the CCD camera, a lot of 
works have been done for increasing the number of light 
receiving elements in CCD. However, this approach has a 
limitation due to a limitation in miniaturization. 
Further, when the number of light receiving elements is 
increased, an aperture of one element is reduced, so that 
S/N, sensitivity and dynamic range are liable to be 
decreased. Therefore, the aperture of the light receiving 
element could be reduced only to a limited extent. In order to mitigate the above mentioned 
drawback, a so-called offset-site pick-up method has  
 
been proposed. Fig. 1 illustrates a known color 
television camera using the offset-site pick-up method. 
An image of an object to be picked-up is formed by an 
objective lens 10 and the thus formed image is separated 
by a color separation optical system 11 into red, green 
and blue color images. These color images are picked-up 
by means of respective solid state image sensors, i.e. 
CCDs 12R, 12G and 12B. As shown in Fig. 2A, light 
receiving elements of the CCDs 12R and 12B receiving the 
red and blue color images, respectively are shifted with 
respect to light receiving elements of the CCD 12G viewed 
in a main scanning direction, i.e. in a horizontal 
scanning direction substantially by a half of a pitch P 
at which the light receiving elements of these CCDs are 
arranged regularly in the horizontal scanning direction. Color image signals read out of CCD 12R, 12G and 
12B, respectively are supplied to correlated double 
sampling circuits 13R, 13G and 13B, respectively to 
derive red, green and blue image signals. In order to 
make phases of these color image signals identical with 
each other, the green image signal is supplied to a delay 
circuit 14 having a delay time τ which corresponds to a 
time interval during which a distance of a half pixel 
pitch is scanned. The red, green and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A solid state image pick-up apparatus 
comprising: 

   an objective lens for forming an image of an object 
to be picked-up; 

   a color separation optical system for separating 
said image of the object into red, green and blue color 

images and further separating one of said red, green and 
blue color images into two images of the same color to 

obtain four color images, one of said four color images 
being light and left reversed with respect to the 

remaining three color images; 
   a first solid state image sensor for receiving one 

of said two images of the same color to derive a first 
image signal; 

   a second solid state image sensor for receiving the 
other of said two images of the same color to derive a 

second image signal, and having light receiving elements 
which are shifted with respect to light receiving 

elements of said first solid state image sensor in a 
horizontal scanning direction by a half of a pitch at 

which said light receiving elements are arranged in the 
horizontal scanning direction; 

   a combining circuit for combining said first and 
second image signals derived from said first and second 

solid state image sensors, respectively to derive a 
 

first color image signal; 
   a third solid state image sensor for receiving one 

of the remaining two different color images to derive a 
second color image signal; 

   a fourth solid state image sensor for receiving the 
other of the remaining two different color images to 

derive a third color image signal; 
   a right and left reversing means for deriving a 

right and left reversed image signal from one of said 
four solid state image sensors which receives the right 

and left reversed image; and 
   a luminance matrix for mixing said first, second and 

third color image signals at a predetermined ratio to 
derive a luminance signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said 
combining circuit combines said first and second image 

signals at a ratio of 1:1. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
color separation optical system is constructed such that 

said right and left reversed color image is different 
from said first and second images of the same color. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said 
color separation optical system forms a first green 

image which is received by said first solid state image 

sensor, a second green image which is received by said 
second solid state image sensor, a red image which is 

 
received said third solid state image sensor, and a blue 

image which is received by said fourth solid state image 
sensor, and said right and left reversing means reverses 

one of the image signals derived from said third and 
fourth solid state image sensors. 
An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said 
right and left reversing means is constructed to reverse 

the right and left of the image signal read out of said 
one of the third and fourth solid state image sensors. 
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said 
right and left reversing means comprises an analog-to-digital 

converter for converting said image signal read 
out of said one of the third and fourth solid state 

image sensors into a digital image signal, first and 
second switches which are driven in synchronism with a 

horizontal driving signal, first and second line 
memories which store said digital image signal, and a 

digital-to-analog converter for converting the digital 
image signal read out of said first and second line 

memories into an analog image signal, said first and 
second switches being driven such that the digital image 

signal is stored in said first and second line memories 
alternatively and is read out of said first and second 

line memories alternatively in a direction which is 
opposite to a direction in which the digital image 

signal is stored in said first and second line memories 
 

to derive a right and left reversed digital image 
signal. 
An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said 
color separation optical system is constructed such that 

said right and left reversed color image is one of said 
first and second images of the same color. 
An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said 
color separation optical system forms a first green 

image which is received by said first solid state image 
sensor, a second green image which is received by said 

second solid state image sensor, a red image which is 
received said third solid state image sensor, and a blue 

image which is received by said fourth solid state image 
sensor, and said right and left reversing means reverses 

one of the first and second green image signals derived 
from said first and second solid state image sensors. 
An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said 
right and left reversing means is constructed to reverse 

the right and left of one of said first and second green 
image signals read out of said first and second solid 

state image sensors. 
An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said 
right and left reversing means comprises an analog-to-digital 

converter for converting said one of the image 
signals read out of said first and second solid state 

image sensors into a digital image signal, first and 
 

second switches which are driven in synchronism with a 
horizontal driving signal, first and second line 

memories which store said digital image signal, and a 
digital-to-analog converter for converting the digital 

image signal read out of said first and second line 
memories into an analog image signal, said first and 

second switches being driven such that the digital image 
signal is stored in said first and second line memories 

alternatively and is read out of said first and second 
line memories alternatively in a direction which is 

opposite to a direction in which the digital image 
signal is stored in said first and second line memories 

to derive a right and left reversed digital image 
signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
