<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618475</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Flat panel display using rear projection screen.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B502	G02B502	G02F113	G02F113	G02F11335	G03B2162	G03B2162	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02F	G02F	G02F	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	G02B5	G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	G03B21	G03B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flat panel liquid crystal display module (34) has 
its front face adjacent a rear projection screen (40) and 

is illuminated by a pre-polarized collimated light source 
(10,14,16,18,22,26). Collimation is provided by either a 

Fresnel lens or a projection lens having a long focal 
length. The characteristics of the projection screen (40) 

provide narrowed vertical viewing angle and a fiber optic 
face plate (38) between the liquid crystal module (34) and 

the screen (40) provides sunlight rejection. The 
arrangement has greatly improved display brightness, with 

only minimal changes in contrast and color as viewing angle 
changes. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD RANDALL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLANCHARD, RANDALL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to flat panel display 
systems, and more particularly concerns such a system 
employing a rear projection screen and having greatly 
improved brightness. Flat panel display systems are commonly employed in 
so-called lap-top, notebook or other portable computers in 
which packaging dimensions are of critical significance. 
In particular, a major effort in the design and 
construction of such flat panel display systems is an 
attempt to keep the thickness of the display system to a 
minimum. Minimum display thickness or depth is obtained by 
employing a flat minimum depth illumination source. The 
illumination source often comprises a flat fluorescent 
light system and a contiguous diffuser that are positioned 
closely adjacent the rear surface of an active matrix 
liquid crystal module with a transparent screen or other 
protective layer covering the front face of the liquid 
crystal module. The diffuser is provided in an attempt to 
distribute light from the fluorescent source evenly over  
 
the liquid crystal module. In viewing the displayed image 
the viewer effectively looks through the liquid crystal 
module at the diffused light source behind it. This light 
generally has a Lambertian distribution, e.g. a uniform 
distribution in which intensity decreases with the cosine 
of the viewing angle away from an on-axis direction, a 
perpendicular to the screen. A normal vertical viewing angle of an observer is plus 
or minus 15°, although horizontal viewing angles are 
generally larger. The diffused light passing through the 
liquid crystal panel and transmitted at a vertical angle 
outside of the plus or minus 15° vertical viewing angle is 
effectively wasted. Utilizing fluorescent illumination and 
even with a diffuse light source behind the liquid crystal 
panel, it is difficult to provide a uniformity of 
brightness or light intensity over a large surface area of 
the display. Further, because the viewer is effectively 
looking through the liquid crystal display panel at the 
diffuse light source behind it, that portion of the light 
path from the viewer's eye through the liquid crystal 
material itself changes in length as viewing angle changes. 
That is, more of the liquid crystal material will act on a 
light ray passing through the liquid crystal panel at an 
angle than on a light ray passing through the liquid 
crystal panel at a normal to its surface. This results in 
degradation of image contrast because the greater the light 
path length through the liquid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A flat panel display system comprising: 
   a light modulating display module having front 

and rear faces, 
   collimated light source means for transmitting 

substantially collimated light to said rear face, and 
   a rear projection screen adjacent said front 

face. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 1 wherein 
said rear projection screen is substantially in contact 

with said display module. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 1 wherein 
said rear projection screen comprises a diffuser. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 1 wherein 
said rear projection screen comprises a polarizer for 

alternating ambient light and a diffuser interposed between 
said polarizer and said display module. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 4 
including a fiber optic layer interposed between said 

diffuser and said display module, said fiber optic layer 
being formed of optical fibers having a low numerical 

aperture. 
The flat panel liquid system of Claim 1 wherein 
said rear projection screen comprises a fiber optic layer, 

a diffuser, and a polarizer secured to said display module 
front face. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 6 wherein 
said diffuser is constructed and arranged to provide an 

elliptical diffusion pattern. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 6 wherein 
said diffuser includes diffusion particles having a first 

density in a first direction and a second density in a 
second direction that is grater than said first density. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 8 wherein 
said diffuser is constructed and arranged to provide a high 

screen gain in a relatively small vertical viewing angle. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 1 wherein 
said collimated light source means comprises a point light 

source, and a collimating lens interposed between said 
point light source and said rear face of said liquid 

crystal display module. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 10 wherein 
said collimating lens comprises a flat Fresnel lens. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 1 wherein 
said collimated light source means comprises a projection 

lens having a long focal length. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 10, 
wherein said point light source comprises an arc lamp and 

a polarized receiving light from said arc lamps, said 
collimating lens being adjacent said liquid crystal display 

module rear face, and an expanding lens for transmitting 
light from said polarizer to said collimating lens. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 10 
including a light integrator interposed between said point 

light source and said collimating lens. 
The flat panel display system of Claim 14 
including polarization recovery means interposed between 

said integrator and said collimating lens for polarizing 
light from said point light source to provide a light beam 

having a single polarization state and including 
substantially all of the light from said point light 

source. 
The flat panel liquid crystal display system of 
Claim 14 wherein said light integrator comprises a column 

of light transmitting material. 
A method of providing a liquid crystal display 
comprising the steps of: 

   positioning a rear projection screen adjacent the 
front face of a liquid crystal module, 

   transmitting a polarized substantially collimated 
light beam through the liquid crystal module to said rear. 

projection screen, and 
   transmitting information to be displayed to said 

liquid crystal panel. 
The method of Claim 17 wherein the step of 
transmitting a polarized substantially collimated light 

beam through said liquid crystal module comprises 
transmitting said polarized collimated light beam through 

a fiber optic face plate having a low numerical aperture. 
The method of Claim 18 including the step of 
radiating light from said rear projection screen in an 

elliptical pattern having a decreased vertical viewing 
angle. 
A method of displaying an image comprising the 
steps of: 

   transmitting a polarized substantially collimated 
light beam through a liquid crystal module to provide a 

light image at a front face of said liquid crystal module, 
   diffusing said light image at said front face in 

a diffusion pattern, and 
   driving said liquid crystal panel with signals 

that collectively define an image to be displayed. 
The method of Claim 20 including the step of 
transmitting a polarized collimated light beam through said 

liquid crystal module comprises transmitting said polarized 
collimated light beam through a fiber optic face plate 

having a low numerical aperture. 
The method of Claim 20 wherein said step of 
diffusing said light image comprises diffusing said light 

image in an elliptical pattern. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
