<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655944</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NOVEL DIFFUSER BODY AND PROCESS FOR PREPARING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01F304	B01F304	C04B4145	C04B4145	C04B4181	C04B4181	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01F	B01F	C04B	C04B	C04B	C04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01F3	B01F3	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	C04B41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rigid, monolithic, porous gas diffusion element which is formed of a body (50) of solid particles and which is comprised of a partially coated, permeable ceramic substrate (66) is disclosed. The substrate consists essentially of a porous first ceramic material, has an apparent porosity of from about 35 to about 50 percent, and has a minimum active pore size of from about 40 to about 120 microns; and it is partially coated with a coating (62) which consists essentially of a second ceramic material, has an apparent porosity of from about 35 to about 55 percent, and has a minimum active pore size of from about 10 to about 40 microns. The minimum active pore size of the substrate is from about 2 to about 5 times as great as the minimum active pore size of the coating.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REFRACTRON TECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REFRACTRON TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHECKLER CHAD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STANTON HARRY C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHECKLER, CHAD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STANTON, HARRY, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionNovel Diffuser Body and Process for PreparingTechnical FieldA ceramic diffuser body containing a ceramic substrate and a ceramic coating on the top surface of the substrate is disclosed.Background ArtPorous gas diffusion elements are well known to those skilled in the art. These prior art porous gas diffusers are often used to diffuse a gas (such as oxygen, ozone, air, carbon dioxide, or nitrogen) into a liquid (such as waste water or drinking water). An ASCE Standard Test ("Measurement of Oxygen Transfer in Clean Water," July, 1984, ISBN 0-87262- 430-7) was developed by the American Society of Civil En¬ gineers to evaluate the efficiencies of these prior art devic¬ es.A substantial amount of energy is required to force gas through such porous gas diffusers. The efficiencies of the prior art gas diffusion devices ranged from about 10 to about 40 percent. Thus, even a relatively small increase in such efficiency will result in a significant decrease in energy consumption.It is an object of this invention to provide a porous gas diffuser with an increased gas transfer efficiency.It is yet another object of this invention to provide a porous gas diffuser whose output is substantially uniform along its active surface.It is yet another object of this invention to provide a porous gas diffuser which, when connected a source of gas, is less likely to leak such gas from a source other than the active surface of the diffuser. 

Disclosure of the inventionIn accordance with this invention, there is provided a ceramic diffuser body which contains a ceramic substrate coated with a ceramic membrane. The minimum active pore size of the substrate is from about 2 to about 5 times as great as the minimum active pore size of the ceramic membrane.Brief description of the drawingsThe present invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following detailed description thereof, when read in conjunction with the attached drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements, and wherein:Figure 1 is a flow diagram of one preferred process of the instant invention;Figure 2 is a sectional view of one preferred diffuser of the instant invention;Figure 3 is a sectional view of the diffuser of Figure 2 connected to a source of gas; andEach of Figures 4 and 5 is a sectional view of another preferred diffuser of the instant invention.Best Mode for Carrying Out the InventionFigure 1 illustrates one preferred process for produc¬ ing the diffuser body of this invention.Referring to Figure 1, to mixer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A rigid, monolithic, porous gas diffusion element which is formed of a body of solid particles and which is comprised of a partially coated, permeable ceramic substrate, wherein:
(a) said substrate is an integral structure comprised of a top substrate surface, a bottom substrate surface, and an orifice extending upwardly from bottom substrate surface and defining an interior substrate surface, wherein the maximum dimension of said substrate is at least 3 times as large as the maximum dimension of said orifice;
(b)said substrate consists essentially of a porous first ceramic material, has an apparent porosity of from about 35 to about 50 percent, and has a minimum active pore size of from about 40 to about 120 microns;
(c)said substrate is coated with a coating which is bonded to and extends over said top substrate surface and said bottom substrate surface, wherein:
1. said coating is not bonded to and does not extend over said interior substrate surface;
2. said coating consists essentially of a second ceramic material has an apparent porosity of from about 35 to about 55 percent, and has a minimum active pore size of from about 10 to about 40 microns; and
3. the minimum active pore size of said substrate is from about 2 to about 5 times as great as the minimum active pore size of said coating.
2. The gas diffusion element as recited in claim 1, wherein said gas diffusion element is dome-shaped.
3. The gas diffusion element as recited in claim 2, wherein said first ceramic material is comprised of at least about 80 weight percent of alumina.
4. The gas diffusion element as recited in claim 3, wherein 


said second ceramic material is comprised of at least about 80 weight percent of alumina.
5. The gas diffusion element as recited in claim 4, wherein said gas diffusion element has a diameter of from about 6 to about 12 inches.
6. The gas diffusion element as recited in claim 5, wherein said orifice has a diameter of from about 1.5 to about 2.5 inches.
7. A gas diffusion apparatus comprised of a rigid, mono¬ lithic, porous gas diffusion element which is formed of a body of solid particles and which is comprised of a partially coated, permeable ceramic substrate, and means for supplying gas to said gas diffusion element, wherein:
(a) said substrate is an integral structure comprised of a top substrate surface, a bottom substrate surface, and an orifice extending upwardly from bottom substrate surface and defining an interior substrate surface, wherein the maximum dimension of said substrate is at least 3 times as large as the maximum dimension of said orifice;
(b)said substrate consists essentially of a porous first ceramic material, has an apparent porosity of from about 35 to about 50 percent, and has a minimumn active pore size of from about 40 to about 120 microns; (c)said substrate is coated with a coating which is bonded to and extends over said top substrate surface and said bottom substrate surface, wherein:
1. said coating is not bonded to and does not extend over said interior substrate surface;
2. said coating consists essentially of a second ceramic material has an apparent porosity of from about 35 to about 55 percent, and has a minimum active pore size of from about 10 to about 40 microns; and
3. the minimum active pore size of said sub- 


 strate is from about 2 to about 5 times as great as the minimum active pore size of said coating.
8. The gas diffusion apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein said gas diffusion element is dome-shaped.
9. The gas diffusion apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein said first ceramic material is comprised of at least about 80 weight percent of alumina.
10. The gas diffusion apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said second ceramic material is comprised of at least about 80 weight percent of alumina.
11. The gas diffusion apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said gas diffusion element has a diameter of from about 6 to about 12 inches.
12. The gas diffusion apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein said orifice has a diameter of from about 1.5 to about 2.5 inches.
13. A process for preparing a gas diffusion element, compris¬ ing the steps of:
(a) mixing from about 80 to about 95 weight percent of a first ceramic aggregate with from about 20 to about 5 weight percent of a first bonding agent, wherein:
1. at least about 99 weight percent of the parti¬ cles of said first ceramic aggregate have a maxi¬ mum dimension of from about 150 to about 1,000 microns;
2. said first ceramic aggregate, after being formed into a green body with a substantially circular-cross section and a diameter of 7 inches and being heated at a temperature of 1,225 de¬ grees Centigrade for 1 hour, has a shrinkage of less than about 1.0 percent; and
3. all of the particles of said bonding agent are smaller than about 100 microns;
(b)adding from about 3 to about 6 weight percent of a binder to said mixture of ceramic aggregate and binding 


 agent, thereby producing a green body mixture;
(c)forming said green body mixture into a green body;
(d)subjecting said green body to a temperature of at least about 1,225 degrees Centigrade for at least about
1.0 hour, thereby producing a rigid body; and
(e)coating the top surface and the bottom surface of said rigid body with an aqueous slurry comprised of at least 40 weight percent of solid material, wherein:
1. said solid material is comprised of from about 80 to about 95 percent of a second ceramic ag¬ gregate material and from about 20 to about 5 percent of a second bonding agent; and
2. substantially all of the particles of said second ceramic aggregate material are smaller than about 150 microns.
14. The process as recited in claim 13, wherein said first ceramic aggregate consists essentially of alumina with a particle size distribution such that substantially all of its particles are larger than about 250 microns.
15. The process as recited in claim 14, wherein said second ceramic aggregate consists essentially of alumina with a particle size distribution such that substantially all of its particles are smaller than 125 microns.
16. The process as recited in claim 15, wherein said first bonding agent and said second bonding agent are substantially chemically identical.
17. The process as recited in claim 16, wherein said green body is subjected to a temperature of from about 1,225 to about 1,275 degrees Centigrade for at least about 8 hours.
18. The process as recited in claim 17, wherein said green body is formed by pressing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
