<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646035</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LINEAR TRACKING PROGRAMMABLE EXERCISER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63B21002	A63B21002	A63B21005	A63B21005	A63B21008	A63B21008	A63B2206	A63B2208	A63B2300	A63B2300	A63B23035	A63B23035	A63B2304	A63B2304	A63B2400	A63B2400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63B21	A63B21	A63B21	A63B21	A63B21	A63B21	A63B22	A63B22	A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	A63B23	A63B24	A63B24	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A programmable limb exerciser comprises first and second reciprocating members (A18, A20) slidingly coupled to a linear track assembly (A1) which is supported upon the base (A5) for providing the linear bilateral reciprocal motion, sensors (A24, A25) for measuring force exerted upon the reciprocating members (A18, A20), a motion controller (A14) for controlling the movement of the reciprocating members (A18), so that the limbs of the user may be exercised individually, reciprocally or in tandem, and a display and control panel for providing information of the force exerted by the user, number of repetitions and elapsed time (A30-A36, A73, A74), and selection of isotonic, isokinetic or isoacceleration exercise program to the user. The exerciser can be readily re-oriented from a horizontal to vertical position for exercise of upper or lower body.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOREDAN BIOMED INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOREDAN BIOMEDICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGSETH GLEN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTING STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANGSETH, GLEN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTING, STEPHEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LINEAR TRACKING PROGRAMMABLE EXERCISERThis application is a continuation-in-part of Serial No. 07/473,281, filed January 31, 1992.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to exercise and rehabilitation systems and methods, and, more specifically, to a linear tracking isokinetic exerciser.When the hip, thigh, knee or ankle are injured, rehabilitation includes increasing the range of motion of the affected joint as well as increasing muscle strength and endurance. It is also necessary to retrain normal gait characteristics, particularly with regard to symmetrical strength and movement of both limbs. Thus, physicians and physical therapist have become increasingly interested in ulti-joint exercises that simulate the dynamics of actual limb movement.U.S. Patent No. 3,784,194 illustrates a known exercise device for bilaterally and reciprocally exercising a person's limbs. A person using the exerciser sits on an upright seat and places each of his or her feet through a loop of a pedal. The pedals are secured to a forward end of an L-shaped lever located on each side of the exerciser, and the levers are coupled to an actuator which isokinetically controls the motion of the levers. Although useful in many respects, the device lacks some desirable features. For example, the upright seat makes exercising awkward and inefficient. The reciprocating peddles move accurately and therefore do not properly simulate the forces encountered during actual walking. Movement of one limb inherently causes a corresponding movement in the other limb, so the device cannot isolate and exercise a single limb at a time. Analog hydraulic pressure gauges are used to measure the forces generated by each leg, but the indirect nature of the 

measurement only approximates the actual force being applied to the pedals. The needles in the gauges are not damped, so they bounce severely under even moderate use. Thus, unless gross differences exist between limbs, the gauges do not provide sufficient information for adeguate gait or strength training.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention is directed to an isokinetic limb exerciser wherein pedal motion is linear, and the limbs may be exercised alone or in combination. Forces are measured at the point of application and in such a manner that forces applied in any particular direction may be isolated.In one embodiment of the invention directed to a recumbent bilateral reciprocal isokinetic leg exerciser, first and second reciprocating members are slidingly coupled to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An exercise apparatus comprising: a base; a guide having an axis, supported upon the base; a first reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; a second reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; means for constraining the motion of at least one of the reciprocating members; means for measuring the force applied to each of the reciprocation members; and means for displaying information about the exercise session to the user, said information including the force applied to each reciprocating member.
2. An exercise apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the motion of at least one of the reciprocating members is constrained to be isokinetic.
3. An exercise apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the motion of at least one of the reciprocating members is constrained to be isotonic.
4. An exercise apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the motion of at least one of the reciprocating members is constrained to be at a constant rate of change of velocity.
5. The apparatus according to claim 4 further comprising: means for constraining the motion of the reciprocating members with respect to each other to be one of reciprocal or tandem;
6. An exercise apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the motion of at least one of the reciprocating 


members is selectably constrained to be one of isokinetic, isotonic or constant rate of change of velocity.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the display includes means for providing a printed report of at least some of the information displayed.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the force measuring means comprises one or more strain gauges.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the strain gauges are mounted on the reciprocating members.
10. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: means for positioning the axis in either a substantially horizontal or a substantially vertical position.
11. The apparatus according to claim 10 further comprising: means for constraining the motion of the reciprocating members with respect to each other to be one of reciprocal or tandem;
12. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: means for constraining the motion of the reciprocating members with respect to each other to be one of reciprocal or tandem;
13. An exercise apparatus comprising: a base a guide having an axis, supported upon the base; a first reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; a second reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; and 


 means for positioning the axis in first and second positions.
14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the first position is substantially horizontal and the second position is substantially vertical.
15. The apparatus according to claim 14 further comprising: means for constraining the motion of at least one of the reciprocating members to be at a constant rate of change of velocity.
16. The apparatus according to claim 15 further comprising: means for constraining the motion of the reciprocating members with respect to each other to be one of reciprocal or tandem;
17. The apparatus according to claim 14 further comprising: means for constraining the motion of the reciprocating members with respect to each other to be one of reciprocal or tandem;
18. An exercise apparatus comprising: a guide having an axis; a first reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; a second reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; and means for constraining the motion of at least one of the reciprocating members to be at a constant rate of change of velocity.
19. The apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising: 


 means for constraining the motion of the reciprocating members with respect to each other to be one of reciprocal or tandem;
20. An exercise apparatus comprising: a base a guide having an axis, supported upon the base; a first reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; a second reciprocating member coupled to the guide for motion in the direction of the axis; and means for selectably constraining the motion of the reciprocating members with respect to each other to be one of reciprocal or tandem.
21. An exercise apparatus according to claim 20 further comprising: means for selectably constraining the motion of at least one of the reciprocating members to be one of isokinetic, isotonic or constant rate of change of velocity; means for measuring the force applied to each of the reciprocation members; means for displaying information about the exercise session to the user, said information including the force applied to each reciprocating member, the display means including means for providing a printed report of at least some of the information displayed; and means for positioning the axis in either a substantially horizontal or a substantially vertical position. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
