<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622475</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for degassing semiconductor processing liquids.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1900	B01D1900	C23C1644	C23C1644	C23C16448	C23C16448	H01L2102	H01L21205	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D19	B01D19	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a degasser for removing 
gas entrapped or dissolved in a semiconductor wafer 

processing liquid consisting of a housing (62) and a 
fluid inlet/outlet (22) through which the processing 

liquid is passed respectively into and out of the 
housing. The degasser includes a separator (68) in 

the form of a circular pipe defining a tortuous 
(preferably spiral) path for the processing fluid as 

it passes through the housing. The separator is 
configured to be pervious to the molecules of the 

entrapped or dissolved gas but impervious to the 
molecules of the liquid. The degasser also includes a 

port (66) through which the housing (62) can be 
evacuated thereby resulting in a pressure differential 

across the separator. This causes molecules of the 
entrapped or dissolved gas to leave the liquid and to 

permeate through the separator and thus removing the 
gas from the processing liquid. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIVARAMAKRISHNAN VISWESWAREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHAO JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIVARAMAKRISHNAN, VISWESWAREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHAO, JUN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to semiconductor processing 
apparatus and operations and, more particularly, to a method and 
apparatus for removing gasses entrapped or dissolved in 
semiconductor processing liquids before such liquids are 
vaporized and delivered to a semiconductor processing chamber. In semiconductor wafer processing operations, wafer 
processing reactant fluids are often supplied to the interior of 
a wafer processing chamber in a gaseous form. It is, however, 
common for some of these reactants to be chemical precursors 
which are stored at some distant storage point in liquid form. 
The reactants are then supplied from the liquid storage, through 
a flow meter to be vaporized in a vaporizer and thereafter to 
the chamber in gaseous form. A typical example of a wafer processing system 
incorporating these elements is schematically illustrated in 
Fig. 1. In this figure a typical chemical vapor deposition 
(CVD) wafer processing apparatus 10 is shown to include a 
processing chamber 12. A standard commercial wafer processing 
liquid 14 is housed in a liquid form in a sealed fluid container 
16. For CVD processes, the processing liquid 14 (sold under 
brand names such as TEOS®) contains a source of silicon and 
optionally a dopant liquid such as TEOP®, TMB®, TMP®, TEP® and 
the like. The liquid 14 is supplied to the chamber 12 via a 
liquid flow meter 18 and a vaporizer 20, all of which are 
connected together by means of a supply conduit 22. The flow 
meter is intended to very accurately regulate the amount of 
processing fluid passing into the chamber 12 and the vaporizer  
 
functions to convert the fluid 14 from its liquid to its gaseous 
state. The liquid 14 is moved along the conduit 22 by injecting an 
inert gas such as Helium, Argon or Nitrogen under pressure into 
the space 24 above the surface of the liquid 14 in the container 
16. As a result of the pressurizing effect of the inert gas, 
the fluid 14 flows under pressure along the conduit 22 and is 
controlled and vaporized before flowing into the chamber 12. A problem with this type of arrangement is that the inert 
gas injected into the space 24 becomes entrapped or dissolved in 
the processing fluid 14. This is particularly so as the 
affinity of the processing fluid 14 for the inert gas increases 
as the pressure (and also the temperature and time of contact) 
in the container 16 increases. Consequently the processing 
liquid 14 flowing through the meter 18 has a certain amount of 
gas entrapped or dissolved in it. As the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for supplying processing fluid to a substrate 
processing apparatus, said system comprising: 


(i) a reservoir for storing the processing fluid in liquid 
form; 
(ii) a supply conduit along which processing fluid can be 
moved from the reservoir to the processing apparatus; 
(iii) vaporizing means for converting the processing fluid 
from a liquid to a gaseous phase, the vaporizing means being 

located along the supply conduit between the reservoir and the 
processing apparatus; 
(iv) liquid flow control means, disposed between the 
vaporizing means and the processing apparatus, for monitoring 

and controlling the flow of processing liquid along the conduit; 
and 
(v) degassing means disposed between the liquid flow 
control means and the reservoir and operable to remove gas 

entrapped or dissolved in the processing liquid passing along 
the conduit. 
A system as recited in Claim 1 wherein the degassing means 
includes: 


(i) a housing; 
(ii) a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet through which the 
processing liquid is respectively passed into and out of the 

housing; 
(iii) a separator mounted to the housing and being 
configured to be pervious to the molecules of the entrapped or 

dissolved gas but impervious to the molecules of the liquid; and 
(iv) means for applying a pressure differential across the 
separator to cause molecules of the entrapped or dissolved gas 

to leave the liquid and to permeate through the separator 
thereby removing the entrapped or dissolved gas from the 

processing liquid. 
A system as recited in Claim 2, wherein the separator is 
housed within the housing and defines a hollow conduit along 

which the fluid is passed. 
A system as recited in Claim 3, wherein the housing defines 
a sealed chamber about the conduit and wherein the housing 

includes a port through which the chamber can be evacuated to 
thereby produce the pressure differential across the separator 

whereby, when the pressure differential is produced molecules of 
entrapped or dissolved gas move out of the liquid and across the 

separator and are evacuated through the port. 
A system as recited in Claim 3 or Claim 4, wherein the conduit is in 
the form of a circular pipe. 
A system as recited in Claim 4 or Claim 5, wherein the conduit defines 
a tortuous path through the cha
mber. 
A system as recited in Claim 6, wherein the conduit defines 
a spiral shaped path through the chamber. 
A system as recited in any of Claims 3 to 7, wherein the conduit 
comprises a material of one of the group consisting of FEP, PFA 

or polytetrafluoro-ethylene Teflon®. 
A degasser for removing gas entrapped or dissolved in a 
processing liquid, comprising: 


(i) a housing; 
(ii) a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet through which the 
processing liquid is respectively passed into and out of the 

housing; 
(iii) a separator mounted to the housing and configured to 
be pervious to the molecules of the entrapped or dissolved gas 

but impervious to the molecules of the liquid; and 
(iv) means for applying a pressure differential across the 
separator to cause molecules of the entrapped or dissolved gas 

to leave the liquid and to permeate through the separator 
thereby removing the entrapped or dissolved gas from the 

processing liquid. 
A degasser as recited in Claim 9, wherein the separator is 
housed within the housing defines a hollow conduit along which 

the fluid is passed. 
A degasser as recited in Claim 10, wherein the housing 
defines a sealed chamber about the conduit and wherein the 

housing includes a port through which the chamber can be 
evacuated to thereby produce the pressure differential across 

the whereby, when the pressure differential is produced, 
molecules of entrapped or dissolved gas move out of the liquid 

and across the separator and are evacuated through the port. 
A degasser as recited in Claim 11, wherein the conduit is 
in the form of a circular pipe. 
A degasser as recited in Claim 11 or Claim 12, wherein the conduit 
defines a tortuous path through the chamber. 
A degasser as recited in Claim 13, wherein the conduit 
defined a spiral shaped path through the chamber. 
A degasser as recited in any of Claims 9 to 14, wherein the conduit 
comprises a material of one of the group consisting of FEP, PFA 

or polytetrofluoro-ethylene Teflon®. 
A method of supplying processing fluid to a substrate 
processing apparatus, comprising the steps of: 


(i) storing the processing fluid in liquid form in a 
reservoir; 
(ii) moving the processing fluid along a supply conduit 
from the reservoir to the processing apparatus; 
(iii) converting the processing fluid from a liquid to a 
gaseous phase by means of a vaporizer located along the supply 

conduit between the reservoir and the processing apparatus; 
(iv) monitoring and controlling the processing liquid 
moving along the conduit by means of a liquid flow control; and 
(v) removing gas entrapped or dissolved in the processing 
liquid passing along the conduit at a point located between the 

reservoir and the liquid flow control. 
A method as recited in Claim 16 wherein the step of 
removing gas includes: 


(i) passing the processing liquid along a predetermined 
fluid path through a housing; 
(ii) mounting a separator to the housing, the separator 
being configured to be pervious to the molecules of the 

entrapped or dissolved gas but impervious to the molecules of 
the liquid; and 
(iii) applying a pressure differential across the separator 
to cause molecules of the entrapped or dissolved gas to leave 

the liquid and to permeate through the separator thereby 
removing the entrapped or dissolved gas from the processing 

liquid. 
A method as recited in Claim 17, further comprising the 
steps of: 


(i) using the housing to define a sealed chamber about the 
conduit, the housing including a port through which the chamber 

can be evacuated; and 
(ii) evacuating the chamber through the port to produce the 
pressure differential across the separator and thereby cause 

molecules of entrapped or dissolved gas to move out of the 
liquid and across the separator and be evacuated through the 

port. 
A method as recited in Claim 18, wherein the fluid path 
along which the fluid is passed defines a tortuous path through 

the chamber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
