<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POSITIONABLE SPINAL FIXATION DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1756	A61B1756	A61B1770	A61B1770	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Means are provided on spinal fixation hook or screw elements along a spinal implant rod (11) for preventing or inhibiting them from unintentional sliding on the rod during handling prior to implantation in vivo. One embodiment uses a set screw (18) in an eyebolt (13) and which engages the rod (11). Another uses a plastic plug (118) in an eyebolt and which engages the rod. A third uses a grooved aperture (232) in the eyebolt (213) cooperating with a grooved rod (211) to inhibit unintentional sliding of the eyebolt on the rod.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANEK MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANEK MEDICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHMAN RICHARD B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASHMAN, RICHARD, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 POSITIONABLE SPINAL FIXATION DEVICEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION^ Field of the Invention:This invention relates to orthopedics and particularly t 5 control of clamps and other accessories on spinal rods duri implantation procedures.Description of the Prior Art:During preparation for implantation of spinal fixation devices, various hooks and clamps are installed on a spinal 10 rod. They are not fixed to the rod, since it is necessary t precisely locate and fix them only after placement in Ihe body. But a spinal rod with an array of fixation devices loosely mounted thereon in preparation for implantation in the human body can be difficult to handle without the device 15 becoming significantly displaced and disoriented, even to th extent of sliding and falling off the end of the rod. For example, in the TSRH Spinal Implant System marketed by Danek Medical, Inc., the assignee of this application, a series of eyebolts which connect hooks, screws, and plates are 20 positioned along a spinal rod. The connecting elements are used to attach these various hooks and screws to the rod at an infinite number of possible positions. As the surgeon approaches the patient with this plurality of fixation elements strung along the rod, there exists the opportunity 25 for these eyebolt connecting elements to slide off one end o the rod. The ability to temporarily or provisionally position these eyebolts on the rod so that they do not lose their position, would significantly improve the system. Prior art systems incorporating set screws on their 30 fixation means already exist. Most of which I am aware use \ the set screws to fix the devices on the rod after they are 

suitably positioned in the body. They do not lend themselves to simply snugging the device on the rod during handling prior to implantation. Only one spinal fixation system of which I am aware possesses a fixation element which incorporates a means by which it can be temporarily held in position along a spinal fixation rod prior to implantation. It is the Cotrel Dubousset (C/D) instrumentation which uses a blocker which is essentially a cylindrical element with a set screw in it. This cylindrical element is used as the primary means of fixing hooks or screws to the spinal fixation rod. The set screw in the blocker is not only used to provisionally position the cylindrical element but also to provide final tightening of the blocker on the rod. An example is shown in Cotrel U. S. Patent No. 4,641,636. The C/D blocker significantly differs from the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A system for provisionally tightening a fixation element along a spinal implant rod prior to placement in vivo and comprising: an eyebolt having a central aperture receivable on a spinal rod; inhibitor means on the eyebolt to provisionally position the eyebolt in a fixed position on the rod and inhibit gravity induced free sliding of the eyebolt on the rod; and clamping means on the eyebolt independent of the inhibitor means to tightly clamp the eyebolt on the rod and prevent movement of the eyebolt along the rod by applied external force.
2. The system of claim 1 and wherein: the eyebolt includes an externally threaded shank and the inhibitor means include a set screw in the eyebolt shank and operable to engage the rod sufficiently snugly to prevent the eyebolt from freely sliding along the rod, but without relying on the set screw for the final fixation.
3. The system of claim 2 and wherein: the clamping means include a nut threadedly received on the outside of the shank and operable thereon to clamp against a spinal fixation element mounted on the eyebolt.
4. The system of claim 1 and wherein: the inhibitor means include a deformable polymeric plug mounted in the eyebolt and extending into the central aperture of the eyebolt sufficiently to interfere with the free sliding of the eyebolt on the rod.
5. The system of claim 4 and wherein: the eyebolt includes an externally threaded shank 


extending radially outward from the eyebolt; and the plug extends into the central aperture at a point thereon substantially diametrically opposite the location o the shank and is resiliently deformed by the rod to frictionally resist movement of the eyebolt relative to the rod.
6. The system of claim 5 and wherein: the clamping means include a nut threadedly received on the outside of the shank and operable thereon to clamp against a spinal fixation element mounted on the eyebolt.
7. The system of claim 1 and wherein: the inhibitor means include an inwardly projecting rib i the central aperture of the eyebolt.
8. This system of claim 7 and wherein: the inhibitor means include longitudinally spaced circumferential grooves in the exterior of the rod for engagement by the rib of the eyebolt to inhibit free sliding of the eyebolt along the rod.
9. The system of claim 8 and wherein: the rib is a spiral rib, and the pitch of the rib spiral is equal to the spacing between the grooves.
10. The system of claim 9 and wherein: the clamping means include a nut threadedly received on the outside of the shank and operable thereon to clamp against a spinal fixation element mounted on the eyebolt. 


 AMEMDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 27 September 1993 (27.09.93) new claim 11 added ; other claims unchanged (2 pages)]
extending radially outward from the eyebolt; and the plug extends into the central aperture at a point thereon substantially diametrically opposite the location of the shank and is resiliently deformed by the rod to 5 frictionally resist movement of the eyebolt relative to the rod.
6. The system of claim 5 and wherein: the clamping means include a nut threadedly received on the outside of the shank and operable thereon to clamp 10 against a spinal fixation element mounted on the eyebolt.
7. The system of claim 1 and wherein: the inhibitor means include an inwardly projecting rib in the central aperture of the eyebolt.
8. This system of claim 7 and wherein:
15 the inhibitor means include longitudinally spaced circumferential grooves in the exterior of the rod for engagement by the rib of the eyebolt to inhibit free sliding of the eyebolt along the rod.
9. The system of claim 8 and wherein:
20
 the rib is a spiral rib, and the pitch of the rib spiral is equal to the spacing between the grooves.
10. The system of claim 9 and wherein: the clamping means include a nut threadedly received on 


the outside of the shank and operable thereon to clamp against a spinal fixation element mounted on the eyebolt.
11. A system for engaging a fixation element along a spinal implant rod to permit provisionally tightening the fixation element on the rod prior to placement in vivo comprising: an eyebolt defining a central aperture adapted to receive a spinal rod therethrough: inhibitor means intersecting said central aperture of said eyebolt for provisionally positioning said eyebolt in a position on the rod and for inhibiting gravity induced free sliding of said eyebolt on the rod while permitting sliding of said eyebolt on the rod upon application of a determinate external force; and clamping means on the eyebolt, independent of the inhibitor means, for tightly clamping said eyebolt on the rod to prevent movement of said eyebolt along the rod by application of said determinate external force, and wherein; said eyebolt includes an externally threaded shank and said inhibitor means include a set screw extending through said eyebolt shank and intersecting said central aperture to engage a rod extending therethrough sufficiently snugly to prevent said eyebolt from freely sliding along the rod, but without relying on said set screw for the final fixation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
