<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652675</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CATV signal splitter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H700	H03H748	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H7	H03H7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A signal splitter circuit accepts an input signal and conveys the 
input signal to two output ports. The circuit operates with minimal attenuation, 

throughout a very wide bandwidth, and also effectively isolates 
the output ports from each other. The signal from the input port 

is coupled to an autotransformer, and the ends of the autotransformer are 
connected to the respective output ports. A bridge load circuit which 

includes a transformer winding and a load connected in parallel, is inductively 
coupled to the autotransformer. The bridge load circuit has no 

connection to the splitter circuit, other than through the inductive 
coupling. The splitter circuit also includes inductors in series with 

the output ports and capacitors in parallel with the output ports. The 
circuit provides a balanced bridge circuit which cancels signals traveling 

between the output ports, and the inductors and capacitors provide 
impedance matching between the input port and output ports. The arrangement 

of the bridge load circuit places the leakage inductance of the 
autotransformer outside the effective path of the bridge load circuit, so 

that the leakage inductance cannot cause unwanted and unpredictable phase 
shifts at high frequencies. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YEE BARK LEE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YEE, BARK-LEE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT W ANDREW JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRIGHT, W. ANDREW, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the field of signal splitters for use in 
CATV distribution systems, and in other applications in which signals, 
having a wide range of frequencies, are distributed across various output 
ports. The invention is therefore not necessarily limited to use in a 
CATV system. At literally thousands of locations in a CATV (community antenna 
television) distribution system, an incoming signal must be split among 
two or more outgoing branch circuits. The signal splitters that divide 
the signal among the outgoing branches must fulfill several challenging 
performance criteria. First, the CATV signal has a very broad bandwidth, 
currently ranging from 5-552 MHz. In the foreseeable future, the upper 
limit will reach 1000 MHz (1 GHz), so the total bandwidth will approach 
eight octaves of range. At 1 GHz, conventional printed circuit boards 
and wire lead components do not perform acceptably. Secondly, over the frequency range of the signal, the power loss 
must be uniform, within a small fraction of a decibel. During its trip 
from the head-end of the system to a subscriber's home, the signal must 
pass through more than a dozen splitters. Any attenuation in the splitter 
will be multiplied by the number of splitters in the line. Thirdly, the splitters must have very good output return loss. This 
means that any signals flowing back from one of the output branch circuits 
should be absorbed by the splitter, and not reflected back down the 
branch circuit. Signals that are so reflected appear as "ghost" images  
 
on a subscriber's television set. Fourthly, the splitters must have very good output isolation. This 
means that a signal entering or exiting one of the output ports should 
not appear at another output port. If a signal could travel from one 
output port to another, a neighbor's television reception would be 
degraded. Figure 1 shows a basic splitter circuit of the prior art. The circuit 
is of the type which produces equal outputs. It is also possible to 
provide a circuit with unequal outputs, but the latter circuit is outside 
the scope of the present invention. The circuit of Figure 1 includes an 
input port and two output ports. Multiple output ports can be accommodated 
by constructing binary "trees" each comprising the basic circuit. 
That is, each output port of a given signal splitter circuit is connected 
to the input port of another identical splitter circuit. In this way, a 
plurality of splitter circuits are connected in a cascading arrangement, 
so that a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A signal splitter circuit for use in a CATV system, comprising: 

a) an input port and two output ports, 
b) an autotransformer having a pair of inductively coupled coils, 
the coils having ends connected to the output ports, the coils being connected 

to the input port, and 
c) a bridge load circuit, the bridge load circuit comprising a coil 
connected in parallel with a load, the coil being inductively coupled to 

at least a portion of the autotransformer, wherein the bridge load circuit 
is free of any connection to the signal splitter circuit other than 

through inductive coupling to the autotransformer. 
The circuit of Claim 1, further comprising an inductor in series 
with at least one of the output ports, and a capacitor in parallel with 

at least one of the output ports. 
The circuit of Claim 1, wherein the bridge load circuit further 
comprises a capacitor connected in parallel with the load. 
The circuit of Claim 2, wherein the autotransformer is connected 
to the input port at a center tap, and wherein there is a capacitor connected 

between the center tap and ground. 
A signal splitter circuit for use in a CATV system, comprising: 

a) an input port and two output ports, 
b) a first autotransformer connected between the input port and 
ground, 
c) a second autotransformer connected between the two output ports, 
the first and second autotransformers being electrically connected 

together and being also connected to a capacitor, 
d) a bridge load circuit comprising an inductor, a resistor, and a 
 

capacitor, all connected in parallel, the inductor of the bridge load 
circuit being inductively coupled to the second autotransformer, wherein 

the bridge load circuit is free of any other connection with the splitter 
circuit, and 
e) inductors connected in series with the output ports, and capacitors 
connected in parallel with the output ports. 
A signal splitter circuit, for use at high frequencies, the circuit 
comprising an input port and two output ports, the input port being 

connected to an autotransformer, the autotransformer being connected to 
the two output ports, and a bridge load circuit comprising a a transformer 

winding and a load connected in parallel, the winding of the 
bridge load circuit being inductively coupled to the autotransformer, the 

bridge load circuit being free of any direct connection to the signal 
splitter circuit. 
The circuit of Claim 6, further comprising a capacitor connected 
in parallel with the load in the bridge load circuit. 
The circuit of Claim 6, further comprising at least one inductor 
connected in series with at least one of the output ports. 
The circuit of Claim 8, further comprising at least one capacitor 

connected in parallel with at least one of the output ports. 
The circuit of Claim 9, wherein the input port is connected to 
the autotransformer at a point, and wherein there is a capacitor connected 

between said point and ground. 
A signal splitter circuit for use in a CATV system, comprising: 

a) an input port and two output ports, 
b) an autotransformer having a pair of inductively coupled coils, 
the coils having ends connected to the output ports, the coils being connected 

to the input port, and 
c) a bridge load circuit, the bridge load circuit comprising a coil 
connected in parallel with a load, the coil of the bridge load circuit 

being inductively coupled to at least a portion of the autotransformer, 
wherein the circuit is free of any direct path from one output port, 

through the load, and to the other output port. 
The circuit of Claim 11, further comprising an inductor in 
series with at least one of the output ports, and a capacitor in parallel 

with at least one of the output ports. 
The circuit of Claim 11, wnerein the bridge load circuit 
further comprises a capacitor connected in parallel with the load. 
The circuit of Claim 12, wherein the autotransformer is connected 
to the input port at a center tap, and wherein there is a capactor 

connected between the center tap and ground. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
