<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650135</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data capture variable priority method and system for managing varying processing capacities
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K903	G06K962	G06K920	G06K962	G06K903	G06K920	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	G06K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data processing system and method manages the recognition of 
text characters in a plurality of document images. The 

documents are predefined forms having a plurality of fields in 
which text characters are to be recognized. A form definition 

data set is used to specify various characteristics of the 
fields on the form such as their locations. A data capture 

priority value is specified in the form definition data set for 
at least some of the fields. This priority is used to manage 

the workload of the character recognition process. When a 
large number of document form images have been received by the 

system, they can limit the backlog volume and maintain a 
desired throughput for character recognizing the forms by 

reducing the number of fields which are character recognized on 
each form. By using the data capture priority value for each 

field, the character recognition processor can be controlled to 
omit processing or perform faster, lower-quality processing of 

low priority fields. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURGER MARK E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURGER, MARK E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention disclosed broadly relates to data processing and
more particularly relates to character recognition of document
forms.This patent application is related to the European
patent application EP-A-0 565 911, entitled "Data Processing System and Method for
Sequentially Repairing Character Recognition Errors for Scanned
Images of Document Forms," by T. S. Betts, et al., the
application being assigned to the IBM Corporation.This patent application is also related to the European
patent application EP-A-0 565 912 claiming the priority of April 17,
1992, entitled "Data Processing System and Method for Selecting
Customized Character Recognition Processes and Coded Data
Repair Processes for Scanned Images of Document Forms," by T.
S. Betts, et al., the application being assigned to the IBM
Corporation.This patent application is also related to U. S. patent
5,140,650, entitled "A Computer
Implemented Method for Automatic Extraction of Data From
Printed Forms," by R. G. Casey, et al., the patent being
assigned to the IBM Corporation. This patent application is also related to the European
patent application EP-A-0 622 751 claiming the priority date of April 26,
1993, entitled "System and Method for Enhanced Character
recognition Accuracy by Adaptive Probability Weighting," by M.
P. T. Bradley, the application being assigned to the IBM
Corporation.This patent application is also related to the European
patent application EP-A-0 637 811 by D. W. Billings, et al. entitled "Method
for Defining a Plurality of Form Definition Data Sets," claiming the
priority date of August 2, 1993, the application being
assigned to the IBM Corporation.Data contained in digitized images can be extracted for a
number of purposes, and in many different ways. A prerequisite
for extracting information from form is a knowledge of the
types and locations of the data (information about the "fields"
of the form). Currently, most forms processing applications
have their own method for "defining" forms, and each method is
incompatible with the others. In large image systems which use
several different forms processing applications, each form
needs to be separately defined for each application, which
costs time and introduces inconsistencies in the form
definitions. The method disclosed in the D. W.
Billings, et al. patent application creates form definition
data sets which can be used for almost any forms processing
application.In many business applications, the volume of forms to be
processed can vary widely with time. When a large
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for managing the recognition of text characters
in a plurality of document images, said method being

executed in a data processing system including a
document image input, a document image buffer, and a

character recognition processing means, the method
comprising the steps of:


storing a first field definition in said system,
specifying a first location and a first priority value

for a first field in a document type and a second field
definition in said system, specifying a second location

and a second priority value for a second field, which is
less than said first priority value, in said document

type;
buffering in said document image buffer, a plurality of
document images of said document type, containing text

characters in said first and second fields;
counting in said system said plurality of buffered
document images in said document image buffer and

sending a threshold signal to said character recognition
processing means if said plurality is greater than a

predetermined value;
performing character recognition with said character
recognition processing means of the first and second

fields if the priority value of the respective field is
equal to or exceeds said threshold signal.
The method according to claim 1, being executed in a
data processing system having character recognition

processing means operating in a high quality recognition
mode and a low quality recognition mode, and comprising

the step of:
 
performing character recognition processing means using

said high recognigtion mode when said plurality of
buffered document images is less than said predetermined

value and performing character recognition of said
second field with said character recognition processing

means using said low recognition mode in accordance with
said second field definition, in response to said

threshold signal when said plurality of buffered
document images is greater than said predetermined

value.
The method according to claim 1 or 2 being executed in a
data processing system including a first character

recognition processing means and a second character
recognition processing means, and comprising the step

of:

performing character recognition of said first and
second fields with both said first character recognition

processing means and said second character recognition
processing means when said plurality of buffered

document images is less than said predetermined value
and omitting performing character recognition of said

second field with said first character recognition
processing means and said second character recognition

processing means in accordance with said second field
definition, in response to said threshold signal when

said plurality of buffered document images is greater
than said predetermined value.
The method according to claim 1 or 2 being executed in a
data processing system including a first character

recognition processing means and a second character
recognition processing means, and comprising the step

of:

performing character recognition of said first and
second fields with both said first character recognition 

processing means and said second character recognition
processing means when said plurality of buffered

document images is less than said predetermined value
and omitting performing character recognition of said

second field with said second character recognition
processing means in accordance with said second field

definition, in response to said threshold signal when
said plurality of buffered document images is greater

than said predetermined value.
The method according to any one of the above claims
being executed in a data processing system, including a

document image input, a document image buffer, a
character recognition processing means, and a manual

character repair processor, adapted for managing the
correction of text characters output from said

recognition processing means, and comprising the steps
of:


receiving a threshold value in said repair processor;
receiving field priorities, a document form image, and
character recognition results for a particular document,

in said repair processor;
displaying said particular document image on a display
device at said repair processor;
selectively displaying a first character recognition
string for a first field in said particular document

image at said repair processor, if a first priority
value for said first field is greater than said

threshold;
selectively omitting display of a second a character
recognition string for a second field in said particular

document image at said repair processor, if a second 
priority value for said second field is less than said

threshold.
The method of claim 5, which further comprises:

polling a plurality of other repair processors coupled
to said repair processor, to determine how many of said

other repair processors are logged on;
increasing said threshold value if there are fewer than

a predetermined of said other repair processors are
logged on.
The method of claim 6, which further comprises:

sending a threshold message to said other repair
processors, increasing said threshold value.
The method of claim 7, which further comprises:

polling a plurality of other repair processors coupled
to said repair processor, to determine how many of said

other repair processors are logged on;
decreasing said threshold value if there are more than a
predetermined of said other repair processors are logged

on.
The method of claim 8, which further comprises:

sending a threshold message to said other repair
processors, decreasing said threshold value.
A data processing system for managing the recognition of
text characters in a plurality of document images,

comprising: 

a storage means for storing a first field definition
specifying a first location and a first priority value

for a first field in a document type and a second field
definition specifying a second location and a second

priority value for a second field, which is less than
said first priority value, in said document type;
a document image buffer for buffering a plurality of
document images of said document type, containing text

characters in said first and second fields;
a counting means coupled to said document image buffer,
for counting said plurality of buffered document images

therein and providing a threshold signal if said
plurality is greater than a predetermined value;
a character recognition processing means coupled to said
storage means, to said document image buffer and to said

counting means, for performing character recognition of
said first and second fields if the priority value of

the respective field is equal to or exceeds said
threshold signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
