<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617374</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A data processing system for printing screen information.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F312	G06F312	G06F3153	G06F3153	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention enables efficient production of graphical 
page configurations, for instance a specification, a user's guide, etc., 

of an application program having a graphical user interface. An image is 
produced on a screen which causes an association with a printing result 

but is simpler in constitution than the printing result. This is 
achieved, for instance, by using image fonts such as character fonts and 

graphic fonts. 
A data processing system in accordance with the present invention 
has a processor, a storage device, a display device, and is connectable 

to a printing apparatus, the system further comprising visualisation 
means for generating a screen image on the display device from a screen 

image file stored in the storage device, and a printing means for sending 
print information to the printing apparatus based on a print image file 

stored in the storage device and relating to the screen image file, the 
system being characterised by: the screen image file representing a 

screen image which is simpler in form than a printed image created by the 
printing apparatus from the corresponding print image file; and 

generation means for creating the print image file from the screen image 
file with reference to translating means in the storage device relating 

elements in the screen image file with specific printing elements to be 
included in the print image file. 
When printing, a printing result including fine detailed figures 
and pictures is obtained based on information representing the simpler 

screen image. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKIYAMA AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKIYAMA, AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an information processing system 
and, more specifically, to a technique for producing printed material 
corresponding to an image on the screen of a display device. In the process of developing an application program, it is 
necessary to make a specification and a user's guide for that application 
program. In such a specification and user's guide, various functions of 
the application program and methods of using it need to be described in 
detail while actual images to be displayed when the application program 
operates are reproduced in hard copy form on sheets. In many cases, 
application programs operating on recent operating systems for personal 
computers, such as Operating System/2 (trademark of IBM Corp.) and MS-Windows 
(trademark of Microsoft Corp.), have a unified graphical user 
interface. This in contrast to the fact that application programs 
operating on conventional operating systems have a user interface which 
mainly requires character input. Therefore, in a specification and a 
user's guide of the above type of application program, a number of pages 
need to be constituted in a unified and graphical manner. However, for the reasons described below, it has conventionally 
been difficult to efficiently produce pages including graphical 
representations. In a first conventional technique, graphic image files 
of figures and pictures to be used in graphical page configurations are 
prepared. Figure 39 is a block diagram showing the first conventional 
technique. In Figure 39, a graphic source file 1 is a file which a user 
has produced on a host computer such as a personal computer while 
watching its screen. The graphic source file 1 is converted to graphic 
image files 2 using a graphic image file generating application program 
such as PostScript (trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.). Each graphic image 
file 2 is produced for a single group of figures or pictures. 
Furthermore, a text source file 3 is produced which has a hook to be used 
for taking in the graphic image files 2. A printable file 4 is produced 
from the text source file 3 and the graphic image files 2, and a printed 
material 5 is produced from the printable file 4. Figure 40 shows a relationship between an image A on a screen of a 
host computer and a printing result B in the first conventional technique 
described above. Figure 40 illustrates that, with this prior art  
 
technique, if one wants to obtain an elaborate work as a printing result, 
one needs to produce the same elaborate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A data processing system having a processor (620), a storage device 
(630, 640), a display device (650), and being connectable to a printing 

apparatus (660), the system further comprising visualisation means (641) 
for generating a screen image on the display device (650) from a screen 

image file (20) stored in the storage device (630, 640), and a printing 
means for sending print information to the printing apparatus (660) based 

on a print image file (30) stored in the storage device (630, 640) and 
relating to the screen image file (20), the system being characterised 

by: 
   the screen image file (20) representing a screen image which is 

simpler in form than a printed image created by the printing apparatus 
(660) from the corresponding print image file (30); and 

   generation means for creating the print image file (30) from the 
screen image file (20) with reference to translating means in the storage 

device (630, 640) relating elements in the screen image file (20) with 
specific printing elements to be included in the print image file (30). 
A system as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the generation means is 
characterised by: 

   a converter (22) for converting the screen image file (20) into an 
intermediate file (24) by identifying key words in the screen image file 

(20) and replacing each keyword with a related function; and 
   a collation table (23) in the storage device for associating the 

key words with their related functions, and accessible by the converter 
(22). 
A system as claimed in Claim 2, further characterised by: 
   a portion of the related functions in the intermediate file being 

represented by macro names; 
   a macro library (26) being contained in the storage device (630, 

640) and containing a macro program for each macro name; and
 

   a compiler (28) for converting the intermediate file (24) into the 
print image file (30) by replacing the macro names in the intermediate 

file with the corresponding macro programs. 
A system as claimed in claim 3, wherein each of said macro programs 
includes printing patterns and control information on printing positions 

to be used for producing, based on particular identifiers in said screen 
image file, parts of said printing result corresponding to respective 

parts of said screen image produced by said identifiers. 
A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said screen 
image file (20) represents a combination of a plurality of screen image 

fonts. 
A method of printing screen information in a data processing system 
having a processor (620), a storage device (630, 640), a display device 

(650), and being connectable to a printing apparatus (660), the method 
comprising the steps of generating a screen image on the display device 

(650) from a screen image file (20) stored in the storage device (630, 
640), and sending print information to the printing apparatus (660) based 

on a print image file (30) stored in the storage device (630, 640) and 
relating to the screen image file (20), the method being characterised by 

the steps of: 

(a) representing a screen image in the screen image file (20) which is 
simpler in form than a printed image to be created by the printing 

apparatus (660) from the corresponding print image file (30); and 
(b) employing generation means to create the print image file (30) from 
the screen image file (20) with reference to a translation means in the 

storage device (630, 640) relating elements in the screen image file (20) 
with specific printing elements to be included in the print image file 

(30). 
A method as claimed in Claim 6, wherein the step (b) of employing 
generation means comprises the steps of: 

   converting the screen image file (20) into an intermediate file 
(24) by employing a converter (22) to identify key words in the screen 

image file (20) and replace each keyword with a related function; and
 

   facilitating the keyword replacement by providing a collation table 
(23) in the storage device, accessible by the converter (22), which 

associates the key words with their related functions. 
A method as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the step (b) of employing 
generation means further comprising the steps of: 

   representing a portion of the related functions in the intermediate 
file (24) by macro names; 

   establishing a macro library (26) in the storage device (630, 640) 
containing a macro program for each macro name; and 

   employing a compiler (28) to convert the intermediate file (24) 
into the print image file (30) by replacing the macro names in the 

intermediate file with the corresponding macro programs. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein each of said macro programs 
includes printing patterns and control information on printing positions 

to be used for producing, based on particular identifiers in said screen 
image file, parts of said printing result corresponding to respective 

parts of said screen image produced by said identifiers. 
A method as claimed in any of claims 6 to 9, wherein said screen 
image file (20) represents a combination of a plurality of screen image 

fonts. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
