<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SIMULATING MEDICAL PROCEDURES INCLUDING VIRTUAL REALITY AND CONTROL METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR USE THEREIN.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1313	A61B1313	G06F300	G06F300	G06F301	G06F301	G09B2300	G09B2328	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B1	A61B1	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G09B23	G09B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
During an actual medical procedure, the actions of a medical instrument (16) are measured and recorded. These actions are generated on a member representative of the medical instrument to simulate the actual medical procedure. Forces acting upon the medical instrument (16) are sensed and simulated in the member using a force/tactile reflecting mechanism. The preferred embodiment uses virtual reality technology including image processing, three-dimensional graphics and display methods, simulated force/tactile reflection, head/hand movement, position sensing, and sound generation to provide an accurate simulation of endoscopic medical procedures.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYBERNET SYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYBERNET SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFIN JENNIFER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBUS CHARLES J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFIN, JENNIFER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBUS, CHARLES, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND SYSTEM FORSIMULATING MEDICAL PROCEDURESINCLUDING VIRTUJAL REALITY AND CONTROLMETHOD AND SYSTEM FOR USE THEREINCross-Reference To Related ApplicationThis application is a continuation-in-part of copending U.S. application Serial No. 984,324, filed December 2, 1992.Technical FieldThis invention relates to methods and systems for simulating medical procedures for training and for remote control .Background 4 rtLaparoscopic surgery, a specific application of endoscopic surgery, is performed by:(1) making several small openings into the peritoneal cavity 10 of the body 12 as shown in Figure1;(2) insufflating with an inert gas, C02 (providing medium for adequate anatomical inspection) ;(3) inserting a viewing scope 14 (laparo- scope) into one opening 10;(4) inserting othe surgical instruments 16 into the other openings (i.e. ..:'_.aplers, cutting/cauter- izing instruments, etc.) ; and(5) maneuvering and manipulating these instruments 16 on the basis of tactile feel and the 

visual information of the surgical site from the insert¬ ed viewing scope 14 (usually displayed on a TV monitor) .Because the feel of the instruments 16 and the imagery of the surgical site is restricted to a small local area which is not directly visible, surgeons must train extensively (usually on animals) prior to perform¬ ing human procedures. This type of surgery is still very much an art rather than science.Endoscopic and laparoscopic intervention is being fervently applied to procedures (such as cholecys- tectomies, hernia repair, nephrectomies, appendectomies, and numerous gynecological procedures) being praised for fast patient recovery time and decreased hospital and surgery costs. As new applications emerge, training will play a crucial role in technological adoption. A need exists for a training device which will facilitate the transition from more traditional open procedures to endoscopic procedures by fostering the surgical skill necessary for the execution of efficient and complica- tion-free procedures.U.S. Patent No. 5,149,270, issued to McKeown, discloses an apparatus for practicing endoscopic surgi¬ cal procedures. The apparatus has a cavity in which an object simulating a human organ is mounted for perform- ing a practice procedure. The cavity is closeable to outside view, thereby forcing the individual practicing the procedure to use and manipulate the instruments relying only upon a viewing scope in an attempt to mimic the actual diagnostic and operating conditions. This configuration, by relying upon
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is:
1. A method for simulating actual medical procedures, the actual medical procedure utilizing at least one medical instrument, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the actions of the medical instru¬ ment during an actual medical procedure; and generating the actions on a member representa¬ tive of the medical instrument; whereby generating the actions simulates the actual medical procedure.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of recording the measured actions.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of generating the actions on the member is performed based upon the recorded actions.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the actual medical procedure includes endoscopic surgery utilizing a viewing scope capable of generating images.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of displaying the generated images.
6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of recording the images generated by the viewing scope wherein the step of displaying is per- formed based upon che generated images as recorded.
7. The method of claim 4 wherein the actual medical procedure includes preoperative exploration with 


the viewing scope and wherein the medical instrument comprises the viewing scope.
8. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of measuring supplemental information, wherein the step of displaying is performed in conjunction with the playback of the supplemental information.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the supple¬ mental information is audio information.
10. The method of claim 8 wherein the supple¬ mental information is derived from medical diagnostic equipment.
11. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of displaying is performed based upon diagnostic informa- tion.
12. A system for simulating actual medical procedures, the actual medical procedure utilizing at least one medical instrument, the system comprising: measuring means for measuring the actions of the medical instrument during an actual medical proce¬ dure; and generating means operatively associated with the measuring means for generating the actions on a member representative of the medical instrument; whereby the actions of the member simulate the actual medical procedure.
13. The system of claim 12 further comprising recording means operatively associated with the measur- ing means for recording the measured actions. 


 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the generating means is operatively associated with the recording means and wherein the generation of the actions on the member is performed based upon the recorded actions.
15. The system of claim 12 wherein the actual medical procedure includes endoscopic surgery utilizing a viewing scope capable of generating images.
16. The system of claim 15 further comprising display means operatively associated with the viewing scope for displaying the images generated by the viewing scope.
17. The system of claim 16 further comprising recording means operatively associated with the viewing scope and the display means for recording the generated images wherein the display of the generated images is performed based upon the recorded images.
18. The system of claim 15 wherein the actual medical procedure includes preoperative exploration with the viewing scope and wherein the medical instrument comprises the viewing scope.
19. The system of claim 16 further comprising supplemental information means, operatively associated with the display means, for measuring supplemental information, wherein the display of the generated images is performed in conjunction with the playback of the supplemental information. 


 20. The system of claim 19 wherein the supplemental information means measures audio informa¬ tion.
21. The system of claim 20 wherein the supplemental information means measures information from medical diagnostic equipment.
22. The system of claim 18 wherein the display means further comprise means for displaying diagnostic information.
23. A method for providing a virtual reality in response to a position and orientation of a member representative of a medical instrument, the method comprising the steps of: generating an electrical signal for each of a plurality of degrees of freedom of the member as a function of the position and orientation of the member in three-dimensional space; generating at least one virtual reality force field in response to the generated electric signals; generating a force signal for each degree of freedom as a function of the force field; and directing a force on the member for each force signal, the generated forces providing the virtual reality.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the virtual reality force field is also generated in re¬ sponse to information obtained from an actual medical procedure. 


 25. The method of claim 23 wherein the virtual reality force field is also generated in re¬ sponse to information obtained during pre-medical diagnostic procedures.
26. The method of claim 23 wherein the gener¬ ated forces are tactile forces.
27. A method for controlling a medical instrument during a medical procedure, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the position and orientation of a member representative of the medical instrument; generating actions on the medical instrument based upon the measured position and orientation of the member; measuring the forces acting upon the medical instrument; and generating forces on the member based upon the measured forces on the medical instrument.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein the step of measuring the forces acting upon the medical instru¬ ment includes measuring torques acting upon the medical instrument.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein the step of generating the forces on the member includes generat- ing torques on the member.
30. The method of claim 27 wherein the medical instrument includes an endoscopic medical viewing scope capable of generating images. 


 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising the step of displaying the generated images.
32. The method of claim 30 wherein the medical procedure includes preoperative exploration with the viewing scope.
33. The method of claim 31 further comprising the step of measuring supplemental information, wherein the step of displaying is performed in conjunction with the playback of the supplemental information.
34. The method of claim 33 wherein the supplemental information is audio information.
35. The method of claim 33 wherein the supplemental information is derived from medical diag- nostic equipment.
36. The method of claim 33 wherein the step of displaying is performed based upon diagnostic infor¬ mation.
37. The method of claim 27 further comprising the step of actuating the medical instrument in response to a command input.
38. A system for controlling a medical instrument during a medical procedure, the system comprising: first measuring means for measuring the position and orientation of a member representative of the medical instrument; 


 first generating means operatively associated with the first measuring means for generating actions on the medical instrument based upon the measured position and orientation of the member; second measuring means for measuring the forces acting upon the medical instrument; and second generating means operatively associated with the second measuring means for generating forces on the member based upon the measured forces on the medical instrument.
39. The system of claim 38 wherein the second measuring means includes means for measuring torques acting upon the medical instrument.
40. The system of claim 39 wherein the second generating means includes means for generating torques on the member.
41. The system of claim 38 wherein the medical instrument includes an endoscopic medical viewing scope capable of generating images.
42. The system of claim 41 further comprising display means operatively associated with the viewing scope for displaying the generated images.
43. The system of claim 41 wherein the medical procedure includes preoperative exploration with the viewing scope.
44. The system of claim 41 further comprising supplemental information means, operatively associated with the display means, for measuring supplemental 


information, wherein the display of the generated images is performed in conjunction with the playback of the supplemental information.
45. The system of claim 44 wherein the supplemental information means measures audio informa¬ tion.
46. The system of claim 45 wherein the supplemental information means measures information from medical diagnostic equipment.
47. The system of claim 43 wherein the display means further comprise means for displaying diagnostic information.
48. The system of claim 38 further comprising actuation means operatively associated with the medical instrument for actuating the medical instrument in response to a command input.
49. A system for providing four-axis control for a medical instrument comprising: a member representative of the medical instru¬ ment; a four-axis device securable to the member, the four-axis device being responsive to the position and orientation of the member to generate electrical signals representative of the position and orientation of the member, the four-axis device including an actua¬ tor for each axis of the device; means for actuating the medical instrument in response to the electrical signals; 


 means for generating a force field based upon a force induced upon the medical instrument; and means for generating a force signal for each axis of the four-axis device as a function of the force field, wherein the actuators are responsive to their respective force signals to provide a force to each axis of the four-axis device for reflecting the force on the medical instrument to the member; whereby the position and orientation of the member control the medical instrument.
50. The system of claim 49 wherein the four- axis device further comprises an encoder coupled to each actuator for generating the corresponding electrical signals.
51. The system of claim 49 wherein the actuators are electric motors.
52. The system of claim 51 wherein the electric motors are back-drivable. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
