<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612455</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STAND-ALONE DEVICE TO TRANSFER COMPUTER FILES USING A COMMUNICATION LINE SHARED BY A FACSIMILE MACHINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1300	G06F1300	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04N100	H04N100	H04N1327	H04N1327	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	H04M	H04M	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F13	G06F13	H04M11	H04M11	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus (2) for performing transfers of computer file data stored on a computer-accessible medium, such as a diskette (11, 13), using the same communication line (4) shared by a facsimile (fax) machine (12, 14). The method and apparatus (2) employ adaptive switching techniques to provide for the receipt of data from either a fax machine (12, 14), a personal computer configured with a modem (28), or another device of the present invention (177), and provides for the file transfer crash recovery.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISK COMMUNICATIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FISK COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER ROBIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUCH JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KULAKOWSKI ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESS BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER, ROBIN, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUCH, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KULAKOWSKI, ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRESS, BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
>STAND-ALONE DEVICE TO TRANSFER COMPUTER FILES USING A COMMUNICATION LINE SHARED BY A FACSIMILE MACHINEField of the InventionThe present invention pertains generally to the field of telecommunications devices and, more particularly, to the 5 field of devices used to transfer data stored on computer-readable media, using a communication line shared by a facsimile machine.Background of the Invention10Today, the facsimile (fax) machine or telecopier is essential business equipment for any enterprise and even an important household appliance for any busy business person.15The fax machine is a device that enables people separated from each other by distance and who are not connected to each other by a computer network to send and receive printed material. Faxing is a process of communication in20 which a transmitter scans a document, photograph, map or other fixed text or graphic material and converts the information into signal waves for transmission across a communication system, such as a public switched telephone network, to a receiver at remote location. Fax machines25 have evolved over the years in both speed and sophistication, to the point where today faxing is the 

 most universal method for sending copies of printed documents. The most commonly used fax machine is a "Group 3" device capable of transmitting an A4 sized page of information with resolutions between 203 x 98 dots per 5 inch (dpi) and 203 x 196 dpi in less than one minute.However, for all the widespread use, fax machines have only limited utility, because fax machines can send only copies of information from fixed paper copies. The 10 limitation can be seen in an example situation where a sender and receiver are preparing a document. The sender has prepared a draft of the document using a word processing program (e.g. WordPerfect word processing software) . The receiver needs to review the document and .5 also would like to add substantial material to the document. Although both sender and receiver have a personal computer (PC) and both use the same word processing program, the two users are not connected by a computer network or modem. Thus, there is no way that 20 both could access the same file containing the current text of the document. If possible, the receiver would like a copy of the computer files which make up the document, so the receiver could load the files onto his or her computer and add to them. The problem is how to 25 get a copy of the text file to the receiver.This problem is typical in today's computer age, because
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A device for monitoring and storing a stream of data transmitted by a sending device across a communications line to a facsimile machine, the sending device and facsimile machine communicating according to a communications protocol, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; a second connector coupling the device to the facsimile machine; means for input of command signals; a memory for storing the stream of data; an adaptive switch coupling the first connector with the second connector, the adaptive switch including: means for coupling the memory to the communications line, and means for disconnecting the facsimile machine from the communications line; and a processor, coupled to the adaptive switch, monitoring the command signals without interrupting the stream of data to the facsimile machine, the processor including: means for determining in response to the command signals whether the stream of data is to be routed to the facsimile machine, the memory or both the facsimile machine and the memory, and means for controlling the adaptive switch in response to the determination made by the determining means.
2. The device of claim 1 wherein the means for input of command signals comprises a portion of the stream of data.
3. The device of claim 1 wherein the means for input of 


command signals comprises a user switch coupled to the processor.
4. The device of claim 1 wherein the adaptive switch includes means for placing a high impedance load on the communications line to prevent line characteristic changes when the facsimile machine is disconnected.
5. The device of claim 1 wherein the processor further comprises means for sending a protocol response to the sending device.
6. The device of claim 1 wherein the adaptive switch further comprises means for coupling, via the second connector, the memory to the facsimile machine.
7. The device of claim 6 wherein the processor further comprises means for causing a predetermined segment of the stream of data, when stored in the memory, to be transmitted to the facsimile machine to be printed.
8. The device of claim 7 wherein the processor further comprises means for converting the predetermined segment of the stream of data to a stream of data in image format prior to transmission to the facsimile machine.
9. The device of claim 1 wherein the processor further comprises: means for scanning the memory to determine if all of the stream of data was stored, means for notifying the sending device if all of the stream of data was not stored, and means for appending a re-sent stream of data in the memory.
10. The device of claim 1 wherein the communications line is a telephone line. 


 11. The device of claim 1 wherein the first connector is a telephone jack and wherein the second connector is a telephone jack.
12. The device of claim 1 wherein the memory is a disk in a disk drive.
13. The device of claim 12 wherein the disk is a hard disk.
14. The device of claim 12 wherein the disk is a floppy disk.
15. The device of claim 1 wherein the memory is an optical disk.
16. The device of claim 1 wherein the sending device is a remote facsimile machine.
17. The device of claim 1 wherein the sending device is a computer coupled to a modem.
18. The device of claim 1 wherein the sending device is a personal computer with a facsimile modem.
19. The device of claim 1 wherein the stream of data includes a computer file in binary format.
20. The device of claim 1 wherein the stream of data includes a computer text file.
21. The device of claim 1 wherein the facsimile machine is a computer with a facsimile modem.
22. The device of claim 1 wherein the processor further comprises: means for signaling a remote device, 


 means for sending output command signals to the remote device, means for determining if the remote device is a facsimile machine or a fax companion device, means for sending to the remote device, as an output stream of data, predetermined data that is stored in the memory, and means for converting the output stream of data to image format if the remote device is a facsimile machine.
23. The device of claim 22 wherein the output command signals includes a signal identifying the device as a fax companion device.
24. The device of claim 22 wherein the output command signals include a signal requesting that the remote device save the output stream of data in a memory device.
25. A device for monitoring and storing an input stream of data sent by a sending device across a communications line and sending an output stream of data to a receiving device across the communications line, the input stream of data including input command signals, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; a second connector coupling the device to a facsimile machine; a memory storing the output stream of data and capable of storing the input stream of data; an adaptive switch coupling the first connector with the second connector, the adaptive switch including: means for coupling the memory to the communications line, and means for disconnecting the facsimile machine from the communications line; and 


 a processor, coupled to the adaptive switch, including: means for monitoring the input command signals without interrupting the stream of data to the facsimile machine, means for determining in response to the input command signals whether the input stream of data is to be routed to the facsimile machine, the memory or both the facsimile machine and the memory, means for controlling the adaptive switch in response to the determination made by the determining means, means for signaling the receiving device, and means for sending the output stream of data to the receiving device.
26. The device of claim 25 wherein the communications line is a telephone line.
27. The device of claim 26 wherein the first connector is a telephone jack and wherein the second connector is a telephone jack.
28. The device of claim 25 wherein the processor further comprises means for inserting output command signals in the output stream of data, the output commands signaling the receiving device to store the output stream of data in an attached memory.
29. The device of claim 25 wherein the output stream of data comprises the input stream of data.
30. The device of claim 25 wherein the processor further comprises means for causing the output stream of data to be transmitted to the facsimile machine to be printed.
31. The device of claim 25 wherein the facsimile machine 


is a computer with a facsimile modem.
32. The device of claim 25 wherein the receiving device is a receiving facsimile machine.
33. The device of claim 25 wherein the processor further comprises: means for scanning the memory to determine if all of the input stream of data was stored, means for notifying the sending device if not all of the input stream of data was stored, and means for appending a re-sent input stream of data in the memory.
34. The device of claim 25 wherein the processor further comprises: means for re-establishing communications with the receiving device if the sending of the output stream of data is interrupted, means for requesting that the receiving device scan the memory of the receiving device to determine if all of the output stream of data was stored, and means for re-sending the part of the output stream of data that was not stored by the receiving device.
35. The device of claim 25 wherein the adaptive switch includes means for placing a high impedance load on the communications line to prevent line characteristic changes when the facsimile machine is disconnected.
36. A device for monitoring and storing a stream of data transmitted by a sending device across a communications line to a facsimile machine, the stream of data including command signals, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; 


 a second connector coupling the device to the facsimile machine; a memory for storing the stream of data; an adaptive switch coupling the first connector with the second connector, the adaptive switch including: means for coupling the memory to the communications line, and means for disconnecting the facsimile machine from the communications line; and a processor, coupled to the adaptive switch, monitoring the command signals without interrupting the stream of data to the facsimile machine, the processor including: means for determining in response to the command signals whether the stream of data is to be routed to the facsimile machine or the memory, and means for controlling the adaptive switch in response to the determination made by the determining means.
37. A device for monitoring and storing a stream of data transmitted by a sending device across a communications line to a facsimile machine, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; a second connector coupling the device to the facsimile machine; a memory for storing the stream of data; means for input of command signals; an adaptive switch coupling the first connector with the second connector, the adaptive switch including means for coupling the memory to the communications line; and a processor, coupled to the adaptive switch, including: means for determining in response to the command signals whether the stream of data is to be 



 routed to the memory, and means for controlling the adaptive switch in response to the determination made by the determining means.
38. A device for monitoring and storing a stream of data transmitted by a sending device across a communications line to a facsimile machine, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; a second connector coupling the device to the facsimile machine; a third connector coupling the device to a memory, the memory capable of storing the stream of data; means for input of command signals; an adaptive switch coupling the first connector with the second connector, the adaptive switch including means for coupling the memory to the communications line; and a processor, coupled to the adaptive switch, including: means for determining in response to the command signals whether the stream of data is to be routed to the memory, and means for controlling the adaptive switch in response to the determination made by the determining means.
39. A device for monitoring and storing a stream of data transmitted by a sending device across a communications line to a facsimile machine, the sending device and facsimile machine communicating according to a communications protocol, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; a second connector coupling the device to the facsimile machine; 


 means for input of command signals; a memory for storing the stream of data; an adaptive switch coupling the first connector with the second connector, the adaptive switch including: a two-way connection line coupling the first connector with the second connector, a fax spy circuit, monitoring the two-way connection line and placing a high impedance load on the two-way connection line, means for coupling the memory to the communications line, and means for disconnecting the facsimile machine from the communications line; and a processor, coupled to the adaptive switch, monitoring the command signals, the processor including: means for determining in response to the command signals whether the stream of data is to be routed to the facsimile machine, the memory or both the facsimile machine and the memory, and means for controlling the adaptive switch in response to the determination made by the determining means.
40. For use in connection with an incoming telephone line transmitting electronically represented data and a facsimile machine, a free standing data transfer device for controllably coupling the facsimile machine to the incoming telephone line, the free standing data transfer device comprising: a telephone input terminal adapted for coupling to the incoming telephone line, for receiving the electronically represented data; a modem coupled to the telephone input terminal for receiving and capturing the electronically represented data from the input telephone terminal; a processor electronically coupled to the modem for input of the captured electronically represented data 


from the modem; a data storage device electronically coupled to the processor for storing the electronically represented data; an output telephone terminal coupled to the input telephone terminal and adapted for coupling to the facsimile machine; a computer controller switch mechanism electronically coupled to the processor and intercoupling the input telephone terminal to the output telephone terminal; means for input of data transmission control information coupled to the processor; and means for electronically coupling the facsimile machine to the data storage device; the processor operating the computer controlled switch mechanism and the data storage device so as to cause the transmission of the electronically represented data from the input telephone terminal be sent only directly to the facsimile machine coupled to the output telephone terminal via the computer controlled switch mechanism, only directly to the data storage device via the modem and the processor or to both the facsimile machine and the data storage device, as a function of the data transmission control information; the processor controllably operating the computer controlled switch mechanism and the data storage device so as to cause the transmission of the electronically represented data, when stored in the data storage device, to be sent to the facsimile machine to be printed.
41. The free standing data transfer device of claim 40 wherein the processor further comprises means for generating a ring signal and transmitting the ring signal to the facsimile machine. 


 42. A stand-alone device for storing data files and communicating with a facsimile machine, the facsimile machine capable of going of -hook in response to a ring signal and capable of activating a message receive mode, the device comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor storing a data file; and means, activated by the processor, for generating a ring signal and transmitting the ring signal to the facsimile machine; wherein the facsimile machine, on receiving the ring signal goes off-hook.
43. The stand-alone device of claim 42 further comprising means, activated by the processor, for generating a calling tone and transmitting the calling tone to the facsimile machine and wherein the facsimile machine, on receiving the calling tone, thereafter activates the message receive mode.
44. The stand-alone device of claim 43 wherein the calling tone is a tone of 1100 Hertz, on for 0.5 seconds and off for 3 seconds.
45. The stand-alone device of claim 43 wherein the calling tone is a CNG signal generated according to a preselected communications protocol.
46. The stand-alone device of claim 43 wherein the calling tone identifies said stand-alone device as a non- speech terminal device in sending mode.
47. The stand-alone device of claim 43 further comprising means, activated by the processor, for transmitting the data file to the facsimile machine so that the facsimile machine prints the contents of the 


data file .
48. The stand-alone device of claim 47 wherein the means for transmitting is activated when the facsimile machine is in the message receive mode.
49. For use in connection with an incoming telephone line transmitting electronically represented data and a facsimile machine, a free standing data transfer device for controllably coupling the facsimile machine to the incoming telephone line, the free standing data transfer device comprising: a telephone input terminal adapted for coupling to the incoming telephone line, for receiving the electronically represented data; a modem coupled to the telephone input terminal for receiving and capturing the electronically represented data from the input telephone terminal; a processor electronically coupled to the modem for- input of the captured electronically represented data from the modem; a data storage device electronically coupled to the processor for storing the electronically represented data; an output telephone terminal coupled to the input telephone terminal and adapted for coupling to the facsimile machine; a computer controller switch mechanism electronically coupled to the processor and intercoupling the input telephone terminal to the output telephone terminal; means for input of data transmission control information coupled to the processor; and means for electronically coupling the facsimile machine to the data storage device; the processor operating the computer controlled switch mechanism and the data storage device so as to 



 cause the transmission of the electronically represented data from the input telephone terminal be sent only directly to the facsimile machine coupled to the output telephone terminal via the computer controlled switch mechanism, only directly to the data storage device via the modem and the processor or to both the facsimile machine and the data storage device, as a function of the data transmission control information; the processor operating to cause transmission of a message to the facsimile machine whenever the electronically represented data is stored in the data storage device.
50. The free standing data transfer device of claim 49 wherein the message transmitted to the facsimile machine comprises information about the electronically represented data stored in the data storage device.
51. The free standing data transfer device of claim 49 further comprising means for generating and sending a ring signal to the facsimile machine prior to transmitting the message to the facsimile machine.
52. A device for monitoring and storing a stream of data transmitted by a sending device across a communications line to a facsimile machine, the sending device and facsimile machine communicating according to a communications protocol, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; a second connector coupling the device to the facsimile machine; means for input of command signals; a memory for storing the stream of data; an adaptive switch coupling the first connector with the second connector, the adaptive switch including: means for coupling the memory to the 


 communications line, and means for disconnecting the facsimile machine from the communications line; and a processor, coupled to the adaptive switch, monitoring the command signals without interrupting the stream of data to the facsimile machine, the processor including: means for determining in response to the command signals whether the stream of data is to be routed to the memory, means for controlling the adaptive switch in response to the determination made by the determining means, and means for generating and sending a message to the facsimile machine if the stream of data is routed to the memory.
53. A device for receiving and routing a stream of data transmitted by a sending device across a communications line, the device comprising: a first connector coupling the device to the communications line; a second connector coupling the device to a facsimile machine; a memory for storing the stream of data; and a processor, coupled to the first connector, including: means for going off-hook in response to a ring signal transmitted across the communications line, means for receiving the stream of data, means for examining the stream of data for a header comprising routing information for the stream of data, means for coupling the first connector to the second connector and thereafter allowing the stream of data to be received by the facsimile machine if the stream of data comprises routing information 


 that specifies the facsimile machine as a receiving device, and means for coupling the first connector to the memory and thereafter storing the stream of data in the memory if the stream of data comprises routing information that specifies the memory as a receiving devic .
54. The device of claim 53 wherein the processor further comprises: means for generating a ring signal; and means for transmitting the ring signal to the facsimile machine if the routing information specifies the facsimile machine as a receiving device.
55. A method for monitoring and storing a data stream transmitted by a sending device to a facsimile machine across a communications line, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) detecting a ring signal generated by the sending device;
(b) receiving command signals as input;
(c) receiving the data stream;
(d) examining the command signals for a command to store the data stream on a computer-accessible medium or a command to send the data stream to the facsimile machine or a command to both store the data stream and send the data stream to the facsimile machine;
(e) if the command signals include a command to store the data stream on a computer-accessible medium,
(i) disconnecting the facsimile machine, and (ii) directing the data stream to the computer- accessible medium;
(f) if the command signals include a command to send the data stream to the facsimile machine, directing the data stream to the facsimile machine; and 


 (g) if the command signals include a command to both store the data stream and send the data stream to the facsimile machine, allowing the facsimile machine to receive the data stream and simultaneously storing the data stream on the computer-accessible medium.
56. The method of claim 55 further comprising the step of entering a wait mode.
57. The method of claim 55 further comprising the step of signaling and transmitting a message to the facsimile machine if the data stream is stored on the computer- accessible medium.
58. The method of claim 57 wherein the message comprises information about the contents of the data stream.
59. The method of claim 57 wherein the message comprises information about the data stream.
60. The method of claim 55 wherein prior to step (e) (ii) , the method comprises the further step of processing a directory command sent by the sending device to create a directory on the computer-accessible medium in which to store the data stream.
61. The method of claim 55 wherein immediately after step (e) (i) , the method comprises the further step of placing a high impedance load on the communications line to prevent line characteristic changes.
62. The method of claim 55 wherein after step (e) (i) , the method comprises the steps of:
(ii) receiving a device signal from the sending device specifying a specific computer-accessible medium,
(iii) determining if the specific computer- 


 accessible medium is available,
(iv) if available, routing the data stream to the specific computer-accessible medium, and
(v) if not available, outputing to the sending device an error message.
63. The method of claim 55 wherein the communications line is a telephone line.
64. The method of claim 55 wherein the computer- accessible medium is a disk in a disk drive.
65. The method of claim 64 wherein the disk is a hard disk.
66. The method of claim 64 wherein the disk is a floppy disk.
67. The method of claim 55 wherein the sending device is a sending facsimile machine.
68. The method of claim 55 wherein the sending device is a personal computer coupled to a modem.
69. The method of claim 55 wherein the sending device is a computer with a facsimile modem.
70. The method of claim 55 wherein the data stream includes a computer file in binary format.
71. The method of claim 55 wherein the data stream includes a computer text file.
72. The method of claim 55 wherein the facsimile machine is a computer with a facsimile modem.
73. The method of claim 55 comprising the further steps 


of :
(h) scanning the computer-accessible medium to determine if all of the data stream was stored;
(i) notifying the sending device if not all of the data stream was stored; and
(j) appending a re-sent data stream in the computer-accessible medium.
74. The method of claim 55 wherein the step of receiving command signals as input comprises receiving the command signals from the sending device.
75. The method of claim 55 wherein the step of receiving command signals as input comprises receiving the command signals from a user input device.
76. A method for monitoring and storing a data stream transmitted by a sending device to a facsimile machine across a communications line, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) examining the data stream for a command from the sending device to store the data stream on a computer-accessible medium; and
(b) if the data stream includes a command from the sending device to store the data stream on a computer- accessible medium,
(i) outputing a confirmation to receive signal to the sending device, and
(ii) routing the data stream to the computer- accessible medium.
77. The method of claim 76 further comprising the step of:
(c) if the data stream is stored on the computer- accessible medium,
(i) sending a ring signal to the facsimile machine, and
'

 (ii) sending a message to the facsimile machine for printing.
78. The method of claim 76 further comprising the step of:
(c) if the data stream does not include a command from the sending device to store the data stream on a computer-accessible medium,
(i) detecting the state of a user switch, (ii) if the user switch is set to FAXCOPY, directing the data stream to the facsimile machine, (iii) if the user switch is set to DISKCOPY,
(A) disconnecting the facsimile machine,
(B) outputing a confirmation to receive signal to the sending device, and
(C) routing the data stream to the computer-accessible medium, and
(iv) if the user switch is set to BOTH, allowing the facsimile machine to receive the data stream and simultaneously storing the data stream on the computer-accessible medium.
79. The method of claim 78 further comprising the step of:
(d) if the data stream is stored on the computer- accessible medium,
(i) sending a ring signal to the facsimile machine, and
(ii) sending a message to the facsimile machine for printing.
80. A method for monitoring and storing a data stream transmitted by a sending device to a facsimile machine across a communications line, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) examining the data stream for a command from 


 the sending device to store the data stream on a computer-accessible medium; and
(b) if the data stream includes a command from the sending device to store the data stream on a computer- accessible medium, routing the data stream to the computer-accessible medium;
(c) if the data stream does not include a command from the sending device to store the data stream on a computer-accessible medium,
(i) detecting the state of a user switch, (ii) if the user switch is set to FAXCOPY, directing the data stream to the facsimile machine, (iii) if the user switch is set to DISKCOPY,
(A) disconnecting the facsimile machine, and
(B) routing the data stream to the computer-accessible medium, and
(iv) if the user switch is set to BOTH, allowing the facsimile machine to receive the data stream and simultaneously storing the data stream on the computer-accessible medium.
81. A method for receiving and routing a data stream transmitted by a sending device across a communications line, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) answering a ring signal transmitted across the communications line;
(b) receiving the data stream;
(c) examining the data stream for a command from the sending device to store the data stream on a computer-accessible medium or to route the data stream to a facsimile machine or both store the data stream and route the data stream to the facsimile machine;
(d) if the data stream includes a command from the sending device to store the data stream on a computer- accessible medium, routing the data stream to the 


 computer-accessible medium;
(e) if the data stream includes a command from the sending device to route the data stream to the facsimile machine, directing the data stream to the facsimile machine;
(f) if the data stream includes a command from the sending device to both store the data stream and route the data stream to the facsimile machine, allowing the facsimile machine to receive the data stream and storing the data stream on the computer-accessible medium.
82. The method of claim 81 wherein the step of directing the data stream to the facsimile machine further comprises the steps of: generating a ring signal; and transmitting the ring signal to the facsimile machine.
83. The method of claim 81 wherein the step of directing the data stream to the facsimile machine further comprises the steps of: generating a ring signal; transmitting the ring signal to the facsimile machine; generating a calling tone; and transmitting the calling tone to the facsimile machine.
84. The method of claim 81 wherein the step of directing the data stream to the facsimile machine further comprises the step of establishing communications with the facsimile machine by engaging in the communications protocol of the facsimile machine. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
