<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631345</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Strain relief device and method of use.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1358	H01R13585	H05K700	H05K700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R13	H01R13	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A strain relief device using a pair of posts within a housing with a wire 
cable routed around the posts so that one portion of the wire cable presses back on to 

another portion and presses it against one of the posts as a pulling force is applied to 
the cable. The wire cable is cinched against one of the posts. As the pulling force 

increases, the cinching action increases proportionately. The strain relief is low 
profile and has a height approximately the equal to the diameter of the wire cable. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGELBERT KEVIN LORNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGELBERT, KEVIN LORNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to devices for relieving the strain on 
an electrical wire cable. Wire cables are often used to connect electrical equipment 
together. A power cord is a common electrical wire cable providing electrical 
power to a housing for an electrical device. A data cable connecting a pointing 
device to a computer is another example of a wire cable. All electrical wire cables, whether they carry electrical power or 
data signals, should have some form of strain relief to prevent the wire cable 
from breaking or tearing loose from the housing to which it is attached. As 
shown in Figure 1, prior art strain relief devices 2 generally secure a wire 
cable 4 at a point of entry 6 into a housing 8. The wire cable 4 is solidly secured 
at a point of entry. The sheathing enclosing the wire conductors is typically 
bonded to the strain relief 2. The drawback to this approach is that when a pulling force is 
applied to the wire cable 4, the sheathing will not move because it is bonded to 
the strain relief 2. However, the wire conductors inside the wire cable 4 stretch 
at a different rate than the sheathing, and tend to move when the pulling force is 
applied to the wire cable 4. Therefore it can be appreciated that there is a significant need for a 
strain relief device that will secure a wire cable without causing it to break if a 
pulling force is applied. The invention is embodied in a strain relief device for a wire cable 
comprising a housing into which the wire cable is routed. The wire cable enters 
the housing through an aperture size to permit the entry of the wire cable. First 
and second posts secured within the housing are spaced such that the wire cable 
passes on one side of the first post and loops around the second post so that the  
 
wire cable presses against itself in an area near the first post. When strain is 
applied to the wire cable, the wire cable cinches itself around the posts. In one embodiment the posts contain vertical ridges in the area 
where the wire cable contacts the posts. The ridges prevent slippage of the wire 
cable. A guide tunnel may be used to guide the wire cable into the aperture. A 
pair of guide posts may be used to route the wire cable from the first and second 
posts to circuitry within the housing. Figure 1 is a prior art device used to relieve strain on a wire cable. Figure 2 is a bottom plan view of a computer pointing device 
housing in which a strain relief device of the present invention is mounted. Figure 3 is a top plan view of a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A strain relief device for a wire cable, comprising: 
   a housing into which the wire cable is routed, said housing containing an 

aperture sized to permit the entry of the wire cable into said housing; and 
   first and second spaced apart members within said housing spaced at a 

sufficient distance to permit the wire cable to pass therebetween, said members being 
positioned such that a first portion of the wire cable passes by and engages a first side 

of said first member, loops around said second member and a second portion of the 
wire cable passes by and engages said first portion of the wire cable outward of said 

first member to press against said first portion of the wire cable as a pulling force is 
applied to a third portion of the wire cable that exits said housing through said 

aperture, so that the wire cable cinches itself against said first member when said 
pulling force is applied to said third portion of the wire cable. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said first and second members 
each contain a retainer member projecting outward from said first and second 

members in a direction to extend over the wire cable and prevent the wire cable from 
sliding upward and off of said first and second members. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said first member has a plurality 
of ridges on a side surface of said first member to inhibit slippage of the wire cable 

past said first member. 
The device of claim 3 wherein said ridges are oriented on said 
first member in a direction substantially perpendicular to the direction the wire cable 

is passed by said first side. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said first side of said first member 
has an arcuate cross-section. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said second member has an 
arcuate first side the wire cable passes by and engages as the wire cable loops around 

said second member. 
The device of claim 6 wherein said second member has first and 
second flat sides forming a wedge, said first flat side facing said first member and 

 
deflecting the wire cable between said first and second members, said second flat side 

guiding the wire cable to said aperture. 
The device of claim 1, further including a cable tunnel positioned 
between said second member and said aperture to guide the wire cable to said 

aperture. 
The device of claim 1, further including a guide member to guide 
a first end of the wire cable to circuitry within said housing. 
A strain relief device for a wire cable, comprising: 
   a housing into which the wire cable is routed; 

   an aperture in said housing sized to permit the entry of the wire cable 
into said housing; and 

   first and second spaced apart members within said housing spaced at a 
sufficient distance to permit the wire cable to pass therebetween, said members being 

positioned such that a first portion of the wire cable passes by and engages a first side 
of said first member, loops around said second member and a second portion of the 

wire cable passes by and engages said first portion of the wire cable outward of said 
first member to press against said first portion of the wire cable as a pulling force is 

applied to a third portion of the wire cable that exits said housing through said 
aperture, said first member applying a bending force to said first portion of the wire 

cable so that the wire cable cinches itself against said first member when said pulling 
force is applied to said third portion of the wire cable. 
A strain relief device for a wire cable, comprising: 
   a housing into which the wire cable is routed; 

   first and second members positioned within said housing and positioned 
so that a first portion of the wire cable forms a first portion path when routed between 

said first and second members: 
   a third member positioned within said housing between said first and 

second members and applying a bending force to a second portion of the wire cable so 
that said second portion overlaps said first portion path of said first portion and said 

first portion presses said second portion of the wire cable against said third member, 
the wire cable looping around said second member with the second portion passing 

between said second member and said third member so that a pulling force on a third 
portion of the wire cable outside said housing causes said first portion to press against 

 
said second potion of the wire cable and causes the wire cable to cinch against said 

third member. 
The device of claim 11 wherein said first member is a wall 
portion of said housing formed to define an aperture sized to permit the entry of the 

wire cable into said housing. 
The device of claim 11, further including a guide member to 
guide a first end of the wire cable to circuitry within said housing. 
The device of claim 11 wherein said second and third members 
each contain a retainer member projecting outward from aid second and third 

members to extend over the wire cable and prevent the wire cable from sliding upward 
off of said second and third members. 
The device of claim 11 wherein said third member contains a 
frictional member on a side surface of said third member to inhibit slippage o
f the 
wire cable past said third member. 
The device of claim 15 wherein said frictional member comprises 
a plurality of vertical ridges on said side surface. 
The device of claim 15 wherein said side surface has an arcuate 
cross-section. 
The device of claim 11 wherein said second member has an 
arcuate first side the wire cable passes by and engages as the wire cable loops around 

said second member. 
The device of claim 11 wherein said second member has first and 
second flat sides forming a wedge, said first flat side facing said third member and 

deflecting the wire cable between said second and third members, said second flat side 
guiding the wire cable to said first member. 
A method of providing strain relief device for a wire cable, 
comprising the steps of: 
(a) routing the wire cable between first and second members 
positioned within a housing so that a first portion of the wire cable forms a 

substantially straight line path when routed between said first and second members; 
and 
(b) looping the wire cable around said second member and through a 
space defined by said second member and a third member positioned within said 

housing at a point between said first and second members, said third member applying 
a bending force to a second portion of the wire cable so that said second portion 

overlaps said straight line path of said first portion, said first portion of the wire cable 
pressing said second portion against said third member so that a pulling force on a 

third potion of the wire cable outside said housing causes said first portion to press 
against said second potion of the wire cable and causes the wire cable to cinch against 

said third member. 
A method of providing strain relief device for a wire cable, 
comprising the steps of: 


(a) routing the wire cable between first and second members 
positioned within a housing so that a first portion of the wire cable forms a first 

portion path when routed between said first and second members; and 
(b) looping the wire cable around said second member and through a 
space defined by said second member and a third member positioned within said 

housing at a point between said first and second members to bend the wire cable and 
form a curved portion of the wire cable so that said curved portion of the wire cable 

overlaps said first portion path, said first portion pressing said curved portion of the 
wire cable against said third member so that a pulling force on a third potion of the 

wire cable outside said housing causes said first portion to press against said second 
potion of the wire cable and causes the wire cable to cinch against said third member. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
