<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630104</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Microwave Doherty amplifier
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03F368	H03F107	H03F102	H03F360	H03F360	H03F102	H03F368	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	H03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03F3	H03F1	H03F1	H03F3	H03F3	H03F1	H03F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved Doherty amplifier (70) for operation at 
microwave frequencies uses microstrip circuit technology and 

gallium arsenide amplifying devices (48,50) to achieve greater 
efficiency and linearity. An input quadrature hybrid network 

(42) divides the input power equally between a carrier amplifier 
device (48) and a peak amplifier device (50) with a quarter-wave 

delay at the input to the peak amplifier insuring that the output 
power of the two amplifier devices (48,50) will be in phase at the 

load. A three-port network combines the phase delayed carrier 
amplifier device output with the output of the peak amplifier 

device. The outputs of the two amplifier devices (48,50) are 
connected together by a quarter wave transmission line (64) of 

impedance R. A load of one-half the optimum load (R/2) is 
attached to the output of the peak amplifier device (50). A 

quarter-wave line section (66) provides the transition from R/2 to 
the desired impedance, R. When the peak amplifier device (50) is 

off, its output impedance is infinite and the output power of the 
carrier amplifier device (48) is delivered entirely to the load. 

As the peak amplifier device (50) becomes more active, it delivers 
more of its output power to the load while its output current 

gradually reduces the effective load impedance seen by the carrier 
amplifier device (48) thus allowing it to deliver more power. In 

this way the microwave Doherty amplifier (70) allows 6 dB of 
linear power amplification beyond the point where a normal Class 

"B" amplifier begins to saturate and the microwave amplifier 
efficiency remains close to the maximum attainable linear 

efficiency. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a radio frequency Doherty
amplifier comprising means for coupling an input signal and
producing a phase quadrature relationship between a first
output signal and a second output signal from said phase
quadrature producing means; carrier amplifier means for
amplifying said first output signal from said phase
quadrature producing means; peak amplifier means for
amplifying said second output signal from said phase
quadrature producing means; phase shifting means coupled
between an output terminal of said carrier amplifier means
and a Doherty amplifier output terminal; and means coupled
to said Doherty amplifier output terminal for producing a
predetermined output impedance at said Doherty amplifier
output terminal, said phase shifting means shifting the
phase of the amplified first output signal supplied by said
carrier amplifier means, and said peak amplifier means
supplying the amplified second output signal directly to
said Doherty amplifier output terminal whereby the phase
shifted amplified first output signal and said amplified
second output signal combine in additive phase at said
Doherty amplifier output terminal, and said phase shifting
means further providing at said output terminal of said
carrier amplifier means by impedance transforming action an
apparent load which is a function of the degree of
conduction of said peak amplifier means. New commercial and military telecommunications systems over
the past few years have shown a trend toward using digital
modulation techniques. These digital systems require the
capacity to handle a high density of carrier frequencies in
order to remain cost effective. The additional trend toward
space based systems imposes high efficiency and weight
minimization constraints. Power amplifiers represent an
important design challenge as they must conform to the above
specifications. Unfortunately, high efficiency in power
amplifiers has been difficult to attain for a large number
of carrier frequencies. In fact, this is a direct trade-off
in conventional amplifier design.In a conventional amplifier there is a direct relationship
between efficiency and the input drive level. Therefore,
high efficiency is not attained until the RF input power
becomes sufficiently high to drive the amplifier into
saturation. Since in multi-carrier communication systems an
amplifier must remain as linear as possible in order to
avoid intermodulation distortion, this region of high
efficiency cannot be used.In conventional power amplifiers, it is important to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radio frequency Doherty amplifier comprising :

means (42) for coupling an input signal and producing
a phase quadrature relationship between a first output

signal and a second output signal from said phase quadrature
producing means (42);
carrier amplifier means (48) for amplifying said first
output signal from said phase quadrature producing means

(42);
peak amplifier means (50) for amplifying said second
output signal from said phase quadrature producing means

(42);
phase shifting means (64) coupled between an output
terminal of said carrier amplifier means (48) and a Doherty

amplifier output terminal; and means (66) coupled to said
Doherty amplifier output terminal for producing a

predetermined output impedance at said Doherty amplifier
output terminal, said phase shifting means (64) shifting the

phase of the amplified first output signal supplied by said
carrier amplifier means (48), and said peak amplifier means

(50) supplying the amplified second output signal directly
to said Doherty amplifier output terminal whereby the phase

shifted amplified first output signal and said amplified
second output signal combine in additive phase at said

Doherty amplifier output terminal, and said phase shifting 
means (64) further providing at said output terminal of said

carrier amplifier means (48) by impedance transforming
action an apparent load which is a function of the degree of

conduction of said peak amplifier means (50),

   characterised in that said phase quadrature producing
means (42) is operable over a broad band of microwaves, said

phase shifting means (64) comprises distributed line means,
and said predetermined output impedance producing means (66)

is connected to means (86) providing a connection to an
operational voltage source (+V
DD
), and in that said
predetermined output impedance producing means (66) and said

connection means (86) cooperate with said Doherty amplifier
output terminal and said phase shifting means to provide

paths for operational direct current from said voltage
source (+V
DD
) to said peak and carrier amplifier means.
A radio frequency amplifier according to Claim 1,
characterised in that said radio frequency amplifier

operates over a plurality of microwave frequencies including
1300 MHz.
A radio frequency amplifier according to Claim 1,
characterised in that said input signal comprises multi-carrier

signals. 
A radio frequency amplifier according to Claim 1,
characterised in that said input signal comprises a

continuous single carrier that varies in amplitude.
A radio frequency amplifier according to Claim 1,
characterised in that said input signal comprises a multi-carrier

signal with each carrier signal varying in
amplitude.
A radio frequency amplifier according to any preceding
Claim, characterised in that said carrier amplifier means

(48) comprises a gallium arsenide semiconductor device.
A radio frequency amplifier according to any preceding
Claim, characterised in that said peak amplifier means (50)

comprises a gallium arsenide semiconductor device.
A radio frequency amplifier according to any preceding
Claim , characterised in that said distributed line means

comprises a quarter-wave transformer (64).
A radio frequency amplifier according to any preceding
Claim, characterised in that said degree of conduction of

said peak amplifier means (50) is determined by an input
drive level of said second output signal from said phase 

quadrature producing means (42) relative to a predetermined
control input applied to said peak amplifier means (50).
A radio frequency amplifier according to Claim 1,
characterised by means (76) for supplying bias to a control

input of said carrier amplifier means (48); and
means (78) for supplying bias to a control input of said

peak amplifier means (50).
A radio frequency amplifier according to Claim 10,
characterised in that said distributed line means comprises

a quarter-wave transformer (64).
A radio frequency amplifier according to Claim 10 or
11, characterised in that said predetermined output

impedance producing means (66) comprises a transmission line
(65) connected to a quarter-wave transformer (68).
A radio frequency amplifier according to any one of
Claims 10 to 12, characterised in that each said bias

supplying means comprises a bias tee (76; 78).
A radio frequency amplifier according to any preceding
claim, characterised in that the means for providing a

connection through the predetermined output impedance
producing means (66) between an operational voltage source 

(+V
DD
) and said amplifier means (48,50) comprises a bias tee
(86) connected to said predetermined output impedance

producing means (66).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
