<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643385</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetic recording medium, magnetic head and magnetic recording apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1626	C23C1626	C23C2800	C23C2800	G11B510	G11B510	G11B5255	G11B5255	G11B531	G11B531	G11B539	G11B539	G11B572	G11B572	G11B5725	G11B584	G11B584	G11B3314	G11B3314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C16	C23C16	C23C28	C23C28	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B33	G11B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a magnetic recording medium wherein a magnetic 
recording layer for storing information, a carbon type 

protective layer (5) for preventing damage of the magnetic 
recording layer and a lubrication layer are sequentially 

formed on a non-magnetic substrate, the carbon protective 
layer has a relatively smaller hydrogen content on the 

side (52) nearer the lubrication layer than on the side (51) nearer 
the magnetic recording layer. In a magnetic head slider 

having an electromagnetic conversion device mounted 
thereto, a carbon protective layer is laminated on at 

least a sliding surface side, and a lubrication layer is 
disposed on the carbon type protective layer. In a 

recording apparatus including a recording medium for 
storing information and a magnetic head for recording or 

reproducing information to and from the memory medium, a 
carbon protective film having a lower hydrogen content at 

an upper, surface portion thereof than at a lower, 
initial portion thereof is formed on either the recording 

medium or a sliding portion of the magnetic head. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIKUCHI AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITAMOTO YOSHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIUCHI KATSUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAGI MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE MAKOTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAKAWA EISHIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIKUCHI, AKIRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITAMOTO, YOSHITO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIUCHI, KATSUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAGI, MASAHIRO, C/O FUJITSU LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE, MAKOTO, C/O FUJITSU LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAKAWA, EISHIN, C/O FUJITSU LTD.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a magnetic recording 
medium, a magnetic head and a magnetic recording 
apparatus. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to a carbon protective film used on a sliding 
surface of a magnetic recording medium on a magnetic head 
in a magnetic dick apparatus, a floppy disk apparatus, a 
magnetic tape apparatus, and so forth. Recently, higher recording densities and 
greater capacities have been required for magnetic disk 
device. To promote these higher densities and 
capacities, the performance of the head and the medium 
must be improved and the floating gap between the head 
and the medium reduced. As a matter of fact, 
manufacturers have attempted to use a novel magneto-resistive 
head to the head/medium system and a novel 
head/medium system for vertical recording. On the other 
hand, the floating distance between the head and the 
medium has been reduced to about 0.1 µm. With the recent demands for greater capacity in 
a magnetic disk apparatus and for smaller size, a 
magnetic head utilizing an MR device (or an MR head) has 
been developed. To allow a current to flow directly 
through the device, the MR head needs an insulating 
protective film on its sliding on surface. As to a 
protective film on the magnetic disk, a protective film 
having excellent insulating property is similarly 
required. Further, because an improvement in the 
reliability of the magnetic disk apparatus was required, 
magnetic disks and a magnetic heads which are highly  
 
resistant to head crushes and have high durability are 
required, and a protective film having high hardness, 
such as a hydrogen-containing carbon film, has now been 
developed. Fig. 28 is a plan view showing the internal 
structure of a magnetic disk apparatus. While a magnetic 
disk M is rotating at a high speed, a magnetic head h 
moves in a substantially radial direction to execute a 
seek operation, and recording/reproduction of information 
can then be carried out. Fig. 29 is an enlarged sectional view of the 
magnetic disk M cut at the position of the magnetic head 
h and enlarged. In the thin film type magnetic disk M, 
reference numeral 1 denotes a substrate made of a non-magnetic 
substance such as aluminum or glass. While a 
NiP plating layer 2 is formed on the surface of the 
substrate so as to improve a mechanical strength, a Cr 
foundation layer 3 is formed to a film thickness of about 
1,000Å by sputtering so as to improve horizontal 
orientation of the Co alloy. After a thin film magnetic film 4 is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetic recording apparatus comprising a 
magnetic recording medium for storing information and a 

magnetic head for recording or reproducing the 
information to or from said magnetic recording medium, 

wherein either one of said magnetic recording medium or 
magnetic head comprises a carbon type protective layer 

formed in such a manner that a hydrogen content at an 
upper surface portion of said carbon type protective 

layer is different from a hydrogen content at a lower 
initial portion thereof. 
A magnetic recording apparatus according to 
claim 1, wherein the hydrogen content at an upper surface 

portion of said carbon type protective layer is lower 
than the hydrogen content at a lower intial portion 

thereof. 
A magnetic recording apparatus according to 
claim 1, wherein the hydrogen content at an upper surface 

portion of said carbon type protective layer is higher 
than the hydrogen content at a lower initial portion 

thereof. 
A magnetic recording apparatus according to 
claim 1, wherein the hydrogen content is less than 20% at 

an upper surface portion of said carbon type protective 
layer and is at least 20% at a lower initial portion 

thereof. 
A magnetic recording medium comprising a 
magnetic recording layer for storing information, a 

carbon type protective layer for preventing damage of 
said magnetic recording layer, and a lubrication layer 

that are sequentially formed on a non-magnetic substrate, 
wherein said carbon type protective layer is formed in 

such a manner that a hydrogen content on the side nearer 
said lubrication layer is different from a hydrogen 

content on the side nearer said magnetic recording layer. 
A recording medium according to claim 5, 
wherein said carbon type protective layer has a 

 
relatively smaller hydrogen content on the side nearer 

said lubrication layer than on the side nearer said 
magnetic recording layer. 
A recording medium according to claim 5, 
wherein said carbon type protective layer consists of a 

first carbon film having a hydrogen content of at least 
20% (or a C-H quantity of at least 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the 

side nearer said magnetic recording layer, and a second 
carbon film having a hydrogen content of less than 20% 

(or a C-H quantity of less than 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the 
side nearer said lubrication layer. 
A recording medium according to claim 5, 
wherein said carbon type protective film is formed 

continuously so that the hydrogen content gradually 
changes between the side nearer said magnetic recording 

layer and the side nearer said lubrication layer. 
A recording medium according to claim 8, 
wherein said carbon type protective layer has a hydrogen 

content of at least 20% (or a C-H quantity of at least 
0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the side nearer said magnetic 

recording layer and a hydrogen content of less than 20% 
(or a C-H quantity of less than 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the 

side nearer said lubrication layer. 
A recording medium according to any of claims 5 
through 9, wherein a lubricant constituting said 

lubrication layer is a perfluoropolyether having a 
functional group. 
A recording medium according to claim 5, 
wherein said functional group of said perfluoropolyether 

is a hydroxyl group or an aromatic group. 
A process for producing a magnetic recording 
medium comprising the steps of forming a magnetic 

recording layer for storing information, forming a carbon 
type protective layer for preventing damage of said 

magnetic recording layer, coating a lubrication layer, 
that are sequentially formed on a non-magnetic substrate, 

 
and irradiating ultra-violet radiation onto said 

lubrication layer-coating step. 
A process according to claim 12, wherein said 
carbon type protective layer is a hydrogen-containing 

carbon film containing at least 20% of hydrogen or at 
least 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³ of a C-H quantity. 
A process according to claim 12 or 13, wherein 
said lubricant constituting said lubrication layer is a 

perfluoropolyether having a functional group. 
A process according to claim 14, wherein said 

lubricant is a perfluoropolyether having a hydroxyl group 
or an aromatic group as a functional group. 
A process according to any of claims 12 through 
15, wherein said lubrication layer has a ratio defined as 

"thickness of lubricant after solvent rinsing/thickness 
of lubricant before rinsing" of at least 0.4. 
A magnetic head comprising a carbon type 
protective layer laminated on at least a sliding surface 

side of a magnetic head and slider having an 
electromagnetic conversion device mounted thereto, a 

layer of a lubricant deposited on said carbon type 
protective layer. 
A magnetic head according to claim 13, wherein 
said carbon type protective layer consists of a hydrogen-containing 

carbon film having a hydrogen content of at 
least 20% (or a C-H quantity of at least 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³). 
A magnetic head formed by laminating a 
hydrogen-containing carbon film on at least a sliding 

surface side of a magnetic head slider having an 
electromagnetic conversion device mounted thereto and 

disposing a layer of a lubricant on said hydrogen-containing 
carbon film, wherein said hydrogen-containing 

carbon film is formed in such a manner that a hydrogen 
content on the side nearer said lubricant layer is 

different from a hydrogen content on the side nearer said 
magnetic head slider. 
A magnetic head according to claim 19, wherein 
hydrogen-containing carbon film has a relatively smaller 

hydrogen content on the side nearer said lubricant layer 
than on the side nearer said magnetic head slider. 
A magnetic head according to claim 19, wherein 
said hydrogen-containing carbon film consists of a first 

carbon film having a hydrogen content of at least 20% (or 
a C-H quantity of at least 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the side 

nearer said magnetic head slider, and a second carbon 
film having a hydrogen content of less than 20% (or a C-H 

quantity of less than 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the side nearer 
said lubrication layer. 
A magnetic head according to claim 19, wherein 
said hydrogen-containing carbon film is continuously 

formed so that the hydrogen content gradually changes 
from the side nearer said magnetic head slider to the 

side nearer said lubrication layer. 
A magnetic head according to claim 19, wherein 
said hydrogen-containing carbon film has a hydrogen 

content of at least 20% (or a C-H quantity of at least 
0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the side nearer said magnetic head 

slider and a hydrogen content of less than 20% (or a C-H 
quantity of less than 0.4 × 10²² cm⁻³) on the side nearer 

said lubrication layer. 
A magnetic head according to any of claims 17 
through 23, wherein said lubrication layer consists of a 

perfluoropolyether having a hydroxyl group or an aromatic 
group as a functional group. 
A process for producing a magnetic head 
comprising the steps of forming a carbon type protective 

layer, coating a lubrication layer that are sequentially 
laminated on at least a sliding surface side of a 

magnetic head slider having an electromagnetic conversion 
device mounted thereto, and irradiating ultra-violet 

radiation onto said lubrication layer after said 
lubrication layer-coating step. 
A process for producing a magnetic head having 
a carbon type protective layer and a lubrication layer 

that are sequentially laminated on at least a sliding 
surface side in a magnetic head slider having an 

electromagnetic conversion device mounted thereto, which 
process comprises: 

   a step of forming said hydrogen-containing 
carbon film in such a manner that a hydrogen content on 

the side nearer said lubrication layer is different from 
a hydrogen content on the side nearer said lubrication 

layer; and 
   a step of coating said lubrication layer 

on said hydrogen-containing carbon film and then 
irradiating the layer with ultra-violet radiation. 
A process according to claim 25 or 26, wherein 
a rinsing treatment, using a solvent, is carried out 

after the irradiation by ultra-violet radiation. 
A process for producing a carbon protective 
film used for a recording medium or a sliding portion of 

a magnetic head of a recording apparatus, comprising 
forming said carbon protective film in an atmosphere 

containing hydrogen while controlling the hydrogen 
partial pressure in such a manner that the hydrogen 

concentration in said film becomes high at a lower, 
initial portion of said protective film and becomes low 

at an upper, surface portion of said protective film. 
A process according to claim 28, wherein said 
hydrogen-containing atmosphere for forming said carbon 

protective film is an inert gas atmosphere containing 
CmHn. 
A process according to claim 29, wherein, when 
said carbon protective film is formed, it is first formed 

in a CmHn-inert gas atmosphere containing at least 20% of 
CmHn to form a lower, initial portion of said protective 

film, and is then formed in a CmHn-inert gas atmosphere 
having less than 20% of CmHn to form an upper, surface 

portion of said protective film. 
A process according to claim 29, wherein, when 
said carbon protective film is formed, it is first formed 

in a CmHn-inert gas atmosphere containing at least 20% of 
CmHn to form the lower, initial portion of said 

protective film, and is then formed in a CmHn-inert gas 
atmosphere containing more than 10% and less than 20% of 

CmHn to form the upper, surface portion of said 
protective film. 
A process according to claim 30 or 31, wherein 
said CmHn-inert gas atmosphere for forming said carbon 

protective film is a CmHn-inert gas atmosphere containing 
at least 20% of a CmHn quantity at an initial stage, and 

the amount of the inert gas is gradually increased during 
the formation of said film. 
A process for producing a carbon protective 
film, used for a recording medium of a recording 

apparatus or a sliding portion of a magnetic head, in a 
CmHn-inert gas atmosphere, comprising forming said carbon 

protective film in a CmHn-inert gas atmosphere containing 
at least 20% of a CmHn quantity to form a lower, initial 

portion of said protective film, and then applying a 
negative D.C. bias to a substrate on which said carbon 

protective film is formed, when an upper, surface portion 
of said protective film is formed. 
A process according to any of claims 28 through 
33, wherein a substrate temperature is not higher than 

150°C when said carbon protective film is formed, and 
said film is formed at a low temperature. 
A process according to any of claims 28 through 
34, wherein, when said carbon protective film is formed, 

said carbon protective film is formed in the same 
apparatus which was used for forming a foundation film 

and a magnetic film, and a substrate is left standing for 
a predetermined time inside an inert gas atmosphere 

having a high pressure and is cooled before said carbon 
protective film is formed. 
A process for producing a carbon protective 
 

film used for a recording medium of a recording apparatus 
or for a sliding portion of a magnetic head, comprising: 

   a step of forming said carbon protective 
film in a hydrogen-containing atmosphere; and 

   a step of applying a negative D.C. voltage 

as a substrate bias voltage to a substrate side on which 
said carbon protective film is formed. 
A process according to claim 36, wherein said 
hydrogen-containing atmosphere for forming said carbon 

protective film is a CmHn-inert gas. 
A process according to claim 37, wherein said 
CmHn-inert gas atmosphere contains at least 20% of CmHn. 
A process according to any of claims 36 through 
38, wherein a negative D.C. voltage applied on the 

substrate side is within the range of -50 to -300V. 
A process according to any of claims 36 through 
39, wherein a substrate bias voltage is decreased in such 

a manner as to correspond to a greater hydrogen quantity 
when said carbon protective film is formed in a CmHn-inert 

gas atmosphere. 
A process according to claim 37, wherein a 
magnetic field on a target surface in a vertical 

direction is reduced in such a manner as to correspond to 
a greater hydrogen quantity when said carbon protective 

film is formed in a CmHn-inert gas atmosphere. 
A process according to claim 36, wherein a 
substrate temperature at the time of formation of said 

carbon protective film is set to a low temperature of not 
higher than 150°C, and a substrate bias voltage is set to 

a range of -50 to -150V. 
A process according to any of claims 36 through 
39, wherein the value of a current flowing through the 

substrate side at the time of application of said 
substrate bias voltage is limited to 0.6A or below. 
A process according to any of claims 35 through 
40, wherein said substrate bias voltage is applied in a 

pulse-like form in a predetermined cycle. 
A process for forming a hydrogen-containing 
carbon protective film on both a recording medium and a 

magnetic head, according to claim 36, wherein said 
substrate bias voltage at the time of formation of said 

carbon protective film of said recording medium is set to 
a lower level than said substrate bias voltage at the 

time of formation of said carbon protective film of said 
magnetic head. 
A process according to any of claims 36 through 
45, wherein, when said carbon protective film is formed, 

said carbon protective film is formed in the same 
apparatus as that used for forming a foundation film and 

a magnetic film, and a substrate is left standing for a 
predetermined time in an inert gas atmosphere having a 

high pressure before the formation of said carbon 
protective film, and is cooled. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
