<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638424</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Thermal ink jet printhead and method of manufacture.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J205	B41J205	B41J214	B41J214	B41J216	B41J216	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermal ink jet printhead and method of 
manufacture wherein an ink feed opening (31) in a thin film 

substrate (10) is axially aligned with a central opening in a 
heater resistor (24, 26) disposed on the substrate. The ink 

feed opening (31) is also aligned with a firing chamber (30) 
formed in a barrier layer (28) disposed on the substrate and 

above and surrounding the heater resistor (24, 26), and is 
further aligned with an orifice opening (34) in an orifice 

plate (32) disposed on the barrier layer (28). This novel 
geometrical arrangement is operative to enhance the printhead 

ink ejection efficiency and to minimize cavitation wear on the 
heater resistors therein. In addition, the above axial 

symmetry may be provided by semi-circular heater resistors 
(24, 26), rectangularly shaped heater resistors (54, 56), or 

heater resistors of other shapes (36, 66) which are 
symmetrically arranged around the above firing chamber for the 

TIJ printhead. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN JOHN B R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNN, JOHN B.R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to thermal ink jet 
(TIJ) pens useful in high speed computer driven ink jet 
printers and more particularly to such TIJ pens having 
improved ink feed and ink ejection characteristics and an 
improved heater resistor geometry and construction. Many different types of thermal ink jet pens have 
been developed since the introduction by Hewlett Packard 
Company in 1985 of the widely acclaimed Thinkjet™ printer 
which is described in detail in the Hewlett Packard Journal, 
Volume 36, No. 5, May 1985, incorporated herein by reference. 
One such type of pen and associated thin film printhead 
structure is described in my U. S. Patent No. 5,103,246 
entitled "X-Y Multiplex Driver Circuit and Associated Ink Feed 
Connection for Maximizing Packing Density on Thermal Ink Jet 
(TIJ) Printheads", issued April 7, 1992, assigned to the 
present assignee and also incorporated herein by reference. 
This commonly assigned patent is believed to represent the 
prior work and technology most relevant to the invention 
described and claimed herein. The invention disclosed and claimed in my above 
identified United States patent represents significant 
advances in the X-Y multiplex circuity for driving the TIJ 
pen, significant advances in increasing the printhead packing 
density on a thin film substrate, and also a significant 
improvement in the reduction of cross talk and improved cross 
talk isolation between adjacent heater resistors formed on a 
common thin film resistor printhead substrate.  The general purpose and principal object of the 
present invention is to provide still further new and useful 
improvements with respect to my above identified patented 
invention and improvements which are particularly directed to 
enhancing the ink ejection efficiency and life of the thermal 
ink jet pen, while simultaneously maintaining a high level of 
cross talk reduction between adjacent heater resistors formed 
on a common thin film printhead substrate. Another object of this invention is to provide a new 
and improved thermal ink jet pen and method of manufacture of 
the type described which features improved ink ejection 
directionality as a result of the axial symmetry used in pen 
construction. The presence of a symmetric firing chamber in 
the novel printhead structure disclosed and claimed herein is 
operative to create ink drops fired normal to the pen surface. 
This structure is to be contrasted with current and prior art 
systems which are asymmetric in geometry and make ink drop 
d
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermal ink jet pen including, in 
combination: 


a. a thin film printhead substrate (10) having an 
ink feed opening (31) therein, 
b. a heater resistor (24, 26) disposed on said 
substrate (10) and surrounding at least a portion of said 

ink feed opening (31), 
c. a barrier layer (28) disposed on said substrate 
(10) and having an opening (30) therein surrounding said 

heater resistor and defining an ink firing chamber, 
d. an orifice plate (32) disposed on said barrier 
layer (28) and having an orifice opening (34) therein 

axially aligned with the central axis of said firing 
chamber (30) and with the central axis of said heater 

resistor (24, 26) and also with the central axis of said 
ink feed opening (31), and 
e. conductive trace lines (18, 20) disposed on 
said substrate and extending into electrical contact with 

said heater resistor (24, 26) to provide electrical 
pulses to said heater resistor during a thermal ink jet 

printing operation, whereby the axial alignment of all of 
said openings in said orifice plate (32), barrier layer 

(28), heater resistor (24, 26), and substrate (10) 
operate to enhance the ink ejection efficiency of said 

pen, and cavitation wear on said heater resistor is 
minimized. 
The pen defined in claim 1 wherein said 
resistive heater region is patterned and defined in the 

geometry of an annular region of two parallel connected heater 
resistors (24, 26) symmetrically surrounding said ink feed 

opening. 
The pen defined in claim 1 wherein said heater 
resistor is patterned and defined to comprise four squares 

(36, 38, 40, 42) on four sides, respectively, of said ink feed 
opening (44). 
The pen defined in claim 1 wherein said heater 
resistor is formed in the shape of a pair of rectangles (54, 

56) disposed on each side of a rectangularly shaped ink feed 
opening (58). 
The pen defined in claim 1 wherein said heater 
resistor is formed in the shape of a plurality of circularly 

spaced resistive areas (66) between which conductive trace 
areas (68) are disposed. 
A process for fabricating a thin film ink jet 
printhead of the type defined in claim 1 which comprises the 

steps of: 

a. providing a thin film substrate (10) and then 
forming a heater resistor (24, 26) thereon partially 

surrounding an area of said substrate in which an ink 
feed opening (31) is to be subsequently formed, 
b. defining conductive trace lines (18, 20) on the 
surface of said substrate and extending into electrical 

contact with said heater resistor (24, 26), 
c. forming a barrier layer (28) on the surface of 
said thin film substrate and having a firing chamber (30) 

therein aligned with a central axis aligned with the 
central axis of said heater resistor (24, 26), 
d. forming an ink feed opening (31) in said 
substrate which is axially aligned with the central axis 

of said firing chamber, and 
e. attaching an orifice plate (32) to said barrier 
layer and having an orifice opening (34) therein which is 

axially aligned with a central axis of said ink firing 
chamber, with the central axis of said heater resistor. 
The process defined in claim 6 which further 
includes depositing in succession resistive and conductive 

layers (14, 16) on the surface of said thin film substrate; 
 

removing all of said conductive layer except for conductive 
trace lead lines (18, 20) and material overlying a section 

(19) of said resistive layer (14) used to define a heater 
resistor region; and then removing conductive material 

remaining over said heater resistor defining region (24, 26) 
of said resistive layer. 
The process defined in claim 6 wherein said 
resistive heater is patterned and defined in the geometry of 

an annular region of two parallel connected heater resistors 
(24, 26) symmetrically surrounding said ink feed opening (31). 
The process defined in claim 6 wherein said 
heater resistor is patterned and defined to comprise four 

squares (36, 38, 40, 42) on four sides, respectively, of said 
ink feed opening (44). 
The process defined in claim 6 wherein said 
heater resistor is formed in the shape of a pair of rectangles 

(54, 56) disposed on each side of a rectangularly shaped ink 
feed opening (58). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
