<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644724</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REDUCED FAT, READY-TO-EAT CEREAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23L100	A23L1308	A23L1164	A23L1308	A23L1164	A23L100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	A23L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a reduced fat, ready-to-eat cereal ingredients, said cereal comprising: a base component and a coating component thereon, said base component comprising from about 30 parts to about 90 parts by weight cereal flakes and from 0 part to about 10 parts by weight milk solids; said coating component comprising from about 5 parts to about 60 parts by weight sugar, from about 1 part to about 10 parts by weight water-soluble dietary fiber composition, from about 1/2 part to about 5 parts by weight of a sugar solution, and sufficient water to make the coating component liquid. The present invention further comprises a process for preparing such a reduced fat, ready-to-eat cereal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
QUAKER OATS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MESCHEWSKI ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MESCHEWSKI, ROBERT J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a reduced fat, 
ready-to-eat cereal product, preferably prepared from 
natural ingredients. Many ready-to-eat cereals have been developed and sold 
in recent years. These cereals all have different types of 
additives which provide for prevention of staling and 
prevention of oxidation, as well as preservation of the 
product. Few cereals have been developed which are 
substantially free of these additives and preservatives. 
Likewise, few cereals have been developed which have not 
been subjected to substantial types of processing which 
significantly alters the product. The few ready-to-eat 
cereal products that have been developed which are prepared 
from natural ingredients and are subjected to minimal 
processing are desirable products. In addition, these 
ready-to-eat cereal products would be even more desirable 
if they contained reduced fat levels. However, in such cereals, fat is typically added in 
the form of oil, which serves to keep the cereal product 
tender and helps to extend the cereal's bowl life in milk. 
When the oil is not added, or is replaced with water and 
sugar syrup, the resulting cereal becomes extremely hard 
and brittle and is not accepted as well by consumers. In 
the present invention, however, when the water-soluble 
dietary fiber of the present invention is added to such 
cereal products as a replacement for such oils, it has been 
surprisingly found that a reduced fat, ready-to-eat cereal 
product, preferably prepared from natural ingredients, can 
be prepared without any of the aforementioned undesirable 
effects. A natural, ready-to-eat cereal similar to the 
preferred type prepared in the present invention is known.  
 
United States Patent 3,876,811, issued April 8, 1976 to 
Bonner et al., teaches a ready-to-eat cereal of natural 
ingredients, said cereal comprising a base and a coating 
thereon, said base comprising cereal flakes, coconut, milk 
solids, and edible nuts and said coating comprising brown 
sugar, non-hydrogenated vegetable oil, and a sugar 
solution. The cereal has a density in the range of from 
about 0.25 to about 0.60 gram per cubic centimeter and a 
moisture content in the range of from about 1.0 to about 
3.5 percent by weight. However, this cereal also contains 
oil, which is added to keep the cereal product tender and 
extend the cereal's bowl life in milk. A process for preparing water-soluble dietary fiber 
compositions from oats is also known to those skilled in 
the art. U.S. Patent 4,996,063, issued
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reduced fat, ready-to-eat cereal, said cereal 
comprising a base component and a coating component 

thereon, characterized by said base component comprising 
from about 30 parts to about 90 parts by weight cereal 

flakes and from 0 parts to about 10 parts by weight milk 
solids; said coating component comprising from about 5 

parts to about 60 parts by weight sugar, from about 1 
part to about 10 parts by weight water-soluble dietary 

fiber composition, and from about 1/2 part to about 5 
parts by weight of sugar solution 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to claim 
1, characterized in that the ratio of maltodextrin to 

beta-glucans in the water-soluble dietary fiber 
composition is in the range of from about 3:1 to about 

15:1. 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to claim 
1, characterized in that the water-soluble dietary fiber 

composition is prepared by treating an aqueous dispersion 
of a gelatinized, milled beta-glucan 
containing grain 
substrate with an alpha-amylase under conditions with 

will hydrolyze the substrate and yield a soluble fraction 
and an insoluble fraction, separating said soluble 

fraction from said insoluble fraction, and recovering 
from said soluble fraction the water-soluble dietary 

fiber substantially free of water-insoluble fiber. 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to claim 
3, characterized in that the soluble fraction is  

 
separated from the insoluble fraction with a single 

decanting step. 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to claim 
2, characterized in that the base component further 

comprises from about 5 parts to about 10 parts by weight 
coconut and/or from about 0.05 part to about 1.0 part by 

weight natural coconut flavor, and from about 2 parts to 
about 9 parts by weight almonds. 
A ready-to-eat cereal products according to claim 
5, characterized in that the cereal flakes comprise a 

member selected from the group oat flakes, wheat flakes, 
barley flakes, and mixtures thereof, and the cereal has a 

density in the range of from about 0.25 to about 0.60 
gram per cubic centimeter and a moisture content in the 

range of from about 1.0 to about 3.5 percent by weight 
moisture. 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to claim 
6, characterized in that the sugar solution is selected 

from the group comprising honey, molasses, maple syrup, 
and sucrose solutions. 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to claim 
5, characterized by it also containing from about 5 parts 

to about 25 parts by weight dehydrated fruit and which 
has an overall moisture content in the range of from 

about 1.0 to about 5.0 percent by weight. 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to claim  
 

8, characterized in that the dehydrated fruit is selected 
from the group comprising raisins, dates, and mixtures 

thereof. 
A ready-to-eat cereal product according to 
claim 9, characterized in that the base component 

comprises from about 0.05 part to about 1.0 part by 
weight natural coconut flavor. 
A process for preparing a reduced fat, ready-to-eat 
cereal, said process being characterized by: 


(a) preparing a base component by admixing 
from about 30 parts to about 90 parts by 

weight cereals flakes with from 0 parts to 
about 10 parts by weight milk solids; 
(b) preparing a coating component by admixing 
from about 5 parts to about 60 parts by 

weight sugar, from about 1 part to about 
10 parts by weight water-soluble dietary 

fiber composition, from about 1/2 part to 
about 5 parts by weight of a sugar 

solution, and sufficient water to make the 
coating component liquid; 
(c) heating the coating component to a 
temperature of from about 60° C. to about 

70° C.; 
(d) enrobing the coating component onto the 
base component; and 
(e) drying the enrobed base component to below 
about 3.5 percent by weight moisture. 
A process according to claim 11, characterized 
in that the ratio of maltodextrin to beta-glucans in the 

water-soluble dietary fiber composition is in the range 
of from about 3:1 to about 15:1. 
A process according to claim 11, characterized 
in that the water-soluble dietary fiber composition is 

prepared by a method comprising to eating an aqueous 
dispersion of a gelatinized, milled beta-glucan 

containing grain substrate with an alpha-amylase under 
conditions which will hydrolyze the substrate and yield a 

soluble fraction and an insoluble fraction, separating 
said soluble fraction from said insoluble fraction, and 

recovering from said soluble fraction said water-soluble 
dietary fiber substantially free of water-insoluble 

fiber. 
A process according to claim 13, characterized 
in that the soluble fraction is separated from the 

insoluble fraction with a single decanting step. 
A process according to claim 11, characterized 
in that the base component is prepared by admixing from 

about 30 parts to about 60 parts by weight oat flakes, 
from about 15 parts to about 40 parts by weight wheat 

flakes, from about 1 part to about 6 parts by weight 
almonds, from about 5 parts to about 10 parts by weight 

coconut and/or from about 0.05 part to about 1.0 part by 
weight natural coconut flavor, and from about 4 parts to 

about 8 parts by weight milk solids; and the coating 
component is prepared by admixing from about 5 parts to  

 
about 60 parts by weight brown sugar, from about 1 part 

to about 10 parts by weight water soluble dietary fiber 
composition, from about 1/2 part to about 5 parts by 

weight honey, and sufficient water to make the coating 
component liquid. 
A process according to claim 15, characterized 
in that the dried, enrobed base component is admixed with 

from 5 parts to 25 parts by weight dehydrated fruit 
selected from the group comprising raisins, dates, and 

mixtures thereof, and the overall moisture content of the 
final product then falls within the range of from about 

1.0 to about 5.0 percent by weight. 
A process according to claim 15 or 16, 
characterized in that the enrobed base component is 

formed into a sheet; the sheet is dryed to below about 
3.5 percent by weight moisture and the dried sheet is 

subdivided. 
A process according to claim 17, characterized 
in that the subdivision comprises a particle size 

reduction to an average particle size of about 0.8 
centimeters, and wherein the cereal product has a density 

in the range of from about 0.25 to about 0.60 gram per 
cubic centimeter. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
