<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659255</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR REPAIRING PIPE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L5518	F16L5518	F16L55168	F16L5516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	F16L55	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method for reinforcing defective portions (14) of a pipeline (10), the defective portions are identified by conventional techniques, soil is excavated from around the pipeline to expose the deteriorated portions, any corrosion protection material is removed and the surface of the pipeline is cleaned. Gouges, dents and corrosion pitting are filled with an uncured filler material (12) and, while the filler material is in an uncured workable state, a plurality of convolutions of a high tensile strength material (20) are wrapped around the defective portion of the pipeline with a layer of a curable adhesive (18) applied between adjacent convolutions. The adhesive then cures to a strongly adhesive state and the filler material cures to a rigid state capable of transferring the fluid pressure load within the pipeline almost instantaneously to the reinforcement band. Optionally, a layer of adhesive (18) may be applied between the pipeline surface (16) and the first convolution of the reinforcement band, in which case the adhesive must be compatible with the filler material so that both materials are able to cure fully, and also compatible with any corrosion protection material remaining on the pipeline. The method may be employed to reinforce both straight and bent portions of a pipeline.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLOCK SPRING COMPANY L P
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FAWLEY NORMAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLOCK SPRING COMPANY L.P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FAWLEY, NORMAN C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOCK NORM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAWLEY NORMAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELTY PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOCK, NORM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FAWLEY, NORMAN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELTY, PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT, JUSTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods for
repairing axially extending structures having an
internal force directed radially outward therefrom
and, more particularly, to methods for repairing and
reinforcing pipe in a pipeline which carries gas
and/or liquid under pressure. Still more
particularly, the invention relates to methods for
reinforcing a corroded or otherwise defective section
of pipeline without taking the pipeline out of
service, or at least minimizing the down time during
repair and/or rehabilitation.Pipelines for carrying gas or liquid under
pressure are ordinarily made of steel in order to
withstand the internal pressures required to transport
fluids over large distances. Despite the extensive
measures taken during the manufacture and installation
of the pipe forming the pipeline, corrosion of the
pipe may eventually occur. Pipelines buried in the
ground are subject to deterioration from electrolytic
and biochemical corrosion, cyclical soil stress,
cathodic disbonding, and galvanic corrosion resulting
from damp soil and from making pipe attachments, such
as valves, from metals which are dissimilar to the
steel or other material from which the pipelines are
made. Over time, these corrosion mechanisms can cause
pits and crevices to form in the pipe. Further, the
pipeline may be subject to mechanical damage, such as
gouging and denting from the machinery used to install
the pipeline or to expose, inspect and repair the
pipeline after installation. These gouges and/or
dents weaken the pipe and may quicken the corrosion
process.The corroded and gouged regions of a
pipeline are typically detected through the use of a 
"smart pig" or through cathodic surveys. Dented
portions of a pipeline may be detected through the use
of other conventional "pigs" which determine the
clearance in the pipeline as they travel therethrough.
Once a defective region has been identified, the fluid
pressure in the pipeline is reduced, the soil
surrounding the pipeline in the corroded region is
excavated, and a reinforcing member is applied to
cover the deteriorated area. Normally, the pipeline
is prepared for the application of the reinforcing
member by removing any corrosion protection material
which may have been applied to the pipeline, cleaning
the surface by shot-blasting and applying a primer.
In one repair technique, reinforcing members in the
form of a plurality of split steel sleeves are welded
or bolted to the pipeline in end to end relationship
until the entire deteriorated area of the pipeline has
been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of repairing an axially extending structure
(10) adapted to carry an internal load directed radially

outward therefrom, said axially extending structure
having a defective region defined by at least one cavity

(14) extending from an outer surface (16) of said axially
extending structure toward the center of said axially

extending structure but not extending completely through
the wall of said axially extending structure, said method

comprising the steps of:

filling said cavity to at least said outer surface
of said axially extending structure with a filler

material (12) in a workable uncured state;
wrapping at least one band (20) having a plurality
of elastic convolutions of a high tensile strength

material about said axially extending structure to form
a coil (40) overlying said filler material; and
securing at least one of said convolutions to an
adjacent one of said convolutions,

characterised by performing said wrapping step while
said filler material is in said workable state,

tightening said coil about said axially extending
structure before said securing step so that said filler

material completely fills that portion of said cavity
underlying said coil and permitting said filler material

to cure to a rigid state after said tightening step,
whereby a load carried by said axially extending

structure is transferred substantially instantaneously
from said axially extending structure to said coil.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said outer
surface of said axially extending structure includes

raised regions (44) so that said step of forming said 
coil creates void spaces (46, 48) between said outer

surface of said axially extending structure and said
coil, said method further comprising the step of applying

said filler material in said workable state to said outer
surface of said axially extending structure adjacent said

raised regions before said wrapping step so that said
filler material completely fills said void spaces.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at
least one cavity has a width extending axially with

respect to said axially extending structure, and said
coil has a width which is greater than said width of said

at least one cavity.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
wrapping step includes the step of wrapping said

plurality of convolutions of said high tensile strength
material about said axially extending structure to form

a plurality of individual coils (50, 52, 54, 56, 58)
arranged adjacent one another and overlying said filler

material, said plurality of coils having a combined width
which is greater than said width of said at least one

cavity.
A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising
the step of adjusting said convolutions so that said

plurality of convolutions are in radial alignment with
respect to one another.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said high
tensile strength material comprises glass fibers.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said step
of providing said at least one band includes the step of

providing at least one band of composite material 
including a multiplicity of continuous, high tensile

strength filaments (34) encapsulated in a resin matrix
and extending codirectionally with one another through

said resin matrix.
A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said at
least one band of composite material has a coiled

configuration in a relaxed condition and said winding
step includes the steps of deflecting portions of said

band to an uncoiled configuration and manoeuvring said
portions of said band around said axially extending

structure, wherein said portions of said band will move
toward said relaxed condition to tighten about said

axially extending structure.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said step
of providing said at least one band includes the step of

providing at least one band of composite material
defining a spiral terminating in an inner end (30) and

an outer end (32), and each convolution of said band has
an inner surface and an outer surface in contact with

corresponding surfaces of adjacent convolutions, said
composite material including a multiplicity of

continuous, high tensile strength filaments (34)
encapsulated in a resin matrix in a cured state and

extending through said spiral parallel to the direction
of spiral.
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the
elasticity of said convolutions biases said at least one

band into said spiral with a force greater than the
weight of said band, whereby said band remains in said

spiral when suspended by said outer end of said spiral.
A method as claimed in claim 7 or 9, wherein said 
composite material is electrically non-conductive.
A method as claimed in claim 7 or 9, wherein said
multiplicity of continuous, high tensile strength

filaments in said at least one band of composite material
includes a multiplicity of individual filaments

independent of one another.
A method as claimed in claim 7 or 9, wherein said
multiplicity of continuous, high tensile strength

filaments are nonmetallic.
A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said
nonmetallic filaments comprise glass fibers.
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein said glass
fibers comprise E-type glass fibers.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said step
of providing said filler material includes the step of

mixing a base material with an activator capable of
reacting with said base material to cure said filler

material to said rigid state.
A method as claimed in claim 1, 7, 9 or 16 further
comprising the step of applying a layer of an adhesive

(18) between said outer surface of said axially extending
structure and a first convolution of said coil, said

adhesive being compatible with said filler material so
that said adhesive does not prevent said filler material

from curing to said rigid state.
A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said
axially extending structure includes a coating of a

protective material, said adhesive being compatible with 
said protective material so that said adhesive does not

soften said protective material.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 7 wherein said
securing step includes the step of applying a layer of

an adhesive (18) between adjacent ones of said plurality
of convolutions.
A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein said
adhesive has an uncured fluid state and a cured adhesive

state, said adhesive application step being conducted in
said uncured fluid state of said adhesive, said adhesive

being compatible with said filler material so that said
filler material does not prevent said adhesive from

curing to said adhesive state.
A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein said
adhesive in said cured state has a shear strength of at

least about 62.05 x 10
5
 Pa (900 psi).
A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein said
adhesive in said cured state has an elongation of about

30%.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or 7 wherein said
filler material in said rigid cured state has a

compressive strength of at least about 62.05 x 10
6
 Pa
(9,000 psi).
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein when said
defective region is in a portion (100) of said axially

extending structure curved in the axial direction, said
curved portion having an outer radius of curvature and

an inner radius of curvature, said wrapping step includes
the step of wrapping said plurality of convolutions of 

said high tensile strength material about said axially
extending structure to form a plurality of coils (110,

112, 114) overlying said filler material so that adjacent
ones of said coils are spaced from one another along said

outer radius of curvature to define unwrapped regions
(102, 104).
A method as claimed in claim 24, further comprising
the step of filling said unwrapped regions between said

plurality of coils with a workable material.
A method as claimed in claim 25, wherein said
workable material comprises said filler material.
A method according to claim 1, which further
comprises, after said filling step, applying a layer of

an adhesive (18) in an uncured fluid state over a
circumferential portion of said axially extending

structure including said cavity while said filler
material is in said workable state, said adhesive being

compatible with said filler material so that said
adhesive does not prevent said filler material from

curing to said rigid state;

carrying out said wrapping step by wrapping around
said axially extending structure a band in which said

plurality of elastic convolutions define a spiral
terminating in an inner end (30) and an outer end (32),

each convolution having an inner surface and an outer
surface bearing against corresponding surfaces of

adjacent convolutions, said band being formed of a
composite material comprising a plurality of continuous,

high tensile strength filaments (34) encapsulated in a
resin matrix and extending through said spiral parallel

to the direction of spiral; simultaneously with said
wrapping step, applying a layer of said adhesive in said 

uncured fluid state between adjacent ones of said
plurality of convolutions; and
permitting both said adhesive to cure to an adhesive
state and said filler material to cure to said rigid

state.
A method according to any preceding claim wherein
said axially extending structure is a pipe, storage drum,

pressure tank or canister.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
