<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654965</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INCUBATING AND HATCHING EGGS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K4100	A01K4100	A01K4106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K41	A01K41	A01K41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An egg tray is provided which holds the eggs at an angle of approximately 35  relative to the horizontal floor of the tray with the large or air-cell end of the egg being elevated. Air vents (58, 60) in the tray sides permit fresh air to flow directly over the eggs during incubation. A hatchery facility includes racks for holding a plurality of such trays loaded with eggs. The loaded racks are rolled into an incubation and hatching chamber (80) through a first set of doors (106) which connect the chamber to a first hallway in which fresh air is circulated. After incubating and hatching, the racks and air control unit in each chamber are removed through a second set of doors (108) into a second hallway in which air from the chambers is vented during incubation and hatching. The air pressure in the first hallway is greater than that in the second hallway thereby minimizing the risk of contamination.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARMON CORP CANADA LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE MARMON CORPORATION OF CANADA LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANNON ROBERT W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CANNON, ROBERT, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods and apparatus 
for incubating and hatching eggs and more particularly to such 
methods and apparatus in which trays holding a plurality of 
eggs are received in a controlled environment for promoting 
incubation and hatching. Trays for receiving eggs during the incubation process 
have been in use for many years. Generally speaking, a tray is 
loaded with freshly-laid eggs and is thereafter received in a 
rack or the like along with a number of other loaded egg trays. 
The rack is positioned in a chamber in which the environment, 
especially temperature and humidity, is controlled to maximize 
the number of chicks hatched from the eggs. Most, but not all, 
incubation and hatching methods involve incubating in a first 
tray which is designed to optimize incubation conditions. Just 
prior to hatching, the eggs are transferred to a second 
hatching tray which is designed to accommodate the hatched 
chicks. Prior art methods include placing the egg on a 
substantially planar surface in an egg tray. During incubation, the trays are tilted about a 
horizontal axis to simulate the same egg movement caused by a 
hen, through the use of her beak and feet, in a nest. Such 
movement is important during the incubation process because the 
chick embryo floats for the first 14 days of incubation and 
will stick to the upper surface of the egg and die if the egg 
is not rotated. On or about the 14th day incubation, the chick 
orients itself with its head in the end of the egg which is 
tilted upwardly, which should be the large end containing the 
air cell. During hatching, which occurs on or about the 21st day of 
incubation, the chick uses its beak to peck through the egg  
 
shell along a circle near the air-cell end of the egg and 
substantially coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the egg. 
The end of the egg is thus removed and the chick can emerge 
from the egg. If the small end of the egg is tilted up when the chick 
positions itself the chick may malposition with its head in the 
small end of the egg. When the chick first pips the shell and 
begins to breathe, it will drown. Even with the chick's head 
positioned in the air-cell end, if any part of the egg through 
which the chick must peck is against another object, such as 
the floor of the egg tray or an adjacent egg, the chick may not 
be able to peck through the shell and thus dies. Sometimes the egg tray tilting which must be undertaken 
during incubation causes the eggs to roll against one another 
or the egg
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of incubating and hatching eggs comprising the 
steps of: 


(a) placing a plurality of eggs on a horizontal egg 
support tray (10) having a support surface (22) which has 

a plurality of curved egg supporting recesses (24, 26) 
formed therein; 
(b) positioning each egg so that the longitudinal axis 
of the egg forms an acute angle relative to the egg 

support tray with the air-cell end of the egg being 
higher than the other end; 
(c) immobilizing each egg relative to the egg support 
surface in one of said curved recesses; and 
(d) incubating the eggs until they hatch. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the step of 
positioning each egg comprises the step of positioning each egg 

so that the longitudinal axis of the egg forms an angle of at 
least 20 degrees relative to the egg support surface. 
A method as claimed in claim 2, in which the step of 
positioning each egg comprises the step of positioning each egg 

so that the longitudinal axis of the egg forms an angle of 
approximately 35 degrees relative to the egg support surface. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, in which said method 
further includes the step of preventing the eggs from touching 

one another. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, in which said method 
further includes the step of tilting the egg support surface 

during the step of incubating the eggs.  
 
Apparatus for incubating and hatching eggs, comprising 
means for supporting a plurality of eggs on a substantially 

planar egg support tray (10), 
characterised
in
that
 the tray 
has a substantially planar egg support surface (22) with a 

plurality of curved egg supporting recesses (24, 26) formed 
therein for holding each egg so that the longitudinal axis of 

the egg forms an acute angle relative to the egg support 

surface (22) with the air-cell end of the egg being further 
from the egg support surface than the other end of the egg. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, in which the egg 
supporting recesses (24, 26) comprise means for holding each 

egg so that the longitudinal axis of the egg forms an angle of 
at least 20 degrees relative to the egg support surface (22). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, in which the curved egg 
supporting recesses (24, 26) comprise means for holding each 

egg so that the longitudinal axis of the egg forms an angle of 
approximately 35 degrees relative to the egg support surface. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, in which said apparatus 
further includes means for preventing the eggs from touching 

one another. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, in which said apparatus 
further includes means for tilting the egg support surface. 
A tray for holding eggs during incubation and hatching, 

characterised
by
: 

(a) a bottom (12) having a substantially planar surface 
(22) for supporting eggs; and 
(b) a plurality of curved egg supporting recesses (24, 26) formed in 
the bottom each of which is constructed for holding an 

egg so that the longitudinal axis of the egg forms an 
acute angle relative to the bottom surface (22) with the  

 
air-cell end of the egg being further from the bottom 

surface than the other end. 
A tray as claimed in claim 11, in which said tray 
includes a side wall having an upwardly-directed interior 

shoulder for supporting the bottom of another such tray in a 
nesting fashion. 
A tray as claimed in claim 12, in which said side wall 
includes air vents above said shoulder for permitting a flow of 

air directly over eggs held by said curved surfaces. 
A tray as claimed in claim 12, in which said shoulder is 
constructed and arranged to space the upper surface of an egg 

received in a first tray from the lower surface of the bottom 
of a second tray stacked on and nested within said first tray. 
A tray as claimed in claim 14, in which said egg tray 
further includes means for guiding a first such egg tray into 

stacked and nested relation with a second such tray when said 
first tray is lowered onto said second tray. 
A tray as claimed in claim 11, in which said tray 
includes a side wall having a downwardly-directed exterior 

shoulder for engaging a support in a tray rack. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
