<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615675</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REAL-TIME DISK SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B27031	G11B27034	G11B2732	G11B2732	G11B2734	G11B2734	H04N5765	H04N5765	H04N5781	H04N5781	H04N5917	H04N5917	H04N592	H04N592	H04N5926	H04N5926	H04N595	H04N5956	H04N701	H04N701	H04N9804	H04N9804	H04N987	H04N987	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	H04N9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A real-time disk system (10) stores and plays back D1 digital 10-bit 4:2:2 component video and audio signals from magnetic storage disks (12). The system (10) has a main channel subsystem (14) with an associated smooth motion option (16) and a second or key channel option subsystem (18) with an associated smooth motion option (20). Serial and parallel D1 digital video inputs (30 and 32) and outputs (34 and 36) are connected to each of the channels (14 and 18) and to control subsystem (22). In the main channel (14), the serial and parallel D1 input (30) is connected through an input board (60) to a video processing board (62). The video board (62) is connected by a bidirectional, 11 x 2 wide bus (64) to disk arrays (66 and 68). Digital video signal information is stored and retrieved in parallel to and from the disk arrays (66 and 68) without requiring any serial to parallel or parallel to serial conversion. Smooth motion option (20) processes a group of video fields by creating a plurality of additional fields between two original fields in the group of video fields by a combination of motion adaptive interpolation and frame repetition.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCOM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ACCOM, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALVAREZ JOSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLO LUIGI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGE DOUGLAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALVAREZ, JOSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLO, LUIGI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GEORGE, DOUGLAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STERN, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 REAL-TIME DISK SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention:The present invention relates generally to a system that can record or play short segments of digital component video on specially-modified computer disk storage media. More particularly, it relates to such a system in which the video segments are stored and retrieved directly in parallel from the disk storage media without serial-to-parallel or parallel-to-serial conversion of a video signal stream. It further relates to such a system that can be expanded two dimensionally for multiuser and larger capacity requirements. It further relates to such a system incorporating smoothed motion.2. Description of the Prior Art: It is known to record video on magnetic disks in order to be able to retrieve and display stored video images in real time. Commercially available real-time disk systems are available from Abekas and Quantel. The Quantel product is described in U.S. Patent 4.668.106. issued August 18. 1987 to Keller et al. The system disclosed by Keller et al. uses parallel-transfer disks to record 4:2:2 Dl digital video images. However, the number of parallel data channels on the disk does not match the number of bits in a pixel. A complicated parallel to serial convener is therefore required to record on disk. U.S. Patents 4.638.3 1 4.647,986 and 4.674.064. issued January 20. 1987. March 3, 1987 and August 18. 1987 to Vaughn. Vaughn et al. and Vaughn disclose a parallel-transfer disk system for real-time recording of digitized X-rays, but this system also does not have the same number of parallel data channels on the disk as the number of bits in a pixel. It therefore also requires a very complicated erial-to-parallel and parallel-to-serial convener.A system for generating interlaced slow motion video by spatial and temporal interpolation is described in U.S. Patent 4.987.489. issued January 22. 19 1 to Hurley et al. In this system, successive fields of an input video signal are stored in 

 field stores and are spatially interpolated as well as temporally filtered to produce new fields depending on the amount of motion detected in a scene-SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, it is an object of this invention to provide a real-time disk system in which video images are stored on a disk and retrieved from the disk in parallel signal streams without requiring any parallel to serial or serial to parallel conversion.It is another object of the invention to provide such a real-time disk system that can be expanded two dimensionally
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A video real-time disk system which comprises a video storage and retrieval subsystem connected by a plurality of parallel data channels to a disk storage means having a like plurality of storage surfaces and a like plurality of interface circuits. with one of said like plurality of interface circuits being connected between one of said plurality of parallel data channels and one of said like plurality of storage surfaces.
2. The video real-time disk system of Claim 1 in which said disk storage means has a second like plurality of storage surfaces and a second like plurality of interface circuits, with one of said second like plurality of interface circuits being connected between one of said plurality of parallel data channels and one of said second like plurality f storage surfaces.
3. The video real-time disk system of Claim 2 in which said disk system is configured to store successive recorded video fields onto said like plurality of storage surfaces and said second like plurality of storage surfaces in succession.
4. The video real-time disk system of Claim 2 in which said disk system is configured to store a sequence of video fields onto said like plurality of storage surfaces as long as possible, then store remaining video fields of the sequence onto said second like plurality of storage surfaces.
5. The video real-time disk system of Claim 4 in which said disk system is configured to reserve a portion of said like plurality of storage surfaces and a second portion of said second like plurality of storage surfaces as caches.
6. The video real-time disk system of Claim 5 in which said disk system is configured to use the second portion to store video fields from said like plurality of storage surfaces when successive playback of groups of video fields from said like plurality of storage surfaces occurs and to use the first portion to store video fields from said second like plurality of surfaces when successive playback of groups of video fields from said second like plurality of surfaces occurs. 


 7. The video real-time disk system of Claim 1 additionally comprising means for smooth motion processing a group of video fields by creating additional fields between two original fields in the group of video fields, said means for smooth motion processing being connected to said video storage and retrieval subsystem.
8. The video real-time disk system of Claim 7 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform motion-adaptive recursive noise reduction.
9. The video real-time disk system of Claim 7 in which said means for smooth morion processing is configured to create the additional fields by motion adaptive inteφolation-
10. The video real-time disk system of Claim 7 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform motion adaptive noise reduction on film material from a telecine by undoing a 3:2 pulldown, carrying out the noise reduction, and redoing the 3:2 pulldown.
11. The video real-time disk system of Claim 7 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform arithmetic averaging over any set of a plurality of frames.
12. The video real-time disk system of Claim 7 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform integration over any set of a plurality of frames.
13- The video real-time disk system of Claim 7 in which said means for smooth motion processing comprises a frame store having an input and an output connected to a multiplexer and to a subtracter, an output of aid subtracter being connected to a mixer and to a rectifier, said rectifier having an output connected to a two-dimensional low pass filter, said two-dimensional low pass filter having an output connected to a means for performing a non-linear transfer function, said means for performing a non-linear transfer function having an ouφut connected to said mixer, said mixer and said multiplexer having ouφuts connected to an adder. 


 said adder having an output connected to a rounder, said rounder having an output connected to a variable delay.
14. The video real-time disk system of Claim 13 in which said system is further configured to carry out motion-adaptive recursive noise reduction.
15. The video real-time disk system of Claim 14 in which said system is configured to carry out the motion-adaptive recursive noise reduction by providing first and second amplifiers in said subtracter with resettable coefficients, a third amplifier with a resettable coefficient between said subtracter and said rectifier, a fourth amplifier with a resettable coefficient between said means for performing a non-linear transfer function and said mixer, said adder having an ouφut connected to the input of said frame store, the output of said adder being connected to a rounder, said rounder having an output connected to a variable delay.
16. The video real-time disk system of Claim 13 in which said system is further configured to carry out arithmetic averaging over any set of a plurality of frames.
17. The video real-time disk system of Claim 16 in which said system is configured to carry out the arithmetic averaging by setting the resettable coefficient of the first amplifier to a reciprocal of the number of frames to be averaged, the resettable coefficients of said second amplifier to + 1 and said fourth amplifier to + 1 and the resettable coefficient of said third amplifier to zero.
18. The video real-time disk system of Claim 13 in which said system is further configured to earn' out integration over any set of a plurality of frames.
19. The video real-time disk system of Claim 1 in which said system is configured to earn' out the integration by setting the resettable coefficient of the firs; amplifier to +1, the resettable coefficients of said second amplifier to +1 and said fourth amplifier to +1 and the resettable coefficient of said third amplifier to zero. 


 20. The video real-time disk system of Claim 1 additionally comprising an audio input and audio ouφut, and an audio interface circuit for storing audio signals supplied on said audio input digitally on said disk storage means and for supplying audio signals retrieved from said disk storage means to said audio output-
21. The video real-time disk system of Claim 20 in which said audio interface circuit and said disk storage means are configured to store the audio signals on a separate disk from video signals.
22. The video real-time disk system of Claim 1 in which said video storage and retrieval subsystem includes first and second video channels, said video processor being selectively configurable to record and play back simultaneously a video image and a key. to provide real-time video disk operation simultaneously for two users, and to provide extended recording time for a single user.
23. The video real-time disk system of Claim 1 in which said video disk system is configured for variable speed operation in both forward and reverse directions.
24. The video real-time disk system of Claim 7 additionally comprising a control panel connected to said video storage and retrieval subsystem, said control panel including a display, a rotary control, a plurality of variable function keys, a numeric keypad, a plurality of playback mode keys, a plurality of transport control keys, a plurality of segment control keys, and a plurality of setup control keys.
25. The video real-time disk system of Claim 24 in which said control panel includes a key for actuating said means for smooth motion processing-
26. The video real-time disk system of Claim 1 additionally comprising a control panel connected to said video storage and retrieval subsystem, said control panel including a display, a rotary control, a plurality of variable function keys, a numeric keypad, a plurality of playback mode keys, a plurality of transport control keys, a plurality of segment control keys, and a plurality of setup control keys. 


 27. In a video storage and processing system, the improvement comprising means for motion-adaptive smooth motion processing a group of video fields by creating a plurality of additional fields between two original fields in the group of video fields by a combination of motion adaptive inteφolation and frame repetition.
28. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform motion-adaptive recursive noise reduction.
29. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform motion adaptive noise reduction on film material from a telecine by undoing a 3:2 pulldown, carrying out the noise reduction, and redoing the 3:2 pulldown.
30. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform arithmetic averaging over any set of a plurality of frames.
31. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said means for smooth motion processing is configured to perform integration over any set of a plurality of frames.
32. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said means for smooth motion processing comprises a frame store having an input and an output connected to a multiplexer and to a -subtracter, an output of said subtracter being connected to a mixer and to a rectifier, said rectifier having an ouφut connected to a two-dimensional low pass filter, said two-dimensional low pass filter having an output connected to a means for performing a non-linear transfer function, said means for performing a non-linear transfer function having an ouφut connected to said mixer, said mixer and said multiplexer having ouφuts connected to an adder, said adder having an output connected to a rounder, said rounder having an output connected to a variable delay. 


 33. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said system is further configured to carry out motion-adaptive recursive noise reduction.
34. The video storage and processing system of Claim 33 in which said system is configured to carry out the motion-adaptive recursive noise reduction by providing first and second amplifiers in said subtracter with resettable coefficients, a third amplifier with a resettable coefficient between said subtracter and said rectifier, a fourth amplifier with a resettable coefficient between said means for performing a non-linear transfer function and said mixer, an ouφut of said adder being connected to the input of said frame store, said adder having an ouφut connected to a rounder, said rounder having an ouφut connected to a variable delay.
35. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said system is further configured to carry out arithmetic averaging over any set of a plurality of frames.
36. The video storage and processing system of Claim 35 in which said system is configured to carry out the arithmetic averaging by setting the resettable coefficient of the first amplifier to a reciprocal of the number of frames to be averaged, the resettable coefficients of said second amplifier to +1 and said fourth amplifier to +1 and the resettable coefficient of said third amplifier to zero.
37. The video storage and processing system of Claim 27 in which said system is further configured to carry out integration over any set of a plurality of frames.
38. The video storage and processing system of Claim 37 in which said system is configured to carry out the integration by setting the resettable coefficient of the first amplifier to +1, the resettable coefficients of said second amplifier to +1 and said fourth amplifier to +1 and the resettable coefficient of said third amplifier to zero.
39. A video real-time disk system which comprises a video storage and retrieval subsystem connected by a plurality of parallel data channels to a disk storage means, an audio input and audio ouφut. and an audio interface circuit for 


storing audio signals supplied on said audio input digitally on said disk storage means and for supplying audio signals retrieved from said disk storage means to said audio ouφut.
40. The video real-time disk system of Claim 39 in which said video disk system is configured for variable speed operation in both forward and reverse directions.
41. The video real-time disk system of Claim 39 in which said audio interface circuit and said disk storage means are configured to store the audio signals on a separate disk from video signals.
42. A video real-time disk system which comprises a video storage and retrieval subsystem connected by a plurality of parallel data channels to a disk storage means, said video storage and retrieval subsystem including first and second video channels, said video processor being selectively configurable to record and play back simultaneously a video image and a key, to provide real-time video disk operation simultaneously and independently for two users, and to provide extended recording time for a single user.
43. The video real-time disk system of Claim 42 in which said system is further configured for connection to a second video real-time disk system, with a video ouφut of said video real-time disk system being connected to a video input of said second video real-time disk system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
