<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610914</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for heating fluids
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24J300	F24H122	F24H122	F24H118	F24J300	F24H300	F24H300	F24H118	B01F700	B01F700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24J	F24H	F24H	F24H	F24J	F24H	F24H	F24H	B01F	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24J3	F24H1	F24H1	F24H1	F24J3	F24H3	F24H3	F24H1	B01F7	B01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for the heating of fluids by 
causing severe turbulence of the fluid within a 

cavity of a housing (16). The device utilizes a 
rotor (12) closely received within a cavity, the 

rotor mounted upon a rotatable shaft (14), with the 
surface of the rotor (12) provided with a plurality 

of uniformly-spaced recesses (20) oriented at a 
selected angle to the surface. The shaft (14) is 

journalled in bearing assemblies (46,48) and seal units (50,52) 
at end walls (44) of the housing (16), and the shaft (14) is 

rotated by any suitable motive means (17). The 
heated fluid then is stored in any suitable 

storage facility, or utilized for any desired 
purpose. The system is specifically described 

for the purpose of heating water. This heated 
water is for standard use in a facility and, if 

desired, to provide heat input to air within 
that facility. Several embodiments of the 

conversion unit are given together with system 
elements to provide desired control of the 

heating of the water and of the facility. The 
preferred conversion unit has readily 

replaceable bearing assemblies. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYDRO DYNAMICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYDRO DYNAMICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIGGS JAMES L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIGGS, JAMES L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a system for the heating of a 
fluid, said system comprising: 
a storage vessel for receiving heated fluid, said vessel having an 
inlet and an outlet; a mechanical conversion device for heating fluid, said conversion 
device having 
(a) a housing defining a cavity, said cavity formed by a 
cylindrical side wall and a pair of end plates, each of said 
end plates provided with centrally disposed openings, said end 
plates defining interior and exterior surfaces, (b) seal members mounted in said openings of said end plates, (c) a bearing assembly mounted on said exterior surface of said end 
plates and aligned with said openings, (d) a shaft passing through an axis of said cavity and journalled 
in said bearing assemblies and seal members, said shaft 
connected to motive means to rotate said shaft, (e) a rotor mounted on said shaft within said cavity so as to 
rotate with said shaft, said rotor dimensioned to be closely 
received within said side wall and said end plates, (f) an inlet port for the introduction of fluid to be heated into 
said space between said rotor and said inner surface of said 
cavity, and (g) an outlet port for the removal of heated fluid from said space 
between said rotor and said inner surface of said cavity; a first fluid connection connected to said inlet port of said 
conversion device for introduction of fluid to be heated into said 
conversion device; and a second fluid connection connected between said outlet port 
of said conversion device and said input of said storage vessel. Such a system is known from US-A-4 277 020. The heat is generated 
by internal friction and agitation. During operation, the rotor 
generates forces parallel to the longitudinal extension of the 
shaft. Therefore, bearings compensating axial forces are 
required. Various other designs exist for devices which 
use rotors or other rotating members to 
increase pressure and/or temperature of fluids. 
These include devices useful where it is 
desired to convert fluids from the liquid to 
gaseous phases. U.S. patent 3,791,349 issued 
to Scharfer on February 12, 1974, for instance, 
discloses an apparatus and method for the 
production of steam and pressure by the 
intentional creation of shock waves in a 
distended body of water. Various passageways 
and chambers are employed to create a tortuous 
path for the fluid and to maximize the water 
hammer effect for the heating/pressurization.  
 Other devices which employ rotating 
members to heat fluids are disclosed in U.S. 
p
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for the heating of a fluid, said system 
comprising: 


a storage vessel (72) for receiving heated fluid, said 
vessel having an inlet and an outlet; 
a mechanical conversion device (10) for heating fluid, 
said conversion device having 


(a) a housing (16) defining a cavity, said cavity 
formed by a cylindrical side wall (32A, 32B) and a 

pair of end plates (39A, 39B), each of said end 
plates provided with centrally disposed openings 

(40A, 40B), said end plates defining interior and 
exterior surfaces (44A, 44B), 
(b) seal members (52A, 52B) mounted in said openings of 
said end plates, 
(c) a bearing assembly (46A, 46B, 48A, 48B) mounted on 
said exterior surface of said end plates and 

aligned with said openings, 
(d) a shaft (14) passing through an axis of said cavity 
and journalled in said bearing assemblies and seal 

members, said shaft connected to motive means (17) 
to rotate said shaft,  

 
(e) a rotor (12) mounted on said shaft within said 
cavity so as to rotate with said shaft, said rotor 

dimensioned to be closely received within said side 
wall and said end plates, 
(f) an inlet port (63) for the introduction of fluid to 
be heated into said space between said rotor and 

said inner surface of said cavity, and 
(g) an outlet port (66) for the removal of heated fluid 
from said space between said rotor and said inner 

surface of said cavity; 
a first fluid connection (71) connected to said inlet 
port of said conversion device for introduction of 

fluid to be heated into said conversion device; 
and a second fluid connection (73) connected between 
said outlet port of said conversion device and said 

input of said storage vessel, 
characterised by
 said 
rotor having a surface toward said side wall provided 

with bores (24) at a selected angle to said surface, 
said bores producing turbulence of fluid within a space 

between said rotor and an inner surface of said cavity 
and said bearing assembly (46A, 46B, 48A, 48B) being 

releasably mounted. 
The system of claim 1 further comprising a heat 
exchanger (74) for transferring heat of fluid within 

said storage vessel to another fluid, said heat 
exchanger having an inlet connected to said outlet of 

said storage vessel and an outlet connected to said 
inlet of said storage vessel.  

 
The system according to claim 2 further comprising 
a first fluid transport line (76) between said outlet 

of said heat exchanger and said inlet port of said 
conversion device. 
The system according to one of claims 2 or 3 further 
comprising: 


a second fluid transport conduit (73) between said 
outlet port of said conversion device and said inlet of 

said heat exchanger; and 
a valve unit (84) to selectively connect said outlet of 
said storage vessel with said inlet of said heat 

exchanger and said outlet of said conversion device 
with said inlet of said heat exchanger. 
The system according to one of claims 2 to 4 further 
comprising: 


a regulating valve (88) in said fluid connection to 
said inlet port of said conversion device for 

regulating rate of flow into said conversion device; 
and 
a second regulating valve (80) in said fluid connection 
to said outlet port of said conversion device for 

regulating rate of flow out of said conversion device 
to control
 heating of said fluid by said conversion 
device, said second regulating valve providing for an 

exhaust pressure of a value less than inlet pressure. 
The system according to one of claims 2 to 5, wherein 
the fluid heated by said conversion device is water and 

wherein the heat of the water is transferred to air by 
the heat exchanger.  

 
The system according to one of claims 2 to 6 further 
comprising a thermostatically controlled valve (84) in 

said fluid connection to said inlet to said heat 
exchanger whereby flow of heated water into said heat 

exchanger is controlled depending upon a thermostat 
within said system whereby heating of air within said 

system is controlled. 
The system according to one of claims 2 to 7 further 
comprising a bypass valve (84) connected between said 

inlet and said outlet of said heat exchanger to 
selectively bypass flow of heated water around said 

heat exchanger when heating of air by said heat 
exchanger is not desired. 
The system according to one of claims 1 to 8 further 
comprising auxiliary heating means positioned within 

said storage vessel to provide additional heat to water 
within said storage vessel. 
The system according to one of claims 1 to 9 further 
comprising a control system connected to said motive 

means connected to said shaft, said control system 
energising and de-energising said motive means upon a 

signal from a sensor within said storage vessel, said 
signal related to temperature of water within said 

storage vessel. 
The system according to claim 10, wherein 
said control system energises and de-energises said 

motive means upon a second signal from a sensor within 
said system, said second signal related to 

temperature of air within said system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
