<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618725</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image recording and/or reproducing device and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N592	H04N592	H04N5926	H04N5926	H04N594	H04N594	H04N5945	H04N701	H04N701	H04N732	H04N732	H04N746	H04N746	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A video recording device, a video reproducing device and a video 
recording/reproducing device each have the simple configuration and the 

capabilities of satisfying the Broadcasting Standards even though the 
number of the scanning lines of the information recorded in their video 

recording region is insufficient upon comparison with the Broadcasting 
Standards. If the number of the scanning lines of the first video 

information which are recorded into the video recording region on the 
recording medium is insufficient upon comparison with the Broadcasting 

Standards, in recording, second supplemental video information which 
corresponds to lacking scanning lines is recorded into an additional 

information recording region. In reproducing, the first video 
information and the second video information are reproduced, the 

digital video signals having sufficient number of scanning lines are 
then reconstituted based on the first and second video information to 

satisfy the Broadcasting Standards. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGASAWA FUMIHIRO C O INTELL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGASAWA FUMIHIRO C O INTELL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a video recording device, a video 
reproducing device and a video recording/reproducing device and more 
particularly, is suitably applicable to a digital video tape recorder 
(VTR) which is developed mainly for home use other than for use in 
broadcasting station. A digital video tape recorder (VTR) is proposed for home use 
except for broadcasting station use. This type of digital video tape 
recorder has been required to increase the recording efficiency of 
image signals in order to miniaturize the size, thereby digital image 
signals are subjected to effect compressive-coding to record and 
reproduce. An orthogonal transformation coding method such as Discrete 
Cosine Transform (DCT) has been used as the compression algorithm. In the orthogonal transformation coding method such as DCT, it is 
required that inputted video signals are partitioned into blocks of 
e.g. 8 x 8 pixels for the sake of compression processing. Therefore, 
it is proposed that the recording region of the video signals is 
defined as the region which is composed of an integral multiple of a 
block of 8 pixels x 8 lines. For instance, on the number of scanning 
lines, with regard to the 525-line formation video signals, 480 lines 
are defined as the recording region, on the other hand, 576 lines in 
the 625-line formation video signals are defined as the recording 
region. Thus, the tape-format of a digital VTR for the purpose of home 
use is satisfied by merely recording the region displayed on a TV 
screen, so that all of the scanning lines required by the broadcasting 
standards will not be recorded occasionally. This type of the digital VTR for the purpose of home use has much 
less deterioration of picture quality compared with an analog VTR, 
since the video signals are digitally recorded. Accordingly, if such 
digital VTR becomes applicable for broadcasting station use, a VTR for 
broadcasting station use can be obtained at extremely lower cost and 
with simple construction compared with conventional digital VTR for 
broadcasting station use. However, the video signals which are required to record by the 
broadcasting standards, e.g., 485 scanning lines of the video signals 
in the case of the 525-line formation or 576 and a half lines in the 
case of the 625-line formation, are not recorded in the digital VTR for 
the purpose of home use, so that it cannot be applied to broadcasting  
 
station use under the present conditions. To solve this problem, it is considered that the number of the 
scann
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A video recording apparatus for recording a coded digital video 
signal on a recording medium, comprising: 

   coding means for coding first video information of a 
predetermined line; 

   means for signal processing second video information on a 
predetermined line other than for the coded line signal; 

   means for recording said first video information onto a video 
signal recording area of said recording medium; and 

   means for recording said second video information onto an 
additional information recording area of said recording medium. 
The video recording apparatus according to claim 1, wherein; 
   said means for signal processing said second video information 

comprises a sampling means in which an inputted pixel data is thinned 
and sampled as said second video information. 
The video recording apparatus according to claim 1, wherein; 
said means for signal processing said second video information 

comprises a sampling means, in which an inputted pixel data is thinned 
to sample a luminance information by every four pixels, and 

simultaneously, to sample a luminance signal by every four pixels 
shifting two pixels between the adjacent lines, as said second video 

information. 
A video reproducing apparatus for reproducing a coded digital 
video signal recorded on a recording medium, comprising: 

   means for reproducing first video information of a predetermined 
line, which is recorded in a video recording area on said recording 

medium; 
   means for reproducing second video information of other than said 

predetermined line, which is recorded in an additional information 
recording area on said recording medium; and 

   means for restoring said digital signal having a predetermined 
number of lines, based on said reproduced first and second video 

information. 
The video reproducing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein: 
   an input pixel data to be recorded is thinned and sampled in said 

second video signal; and 
   an interpolating means for interpolating an unrecorded pixel by 

thinning is comprised in order to restore the reproduced second video 
signal. 
The video reproducing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein; 
said interpolating means comprises means for weighting the luminance 

information of unrecorded pixel by said thinning, and simultaneously 
for add-calculating the luminance information of a recorded pixel which 

is adjacent to an unrecorded pixel. 
The video reproducing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein; 
   color information of said unrecorded pixel is interpolated color 

information of pixel which is adjacent to upward or downward of a color 
information obtained by reproducing said first video information. 
An video recording/reproducing apparatus for recording and 
reproducing coded digital video signal onto and from a recording 

medium, comprising an apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 3 
and an apparatus according to any one of claims 4 to 7. 
An video recording method for recording a coded digital video 
signal on a recording medium, wherein; 

   in the case where the number of the scanning lines of the first 
video information recorded into the video recording region on said 

recording medium is insufficient to the required number of scanning 
lines of the broadcasting standard, second video information which 

corresponds to the lacking scanning lines is recorded into the 
additional information recording region on said recording medium. 
The video recording method according to claim 9, wherein; 
   in the case where said digital video signal is 525-line 

formation, the second video information corresponding to lacking 
scanning lines in which proper pixel data is thinned to sample, and is 

recorded in said additional information recording area. 
The video recording method according to claim 10, wherein; 
   in said sampling, an inputted pixel data is thinned to sample a 

luminance information by every four pixels, and simultaneously, to 
sample a luminance information by every four pixels shifting two pixels 

between the adjacent lines. 
The video recording method according to claim 9, wherein; 
   in the case where said digital video signal is 625-line 

formation, all pixels corresponding to the lacking scanning lines are 
recorded in said additional information recording area, as the second 

video information. 
The video recording method according to any one of claims 9 to 
12, wherein; 

   said additional information recording area is formed in the space 
region in said video recording region of helical recording track on a 

tape-typed recording medium. 
The video recording method according to any one of claims 9 to 
13, wherein; 

   said additional information recording area is formed in a 
predetermined region excepting said video recording region of helical 

recording track on a tape-type recording medium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
