<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617195</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Well completion apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B3312	E21B33124	E21B331295	E21B4302	E21B4308	E21B4310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B33	E21B33	E21B33	E21B43	E21B43	E21B43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A well completion apparatus comprises a sand screen 
(86) having a plurality of sintered, substantially spherical 

plastic members (60) covering a perforated mandrel (46); a 
packer (28) having a packer mandrel (26) from which the screen 

(86) is suspended by a locking mandrel (76) and a landing 
nipple (24). The sand screen (86) and locking mandrel (76) are 

retrievable with the assistance of a running tool which is 
insertable into the bore of the locking mandrel (76). 

According to this arrangement, the sand screen (86) can be 
removed and replaced without retrieving the packer (28) or the 

production tubing. In one arrangement, the sand screen (86) is 
mounted on a circulation sub. In another arrangement, an 

auxiliary sand screen having a plurality of sintered, 
substantially spherical plastic members covering a perforated 

mandrel is inserted into the bore of a primary screen, for 
example, a conventional wire-wrap sand screen. The auxiliary 

sand screen is thus interposed in the flow path for screening 
out sand fines which may be conducted through the wire-wrap 

screen because of screen damage caused by corrosion or sand 
erosion. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALLIBURTON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HALLIBURTON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARTERBURY BRYANT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RESTARICK HENRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPANGLER JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARTERBURY BRYANT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RESTARICK HENRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPANGLER JAMES E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to well completion 
apparatus, and particularly but not exclusively to a method and 
apparatus for suspending a sand screen in a well bore. In the course of completing an oil and/or gas well, 
it is common practice to run a string of casing into the well 
bore and then to run the production tubing inside the casing. 
At the site of the producing formation, the casing is 
perforated across one or more production zones to allow 
production fluids to enter the casing bore. After the well is 
completed and placed in production, formation sand from 
unconsolidated formations may be swept into the flow path along 
with formation fluid, which erodes production components. This 
sand is relatively fine and erodes production components in the 
flow path. In some completions, however, the well bore is 
uncased, and an open face is established across the oil or gas 
bearing zone. Such open bore hole arrangements are utilized, 
for example, in water wells, test wells and horizontal well 
completions. Similarly, after the well is completed and placed 
in production, formation sand from unconsolidated formations 
may also be swept into the flow path along with formation 
fluid. With either cased or uncased well bores, one or more 
sand screens may be installed in the flow path between the 
production tubing and the perforated casing. A packer may be 
set above and below the sand screen to seal off the annulus in  
 
the producing zone from non- producing formations. The annulus 
around the screen may be packed with a relatively coarse sand 
or gravel which acts as a filter to reduce the amount of fine 
formation sand reaching the screen. Conventionally, sand screens employ a perforated 
mandrel which is surrounded by longitudinally extending spacer 
bars, rods or ribs and over which a continuous wire is wrapped 
in a carefully spaced helical configuration to provide a 
predetermined longitudinal gap between the wire turns. See for 
example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,785,409; U.S. Pat. No. 3,958,634; 
and U.S. Pat. No. 3,908,256. The aperture between turns 
permits formation fluids to flow through the screen, while the 
closely spaced wire turns exclude fine particulate materials 
such as sand or gravel which may penetrate the gravel pack. However, during the initial production period 
following the gravel packing operation, fine sand may be 
carried through the gravel pack before the gravel pack bridge 
stabilizes and yields clean production. Those fines tend to 
migrate through the gravel pack
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Well completion apparatus which comprises a first 
packer (28) including a body mandrel (26) having a longitudinal 

bore defining a production flow passage, anchor slips (30) 
movably mounted on said packer body mandrel (26) for radial 

expansion into set engagement against a well casing (14), and 
an annular seal element (32) mounted on said body mandrel (26) 

for radial expansion into set engagement against the well 
casing, thereby providing an annular fluid seal across the 

annulus between the body mandrel (26) and the well casing 
(14) in the radially expanded, set condition; a circulation 

sub (88) having a tubular mandrel (90) intersected by a 
longitudinal production bore (92) and having a sidewall portion 

radially intersected by a circulation port (94), and having a 
tubular sleeve (96) slidably received within the bore (92) of 

said circulation sub for opening and closing the circulation 
port (94), the mandrel (90) of said circulation sub being 

coupled to the mandrels of said first packer (28), thereby 
defining a longitudinal flow passage therebetween; and a sand 

screen (86) mounted on said circulation sub (88), said sand 
screen (86) having a tubular production mandrel (46) disposed 

in radially spaced relation with respect to said circulation 
sub (88) and having a bore defining a production flow passage 

(92), said production mandrel (46) being intersected radially 
by at least one flow aperture opening (94) communicating with 

said flow passage; and a plurality of sintered, substantially 
spherical plastic members (60) along said production mandrel 

(46) covering said flow aperture (94). 
Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said sand 
screen (86) includes a plug (74) attached to the lower end of 

said tubular mandrel (46) for sealing the longitudinal flow 
passage (92) of said sand screen (86). 
Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, further 
comprising a second packer (98) including a body mandrel having 

a longitudinal bore defining a production flow passage, anchor 
slips movably mounted on said packer body mandrel for radial 

expansion into set engagement against a well casing, and an 
annular seal element mounted on said body mandrel for radial 

expansion into set engagement against a well casing, thereby 
providing an annular fluid seal across the annulus between the 

body mandrel and a well casing in the radially expanded, set 
condition. 
Well completion apparatus which comprises a first 
packer (28) including a body mandrel (26) having a longitudinal 

bore defining a production flow passage; a landing nipple (24) 
coupled to the mandrel (46) of said first packer (28), said 

landing nipple (24) having a tubular mandrel (78) intersected 
by a longitudinal bore disposed in flow communication with the 

mandrel bore of said first packer (28); a locking mandrel (76) 
disposed in releasable, interlocking engagement with said 

landing nipple (24), said locking mandrel (76) being 
intersected by a longitudinal bore defining a flow passage 

disposed in flow communication with said packer mandrel bore; 
a primary sand screen (100;122) having a first tubular end 

portion coupled to the mandrel (46) of said landing nipple (24) 
and having a second tubular end portion coupled to the mandrel 

of a second packer (98), and having a fluid porous, 
particulate-restricting member (54) extending between said 

first and second tubular end portions, said fluid porous, 
particulate-restricting member (54) having a tubular bore 

defining a fluid flow passage; an auxiliary sand screen (110) 
received within the production bore of said primary sand screen 

(122), said auxiliary sand screen (110) having a tubular 
production mandrel disposed in radially spaced relation and 

having a bore defining a production flow passage, said 
production mandrel being intersected radially by at least flow 

aperture opening communicating with said flow passage; and a 
 

plurality of sintered, substantially spherical plastic members 
(60) along said production mandrel covering said flow aperture; 

and, sealing means coupled to said primary sand screen and to 
said auxiliary sand screen for sealing the annulus between said 

primary and secondary sand screens, and for sealing the 
longitudinal flow passage on the lower end of said auxiliary 

sand screen. 
Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said primary 
sand screen (100) comprises a tubular mandrel having a bore 

defining a production flow passage, said production mandrel 
being intersected radially by at least flow aperture opening 

communicating with said flow passage; and a plurality of 
sintered, substantially spherical plastic members (60) along 

said mandrel covering said flow aperture. 
Apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, wherein said 
primary sand screen (100) comprise a perforated mandrel (46) 

and a wire screen (66) mounted on said mandrel, said wire 
screen having a screen wire wrapped externally about said 

perforated mandrel, thereby defining longitudinally spaced 
outer screen apertures for conducting formation fluid through 

said primary screen. 
Apparatus according to claim 4, including a coupling 
collar disposed intermediate said primary sand screen and the 

mandrel of said second packer, said coupling collar having a 
polished bore, and further including annular seal means 

disposed between the polished bore and the auxiliary screen 
mandrel. 
Apparatus according to claim 4, said auxiliary sand 
screen (110) including a plug (74) attached to the lower end of 

said tubular, porous body for sealing the longitudinal flow 
passage of said auxiliary sand screen (110). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
