<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639144</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOOD CONTAINER WITH GUARANTEE SEAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D4302	B65D4302	B65D5506	B65D5502	B65D4306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D43	B65D43	B65D55	B65D55	B65D43	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A food container (1) with guarantee seal (9) includes a lid (5) and a tray (2), made of synthetic material, which are joined along peripheral edges (6, 7), and a removable seal (9) which is suitable to prevent the lifting of the lid (5), and which clearly indicates the integrity of the package. The seal (9) consists of a removable portion of the edge of the tray, which is joined to the rest of the tray by thin tabs (13). In the closed position, the edge of the tray (6) perfectly adheres to, and blends with, the edge of the lid (7) so that it has no protrusions or slits. The edge of the lid (7) has a portion (29) which simply rests on the seal (8) to allow its removal by radial outward pulling and can be folded elastically upward to allow to pull the seal (8) in the same direction.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECNOWERK SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TECNOWERK S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUSSIO GUIDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUSSIO, GUIDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a food container with 
guarantee seal which comprises a lid and a tray, joined along 
a peripheral edge, and at least one removable seal which is 
suitable to prevent the lifting of the lid, clearly 
indicating the integrity of the package at the time of 
purchase. Containers of the above described type are commonly used to 
package and preserve widely used solid, semisolid or pasty 
food products such as creams, butter, margarine, ice creams, 
confectionery products and the like. Some of the fundamental requirements for these containers are 
the preservation of aromas, the absence of transfer of tastes 
and odors, biodegradability, watertightness, resistance to 
shocks and to low temperatures, aesthetic appeal, size and 
stackability. These requirements are achieved by using food-grade 
thermoplastic synthetic materials which comply with the 
currently applicable hygienic and sanitary statutory 
provisions, such as polyethylene, clear or shock-resistant 
polystyrene, and degassed polypropylene (premilene). If the containers are used for several servings, for example 
with a capacity of one or more liters, the contents are meant 
to be used at different times and therefore it is necessary 
to provide a double closure system: one which seals the  
 
package until its first use and one which closes it during 
the period of use. An example of these systems is constituted by ultrasound-welded 
trays and lids; this system is very economical but 
scarcely reliable, because if the welding is weak it does not 
ensure tightness, while if it is too strong it leads to the 
breakage of the lid or of the tray during initial opening, 
with the consequence that the container is unusable. Another example is constituted by trays covered by a plastic 
film or by a sheet of aluminum with a removable lid; this 
system is more reliable than the preceding one but it is 
rather complicated and expensive. All these methods, however, do not meet the primary 
requirement of allowing the consumer to easily see the 
integrity of the package at the time of purchase. This 
extremely important requirement is generally termed 
"guarantee seal", "evident closure" or "Tamper Evident 
Packaging". Some producers meet this requirement by wrapping 
the entire package with a light cardboard sheath which is 
torn off when the package is opened for the first time. This 
system entails additional costs, more complicated packaging 
and a certain possibility of wear before sale. Other systems 
provide for the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Food container with guarantee seal, comprising a lid 
(5) and a tray (2) made of synthetic material, said lid and 

tray being adapted to be joined along their peripheral edges 
(6, 7), and at least one removable seal (8), said removable 

seal being adapted to prevent lifting of the lid, clearly 
indicating the integrity of the package, wherein said seal 

(8) comprises a removable portion (9) of the edge of the 
tray (6), said removable portion being joined to the rest of 

the tray by thin tabs (13) or by pre-fractured lines, 
characterized in that the edge (6) of the tray has a 

peripheral portion (16) extending upwardly and the edge (7) 
of the lid has a peripheral portion (21) extending 

downwardly, said peripheral portions having confronting rims 
with a continuous outer profile having no outwardly 

projecting and overlapping elements or slits at the region 
of said at least one removable seal, said rims being so 

shaped to perfectly adhere to and uniformly blend with each 
other to form a closed peripheral channel.  

 
Container according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
edge of the lid (7) has a portion (29) which simply rests on 

the removable portion of the tray (9) to allow said removable 
tray portion to be pulled radially outward, causing the 

breakage of at least part of said tabs (13). 
Container according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
lid portion (29) which simply rests on the removable portion 

of the tray (9) has such a shape that it can be folded 
elastically upward to allow traction, in the same direction, 

of said removable tray portion (9), causing the breakage of 
at least part of said tabs (13). 
Container according to claim 3, characterized in that the 
edge of the tray comprises a flat region (14) which is  

 
blended to the lateral walls (3) of the tray and is stiffened 

outward by a ridge (15) which has a substantially U-shaped 
transverse cross-section with an external peripheral groove 

(19). 
Container according to claim 4, characterized in that the 
edge (7) of the lid comprises a flat outer region (20) which 

can be superimposed on the flat region (14) of the edge of 
the tray. 
Container according to claim 5, characterized in that at 
the seal (8) the flat outer region (20) of the edge of the 

lid (5) is joined to the central region of the lid by means 
of a curved edge (32) which is suitable to allow the upward 

flexing, but not the downward flexing, of the flat outer 
region (20) of the edge of the lid. 
Container according to claim 7, characterized in that the 
edge (7) of the lid is peripherally provided with a flange 

(21) which is substantially perpendicular to the flat region 
(20) of said lid edge and can be inserted in the peripheral 

groove (19) of the ridge of the edge of the tray. 
Container according to claim 7, characterized in that the 
flat region (14) of the edge of the tray has a slight 

depression (30) at its removable portion (9). 
Container according to claim 8, characterized in that said 
flat region (20) of the edge of the lid which overlaps the 

removable portion of the tray (9) has a depression (31) which  
 

is similar to the depression (30) of the edge of the tray so 
as to be in contact therewith. 
Container according to claims 1 to 9, characterized in 
that it has a means for automatic coupling between the 

removable tray portion (9) and the facing lid region (20) 
which can be coupled in a snap-together manner upon the 

closure of the lid on the tray and cannot be disengaged even 
after breaking the seal and opening the container. 
Container according to claim 10, characterized in that 
said automatic coupling means comprises, on the flat region 

(14) of the edge of the tray, at its removable portion (9), a 
flared opening (33) with a lateral wall (34) which is 

substantially shaped like a truncated cone and is provided 
with radial notches (35) which are suitable to define, in 

said wall, V-shaped tabs (36) which yield elastically 
downward. 
Container according to claim 11, characterized in that 
said automatic coupling means comprises, on the flat region 

(20) of the edge of the lid which faces the removable tray 
portion (9), an elongated structure (37) which extends 

downward at right angles to the lid and is aligned with the 
flared opening (33) of the removable region of the tray (9). 
Container according to claim 12, characterized in that 
the elongated structure (37) is provided with a main body 

which is formed by radial longitudinal ribs (38) which can be 
inserted in respective radial notches (35) of the flared  

 
opening (33) of the removable portion of the tray (9), and 

with a head (41) which is substantially shaped like a 

truncated cone and can be inserted, in a snap-together 
manner, in the flared opening (33) of the edge of the tray 

but cannot be extracted therefrom due to the locking action 
exerted by the V-shaped tabs (36) of the wall of said flared 

opening. 
Container according to claims 1 to 9, characterized in 
that the edges of the tray and of the lid (6; 7) have, in the 

regions spaced from the seal (8), a complementarily shaped 
engagement means (27; 28) which is adapted to ensure mutual 

contact of the lid and of the tray along at least two flat 
regions (3, 14; 26, 20). 
Container according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said removable portion (9) of 

the edge of the tray is separated from the rest of the tray 
by a void of material which extends along a central portion 

(10) which is substantially parallel to the outer edge of the 
tray and along two lateral portions (11, 12) which are 

substantially at right angles to said edge. 
Container according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that the flat outer region (20; 31) 

of the edge of the lid is blended with the central region of 
the lid by means of a corrugation (25) which has a 

substantially U-shaped cross-section with an outer wall (26) 
which has the same inclination as the side wall (3) of the 

tray.  
 
Container according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that it has a polygonal shape, 

viewed from above, with a seal (9) arranged one or more 
corners. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
