<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655104</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR MONITORING THE OPERATION OF A CATALYTIC CONVERTER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01N320	F01N1100	F01N702	F01N700	F02B7502	F02B7502	F01N700	F01N320	F01N1100	F02D4102	F02D4102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01N	F01N	F01N	F01N	F02B	F02B	F01N	F01N	F01N	F02D	F02D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01N3	F01N11	F01N7	F01N7	F02B75	F02B75	F01N7	F01N3	F01N11	F02D41	F02D41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Process for analysing the state of at least a partial volume (K1, K2, K3, K4) of a catalytic converter (K) through which a gas mixture flows, in which during a change in the chemical and/or physical properties of the gas mixture a temperature measurement is made by means of a sensor (S1, S2, S3, S4) at least at a position or in a region within the partial volume (K1, K2, K3, K4). The position or the region and the arrangement of the sensor (S1, S2, S3, S4) are selected in such a way that the reaction of this measured temperature is at least approximately representative of the temperature reaction in the partial volume (K1, K2, K3, K4) of the catalytic converter (K). In addition the reaction of the measured temperature is determined and compared with set values for the alteration concerned in the properties of the gas mixture. The reaction may be particularly clearly observed by means of the time derivation or the time integral of the temperature.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method of analysing the condition of at least one partial volume 
(K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) of a catalytic converter (K) through which a gas 

mixture flows, in which a temperature measurement operation is effected 
during a change in the chemical and/or physical properties of the gas 

mixture at least at one location or region within the partial volume (K1, 
K2, K3, K4, ...) with a sensor (S1, S2, S3, S4, ...), wherein the location 

or region and the arrangement of the sensor (S1, S2, S3, S4, ...) are so 
selected that the reaction of said measured temperature (T) to the change 

in the properties of the gas mixture is at least approximately 
representative of the reaction of the temperature in the partial volume 

(K1, K2, K3, K4,...) of the catalytic converter (K), and wherein moreover 
the reaction of the measured temperature is determined and compared to 

reference values for the change in question in the properties of the gas 
mixture, characterised in that a change is caused two or more times at 

defined time intervals in order to produce a specific change pattern which 
is recognisable when observing the reaction of the measured temperature. 
A method of analysing the condition of at least one partial volume 
(K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) of a catalytic converter (K) through which a gas 

mixture flows and whose overall volume is theoretically broken down into at 
least two partial volumes, in which a temperature measurement operation is 

effected during a change in the chemical and/or physical properties of the 
gas mixture at least at two locations or two regions within the partial 

volumes (K1, K2, K3, K4,...) with at least one sensor (S1, S2, S3, S4,...), 
wherein the locations or regions and the arrangement of the sensor (S1, S2, 

S3, S4, ...) are so selected that the reaction of said measured temperature 
(T) to the change in the properties of the gas mixture is at least 

approximately representative of the reaction of the temperature in the 
partial volumes (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) of the catalytic converter (K), 

wherein moreover the reaction of the measured temperature is determined and 
compared to reference values for the change in question of the properties 

of the gas mixture which are ascertained on the basis of a thermodynamic  
 

model having regard to the physical boundary conditions and properties of 
the partial volumes (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...). 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the time 
derivative (d/dt T) of said measured temperature is observed as the 

reaction and wherein the location or region and the arrangement of the 
sensor (S1, S2, S3, S4, ...) are so selected that the time derivative (d/dt 

T) of said measured temperature (T) is at least approximately 
representative of the change in respect of time of the temperature in the 

partial volume (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) of the catalytic converter (K), and 
wherein moreover the time derivative of the measured temperature is 

determined and compared to reference values for the change in question of 

the properties of the gas mixture. 
A method according to claim 3 wherein the maximum of the time 
derivative of the temperature (d/dt T) is determined during the duration of 

the change. 
A method according to claim 4 characterised in that the maximum 
determined during the duration of a change is compared to reference values 

or maxima measured earlier with the same changes. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the time integral 
of the temperature over the duration of the change in question is observed 

as the reaction, possibly delayed by a reaction delay time occurring in the 
catalytic converter (K). 
A method according to one of claims 2 to 6 wherein a change is 
caused two or more times at defined time intervals, in order to produce a 

specific change pattern which differs from all other conceivable operating 
conditions of the internal combustion engine and which is recognisable upon 

observing the reaction of the measured temperature. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 7 wherein the change 
pattern is a periodic change, preferably at a frequency of 0.1 to 10 Hz, in 

particular 0.5 to 2 Hz.  
 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 7 wherein the change 
pattern is an aperiodic change, preferably comprising at least three 

changes. 
A method according to claims 1, 7, 8 or 9 wherein the changes are 
of different magnitudes. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein the 
change in the properties of the gas mixture is a preferably sudden and 

short-term increase in the content of chemical energy in the gas mixture. 
A method according to claim 11 wherein the increase in the 
chemical energy occurs in a phase of otherwise constant or accurately known 

operating conditions of the catalytic converter (K) due to the additional 
feed of catalytically convertable constituents, in particular hydrocarbons. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein the 
catalytic converter (K) is connected downstream of an internal combustion 

engine (1) with electronic management (2), for exhaust gas cleaning, and 
the change in the properties of the gas mixture occurs due to an operating 

change in the internal combustion engine (1). 
A method according to claim 12 or claim 13 wherein the short-term 
increase in the content of chemical energy in the gas mixture occurs in 

such a way that the amount of fuel and the ratio of fuel and air to the 
total gas mass flow in the catalytic converter (K) are adjusted during the 

duration of the change to an optimum conversion capability in the volume of 
the catalytic converter (K), in particular in such a way that the amount of 

fuel can be completely converted over the duration of the change and over 
the length of the catalytic converter (K). 
A method according to claim 13 wherein the operating change causes 
a sudden change in the temperature of the gas mixture.  

 
A method according to claim 13, claim 14 or claim 15 wherein the 
operating change causes a sudden change in the mass flow of the gas 

mixture. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein an 
electronic evaluation means (5) compares the ascertained time derivatives 

of temperature (d/dt T1, d/dt T2, d/dt T3, d/dt T4, ...) in the partial 
volume (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) to values ascertained earlier for identical 

changes in condition of the gas mixture, values ascertained at another 
catalytic converter and/or reference values ascertained theoretically on 

the basis of model calculations. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein the 
analysed partial volume (K1) is in the catalytic converter (K) in the 

region of the downstream end. 
A method according to one of claims 1 or 3 to 18 wherein the 
conditions of two or more partial volumes (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) are 

analysed by a corresponding number of temperature measurement operations. 
A method according to claim 19 wherein the overall volume of the 
catalytic converter (K) is considered as comprising a plurality of partial 

volumes (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) and wherein the condition of each partial 
volume (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) is ascertained by determining as 

simultaneously as possible approximately representative time derivatives of 
temperature (d/dt T1, d/dt T2, d/dt T3, d/dt T4, ...) upon changes in the 

properties of the gas mixture and the individual conditions ascertained are 
assembled to form an overall picture about the overall condition of the 

catalytic converter (K). 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein the 
different changes in the time derivatives of temperature (d/dt T1, d/dt T2, 

d/dt T3, d/dt T4, ...) are recorded and analysed in relation to different 
kinds of changes in the properties of the gas mixture in order to obtain  

 
information about the condition of the partial volume (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) 

in respect of different functions, for example conversion capability and 
cold-start performance. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein each 
temperature sensor (S1, S2, S3, S4, ...), as far as technically possible, 

measures the temperature at the heat source, that is to say at the 
catalytically active layer. 
A method according to claim 22 wherein each temperature sensor 
(S1, S2, S3, S4, ...) is in intimate thermal contact with the carrier 

structure of the catalytic converter (K), and is preferably integrated into 
the wall of the carrier structure. 
A method according to claim 22 wherein each temperature sensor 
(S1, S2, S3, S4, ...) is so arranged in the flow of the gas mixture that a 

good heat transfer from the carrier structure to the temperature sensor 
(S1, S2, S3, S4, ...) by way of the gas mixture is made possible. 
A method according to claim 13 wherein reference value ranges are 
ascertained on the basis of a model function which determines the 

functional interrelationships of the temperatures (T1, T2, T3, T4, ...) in 
different partial volumes (K1, K2, K3, K4, ...) of the catalytic converter 

(K) with each other and with the data from the electronic management (2) of 
the internal combustion engine (1) for the respective condition and/or the 

respective change in condition of the internal combustion engine (1). 
A method according to claim 25 wherein the magnitude of the 
reference value ranges takes account of tolerances which can occur for 

example due to inaccuracies of sensors, production tolerances in the 
catalytic converters (K) and/or deviations in mixture preparation of the 

internal combustion engine (1).  
 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein a 
predetermined, precisely established condition of the internal combustion 

engine (1) is deliberately disturbed and the reaction of the time 
derivatives (d/dt T1, d/dt T2, d/dt T3, d/dt T4, ...) to said disturbance 

is compared to predetermined reference value ranges. 
A method according to claim 25 wherein the disturbance occurs 
af
ter a prolonged phase at constant power in a phase of overun shut-down by 
briefly injecting fuel into one or more combustion chambers with the 

ignition switched off. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein a given 
transient event of the engine, for example a cold-start phase or an 

acceleration phase is observed with its effect on the time derivatives 
(d/dt T1, d/dt T2, d/dt T3, d/dt T4, ...). 
A method according to one of claims 25 to 29 with the following 
steps: 


a) for a first partial volume (K1) the time derivative of temperature 
(d/dt T1') to be expected there is determined on the basis of a model 

function, by calculating the exhaust gas temperature and the energy 
liberated in the catalytic converter from data available in the engine 

management, for example relating to the speed of rotation, mass throughput, 
amount of fuel introduced and the engine temperature; 
b) the temperature (T1) measured in the first partial volume (K1) 
and/or the time derivative (d/dt T1) thereof are compared to the calculated 

temperature (T1') and the time derivative (d/dt T1') thereof, wherein 
deviations outside a reference value range are recorded; 
c) the time derivative (d/dt T2', d/dt T3', d/dt T4', ...) to be 
expected in a subsequent partial volume (K2, K3, K4, ...) is calculated on 

the basis of a model function which takes account of the data available 
from the engine management and the time derivatives (d/dt T1) measured in 

the preceding partial volume (K1);  
 
d) the time derivative (d/dt T2, d/dt T3, d/dt T4, ...) measured in 
the subsequent partial volume (K2, K3, K4, ...) is compared to the 

calculated time derivative (d/dt T2', d/dt T3', d/dt T4', ...) wherein 
deviations outside a reference value range are recorded; and 
e) it is ascertained from the recorded deviations whether and to what 
extent the catalytic converter (K) overall is still performing its function 

and which partial volumes (K1, K2, K3, K4) are damaged possibly to what 
extent. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein the 
first partial volume (K1) is in a pre-catalyst and the second partial 

volume (K2) and the following partial volumes (K3, K4, ...) are in 
different cross-sectional regions or partial bodies of a main catalyst. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein the 
temperature measurement operations are performed by means of point 

temperature sensors or by means of temperature sensors (S1, S2, S3, S4, 
...) measuring representatively over a partial volume of the catalytic 

converter. 
A method according to one of the preceding claims wherein a 
lambda regulation of the catalytic converter (K), if provided, is switched 

off during the checking procedure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
