<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629764</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Security door with biometric identifying device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05G500	E05G502	G07C900	G07C900	G07F1900	G07F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05G	E05G	G07C	G07C	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05G5	E05G5	G07C9	G07C9	G07F19	G07F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Security door (1,8,18) for protected business premises (banks, 
jewelry stores, etc.) combined with means to ensure that 

it is passed through by only one person at a time and 
comprising a biometric scanner (5), such as a finger print 

scanner, located inside it, associated with a memory group 
(M) wherein information and personal data on each person 

entering the protected environment through the controlled 
entrance is recorded, with univocal correspondence. In 

this way the security door (1,8,18) exercises a dissuasive effect 
on ill-intentioned individuals, without increasing the 

difficulties of passing through for normal customers. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MESA S R L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MESA S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETTI PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORETTI, PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a security door 
combined with a biometric identifier, fit for installation 
in the entrances of business premises such as banks, 
jewelry stores and the like which deal with money or other 
valuables, and, therefore, need to be protected from the 
entrance of ill-intentioned individuals. Security doors are known which, placed at the 
entrances of business premises that are to be protected 
against the entry of people who intend to commit a robbery 
or some other crime, have a dissuasive effect on such 
individuals by blocking each person entering or exiting 
through them inside their cells for a set interval of 
time. This dissuasive effect can be integrated with a metal 
detector (M.D.) which prevents crossing through the cell 
and, therefore, entry into the protected premises, every 
time the person attempting to enter is in possession of a 
metallic mass that causes a disturbance in the magnetic 
field of the M.D. comparable to that which a firearm would 
produce. The action of the M.D. can, however, be overcome 
by the more determined ill-intentioned individuals who can 
resort to the use of single bullet pistols of the 
disposable type, made of nonmetallic material. 
Furthermore they can be overcome with the introduction of 
a metallic weapon by repeatedly entering the premises with 
single pieces of the weapon that are too small to excite 
the M.D., which is normally set to a low level of 
sensitivity in order to avoid an excessive number of false 
alarms. Once the weapon is reassembled inside the 
protected premises, it is possible to carry out the 
criminal action. Some manufacturers, in order to allow businesses to 
maintain the M.D. at a high level of sensitivity and at 
the same time keep the flow of customers through the door  
 
high, with only a modest number of false alarms, have 
provided the doors with a biometric scanner equipped with 
an electronic memory group in which the images and/or 
personal data of regular customers, each of whom is 
assigned a special identification code, are memorized. 
Upon entrance into the cell of such a security door, the 
customer types in his code, has the established part of 
the body, such as a hand, finger, eye or other part, 
scanned, and if what is read by the scanner corresponds to 
what is memorized for that customer, the M.D. is 
automatically inhibited, and the customer may pass through 
the door independently of what he is wearing or carrying 
with him. For other people, the filtering action is 
carried out by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Security door with biometric identifier, suited for 
installation in the entrances of business premises such as 

banks, jewelry stores and the like, which deal with money 
or other valuables and therefore must be protected against 

the entry of ill-intentioned individuals, characterized by 
the combination of a security door (1, 8, 18) provided 

with means and/or conformations (13) designed to ensure 
that only one person at a time is able to pass through it, 

and with a biometric scanner (5) with a memory group (M) 

wherein information and personal data on each person 
entering the protected business premises through the 

security entrance is recorded with univocal 
correspondence. 
Security door according to claim 1, characterized in 
that it comprises a structure provided with a weight 

sensing device under the carpet of its internal shell 
having the purpose of disabling the steps that allow 

transit through the cell when the weight of the person or 
people present in the cell exceeds a pre-established 

value. 
Security door according to claim 1, characterized by a 
turnstile (9) with rotating doors (10) having molded 

surfaces and/or space reducers (13) which turn to impede 
the simultaneous passage in front of the biometric scanner 

(5) of more than one person. 
Security door according to claim 1, characterized by a 
biometric scanner (5) combined with a memory group (M) 

suited to record information of at least a biometric 
nature on each person entering the protected premises. 
Security door according to claim 1, characterized by 
the fact that the cell is combined with a biometric 

scanner (5), a video camera (TC) and a memory group (M) on 
which the photographic images and biometric data of some 

 
part of the body of each person entering the protected 

premises are recorded. 
Security door according to claim 1, characterized by a 
window (12), formed in the curved wall (11) laterally 

delimitating the path of access to the premises, through 
which the biometric scanner (5) is reached. 
Security door with biometric scanner, characterized by 
the fact that its functioning is controlled by a 

succession of steps through which it is checked that only 
one person is present in the cell at a time and that, in 

the absence of a metal detector or a metal detector alarm, 
it moves to the position in which the person can interact 

with the biometric scanner (5), or to a position that 
allows the person to interact with the scanner (5) and 

then enter the protected premises and the person who did 
not interact with the scanner to return to the front of 

the entrance. 
Security door with biometric scanner, characterized by 
the fact that the turnstile (9) or the cylindrical drum 

(19) receiving the entering person, rotates about 90 
degrees and becomes blocked, the biometric scanner (5) 

moves to a position in which it can carry out the scanning 
and memorization, then if the person has submitted himself 

to the biometric scanning, it rotates toward the inner 
side of the entrance where it stops to allow the person to 

enter the protected premises, whereas in the absence of 
biometric scanning, after repeated invitations with prerecorded 

messages, it rotates backwards toward the street-side 
of the entrance to let out the person who is inside. 
Security door with biometric scanner according to 
claim 7, characterized by the presence of a metal detector 

(MD) the excitation of which disables the succession of 
steps by which the cell may move into a position to allow 

its crossing through and blocks the entry and/or invites 
 

the person who caused the excitation to go back out the 
front of the door. 
Security door according to one or more of the 
previous claims, characterized by the fact that said 

biometric scanner (5) is composed of a finger print 
scanner (103). 
Security door according to one or more of the claims 
from 1 to 9, wherein said biometric scanner (5) is 

composed of a finger print scanner (103) and one or more 
video cameras (102, 104, 105). 
Security system for entry control characterized by 
the fact that it comprises the following combination: 


a cell (100) for control of access to the protected 
environment; 
a finger print scanner (103) for the individuals who 
enter said cell; 
at least one video camera (102) positioned to film the 
person who enters said cell; 
a control unit (106) of the movement of already known 
mechanical organs that are parts of said cell; 
a computer system (107) arranged to control said cell 
and the equipment associated with it, and to control 

interfaces with which a human operator can interact. 
System according to claim 12, wherein said computer 
is associated with a data compression system (116) to 

reduce the mass of raw data that must be managed and/or 
memorized by said computer. 
System according to claim 12 and/or 13, wherein said 
computer system is associated with an interface for the 

transmission of data (118) to a remote surveillance and 
management center (119). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
