<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623254</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AC MACHINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K710	H02K710	H02K1902	H02K1906	H02K1910	H02K2100	H02K2112	H02K2112	H02K2138	H02K4103	H02K4103	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K7	H02K7	H02K19	H02K19	H02K19	H02K21	H02K21	H02K21	H02K21	H02K41	H02K41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An AC machine such an an AC motor is disclosed which has particular application for raising and lowering lift cars in a lift well. The motor has a stator (30) and a rotor (20). The stator (30) has stator pole pairs (35, 55) and a coil (80) is interposed between the pairs (35 and 55). Each stator pole has slots (40, 45, 60, 65) which extend circumferentially about the motor. The slots (40, 45, 60, 65) receive stator windings such as conductors (41, 42, 43, 44, 61, 62, 63, 64). The stator poles are formed from laminations and the rotor has rotor poles formed from laminations which are arranged at right angles to the migration axis or direction of movement of the motor. The rotor laminations extend the entire width of the stator so that they come under the influence of the full length of the stator poles (35, 55). The stator pole pairs have limbs (36, 37, 38, 56, 57, 58) which define the slots (40, 45, 60, 65) and the limbs are offset relative to one another.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BORAL JOHNS PERRY IND PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BORAL JOHNS PERRY INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ECKERSLEY GREGORY PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ECKERSLEY, GREGORY, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AC MACHINEThis invention relates to an AC machine, and particularly to an AC motor for raising and lowering lift cars in a lift well.The use of AC motors in lifting operations places stringent design criteria on the low speed performance of the motor to provide precisely controlled levelling, thus ensuring a smooth ride for passengers in a lift car. The speed regulation performance sought can usually only be produced with large numbers of stator poles, and typically hundreds in number.The incorporation of such large numbers of stator poles in a motor creates difficult mechanical design problems, especially given that space must be left to wind two or more stator windings around each stator pole. The high number of stator poles in turn results in large amounts of copper being needed for the windings, adding to the cost of the motor. A flow on design effect relates to cooling requirements in consequence of joule heating losses of the conductors, i.e. the motor becomes larger, heavier and even more expensive.There are further disadvantages in traditional slow speed AC machine designs, and particularly eddy current heating losses due to compromises made in the configuration of the magnetic circuit.The present invention is directed to an AC machine which has improved low speed performance, and due to its mechanical configuration provides savings in the amount of materials needed for its construction. 

 The invention may be said to reside, in part, in an AC machine comprising: a stator having a plurality of laterally extending stator pole pairs spaced along its length, each pole pair having a north pole and a south pole with like poles in each stator pole pair being adjacent throughout the length of the stator, and a field extending continuously the length of the stator; a rotor having a plurality of rotor poles extending laterally and spaced along the rotor, the rotor poles being in constant spaced relation with the stator pole pairs across an air gap, the rotor poles spanning at least the whole length of each stator pole pair; and wherein each pole of a stator pole pair comprises two or more limbs, with adjacent ones of the limbs forming a slot therebetween, and each slot carries one or more conductors, each conductor extending longitudinally over the length of the stator.Preferably there are no more than two conductors per slot, and each conductor relates to one electrical phase of the stator.Preferably for a three phase AC machine each stator pole is "E" shaped thereby providing three limbs and two
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. An AC machine comprising: a stator having a plurality of laterally extending stator pole pairs spaced along its length, each pole pair having a north pole and a south pole with like poles in each stator pole pair being adjacent throughout the length of the stator, and a field extending continuously the length of the stator; a rotor having a plurality of rotor poles extending laterally and spaced along the rotor, the rotor poles being in constant spaced relation with the stator pole pairs across an air gap, the rotor poles spanning at least the whole length of each stator pole pair; and wherein each pole of a stator pole pair comprises two or more limbs, with adjacent ones of the limbs forming a slot therebetween, and each slot carries one or more conductors, each conductor extending longitudinally over the length of the stator.
2. The machine of claim 1 wherein there are no more than two conductors per slot, and each conductor relates to one electrical phase of the stator.
3. The machine of claim 1 wherein for a three phase AC machine each stator pole is "E" shaped thereby providing three limbs and two slots.
4. The machine of claim 1 wherein for a single or two phase AC machine each stator pole is "C" shaped thereby providing two limbs and one slot.
5. The machine of claim 1 wherein the spacing of adjacent stator pairs and between adjacent rotor pairs is 


 the same .
6. The machine of claim 1 wherein the stator poles and rotor poles are formed of laminations stacked lengthwise across the stator and rotor respectively, which stacking arrangement is advantageous as the magnetic flux linking the laminations across the air gap is incident upon a minimised cross sectional area being the thickness of each lamination, thereby reducing eddy current losses in the machine.
7. The machine of claim 1 wherein the field is interposed between the north pole and south pole of each stator pole pair.
8. The machine of claim 1 wherein the field extends the width of the stator and is placed above the stator poles on the side of the stator poles opposite the air gap.
9. The machine of claim 1 wherein the stator and rotor are cylindrical, with their respective lengths forming their respective circumferences.
10. An AC machine comprising: a stator having a plurality of laterally extending stator pole pairs spaced along its length, each pole pair having a north pole and a south pole with like poles in each stator pole pair being adjacent throughout the length of the stator, and a field extending continuously the length of the stator; a rotor having a plurality of rotor poles extending laterally and spaced along the rotor, the rotor poles being in constant spaced relation with the stator pole pairs across an air gap, the rotor poles spanning at 


 least the whole length of each stator pole pair; and wherein each pole of a stator pole pair comprises two or more limbs with adjacent ones of the limbs ___ forming a slot to carry a stator winding, the limbs being offset relative to one another so as to, in use of the machine, induce a progressing magnetic flux from a leading limb to a trailing limb which can then couple into the leading limb of an adjacent stator pole thereby to provide for improved resolution of the rotor rotational motion.
11. An AC machine comprising: a stator having a plurality of laterally extending stator pole pairs spaced along its length, each pole pair having a north pole and a south pole with like poles in each stator pole pair being adjacent throughout the length of the stator, and a field extending continuously the length of the stator; a rotor having a plurality of rotor poles extending laterally and spaced along the rotor, the rotor poles being in constant spaced relation with the stator pole pairs across an air gap, the rotor poles spanning at least the whole length of each stator pole pair; and wherein the stator poles are planar and the rotor poles are offset in segments along their length so as to induce a progressing magnetic flux relative to the limbs of stator poles and to couple the magnetic flux into an adjacent rotor pole thereby to provide for improved resolution of the rotor rotational motion.
12. The machine of claim 10 wherein both the stator and the rotor are cylindrical with their respective lengths forming their respective circumferences.
13. The machine of claim 11 wherein both the stator 


and the rotor are cylindrical with their respective lengths forming their respective circumferences.
14. The invention of claim 10 wherein the field is interposed between the north pole and south pole of each stator pole pair.
15. The invention of claim 11 wherein the field is interposed between the north pole and south pole of each stator pole pair. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
