<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637765</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Substrate-embedded pluggable receptacles for connecting clustered optical cables to a module
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B638	G02B638	G02B642	G02B642	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Obtains a large increase in the number of fiber optic 
inputs/output (I/O) lines connectable to a module by enabling 

edge connection of multiple clusters of optical fibers to be 
connected around a module. Each connector connects a cluster (8) 

of optical fibers in a small dimension of space on the module. 
Many distinct pluggable connectors may be provided along one 

or more edges of a module. The optical-fiber cluster 
connectors are embedded in indentations (33) around the edges of a 

multilayer glass/ceramic (MLGC) multi-chip module (MCM), which 
may be a thermal conduction module (TCM), containing an 

integrated photonic receiver and/or transmitter for each 
fiber. Each connector supports a large number of fibers (15) from 

a single cable, and a large number of connectors may be 
provided in a single module. Easy plugging and unplugging is 

obtained for each connector without interfering with any 
existing cooling apparatus or I/O pins of the module. 

Receptacle (19) and plug assemblies (8) which hold the fibers in 
respective key V-grooves etched in silicon members which carry 

and interlock each fiber in each receptacle. Alignment and 
locking means is provided in each connector for aligning a 

plug's array of fibers with corresponding receptacle fibers in 
one or more angled groove(s) in a receiving receptacle. 

Thermal coefficients of expansion match between the silicon 
receptacle and the glass-ceramic substrate (4) to guarantee the 

preservation of opto-mechanical alignments. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECUSATIS CASIMER MAURICE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ECKER MARIO ENRIQUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBOWITZ LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DECUSATIS, CASIMER MAURICE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ECKER, MARIO ENRIQUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACOBOWITZ, LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This patent application is being filed concurrently with the
following related patent applications:
U.S. serial number 08/101 120 entitled "Pluggable Connectors
For Connecting A Module To Large Numbers of Electrical and/or
Optical Cables Through A Seal", U.S. serial number
08/101 121 entitled "Substrate-Embedded Pluggable Receptacles
For Connecting Clustered Electrical Cable To A Module, and
U.S. serial number 08/101 118 entitled "Matrix of Pluggable
Connectors for Connecting Large Numbers of Clustered
Electrical and/or Optical Cables to a Module ". Inventorship
and assignee of each of these related applications is the same
as the inventorship and assignee of the subject application.Previously filed pertinent applications and issued patents by
some of the joint inventors on the subject application
include: U.S. serial number 07/893,173 entitled "Apparatus and
a Method for an Optical Fiber Interface" by L. Jacobowitz and
M. E. Ecker, and, serial number 07/951,741 entitled "Apparatus
and a Method for an Electrical Transmission-Line Interface" by
M. E. Ecker and L. Jacobowitz, USA patent 5,155,786 entitled
"Apparatus and a Method for an Optical Fiber Interface" by
L. Jacobowitz and M.E. Ecker, and USA patent 5,173,668
entitled "Apparatus and a Method for an Electrical
Transmission-Line Interface" by M. E. Ecker and L. Jacobowitz.The disclosures of all of the above applications and patents
are incorporated by reference herein. This invention relates to apparatus and methods for embedding
one or more optical fiber connectors into a multilayer
single-chip module or multi-chip module (MCM), or into a
thermal conduction module (TCM), with integrated photonic
receivers and transmitters.Fiber-optic data links have recently emerged to meet
telecommunication and computer technology bandwidth
requirements. The trend towards more input/output (I/O)
escapes per card edge, more total I/O in electronic packaging,
and substrates which perform at high frequencies have created
a need for dense fiber connections into electronic modules.
Great difficulty has occurred in providing sufficient fiber
connector I/Os for multi-chip modules to meet these needs.
Thus, the invention deals with the need for more I/O
connectors per multi-chip module.In this specification, the term "module" includes several
levels of packaging, as follows: A "substrate" is the
inner-most part of a module; in the preferred embodiment the
substrate is primarily silicon or glass-ceramic. A "chip
carrier" is a substrate having semiconductor chips placed
ther
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical signal connector system for coupling an optical cable to
an electronic module (1), comprising


a cable with a multiplicity of optical fibers (15) supported in the
cable for communicating optical signals,
a module with electrical connections (37, 38) in the module (1)
connecting to one or more electronic chips (6) on the

module (1), a photonic receiver (36), transmitter or
transceiver being fixed to the module (1),
a photonic receptacle (19) supported in an edge of the
module (1) receiving a plug means (8) supporting an

end of the optical cable,
the plug means (8) further comprising
a plug guide (40, 41) for clamping ends of optical fibers
(15) in the cable, and
the receptacle (19) further comprising
lens means (17) to communicate light between the ends of
the optical fibres (15) in the cable and the receptacle

(19),

characterized in that: 

the receptacle (19) comprises a recess which is formed with surfaces inclined with regard to each other by an
edge inclination angle so as to form an edge enclosing a plug interface angle,
the plug means (8) is provided with surfaces inclined
with respect to each other

at an end of the plug guide (40, 41) said surfaces being arranged for engaging
the edge formed in the receptacle (19),
the receptacle (19) comprises a plurality of receptacle
optical fibers (21), a module end (26) of each receptacle

optical fiber (21) being supported in optical alignment
with one of that photonic receiver (36), transmitter or

transceiver fixed to the module (1), a plug end of each
receptacle optical fiber (21) being supported at a vertex

formed by the inclined surfaces in the receptacle (19),
the plug guide (40, 41) is arranged to clamp the ends of the optical
fibers (15) in the cable in a fixed inter-relationship

identical to the fixed inter-relationship between the plug ends
of the receptacle optical fibers (21),
said lens means (17) are arranged in the vertex of said
edge so as to communicate light between the

ends of the optical fibers (15) in the cable and mating
plug ends of receptacle optical fibers (21).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 1,
wherein:
 
the lens means (17) comprises a light transmitting rod (17) fastened in the vertex of

said inclined edges in the receptacle (19) for
communicating light signals between mating optical fibers

(15, 21) in the plug (8) and receptacle (19).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 1,
further comprising:

a GRIN lens (20) fastened to the plug end of each
receptacle optical fiber (21) for communicating light

signals with a mating optical fiber (15) in the plug (8).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 1,

wherein:

the cable consists of an array of one or more layers of
optical fibers (15) in a ribbon jacket (43), each optical

fiber (15) being capable of communicating an independent
sequence of optical signals, the plug guide (40, 41)

clamping each layer of optical fibers in the cable, and a
conjugate angle formed at the end of each layer, and
the receptacle (19) is formed with a plug interface angle
for each layer of optical fibers (15) supported by the

plug (8).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 4,
wherein:


the cable has a single layer of optical fibers (15), 
the plug guide (40, 41) supporting the ends of the

optical fibers (15) in the cable in a plane, and the
receptacle (19) supporting
the plug ends of the receptacle optical fibers (21) in a
corresponding plane.
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 4,
wherein


the cable has multiple layers of optical fibers (15),
the plug guide (40, 41) supporting the ends of the
optical fibers (15) in each layer in the cable in a

plane, and
the receptacle (19) supporting plug ends of the
receptacle optical fibers (21) in multiple layers

matching the ends of the layers in the plug (8), and
the module ends (26) of the fibers (21) in the multiple
layers in the receptacle (19) being formed to fan out into a

plane in which the module ends (26) and being in light signal
alignment with the photonic receivers (36), transmitters

or transceivers.
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 3,
further comprising:

   a plug alignment mechanism (9, 11, 12, 13, 16) built into
the receptacle (19) for aligning the plug means (8) when

the plug is engaged with the receptacle (19), the plug 
alignment mechanism (9, 11, 12, 13, 16) moving the one or

more layers in the plug (8) laterally along the vertex of
each plug interface angle formed in the receptacle (19)

to maximize light transmission between mating fibers (15,
21) in the receptacle (19) and plug (8).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 7,
wherein

the module (1) comprises ceramic, silicon, and/or glass with embedded wiring (37,
38) comprising, and

one surface of the module (1) has one or more
electronic chips (6) electrically connected to some of

the embedded wiring (37, 38) in the module (1) for
distributing electronic signals communicating with light

signals received/transmitted by the photonic receivers
(36), transmitters or transceivers supported by the

module (1).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 8,
further comprising:

thermal cooling means (3) engaging either or both
surface(s) of the module (1).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim 9,
wherein
 
each major surface of the module (1) is mountable with

chips (6), thermal cooling means (3), and photonic
receivers (36), transmitters or transceivers without

interfering with connectability and disconnectability of
the plug (8) and receptacle (19).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim
10, wherein

each edge of the module (1) allows one or more
receptacles (19) to be supported therein without plug

connection and disconnection to each receptacle (19)
interfering with use of any major surface of the module

(1) for mounting electronic chips (6), thermal cooling
means (3), photonic receivers (36), transmitters and

transceivers for enabling large numbers of optical
fibers (15) to be connected to a single module (1).
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim
11, further comprising:

receptacle support means (22, 24) holding the receptacle
optical fibers, the receptacle support means (22, 24)

being made of ceramic, silicon, and/or glass with
embedded wiring (21) enabling the receptacle support

means (22, 24) to be fastened to an indentation (33) in
an edge of the module (1) by a fastening process (34)

used for binding electronic chips (6), photonic receivers
(36), transmitters or transceivers to the module. 
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim
12, in which the fastening process further comprises:

a Controlled Collapsed Chip Connection (C4) process.
An optical signal connector system as defined in claim
12, wherein

one or more optical fibers (21) in the receptacle (19)
do not have a mating optical fiber (15)in the plug (8) to

enable a receptacle (19) to be used with a plug (8)
having less optical fibers (15) than in the receptacle

(19) to obtain scalability in the size of a cable (15)
which can be used with any plug (8).
An optical signal connector system as defined in any one of
claims 1-14 comprising:


a plurality of said receptacles (19) supported in one or
more edges of one said module (1),
a plurality of said plug means (8) each formed over an
end of a respective optical cable,
wherein each receptacle (19) of the plurality is formed
with said inclined edges and each plug (8) is formed with

conjugate inclined edges for at least one said receptacle
(19).
An optical connector system for engaging a plurality of
optical cables to an electronic module (1) as defined in

claim 15, comprising:

a lens (17) supported against the ends of the receptacle
fibers (21) in each connector in the vertex of the

interface angle for mating with corresponding fibers (15)
in a cable supported by a matching plug (8).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
