<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638044</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARRANGEMENT FOR A CARTON
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D500	B65D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arrangement in a box is disclosed, the box being, in the initial position, in the form of a sheet-like blank having a bottom (2), first and second sidewalls (4, 6) which are connected to the bottom (2) via fold lines (8, 10) and are substantially vertical when erected, and a plurality of substantially parallel panels which are connected to one of the sidewalls (4, 6). The arrangement is characterised in that a flap (32) is formed at a second panel (20) which, via a second fold line (18), is connected to a first, inner panel (16) which is connected to one of the sidewalls (4, 6) via an inner fold line (14), and that a slot (34) is formed in one sidewall (6) connected to the inner panel (16), the slot engaging the flap (32) when the box is erected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BJOERKEBO GARD AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BJOERKEBO GARD AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NILSSON BO-ARNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NILSSON, BO-ARNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to an 
arrangement for a box, and more specifically concerns a 
corner structure in an open-top, stackable box, especially 
intended for vegetables. In recent years, the trend in agriculture has been 
towards increased automatisation when sowing or planting 
as well as harvesting vegetables. When harvesting vegetables, 
modern farms thus use reapers with packing stations, 
where the vegetables are directly packed in bags or 
boxes of various sorts. Mostly, the vegetables are then 
taken directly to a cold storage, to be distributed later 
on to wholesale or retail dealers. In harvesting, many vegetables, such as iceberg lettuce, 
are handled manually, i.e. the vegetable is manually 
handled and placed in a box. Usually, the boxes are open 
at the top and of such dimensions that four corner-to-corner 
boxes cover the surface of a loading pallet. The boxes 
are in addition stackable, so that a loading pallet holds 
about 40 boxes filled with vegetables, such as iceberg 
lettuce. When harvesting e.g. iceberg lettuce, one therefore 
has to use many loading pallets and a great number of 
boxes. Conveniently, the boxes are in the form of blanks 
which are successively erected and filled with vegetables. 
Since a high and even harvesting rate is desirable, the 
vegetable boxes have to be erected fairly quickly, and the 
number of operations required for doing this should therefore 
be limited. At the same time, however, the vegetable 
box, usually made of environment-friendly paperboard, has 
to be stable and stackable to a considerable height. Alternatively, 
a plurality of machine-erected boxes can be 
brought along and successively filled and placed on the 
loading pallet supporting the boxes.  
 GB-A-2,185,964 teaches such a box, in which triangular 
vertical corner areas are obtained when erecting 
the box, a stabilising triangular plastic part being 
applied on the upper ends of the corner areas. Apart 
from the fact that a great many plastic parts have to be 
brought to the harvesting site (about 160 plastic parts 
are required for a loading pallet with iceberg lettuce), 
several drawbacks are associated with this box structure. 
Moreover, the use of plastic materials should be restricted 
for environmental reasons. The GB box structure with mounted plastic parts or 
knobs is very stable when loaded in the vertical direction. 
However, if the box is exposed to transverse forces, 
as is usually the case when the filled vegetable box is 
lifted to be placed on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A blank to form a corner structure for a box 
which, in an initial position, is in the form of a 

sheet-like blank having a bottom (2), first and second 
side walls (4, 6), which are connected to adjacent edges 

of the bottom (2) via fold lines (8, 10) and are substantially 
vertical when erected, and a includes plurality of 

substantially contiguous panels which via substantially 
parallel fold lines are connected to a side edge one of the side 

walls (4, 6) and which form a corner structure interconnecting 
said first and second side walls (4, 6), wherein 

a panel flap (32) is connected to a second panel (20) 
which, via a second fold line (18), is connected to a 

first, inner panel (16) which is connected to one of the 
side walls (4, 6) via an inner fold line (14), and 

wherein a side wall slot (34) is formed in said side wall 
(6) connected to the inner panel (16), said side wall 

slot engaging the panel flap (32) when the box is 
erected, wherein a side wall flap (26) is 

connected to the second side wall (4) via a fold line 
(28), the side wall flap (26) projects from the upper 

edge of said second side wall (4), and an inner 
panel slot (30) is so provided in the inner panel (16) 

that the side wall flap (26), after being bent along 
said fold line (28), is connectable to said inner panel 

slot (30), and wherein said side wall slot (34) is provided 
at a distance from said inner fold line (14) corresponding 

to the width of the 
folded corner structure along said side wall (6) connected to the inner panel. 
A blank as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised
 
in that the inner and the second fold 

line, respectively (14, 18) in the initial position of 
the box forms an angle with the fold line (8) between 

the second side wall (4) and the bottom (2).  
 
A blank as claimed in claim 1, 
characterised
 
in that an outer panel (24) is connected 

to the second panel (20) via fold lines (22A, 
22B), that said flap (32) is formed by the provision of 

a substantially U-shaped slot (33) which extends in the 
second panel (20) and begins at one fold line (22A) and 

ends at the other fold line (22B), and that said panel 
flap (32) thus is fixedly connected to the outer panel 

(24). 
A blank as claimed in any one of claims 1-3, 

characterised
 in that said side wall flap 
(26) has a slit (40) whose edge engages the edge of said 

inner panel slot (30) when the box is erected. 
A blank as claimed in any one of claims 1-4, 

characterised
 in that the second panel (20) 
has, at the edge facing away from said second side wall 

(4) in the flat state, a tab or extension (36), and that 
the bottom (2) has a slot (38) adapted to co-operate 

with a corresponding tab or extension of an erected box 
below. 
A blank as claimed in any one of claims 1-4, 

characterised
 in that the second panel (20) 
has, at the edge facing said second side wall (4) in the 

flat state, a tab or extension (42), and that the bottom 
(2) has a slot (38) adapted to co-operate with said tab 

or extension (42). 
A blank as claimed in claim 6, 
characterised
 
in that one side wall (6) has a tab or extension 

(36) projecting from the upper edge, and that 
the bottom (2) and the edge of the side wall (6) facing 

the bottom (2) have an opening or recess (37) adapted to 
co-operate with a tab or extension of the side wall of 

an erected box below, said tab or extension (36) being 
brought into engagement behind flaps (44) of the recess 

(37).  
 
A blank as claimed in any one of claims 1-7, 

characterised
 in that said fold line (8, 10) 
between each side wall (4, 6) and the bottom (2) has a 

slit (46) in the immediate vicinity of each corner, so 
that the corner structure formed when the box is erected 

is supported by the bottom (2) also along the side walls 
(4, 6). 
Use of a blank according to claim 1 to form a 
corner structure for a box, 
characterised
 by 
the steps of initially folding the outer panel of each 

corner about 180° along its fold line in towards one 
side wall (6); folding the next panel, with the outer 

panel folded thereon, about 180° along its fold line in 
towards one side wall (6); pushing the flap formed at 

the panel through the side wall slot (34) in said one 
side wall (6); erecting said one side wall (6); erecting 

the other side wall (4); folding inwards the side wall 
flap (26) provided at the upper edge of the other side 

wall (4); and inserting the side wall flap (26) through 
the inner panel slot (30) while at the same time pushing 

it downwards. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
