<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641384</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VIRUS RESISTANT PLANTS CONTAINING INDUCIBLE CYTOTOXIC mRNAs.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01H500	A01H500	C12N900	C12N900	C12N1500	C12N1500	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1511	C12N1511	C12N1582	C12N1582	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01H	A01H	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01H5	A01H5	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention features a responsive RNA molecule which encodes, in one or more protein-coding regions, a polypeptide, and which includes a regulatory domain, a substrate region, and a ribosome recognition sequence. This responsive RNA molecule has an inhibitor region in the regulatory domain, which regulatory domain is complementary to both a substrate region of the responsive RNA molecule and to an anti-inhibitor region of a signal nucleic acid such that, in the absence of the signal nucleic acid, the inhibitor and substrate regions form a base-paired domain the formation of which reduces the level of translation of one of the protein-coding regions in the responsive RNA molecule compared to the level of translation of that one protein-coding region observed in the presence of the signal nucleic acid. The anti-inhibitor region of the signal nucleic acid is complementary in sequence to the inhibitor region of the responsive RNA molecule such that when the anti-inhibitor region is base-paired with the inhibitor region, translation of one protein-coding region of the responsive RNA is increased compared to the level of translation of that protein-coding region observed in the absence of the signal nucleic acid. The signal nucleic acid comprises part of the nucleic acid of a plant cell infecting organism.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIBOZYME PHARM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RIBOZYME PHARM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDINGTON BRENT V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EDINGTON BRENT V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONVIRUS RESISTANT PLANTS CONTAINING INDUCIBLE CYTOTOXIC mRNAsBackground of the InventionThe invention relates to methods and compositions suitable for producing virus resistant plants.One of the most important defense mechanisms in plants is the hypersensitive reaction. This occurs during an incompatible host pathogen (fungi, bacteria, virus, or nematode) interaction in which cellular changes take place that lead to cell death. Pathogenic organisms confined to such necrotic tissue quickly die or are restricted in their ability to replicate and spread an infection. Hypersensitive responses leading to necrotic lesions include a loss of permeability of cellular membranes, increased respiration, the accumulation and oxidation of phenolic compounds, and production of phytoalexins. Increased levels of specific phenolic compounds and induced phytoalexins are toxic to fungi and many bacterial and nematode pathogens. In virus diseases, the hypersensitive response results in so-called local lesions in which virus may survive in. low concentrations for a considerable time, although the virus is confined to the lesion.Summary of the InventionThis invention features a ribozyme which acts to specifically kill plant cells infected with a specific virus. This in turn allows production of an artificial hypersensitive response in plants. This type of response can be readily constructed and applied to the inhibition of many viral infections. For example, an artificial hypersensitive response as a result of viral infection in a tobacco plant by tobacco mosaic virus (THV) can be specifically targeted. The ribozyme is constructed in such a way that a signal sequence in the viral genome 

stimulates the intracellular production of a toxin, e.g.. an EJJ_ coli polypeptide toxic to plant cells. This creates a hypersensitive response in the plants by killing cells infected with a virus. The secondary structure of the 3' end of the TMV positive strand RNA genome has been very well characterized, and thus the determination of non-base paired regions as possible signal sequences is readily performed.Specifically, the invention features an RNA molecule, termed a responsive RNA molecule which, when present in a plant cell, responds to the presence of other nucleic acids. By "responds" is meant that the responsive RNA molecule will be translated to form one or more polypeptides in the presence of certain nucleic acids (which can hybridize to the responsive RNA) and will not be significantly translated to form these
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A responsive RNA molecule having a ribosome recognition sequence, a regulatory domain, a substrate region, and encoding, in one or more protein-coding regions, a polypeptide; said regulatory domain comprising an inhibitor region and complementary to said substrate region; said inhibitor and substrate regions being capable of forming a base-paired domain in the absence of a signal nucleic acid; said base-paired domain reducing the level of translation compared to that level observed in the absence of said base-paired domain; said signal nucleic acid having an anti-inhibitory region complementary to said inhibitor region which, when base-paired with said inhibitor region, increases the level of translation of said responsive RNA compared to the level of translation of said responsive RNA observed in the absence of said signal nucleic acid; wherein said signal nucleic acid comprises part of the nucleic acid of a plant cell infecting organism.
2. The responsive RNA of claim 1 wherein said protein-coding region is an exon.
3. The responsive RNA of claim 1 wherein said substrate region comprises part of one said protein-coding region.
4. The responsive RNA of claim 2 wherein said substrate region comprises part of an intron.
5. The responsive RNA of claim 2 wherein said substrate region comprises part of an intron adjacent to the 5'-end of one said exon.
6. The responsive RNA of claim 1 wherein said substrate region includes part of said ribosome recognition sequence. 


 7. The responsive RNA of claim 6 wherein said ribosome recognition sequence is a ribosome binding site.
8. The responsive RNA of claim 1 wherein said responsive RNA is purified.
9. The responsive RNA of claim 1 wherein said polypeptide modifies cell viability, cell proliferation, transcription of DNA, translation of RNA, or replication of DNA.
10. The responsive RNA of claim 9 wherein said polypeptide has cytotoxic activity or ribonuclease activity.
11. The responsive RNA of claim 10 wherein said polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of the active subunit of diphtheria toxin, the active subunit of cholera toxin, ricin, and the hok, gef, RelF or flm gene products of Ej_ coli.
12. The responsive RNA of claim 14 wherein said intron prevents the complete translation of said one or more exons.
13. The responsive RNA of claim 4 wherein said intron reduces the level of translation of said one or more exons compared to the level of translation of said exon in the absence of said intron.
14. The responsive RNA of claim 4 wherein said intron is located between said ribosome recognition sequence and a protein-coding region.
15. The responsive RNA of claim 4 wherein said first intron is located between two said exons. 


 16. The responsive RNA of claim 4 wherein said intron is bordered at its 5'-end by a 5'-splice junction and at its 3'-end by a 3'-splice junction.
17. The responsive RNA of claim 15 wherein said substrate region comprises a 5'-splice junction bordering said intron.
18. The responsive RNA of claim 16 wherein said intron catalyzes two RNA cleavage reactions, one within said 5'-splice junction and one within said 3'-splice junction.
19. The responsive RNA of claim 18 wherein said substrate region comprises the 5'-splice junction of said intron.
20. The responsive RNA of claim 19 wherein said inhibitor region reduces the level of occurrence of said cleavage reaction within said 5'-splice junction.
21. The responsive RNA of claim 1 wherein said signal nucleic acid is single-stranded.
22. The responsive RNA of claim 10 wherein said signal nucleic acid is a viral RNA.
23. A DNA molecule encoding the responsive RNA of claim 1.
24. The responsive RNA of claim 19 wherein said responsive RNA comprises a 5'-splice junction RNA of Tetrahymena thermophila having at least one base modified compared to a native 5'-splice junction.
.25. A method for specifically interfering with the growth of a plant cell harboring a signal nucleic acid by 


introducing into the cell the responsive RNA wherein said responsive RNA comprises a ribosome recognition sequence, a regulatory domain, a substrate region, and encoding, in one or more exons, a polypeptide; said regulatory domain comprising an inhibitor region complementary to said substrate region; said inhibitor and substrate regions being capable of forming a base-paired domain in the absence of a signal nucleic acid; said base-paired domain reducing the level of translation of said responsive RNA molecule compared to the level of translation in the absence of said base-paired domain; said signal nucleic acid having an anti-inhibitor region complementary to said inhibitor region which, when base-paired with said inhibitor region, increases the level of translation of said responsive RNA compared to the level of translation of said responsive RNA observed in the absence of said signal nucleic acid wherein said signal nucleic acid comprises part of the nucleic acid of a plant cell infecting organism.
26. The responsive RNA of claim 1 expressed in a transgenic plant.
27. A plant comprising the responding RNA of claim 1. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
