<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643305</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Undercoating of solid phase surfaces and direct coating method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33543	G01N33543	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An intermediate for use in forming a reagent for analysis of biological solutions is 
provided comprising a solid phase and an undercoating of inert material covalently or 

absorptively coated onto the solid phase. Additionally, a reagent is provided in which 
a binding partner of a reactant to be captured in a test assay is coupled to the 

undercoating. The solid phase may comprise superparamagnetic particles typically having 
highly irregular surface structures including small pores which consume binding partner 

in traditional loading procedures. In the inventive reagent, undercoating fills such small 
pores and covers the solid phase surface, reducing non-specific binding and allowing 

tailored loading of binding partner onto the solid phase. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIBA CORNING DIAGNOSTICS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CIBA CORNING DIAGNOSTICS CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN SHIN-YIH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, SHIN-YIH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to reagent materials for use in test assays, 
and more specifically to an inert undercoating provided on insoluble support surfaces used 
in analytical assays, onto which at least one binding partner of at least one analyte may 
be coupled to form a reagent. In the field of biology, qualitative and/or quantitative analyses often exploit the 
principle that a particular species may adhere specifically to another, such adherence 
taking the form of enzyme/substrate interaction, antibody/antigen or hapten specific 
binding, binding or annealing of complimentary base sequences, or the like. In the field 
of immunology such analyses commonly take the form of immunoassays in which a 
binding partner of a reactant (analyte) in a fluid sample is attached to a solid phase 
insoluble in the fluid sample, the analyte being allowed to form a complex with the 
binding partner to determine its presence and/or concentration. Solid phase materials and/or surfaces to which binding partners are typically 
attached in such assays include glass or polymer beads, slides, titre plates, test tube 
walls, optical waveguides, metal particles, and the like. A variety of methods for 
attaching the binding partner to the surface are known. According to one of the most 
common methods, binding partners are covalently attached to silane-coated surfaces via 
glutaraldehyde linkage. Presently-available techniques for attachment, or loading, of binding partners onto 
solid phase surfaces include certain drawbacks. Protein binding partners directly linked 
to surfaces, for example via glutaraldehyde, are often linked through excessive numbers  
 
of covalent bonds involving amino acids, the result of which may be partial or total 
denaturing of the protein, and resultant decrease in its effectiveness as a binding partner 
in a test assay. Additionally, it is often advantageous to only partially coat a surface with 
a binding partner in an attempt to tailor the reactivity of the surface, leaving a significant 
amount of uncovered surface area. The uncovered surface area is often of a chemical 
nature that facilitates non-specific binding of the analyte to the surface, necessarily 
imparting inaccuracy to an assay. Inexpensive, immunologically inert "blocking agents" 
may be added to such surfaces so as to coat uncovered surface area, and thus to reduce 
or eliminate non-specific binding. However, such blocking agents may become detached 
from the surface over time, adding not only inaccuracy but
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reactant capture intermediate characterised in that it comprises: 
   a solid phase having an exterior surface including a surface coating 

layer, the said exterior surface having covalently coupled thereon an inert material to 
form an undercoating layer on the said exterior surface, or the said exterior surface 

being coupled to a substantially non-cross-linked, inert material to form an 
undercoating layer on the said surface, the said undercoating layer being selected to be 

amenable to mount a binding partner for capturing the said reactant, and the said 
exterior surface optionally having small pores, which may be filled with the said inert 

material. 
An intermediate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the said inert material 
comprises a proteinaceous material, preferably selected from bovine serum albumin, 

bovine gamma globulin, apoferritin, ovalbumin, avidin, streptavidin, peptides, 
polyamino acids and synthetic polyamino compounds. 
An intermediate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the said inert material 
comprises a non-proteinaceous material, preferably selected from polyamino 

compounds and synthetic amino acids. 
An intermediate as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the said inert 
material is used in an amount sufficient substantially to coat the said solid phase. 
An intermediate as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the said solid 
phase is selected from magnetic particles, polymer beads, glass beads, titer plates, 

slides, optical waveguides and test tube walls, which may be silanized, and preferably 
comprises silanized magnetic metal oxide particles. 
An intermediate as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the said inert 
material is covalently coupled to the said solid phase via a hetero- or homo-bifunctional 

cross-linking agent, preferably via glutaraldehyde. 
An intermediate as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the said inert 
material is directly covalently coupled to the said solid phase without a cross-linking 

agent. 
An intermediate as claimed in claim 7 wherein the said inert material and 
the said solid phase each have functional groups available for peptide bond formation 

therebetween and the said inert material is directly covalently coupled to the said solid 
phase using an activating agent selected to activate one of the said functional groups 

to form a peptide bond, preferably the said solid phase has amino groups available for 
peptide bond formation and the said inert material has carboxyl groups available for 

peptide bond formation. 
An intermediate as claimed in claim 8 wherein the said activating agent 
is selected from N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, N,N'-diisopropylcarbodiimide, 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole 

and 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide 
hydrochloride. 
A reagent characterised in that it comprises an intermediate as claimed 
in any of claims 1 to 9 having at least one binding partner attached to the said inert 

material. 
A reagent as claimed in claim 10 wherein it comprises a plurality of 
binding partners attached to the said inert material, each of the said binding partners 

selected to capture a separate reactant. 
A reagent as calmed in claim 10 or claim 11 wherein the said at least 
one binding partner is covalently attached to the said inert material. 
A reagent as claimed in claim 12 wherein the said inert material and the 
said binding partner each include functional groups available for covalent coupling 

selected from carboxyl groups, amine groups, aldehyde groups, hydroxy groups, and 
solfhydryl groups, the said binding partners being covalently attached to the said inert 

 
material using an activating agent, preferably selected from N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, 

N,N'-diisopropylcarbodiimide, 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole 
and 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide hydrochloride. 
A reagent as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11 wherein the said at least 
one binding partner is non-covalently attached to the said inert material. 
A reagent as claimed in claim 14 wherein the said at least one binding 
partner is absorptively attached to the said inert material. 
A reagent as claimed in any of claims 10 to 15 wherein the said 
intermediate further comprises a first member of a binding pair coupled to the said 

undercoating layer, the said first member being selected to bind to a second member 
of the said pair carrying a binding partner. 
A reagent as claimed in claim 16 wherein the said binding pair is 
selected from biotin/avidin and biotin/streptavidin. 
A reagent as claimed in any of claims 10 to 17 wherein the said binding 
partner is selected from antibody, antigen, hapten, enzyme, enzyme substrate, 

inhibitor, cofactor, binding protein, binding protein substrate, carrier protein, carrier 
protein substrate, lectin, carbohydrate, hormone, hormone receptor, hormone effector, 

hormone repressor, hormone inducer, peptide, gene probe, avidin, biotin and 
streptavidin. 
A reagent as claimed in any of claims 10 to 18 wherein the said inert 
material is inert with respect to a reactant that forms a complex with the said binding 

partner. 
A method of making a reagent capture intermediate or reagent as claimed 
in any of claims 1 to 19 characterised in that it comprises: 
providing a solid phase having an exterior surface including a surface 
cotaing layer; 
selecting an inert undercoating material suitable for mounting thereon a 
binding partner for capturing the said reactant; 
optionally, covalently coupling a cross-linking agent to the said exterior 
surface, the said inert material being covalently coupled to the said cross-linking agent 

to form the said undercoating; 
covalently coupling the said inert material to the said exterior surface to 
form an undercoating thereon; 
optionally, attaching at least one binding partner to the said inert material 
to form a reagent. 
A method of capturing at least one reactant characterised in that it 
comprises: 


(a) providing a reagent as claimed in any of claims 10 to 19 including at 
least one binding partner attached to the said inert material, the said binding partner 

being capable of forming a complex with the said reactant; and 
(b) forming an admixture of the said reagent and a sample containing the 
said reactant. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
