<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623274</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULAR PORTABLE COMPUTER WORK STATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F116	H05K500	H02B100	H02B100	H05K500	G06F116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	H05K	H02B	H02B	H05K	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	H05K5	H02B1	H02B1	H05K5	G06F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IDEA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE I.D.E.A. CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRADBURY GEORGE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRADBURY, GEORGE, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a modular portable work station
comprising a computer and a plurality of computer peripherals
that are interconnected with one another and efficiently packaged
for storage within and control from a carrying case.Portable offices have been commercially available for
several years. More particularly, it is known to package a
personal computer and various computer peripherals within a
carrying case to facilitate the transport and storage of a
compact work station. However, the versatility of the portable
office within such carrying case has been undesirably limited.
That is to say, and because of the space constraints that are
characteristic of the carrying case, the user is often required
to remove either the computer or the printer from the case before
access can be gained to each. In other cases, a computer printer
and other standard peripherals can not be easily packaged within
and controlled from the same carrying case, making it necessary
for the operator to have access to an external printer and/or the
other computer peripherals. The foregoing shortcoming detracts
from the advantage of a portable office, particularly when the
work space is very small, such as that which would be available
on a plane or a train. The versatility of some conventional portable offices is
also limited because of the lack of a fully integrated and self-contained
operation. That is, the computer and all of the
peripherals are not always controllable from the carrying case.
More particularly, external sources of power, telephone
receptacles, and the like, are sometimes necessary before the
office can be made fully operational. Moreover, some portable
offices do not permit a user to selectively operate the computer
and particular ones of the peripherals from a readily accessible
and easy to operate master control panel.It would therefore be desirable to have available a compact,
portable office or work station including a personal computer,
printer and other conventional peripherals that are efficiently
packaged and transported within a carrying case. It would also
be desirable that the computer and peripherals be controlled from
the carrying case and selectively energized, one or more at a
time, at a readily accessible master control panel. It is still
further desirable for the computer and printer to be used without
having to remove either from the carrying case.One example of a portable computer and printer that are
operated within a carrying case is available by referring to U.S.
Patent No.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A portable computer work station including a carrying case (1) and a
computer (100) and at least one computer peripheral (30, 34, 54, 76)

transported within said carrying case, said carrying case having a body (4) in
which said computer and computer peripheral are located and a cover (2)

movable to opened and closed positions relative to said body, said work
station comprising:


an internal voltage supply including a battery (52) that is located within the
body (4) of said carrying case (1) to supply power to said computer (100)

and said computer peripheral;
electrical input means (16) to be connected to an external voltage supply
that is located outside said carrying case, said electrical input means

adapted to also supply power to said computer (100) and to said computer
peripheral so that said computer and said computer peripheral can be

powered both from the battery (52) located within said carrying case and
from the external voltage supply located outside the carrying case via said
electrical input means (16); and
a main control panel (20) located within said body (4) and having a plurality
of switches (22), a first (22-1) and a second (22-2) of said plurality of

switches being closed to connect said battery (52) to said computer (100),
said first (22-1) and a third (22-3) of said plurality of switches being closed to

connect said battery (52) and said electrical input means (16) to said
computer peripheral, and said first (22-1) and said second (22-2) and said

third (22-3) of said plurality of switches being closed to connect said battery
(52) and said electrical input means (16) to said computer and to said

computer peripheral, said electrical input means (16) being connected to
said computer to supply power to said computer when none of said first,

second or third switches is closed.
The portable computer work station recited in claim 1,
further comprising a computer tray (44) located within the body

(4) of said carrying case (1) for receiving the computer (100) 
thereon, a printer (200), a printer tray (46) located within said

body for receiving the printer thereon, and positioning means by
which said computer tray (44) is moved laterally and rotationally

relative to said printer tray to permit easy access to the
computer and the printer when the cover (2) of the carrying case

(1) is in the opened position,

   said positioning means including at least one arm (74), a
first end of said arm pivotally connected (86) to said computer

tray and the opposite end of said arm pivotally connected (88)
within the body of said carrying case such that said computer

tray is adapted to move laterally in generally parallel alignment
with said printer tray and rotationally relative to said printer

tray to form an angle therewith.
The portable computer work station recited in claim 2,
wherein said computer tray (44) and said printer tray (46) are

located one above the other, such that the opposite end of said

positioning means arm (74) is pivotally connected (88) to said
printer tray.
The portable computer work station recited in claim 3,
wherein said computer tray (44) and printer tray (46) are located

at one side of the body (4) of said carrying case (1), said work
station further comprising a compartment located at the opposite

side of said body within which to removably receive said computer
peripheral (30, 34, 54 or 76). 
The portable computer work station recited in claim 4,
wherein said computer peripheral (54) is a cellular telephone

positioned below said battery (52) at the side of said body (4)
opposite the location of said computer and printer trays (44 and

46).
The portable computer work station recited in claim 1,
further comprising a shroud enclosure (14) having a top wall

extending across said carrying case (1), said main control panel
(20) attached to the top wall of and outside said shroud

enclosure, and said computer peripheral (e.g. 54, 76) located
inside said shroud enclosure.
The portable computer work station recited in claim 6,
further comprising a circuit board (50) at which the switches

(22) of said main control panel (20) are electrically connected
between said input means (16 or 64) and said battery (52) and

each of said computer (100) and said computer peripheral
(30,34,54 or 76), said circuit board located inside said shroud

enclosure (14).
The portable computer work station recited in claim 6,
wherein said battery (52) is located inside said shroud enclosure

(14), said work station further comprising bracket means (53)
extending between said battery and the top wall of said shroud

enclosure for retaining said battery within said shroud
enclosure. 
The portable computer work station recited in claim 1,
wherein said electrical input means (16) includes a battery

charger located within the body (4) of said carrying case (1) to
be interconnected with an external AC voltage supply located

outside said carrying case.
The portable computer work station recited in claim 1,
wherein said electrical input means (64) is a DC input terminal

located on said carrying case (1) to be interconnected with an
external DC voltage supply located outside said carrying case.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
