<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644714</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR LASER PEST CONTROL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01M100	A01M102	A01M102	A01M104	A01M122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	A01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides an apparatus and a method for controlling pests which, according to one aspect of the invention, uses a laser beam (14) which is scanned over a defined area and incapacitates sensory organs of various pests when they enter the defined area. Such a pest control system uses a laser source (12) in cooperation with a scanner (16) which then repetitively scans the laser beam (14) throughout the defined area. Any pest which wanders into this area, or is attracted into this area, is likely to sense the laser beam, typically through its eyes or light spot. The laser beam is of sufficient energy to destroy the sensory organ and incapacitate the pest.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON W DUDLEY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON W DUDLEY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON W DUDLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON W DUDLEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AMD APPARATUS FOR LASER PEST CONTROLTECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to pest control, more particularly to use of a concentrated energy source such as a laser beam to exterminate pests.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Control of pests such as insects has evolved from hand slaps to fly swatters to chemical insecticides, electric bug traps, glue covered strips, and other devices. Often an attractant, such as an ultraviolet light, scent or edible bait, is used to lure insects or rodents into the trap. See, for example, Phillips, U.S. Patent No. 4,127,961, issued December 5, 1978. In one common trap, an ultraviolet light attract insects onto an electrified grid which then electrocutes the insects. This device, however, sparks loudly, spatters debris, and is dangerous to humans. Mechanical traps also have drawbacks, for example, the need to lure the pest into a small space. Chemical pesticides can poison non-target species and pollute the environment.Energy devices such as lasers have been proposed for use against insect pests. Lasers exist in several classes ranging from small, harmless beams to extremely intense beams usable as long range weapons. Japanese Patent No. 1-202,233 suggests use of a hand¬ held laser to kill ticks, fleas and other household insects. German Patent Publication No. 3,825,389 proposes use of a laser or sound beam against flying 

swarms of locusts. The latter method recognizes that destroying the insects completely would require too much energy, and therefore targets a specific organ structure such as wings or sensory organs to render the insects unable to fly. Even so, the energies described are too large for practical use using the method suggested.Like insect control, rodent and mouse control has a long history ranging from the common mousetrap to devices that use striking bars to incapacitate the rodent when it passes by; see McKee, U.S. Patent No. 4,349,980, issued September 21, 1982 and McKee, U.S. Patent No. 4,483,094, issued November 20, 1984. Poison bait pellets have also long been used to exterminate rodents. The poisoned pellets are typically scattered or placed on the ground and attract rodents looking for food.Pest control problems are not confined to land. Recently, the Zebra mussel has invaded the Great Lakes. This creature is microscopic in its larval form and is readily drawn into water treatment plants through intake pipes. It attaches itself to a smooth surface, such as a pipe wall, and there grows over the course of two years to about a centimeter long.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A method for exterminating pests, which comprises directing a laser beam against the pests, which laser has a power and wavelength sufficient to blind the pest without immediately killing the pest.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the laser has a power in the range of from 0.1 up to but less than 10 watts.
3. A method for exterminating pests, which comprises repetitively scanning a location frequented by the pests using an automatic laser scanning system.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising placing an attractant in the scanned location frequented by pests in order to lure the pests into the scanned location.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the attractant is selected from a light, a sound generator, a food bait, and a non-food odor generator.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the scan comprises a raster or vector scan.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the laser source produces a laser beam having a wavelength in the infrared, visible or ultraviolet range and has a power in the range of about 2 to 1000 watts.
8. The method of claim 3, wherein the pest is an invertebrate.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the invertebrate is an insect. 


 10. The method of claim 3, wherein the pest is a rodent.
11. A method for exterminating underwater pests, which comprises directing a laser beam against the pest beneath the water, wherein the laser has an energy level and wavelength sufficient to penetrate water and kill or harm the pest.
12. A method for protecting an underwater structure from underwater pests, which comprises directing a laser beam to cover a zone surrounding the structure to be protected so that the underwater pests entering the zone are killed or harmed.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the underwater structure is a water intake pipe.
14. A method for agricultural pest control, which comprises scanning a crop field with a laser beam having a power and wavelength sufficient to harm or kill crop destroying pests present in the field without substantially harming crop plants growing in the field.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising navigating the field with a vehicle having a laser scanning device mounted thereon.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the vehicle is an agricultural vehicle that simultaneously cultivates or delivers a fertilizer to the field.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the laser scanning device directs a diverging beam at the crop plants. 


 18. A trap for exterminating pests, comprising: a housing having an interior chamber and an opening through which the target pests can enter the chamber; and a source of a laser beam disposed within the housing, which beam is capable of killing or harming the target pests that enter the chamber.
19. The trap of claim 18, wherein the laser source is oriented within the housing so that the amount of laser light emitted from the opening of the housing is sufficiently small to be non-harmful to humans and higher animals.
20. The trap of claim 18, wherein the housing has means for permitting a dead or disabled insect to fall out of the trap.
21. A system for controlling pests, comprising: a source of a laser beam capable of killing or harming a target pest; a scanner capable of directing the laser beam produced by the source within a scanned area to contact the pest; and an attractant disposable in order to lure the pests into the area scanned.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the attractant is selected from a light, a sound generator, a food bait, and a non-food odor generator.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the laser source produces a laser beam having a power and wavelength sufficient to blind the pest but not immediately kill the pest. 


 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the laser source has a power of less than 10 watts.
25. The system of claim 23, wherein the laser source has a power of from about 0.1 up to but less than 10 watts.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein the scanner has a mirror and a drive system for varying the position of the mirror according to a predetermined pattern, and the laser source directs the beam against the mirror.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the scanner performs a raster scan.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the laser source produces a laser beam having a wavelength in the infrared, visible or ultraviolet range and has a power in the range of about 2 to 1000 watts. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
