<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651144</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR CONVERSION OF HEAT ENERGY INTO MECHANICAL ENERGY IN A GAS-TURBINE ENGINE, AND GAS-TURBINE ENGINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02C320	F02C330	F02C712	F02C7141	F23R304	F23R304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02C	F02C	F02C	F02C	F23R	F23R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02C3	F02C3	F02C7	F02C7	F23R3	F23R3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to the power industry, namely to conversion of the heat energy into mechanical energy in a gas-turbine 
engine and may be used in gas-turbine engines. The invention allows to increase the efficiency of the engine by 

decreasing the loss on mixing the heated working medium with the cooling agent. The thermodynamic state of the working 
medium introduced at least into the first turbine stage (8) is changed by expanding and spinning it, before the introduction, in 

relation to the longitudinal axis of the gas-turbine engine, with subsequent cooling of the working medium and changing its 
thermodynamic state. The cooling of the working medium with its changed thermodynamic state is affected by the air 

compressed up to a pressure at least equal to that of the working medium in the changed thermodynamic state. The gas-turbine 
engine has at least two turbine stages (8, 9) mounted in the through part, at least a double-stage 

compressor (3) and a 
heated working medium source (1) having a zone (H) of expansion and spinning of the heated medium and mounted behind it, 

a zone (2) for mixing the heated working medium with the cooling agent. The zone (2) for mixing the heated working medium 

with the cooling agent is connected to the outlet of the stage (5) of the compressor, the pressure after which at least equals the 
pressure of the working medium in the mixing zone (2). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMESHANNOE TOVARISCHESTVO GERM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMESHANNOE TOVARISCHESTVO "GERMES"
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSTINSKY VADIM ARKADIEVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAKHMAILOV ANATOLY MIKHAILOVIC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSTINSKY, VADIM ARKADIEVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAKHMAILOV, ANATOLY MIKHAILOVICH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to power engineering, 
and more particularly to a method of converting heat into 
mechanical energy in a gas turbine engine and to gas turbine 
engines for carrying out this method. There are known methods of converting heat energy into 
useful mechanical work in gas turbine engines in which net 
power output is increased either by increasing the temperature 
of working fluid before the turbine, or by reducing the temperature 
of oxidizer used to burn the fuel and generate a 
working fluid (cf., S. I. Lovinsky "Teoria aviatsionnykh 
dvigatelei", Mashinostroenie, Moscow, 1982, pp. 77 and 78). 
However, these methods fail to provide a tangible increase in 
engine efficiency and are detrimental to the environment 
because of large quantities of exhaust gases emitted to the 
outside. There is also known a method of converting heat into 
mechanical energy in a gas turbine engines, comprising at 
least two turbine stages located in a flow-through passage and 
a source of heated working fluid in which the temperature of 
working fluid is changed by cooling and expansion (cf., SU, A, 
1,560,749). This method involves stepwise expansion of the 
working fluid before expansion steps and admission of extra 
quantities of oxidizer to the combustion chamber. The fuel is 
burned before intermediate expansion step with a deficiency of 
oxygen and before the last expansion step with an excess of 
oxygen. This prior art method fails to ensure a sufficiently high 
efficiency since a multi-step combustion of fuel does not 
reduce the demand of cooling gas. This in turn leads to a 
higher compressor demand and consequently to reduced over-all 
efficiency of the engine. In addition, combustion of rich fuel 
mixtures reduces the engine life due to deposition of soot. On  
 
the other hand, provision of a second combustion chamber for 
after-burning lean fuel mixtures overcomplicates the method. Also known in the art is a gas turbine engine comprising 
at least two turbine stages located in a flow-through passage 
and a source of heated working fluid (cf., S. I. Lovinsky 
"Teoria aviatsionnykh dvigatelei" Mashinostroenie, Moscow, 
1982, pp. 4 to 7). Air is sucked in from the outside by a compressor and 
conveyed to the source of working fluid in the form of a 
combustion chamber into which a fuel is also fed. In the 
combustion chamber the air is split into two flows with one 
such flow used for burning the fuel and the other for adding 
to products of combustion to lower their temperature. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of converting heat into mechanical energy in 
a gas turbine engine having at least two turbine stages (8, 9) 

located in a flow-through passage and a source (1) of heated 
working fluid, in which the thermodynamic conditions of working 

fluid to be admitted to at least first turbine stage (8) 
are changed by expanding and swirling it relative to the 

longitudinal axis of the gas turbine engine followed by cooling 
of the working fluid with thus changed thermodynamic 

conditions, CHARACTERIZED in that the working fluid of changed 
thermodynamic conditions is cooled by air conveyed to the 

heated working fluid under a pressure at least equal to the 
pressure of heated working fluid with changed thermodynamic 

conditions. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, CHARACTERIZED in that 
prior to admission of cooling air the air is mixed with liquid 

whose vapors have a heat capacity higher than the heat capacity 
of air. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, CHARACTERIZED in that 
prior to admission of cooling air the air is mixed with used 

working fluid of the first turbine stage. 
A method as claimed in claims 1, 2, CHARACTERIZED in 
that prior to admission of cooling air the air is mixed with 

vapor whose heat capacity is higher than heat capacity of the 
air. 
A method as claimed in claim 3, CHARACTERIZED in that 
prior to admission of cooling air the air is mixed with a 

liquid whose vapors have a heat capacity higher than the heat 
capacity of the air. 
A method as claimed in claims 3, 5, CHARACTERIZED in 
that prior to admission of cooling air the air is mixed with a 

vapor whose heat capacity is higher than the heat capacity of 
the air. 
A method as claimed in claim 3, CHARACTERIZED in that 
prior to admission of used working fluid of the first turbine 

 
stage for mixing with air conveyed for cooling the used working 

fluid of the first turbine stage is mixed with a liquid 
whose vapors have a heat capacity higher than the heat capacity 

of the used working fluid. 
A method as claimed in claims 3, 7, CHARACTERIZED in 
that prior to admission of the used working fluid of the first 

turbine stage for mixing with air conveyed for cooling the 
used working fluid of the first turbine stage is mixed with a 

vapor whose heat capacity is higher than the heat capacity of 
the used working fluid. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, CHARACTERIZED in that 
the working fluid is cooled by air and used working fluid of 

the first turbine stage, the flows of air and used working 
fluid being admitted separately, and the flow of air is conveyed 

between the flows of heated and used working fluid. 
A method as claimed in claims 1 to 9, CHARACTERIZED 
in that the air is cooled prior to admission to the mixing 

zone. 
A gas turbine comprising at least two turbine stages 
(8, 9) located in a flow-through passage, at least a two-stage 

compressor (3), and a source (1) of heated working fluid 
having a zone (H) for expanding and swirling the heated fluid 

and a zone for mixing the heated working fluid with a coolant 
located after the zone (H), CHARACTERIZED in that the zone (2) 

of mixing the heated working fluid with coolant communicates 

with an outlet of compressor stage (5) where the pressure is 
at least equal to the pressure of heated working fluid in the 

mixing zone (2). 
A gas turbine as claimed in claim 11, CHARACTERIZED 
in that it has an additional mixing zone (19) located outside 

the source (1) of heated working fluid having two inlets (20, 
21) of which the first such inlet (20) communicates with 

outlet of compressor stage (5) where the pressure is at least 
equal to the pressure of working fluid in the mixing zone (2) 

and the second inlet (21) communicates with a source of liquid 
whose vapors have a heat capacity higher than the heat capacity 

 
of the air, and an outlet (22) communicating with the 

mixing zone. 
A gas turbine engine as claimed in claim 12, CHARACTERIZED 
in that inlet (23) of additional mixing zone (19) 

communicates with outlet of the first turbine stage. 
A gas turbine engine as claimed in claim 11, CHARACTERIZED 
in that the zone (19) of mixing the heated working 

fluid with coolant has two inlets (21, 22) of which the first 
inlet communicates with outlet of stage (5) of compressor (3) 

where the pressure is at least equal to the pressure of working 
fluid in the mixing zone (2) and the second inlet communicates 

with turbine stage (8), the first inlet (20) of mixing 
zone (2) communicating with a section of mixing zone (20) 

located between the longitudinal axis of the mixing zone and 
second inlet (21) of the mixing zone. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
