<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658134</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLEXIBLE RAZOR HEAD WITH INCREASED RINSEABILITY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B26B2140	B26B2144	B26B2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B26B	B26B	B26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B26B21	B26B21	B26B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrally formed flexible razor head (10) having a plurality of blade platforms (70) separated by a corrugation (60), at least one blade (20, 30) having a cutting edge, and a plurality of blade retainers (40) which are integrally formed with the blade platforms (70) and extend to positions above and adjacent to the top surface of the blade. While the blade retainers (40) are integrally formed with the other pieces of the flexible razor head (10), each blade retainer (40) is discrete with respect to other blade retainers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER LAMBERT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNER-LAMBERT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTLIN EDWARD S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN EVAN N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUTLIN, EDWARD, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, EVAN, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a flexible razor 
head and, more particularly, to a one-piece, integrally 
formed, flexible razor head. Razor heads which are flexible along their 
longitudinal axes have been disclosed in the art. Many of 
these razor heads require the assembly of several separate 
pieces such as a cap, a spacer, one or more blades and a 
blade platform. This assembly process is time consuming 
and costly. Furthermore, the requirement that these 
pieces are manipulated, either manually or automatically, 
is generally considered to place restrictions on the type 
of materials which may be used in their manufacture. The 
materials used must be substantially rigid to withstand 
the assembly process while meeting the specification 
tolerances necessary to properly join with the other 
pieces. It would, therefore, be desirable to provide a 
flexible razor head having integrally formed elements 
which would therefore eliminate the need for the assembly 
of a number of elements.  
 EP-A-0 470 720 discloses a twin blade razor head comprising: 
a) a flexible cap blade having a forward cutting edge, a rear 
edge, two side edges, an upper, and a lower surface; b) a flexible seat blade having a forward cutting edge, a rear 
edge, two side edges, an upper, and a lower surface; and c) a flexible blade support with a continuous single piece 
thermoplastic body having a front and a rear and having formed therein 
i) at least one blade platform supporting said lower 
surface of said seat blade, ii) at least one spacer integrally formed and continuous 
with said single piece thermoplastic body securing said seat blade 
therebetween and for supporting said cap blade thereon, iii) at least one blade retainer integrally formed and 
continuous with said single piece thermoplastic body for securing said cap 
blade between said retainer and said spacer at a distance and spatial 
location to form a desired shaving geometry, and iv) edge guards integrally formed and continuous with 
said single piece thermoplastic body, said guards substantially covering 
corners formed at the intersections of said edges whereby a user of said 
razor head is protected from said corners during shaving. EP-A-0 470 720 does not discuss the manner in which the vibration of the 
blades of the razor head may be minimised.  
 The present invention overcomes disadvantages of 
previously disclosed razor heads by providing an 
integrally formed flexible razor head having a plurality 
of blade platforms separated by corrugations, at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A twin blade razor head (10'') comprising: 

a) a flexible cap blade (20) having a forward cutting edge (21), 
a rear edge, two side edges, an upper, and a lower surface; 
b) a flexible seat blade (30) having a forward cutting edge (31), 
a rear edge, two side edges, an upper, and a lower surface; and 
c) a flexible blade support with a continuous single piece 
thermoplastic body having a front and a rear and having formed therein 


i) at least one blade platform (70) supporting said lower 
surface of said seat blade (30), 
ii) at least one spacer (100) integrally formed and 
continuous with said single piece thermoplastic body securing said seat 

blade (30) therebetween and for supporting said cap blade (20) thereon, 
iii) at least one blade retainer (40;140) integrally formed 
and continuous with said single piece thermoplastic body for securing said 

cap blade (20) between said retainer (40;140) and said spacer (100) at a 
distance and spatial location to form a desired shaving geometry, and 
iv) edge guards (80;82) integrally formed and continuous 
with said single piece thermoplastic body, said guards substantially 

covering corners formed at the intersections of said edges whereby a user 
of said razor head is protected from said corners during shaving, 

characterised in that the razor unit (10'') is moulded so that both the cap 
blade (20) and the seat blade (30) are supported equally by plastic. 
The razor head of Claim 1 wherein said at least one platform (70) 
and said at least one retainer (40;140) are substantially mutually alig
ned. 
The razor head of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein there are at least 
two blade platforms (70) and a corrugation (60) adjoining said platforms  

 
(70), said corrugation (60) being integrally formed and continuous with 

said single piece thermoplastic body. 
The razor head of Claim 3 wherein there are seven said blade 
platforms (70) with said corrugations (60) adjoining them. 
The razor head of Claim 4 wherein there are seven discrete blade 
retainers (140) for cooperative securement of at least one of said blades 

(20;30). 
The razor head of any preceding claim wherein said at least one 
platform (70), said at least one spacer (100), and said at least one retainer 

(40;140) are substantially aligned to secure said blades (20;30) in said 
desired shave geometry. 
The razor head of Claim 3 wherein there are three said blade 
platforms (70) with said corrugations (60) adjoining them. 
The razor head of Claim 7 wherein there are three discrete blade 
retainers (40;140) and three discrete spacers (100) which are substantially 

aligned for cooperative securement of said blades (20;30) in a blade 
geometry. 
The razor head of any one of the preceding claims which further 
comprises a plurality of guard members (50) disposed forwardly of said 

cutting edge to provide a desired shave geometry, said guard members 
(50) being integrally formed and continuous with said single piece 

thermoplastic body. 
The razor head of Claim 9 which further comprises a skin flow  
 

control rail (200) which extends across and between said guard members, 
said control rail (200) being integrally formed and continuous with said 

single piece thermoplastic body. 
The razor head of any one of the preceding claims which further 
comprises means (90;180) for attaching said razor head to a razor handle, 

said attaching means being integrally formed and continuous with said 
single piece thermoplastic body. 
The razor head of Claim 11 wherein said attaching means 
comprises two slots (180) integrally formed in the bottom of said blade 

support and adapted to receive an outwardly biased attachment member of 
a razor handle. 
The razor head of Claim 12 wherein said attaching means 
comprises an attachment neck (90) which extends lower than said guard 

supports, and is integrally formed and continuous with said single piece 
thermoplastic body. 
The razor head of any one of the preceding claims wherein said 
thermoplastic body comprises polypropylene. 
The razor head of any preceding claim wherein said seat blade (30) 
comprises a seat blade securing opening (35), said cap blade (20) 

comprises a cap blade securing opening (25) substantially aligned with and 
above said seat blade securing opening (30), and said razor head further 

comprising a securing member (105) extending through said seat blade 
securing opening (35) and said cap blade securing opening (25) and 

integrally formed and continuous with said single piece thermoplastic 
body.  

 
The razor head of Claim 15 wherein said seat blade securing 
opening (35) is substantially centrally located in said seat blade (30). 
The razor head of any preceding claim wherein said seat blade (30) 
is directly affixed to a plurality of said blade platforms (140). 
The razor head of any preceding claim wherein said seat blade (30) 
comprises a first opening (35) and a second opening (36-39), said first 

opening (35) being larger than said second opening (36-39). 
The razor head of Claim 18 wherein said seat blade (30) is attached 
to one of said platform members (140) with a securing member (105) 

extending through said first opening (35). 
The razor head of any preceding claim which further comprises 
body segments added to said platforms, said spacer, and said retainer in 

incremental amounts sufficient to provide substantially equal unsecured 
body portions of seat blade and cap blade, said body segments being 

integrally formed and continuous with said single piece thermoplastic 
body. 
The razor head of any one of the preceding claims which further 
comprises rinse slots (220) formed in the rear of said razor head whereby 

fluid can be directed through said razor head to remove shaving debris and 
soap. 
A razor head according to any preceding claim, wherein the amount 
(X
1
) of unsupported seat blade (30) is substantially equal to the amount 
(X
2
) of unsupported cap blade (20).  
 
A razor head according to Claim 22 including body segments 
(a,b,c) equalising the amounts (X
1
,X
2
) of unsupported seat blade (30) and 
cap blade (20). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
