<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650825</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for forming a unitary fibre-reinforced composite panel structure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C7044	F16S100	F16S100	B64C100	B64C100	B29C7004	B29D9900	B29D9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	F16S	F16S	B64C	B64C	B29C	B29D	B29D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C70	F16S1	F16S1	B64C1	B64C1	B29C70	B29D99	B29D99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for manufacturing stiffened composite skin 
panel structures possessing novel hollow crown-shaped stiffener 

elements, and further including any combination of forward spars, 
aft spars, and transversely extending shear ties. The nov
el 
process embraces fabrication and curing of these structures 

without the use of mandrels. In practicing the method, the 
crown-shaped stiffeners, spars and shear ties are integrally 

bonded to a planar or curved skin structure to provide axial 
stiffness in semimonocoque components such as aircraft wings, 

stabilizers, fuselages, etc. The method of fabrication yields 
highly producible, structurally efficient composite aircraft 

components. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to
a method for forming a unitary fiber-reinforced
composite panel structure possessing
hollow, U-shaped stiffener elements, spars, and transversely
extending shear ties, where the fabrication and curing of the
composite panel structures is accomplished without the use of
mandrels.With the increasing use of composite materials in the
manufacture of aircraft components, a number of problems have
arisen in connection with the application of such materials to
design principles developed for conventional aluminum or titanium
construction. Most of these problems center about the difficulty
in interconnecting one component to one another, and involve the
use of mechanical fasteners. The currently-known advanced composite materials do not
readily lend themselves physically or economically to extensive
use of mechanical fasteners nor to very complex designs. The
inclusion of multiple details in a composite material component
increases the cost of manufacture to unacceptable levels and
makes the application of automated procedures difficult, if not
impossible. Mechanical fasteners are not physically well-suited
to composite material components, and their use with such
components tends to detract from the advantages of the
unidirectional properties of advanced composite fibers. These
problems have created a need for developing new techniques for
economically producing composite material components, especially
such components that are required to be load resisting.In recent years, there have been a number of proposals
relating to the structure and manufacture of composite material
components. Some of these proposals involve the use of
thermosetting adhesives instead of mechanical fasteners.Manufacturing processes that use thermosetting adhesives
generally require the separate forming and curing of the
components and a further heating process to set the adhesives.
Such multiple step processes have the disadvantages of being time
consuming and expensive to carry out. Other processes involve the separate forming of elements
of a componenet and the curing together of the elements to form
the desired structure. A serious problem encountered in
connection with known composite material components embodying
both approaches, i.e., bonding by adhesives and bonding by
curing, has been the tendency for one part of the component to be
peeled away from an adjacent part of the componenet when the
component is subjected to stress forces. Recent proposals for
overcoming such peel tendencies have the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for forming a unitary fiber-reinforced composite
panel structure (150; 300), comprising:


forming (124, 126) an assembly including a first skin member (82), a
second skin member (92), and a plurality of parallel, closed

channel means (310) disposed between the first and second skin
members (82, 92),


said first and second skin members (82, 92) comprising
fiber-reinforced composite material,
preparing (130) said assembly for autoclave curing by disposing
first bagging materials (101) within said channel means (310) and second

bagging materials around said assembly, and inflating said
first and second bagging materials, and
curing (132) said assembly in an autoclave to obtain a unitized
panel structure (150; 300).
The method of claim 1, wherein said step of curing (132) said
assembly comprises inflating said bagging material (101) disposed within

said channel means (310) such that no mandrels are required to maintain
the shape of said channel means during curing of said assembly.
The method of claim 1, wherein said step (310) of disposing first
bagging materials (101) in said channel means (310) comprises predetermining a

desired shape of said channel means after curing of said assembly
and inserting inflatable bags in said channel means having an

inflated cross-sectional shape corresponding to said predetermined
desired cross-sectional channel shape.
The method of claim 3, wherein said inflatable bags (101) disposed
within the channel means (310) determines the channel shape once the bags

are inflated.
The method of claim 3, wherein said inflatable bags (101) have a
cross-sectional shape, when inflated, which is cylindrical. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said step (124, 126) of forming said
assembly further includes providing (114) a tool (40) having a surface

including a plurality of parallel channel-forming contours, and
pressing said first skin member (82) against said tool contoured surface

so that said first skin member (82) assumes a contoured surface
corresponding to the contoured surface of the tool (40).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
