<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643994</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Supplying method of powder paints to coaters and powder coating machine capable of pulverizing powder paint pellets into a sprayable powder.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B714	B05B714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B7	B05B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method of supplying powder 
paints wherein powder paint pellets are manufactured and 

stored as they are at the manufacture site and, when ordered, 
they are shipped and transported to the coater, and, at the 

coater site, they are stocked, and pulverized and classified 
into a sprayable powder upon powder coating thereby enabling 

to control the particle size of the powder paint while 
continuing the powder coating. 
A powder coating machine for carry out the method 
pulverizes and classifies powder paint pellets into a 

sprayable powder at the coater site while continuing powder 
coating using the pulverized paint. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON PAINT CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON PAINT CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHUE SAMUEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUTSUI KOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RHUE, SAMUEL A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUTSUI, KOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The conventional method for producing powder 
coatings as shown in Fig. 12 consists of weighing and 
mixing the powder coating ingredients, then extruding the 
mixture to obtain a homogeneous melt mixed product. The 
melt mix is compressed into a sheet form, cooled, flaked, 
then ground into a powder form which is passed through a 
screener to remove oversize particles prior to packaging. The average particle size of coating powders for 
electrostatic spray applications as supplied by the powder 
coating manufactures, generally range from twenty-five to 
fifty microns. Any given powder coating product will be 
ground to a specific average particle size (eg. 35 microns) 
and ultimately be shipped to various coators for 
application. Each coater, however, may require a slight to 
vastly different particle size than that supplied in order 
to achieve a desired thickness and/or appearance. Each 
commercial powder coating application system may also 
perform better with a particle size different than that  
 
supplied by the powder coating manufacturer. The disadvantage of this method is that some 
powder paints are apt to sinter during transporting to the 
customers site or during storage. The sintering phenomenon 
occurs when the ambient temperature is high and too close 
to the glass transition (Tg) point of the base resin system 
utilized in the coating or the particle size of the ground 
powder is too fine (< 20µ). This could necessitate the 
need to store the powder in refrigerated rooms. In fact, according to an experiment by the 
present inventors, sintering phenomon was observed when a 
low Tg (= 45°C) powder coating with mean particle size 30µm 
having a composition of glycidyle group contained acrylic 
resin 100gr., decane di-carboxylic acid 25gr. and an 
additive agent 1gr. and super-fine powder coating with mean 
particle size 10µm having the substantially identical 
composition except for Tg = 55°C of the resin were kept at 
35°C for two months. The grinding-at-the-gun technique allows the chip 
(flake) that is formed after the extrusion process to be 
packaged and sent directly to the coating site. The term, 
pellet, chip or flake, refers to the extruded powder 
coating mixture that has been compressed into a thin sheet, 
cooled to below the melt-mix freeze point and broken into 
small chip form by means of a mechanical crusher.  An object of the present invention is therefore 
to provide a supplying method of powder paints capable of 
unnecessiating temperature control for the powder paints 
d
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A supplying method of powder paints comprising 
steps of 

   storing powder paints in a chip form at the 
manufactory site, 

   shipping and transporting said powder paints in a 
chip form to the coater when ordered, 

   storing said powder paints in a chip form at the 
coater site 

   pulverizing said powder paints to be coated into 
a powder state and supplying pulverized powder paints to 

the application site. 
The supplying method of powder paints according 
to claim 1, wherein the pulverizing operation is done in 

parallel to the powder coating operation and, thereby the 
pulverized powder paint is continuously fed to the powder 

coating machine. 
The supplying method of powder paints according 
to claim 1, wherein, after the pulverizing operation is 

completed, the pulverized powder is stored for a short 
period of time usually less than 24 hours. 
The supplying method of powder paints according 
to claim 1, wherein the powder once pulverized is 

classified to remove oversize particles and ultra fine 
particles. 
The supplying method of powder paints according 
to claim 1, wherein the particle size of the powder paint 

is controlled to obtain the optimum particle size desired 
for a given application thereby controlling the film build 

and final appearance of the finished coating. 
A powder coating machine capable of pulverizing 
powder paint pellets into a sprayable powder comprising 

   a feeding means for feeding said powder paint 
pellets; 

   a pulverizing means for pulverizing said powder 
paint pellets fed by said feeding means; into a sprayable 

powder; 
   a powder coating means; and 

   a transporting means for transporting said 
sprayable powder from said pulverizing means to said powder 

coating means. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
further comprising a classifying means for classifying 

over-size particles and ultra-fine particles contained in 
said sprayable powder. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
or 7 further comprising a collection means for collecting 

said sprayable powder pulverized by said pulverizing means. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said feeding means is a screw feeder. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said feeding means is a table feeder. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said pulverizing means is a high-speed rotating 

mill. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said pulverizing means is a jet mill. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said transporting means is of an air blow type. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said transporting means is of a compressed air 

feeder type. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said powder coating means utilizes the corona 

discharge electrification method. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 6 
wherein said powder coating means utilizes the tribo 

electric powder coating method. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 7, 
wherein said classifying means is a vibrating screen means. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 7, 
wherein said classifying means is an air classifier. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 7, 
wherein said classifying means is a cyclone. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 8, 
 

wherein said collecting means is a cyclone. 
The powder coating machine according to claim 8, 
wherein said collecting moans is a cartridge collector. 
A powder coating machine capable of pulverizing 
powder paint pellets into a sprayable powder, comprising 


a) a feeding means for feeding powder paint 
pellets, 
b) a means for pulverizing said powder paint 
pellets fed by said feeding means, 
c) a means for classifying the pulverised powder 
paint, 
d) a screening mechanism for removing coarse 
particles from the pulverized powder paint, 
e) a cyclone for removing ultra fine particles, 
f) a blower for drawing the pulverized powder 
paint, and 
g) a cartridge collector for removing ultra fine 
particles before entering said blower means. 
A powder coating equipment powder coating 
articles while pulverizing powder paint pellets comprising, 

   a feeder of powder paint pellets, 
   a pulverizer for pulverizing sai
d powder paint 
pellets fed by said feeder into a sprayable powder, 

   a classifier for classifying the powder paint 
pulverized by said pulverizer,

 
   a collection means for collecting the powder 

paint classified by said classifier, 
   a cold insulation storage tank for storing the 

powder paint collected by said collection means 
temporarily, 

   a transport means for transporting the powder 
paint stored in said storage tank, 

   a shifter means for removing sintered powder 
paint contained in the powder paint transported by said 

transport means, 
   a plurality of powder-coating guns, and 

   a deliver means for delivering the powder paint 
from said shifter means to each powder-coating gun. 
The powder-coating equipment according to claim 
23, wherein cold air is supplied to said pulverizer, 

shifter means, and delver means, respectively. 
The powder-coating equipment according to claim 
24, wherein said collecting means is a cyclone. 
The powder-coating equipment according to claim 
25 wherein a bug filter is further provided a bug filter 

for filtering ultra-fine particles not collected by said 
cyclone. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
