<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639985</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND COMPOSITION FOR PRESERVING ANTIGENS AND PROCESS FOR UTILIZING CYTOLOGICAL MATERIAL PRODUCED BY SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N130	A61K3900	A61K3900	G01N130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	A61K	A61K	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	A61K39	A61K39	G01N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and composition for fixing and stabilizing tissues, cells, and cell components such that the antigenic sites are preserved for a useful period of time is provided. The fixative employs a formaldehyde donor that is non-toxic, non-flammable, and that stabilizes the cell with minimal damage to and alteration of the cell morphology. The cell antigenic sites are left intact so that studies with monoclonal antibodies may be conducted. Vaccines and related immunotherapeutic methods utilizing antigens stabilized by the fixative of the present invention are also provided. The invention also discloses a method for developing a positive control for test reagents and for test instrumentation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STRECK LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STRECK LABORATORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN WAYNE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYAN, WAYNE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to solutions containing
compositions useful in the stabilization and fixation of cells and tissues and more
particularly to a composition for the stabilization and fixation of cells and tissues, that
preserves antigenic sites for a useful period of time. The present invention also
describes a process for stabilizing the antigenic sites of cells or cell components. The
present invention further describes processes for utilizing cells or cell components for
use in histological studies and the like.In biological and biochemical analysis, and related arts, it is often
necessary to store and preserve biological tissues, such as cells, cell components,
proteins, and certain organic components thereof, for useful periods of time. Such
biological materials are often utilized in a wide variety of applications, including but not
limited to Instructional aids and the diagnosis and treatment of diseases. For
example, certain organisms and components thereof are often preserved in or by 
solutions for use in the learning arts. Likewise, such biological materials are often
utilized in histological, cytological, immunological, and proteinaceous studies and the
like.Thus, it is desirable in the art to obtain a fixative or stabilizing solution
which may be utilized to not only perform all the results obtainable by prior fixative or
stabilizing solution, but to also provide a solution capable of preserving antigenic
sites.While the objects of any "preservative" utilized in fixing or stabilizing
biological materials varies and depends upon the intended use of the "preserved"
material, certain materials are known in the art for securing some desirable results.
Thus, the present invention relates to compositions for the fixing of cells and tissues
and to methods of fixing cells and tissues using as the fixing agent certain reagents.The primary objective of tissue fixation is to provide as much structural
detail of cells and components thereof as possible. To do this, it is necessary to
maintain the cells in their original unaltered morphology so that maximum cellular
detail may be observed. With the clinical application of immunostaining, there is also
the requirement that antigens are not altered by the method of fixation or stabilization.
Although the microscope is still the conventional means for examining fixed and
stained biological materials, biological materials may also be examined with a flow
cytometer. The flow cytometer is an important method for examining a plurality of
cel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fixative solution comprising

a) a fixing amount of an antigenic site preserving formaldehyde donor in a
solvent selected from water, alcohol, dimethylsulfoxide, and mixtures

thereof, wherein the antigenic site preserving formaldehyde donor is
selected from the group consisting of:


i) diazolidinyl urea
ii) imidazolidinyl urea
iii) dimethylol-5,5-dimethylhydantoin
iv) dimethylol urea
v) 2-bromo-2nitropropane-1,3-diol
vi) 5-hydroxyrnethoxyrnethyl-1-aza-3,7-dioxabicyclo (3.3.0) octane and
5-hydroxyrnethyl-1-aza-3,7-dioxabicyclo (3.3.0) octane and 5-hydroxypoly

[methylenoxy] methyl-1-aza-3,7-dioxybicyclo (3.3.0)

octane, and
vii) sodium hydroxymethyl glycinate or quaternary adamantine and
b) a formaldehyde reactive compound.
A solution according to Claim 1 wherein the formaldehyde donor of said solution is
selected from the group consisting of compounds which:


a. contain formaldehyde as an equilibrium component
b. can be synthesised from formaldehyde, and
c. function to fix or stabilise at concentrations of two to ten times the
concentration to which they act as a bactericide.
A solution according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the formaldehyde donor is present in
an amount of 5 to 100 grams per litre.
A solution according to any of the preceding Claims wherein the solvent is an
alkanol, or a diol or other polyol. 
A solution according to Claim 4 wherein the solvent is ethyl alcohol or ethylene
glycol.
A solution according to any of Claims 2 to 5 wherein the solution includes 0.25 to
1 grams per litre of an alkali metal salt of ascorbic acid.
A solution according to Claim 6 wherein the salt is sodium ascorbate.
A solution according to any of the preceding Claims wherein the solution includes
acetic acid in an amount sufficient to improve nuclear detail.
A solution according to any of the preceding Claims wherein the solution includes
dimethylsulfoxide in an amount sufficient to increase the rate of penetration of

said active ingredient.
A solution according to any of the preceding Claims wherein the solution includes
zinc sulphate in an amount sufficient to improve staining and nuclear detail.
A solution comprising histological fixing amounts of the following compounds:

a. diazolidinyl urea
b. 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol; and
c. a water-soluble zinc salt

and a formaldehyde reactive chemical in a solvent selected from the group
consisting of water, alcohol, dimethylsulfoxide and mixtures thereof to fix cells

for analysis by flow cytometry.
A solution according to Claim 11 wherein the solution further comprises a citrate
buffer.
A solution according to Claim 12 wherein the citrate buffer comprises sodium
citrate dihydrate. 
A solution according to any of Claims 11 to 13 wherein the water-soluble zinc salt
is selected from the group consisting of zinc sulphate, zinc acetate and zinc

chloride.
A solution according to any of Claims 11 to 14 wherein the solution is buffered to
a pH of about 4-6.
A solution according to any of Claims 11 to 15 wherein the solution comprises 1-5%
w/v 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol, 1-6% diazolidinyl urea and 0.02 to 0.1

g-mol./L zinc salt.
A method of establishing a positive control for cytological studies comprising the
steps of:


a. suspending cytological material having one or more antigenic sites in a fixing
amount of a fixative, said fixative comprising an active agent in a solvent, said

active agent being:

i) diazolidinyl urea
ii) imidazolidinyl urea
iii) dimethylol-5,5-dimethylhydantoin
iv) dimethylol urea
v) 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol
vi) 5-hydroxymethoxymethyl-1-aza-3,7-dioxabicyclo (3.3.0) octane
and 5-hydroxymethyl-1-aza-3,7-dioxabicyclo (3.3.0) octane and 5-hydroxypoly

[methylenoxy] methyl-1-aza-3,7-dioxabicyclo (3.3.0)

octane or
vii) sodium hydroxymethyl glycinate

and said solvent being water, alcohol, dimethylsufoxide or a mixture
thereof; and wherein said fixative further comprises an agent for reducing

leukocyte clumping, an agent to inhibit protease activity or an agent to
reduce leukocyte damage
 
said fixative further comprising a formaldehyde reactive compound;
b. fixing said cytological material such that a substantial number of the antigenic
sites of said cytological material remain active, and combining said fixed

cytological material with a reagent containing monoclonal antibodies.
The method of Claim 17 further comprising analysing said mixture to establish a
normative baseline for said monoclonal antibody reagent and the analysis

instrumentation.
The method of Claim 17 or Claim 18 wherein said agent for reducing leukocyte
clumping is ethylenediaminetetraacetic aid.
The method of any of Claims 17 to 19 wherein said agent to inhibit protease
activity is phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride.
The method of any of Claims 17 to 20 wherein said agent to reduce leukocyte
damage is polyethylene glycol.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
