<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618514</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Media exposure system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B2750	G03B2750	G03G516	G03G516	G03G1500	G03G1504	G03G1504	G03G1522	G03G1900	G03G1900	G06K1512	G06K1512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	G03B	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B27	G03B27	G03G5	G03G5	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G15	G03G19	G03G19	G06K15	G06K15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of exposing media and a system for 
performing the method are disclosed. The system includes 

an imaging assembly (12) and a light source (16). The 
imaging assembly (12) creates a physical image on a 

reflective imaging surface (22). The light source (16) 
illuminates the imaging surface and reflects the image 

towards a medium (18) to be exposed. In one embodiment 
the imaging assembly is a magnetic imaging assembly and 

the reflective surface (22) is magnetic. In another 
embodiment, the imaging assembly includes the following: 

a surface having a photoconductive layer, an 
electrostatic charger which charges the photoconductive 

layer, a laser writing system for locally discharging the 
photoconductive layer, a developer system for providing toner 

particles to charged portions of the photoconductive 
layer and a magnet for maintaining the toner particles on 

the surface while the light source illuminates the toner 
particles. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCITEX CORPORATION LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVID ILAN BEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAVID, ILAN BEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to media exposure systems generally, to 
media exposure systems utilizing an intermediary imaging assembly in particular. Various types of media exposure systems are known in the art. For 
example, media can be exposed with scanned laser light, such as when printing a film, 
or with an ultraviolet (UV) light. In UV light exposure systems, an optical mask is typically 
placed over the medium and the UV light is shined onto the combined mask and medium, 
thereby transferring the image on the mask onto the medium. The Scitex Raystar is an exemplary film exposer utilizing a scanned laser 
beam. The Misomex Step and Repeat System is an known UV light exposure system. Media exposure systems are also used in conjunction with paper printing 
systems, the best known examples of which are laser printers and xerographic copiers. 
In these systems, the medium exposed is a light sensitive drum and the exposure system 
creates a latent image on the drum. The latent image is developed with toner particles 
as the drum passes a developer station. At another station, the image, as defined by the 
toner particles, is transferred to paper when the paper comes in contact with the drum. The above described printing method can be effected in a number of ways, 
such as xerography and magnetography. Xerography creates a latent image on a 
photoconductive drum and magnetography creates the latent image on a magnetic tape, 
similar to the magnetic tape utilized in tape recorders to store sound signals. The latent 
image is developed with toner and the toner is transferred to paper through contact with 
the paper.  The histories of magnetography and electrography are briefly described on 
pages 306-401 of Imaging Processes and Materials Edited by Nesbitt. As noted therein, 
images of high resolution have not been achieved since the prior art magnetic printheads, 
which magnetize the magnetic tape, have not had acceptably high resolution. U.S. Patent 3,604,326 describes a magneto-optical printing system which 
combines elements of magnetography and optical imaging. The system creates the latent 
image on the magnetic tape and develops it through the use of toner, as in standard 
magnetography. However, rather than transferring the developed image to paper, the 
system of U.S. Patent 3,604,326 utilizes the developed image as an optical mask and 
shines a light through the magnetic tape to the medium to be exposed. The medium is 
thereby exposed with the negative of the optical mask. The magnetic tape
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A media exposure system comprising: 
   an imaging assembly for creating a physical image on a reflective imaging 

surface; and 
   a light source for illuminating said imaging surface and for reflecting said 

image onto a medium to be exposed. 
A system according to claim 1 and wherein said imaging assembly is a magnetic 
imaging assembly and said reflective imaging surface is a magnetic surface. 
A system according to claim 2 and wherein said magnetic imaging assembly comprises 
a magnetic printhead for locally magnetizing said magnetic surface in accordance with 

desired image data. 
A system according to claim 1 and wherein said imaging assembly comprises: 
   a surface having a photoconductive layer thereon; 

   an electrostatic charger for charging said photoconduc tive layer; 
   a laser writing system for locally discharging said photoconductive layer in 

accordance with desired image data, thereby to produce a latent image; 
   a developer for providing toner particles to charged portions of said latent 

image on said surface, thereby to produce said physical binary image; and 
   a magnet for maintaining said toner particles on said surface while said light 

source illuminates said toner particles. 
A system according to claim 1 and including surface movement means for moving said 
reflective imaging surface thereby causing said physical binary image to move. 
A system for exposing a medium comprising: 
   an imaging assembly for creating a physical image on an imaging surface;

 
   a light source for illuminating said imaging surface; and 

   a lens for receiving illumination from said imaging surface and for 
concentrating said illumination onto said medium. 
A system for exposing a medium comprising; 
   an imaging assembly for creating a physical image on an imaging surface; 

and 
   optical apparatus for directing light reflected from the imaging surface and 

representing the physical image onto a medium for exposure thereof, 
   and wherein said imaging surface and at least one of said optical apparatus 

and said substrate undergoes continuous movement during said exposure. 
A media exposure method comprising the steps of: 
   creating a physical image on a reflective imaging surface; and 

   illuminating said imaging surface and reflecting said image onto a medium 
to be exposed. 
A method according to claim 8 and wherein said creating step comprises magnetic 
imaging and said reflective imaging surface is a magnetic surface. 
A method according to claim 9 and wherein said magnetic imaging comprises locally 
magnetizing said magnetic surface in accordance with desired image data. 
A method according to claim 9 and wherein said magnetic imaging comprises 
magnetizing a strip of said magnetic surface and a laser writing for locally demagnetizing 

said strip of magnetic surface in accordance with desired image data. 
A method according to claim 8 and wherein said creating step comprises: 
   charging a photoconductive layer; 

   laser writing for locally discharging said photoconductive layer in accordance 
 

with desired image data, thereby to produce a latent image; 
   providing toner particles to charged portions of said latent image on said 

surface, thereby to produce said physical image; and 
   magnetically maintaining toner particles on said photoconductive layer while 

said light source illuminates them. 
A method according to claim 8 and including the step of moving said reflective 
imaging surface thereby causing said physical image to move. 
A method for exposing a medium comprising the steps of: 
   creating a physical image on an imaging surface; 

   illuminating said imaging surface; and 
   receiving illumination from said imaging surface and for concentrating said 

illumination onto said medium. 
A method for exposing a medium comprising; 
   creating a physical image on an imaging surface; and 

   directing light reflected from the imaging surface and representing the 
physical image onto a medium for exposure thereof, 

   and wherein said imaging surface and said substrate undergo continuous 
movement during said exposure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
