<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622864</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Antenna apparatus capable of producing desirable antenna radiation patterns without modifying antenna structure
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q124	H01Q100	H01Q148	H01Q300	H01Q124	H01Q300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q3	H01Q1	H01Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A portable communication system includes a first metal 
housing (12) for containing a high frequency circuit unit 

such as a transmitting circuit and a receiving circuit, a 
second metal housing (13) for containing a low frequency 

circuit unit such as a control circuit, and also an antenna 
(11) mounted on the first metal housing. An antenna 

apparatus for this portable communication system is 
arranged by the above-explained antenna, first and second 

metal housings, and also a control element (14) for 
controlling distribution of high frequency currents flowing 

through the first and second metal housings. An antenna 
radiation pattern of this antenna apparatus can be 

optimized by controlling an impedance of the control 
element. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CASIO COMPUTER CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIROSE MASANOBU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HIROSE, MASANOBU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to an antenna apparatus used in a portable
communication apparatus. More specifically, the present invention is directed to a
structure of an antenna apparatus capable of producing desirable antenna radiation
patterns without modifying the antenna structure.From US-A-4,721,962, and antenna for a transceiver, typically a cordless telephone, is
known, which is formed by a printed circuit board which is sub-divided by two separating
slits, located in respective separating planes into three adjacent regions, defining a first
end region adjacent a first slit, a second end region adjacent a second slit, and an
intimidate of central region between the slits. Electrical surfaces or conductive tracks are
connected across the slits by high-frequency impedance elements, such as high-resistance
resistors or chokes. A high-frequency unit is located preferably beneath the
intermediate region, and has a transmitter output stage, connected to a first lateral region
forming an antenna, with the intermediate and other end region forming director and
reflector elements; a receiver input of the high-frequency module is connected to the
other end region which, then, forms a receiving antenna with the intermediate and first
end region forming, respectively, director and reflector elements. The high-frequency
connections to the respective antennae are located close to the separating slits. The aim
of sub-dividing the board by two slits into three regions is to avoid use of a
transmit/receive switch, since the respective transmitting and receiving antenna regions
form oppositely located, respectively decoupled, internal antenna units.EP-A-0 548 975
which is prior art in accordance with Article 54.3 EPC, discloses a
portable radio and telephone equipment for transmitting and receiving an electric wave.
The equipment includes an antenna for transmitting and receiving an electromagnetic
wave, a housing connected to the antenna, having a notch therein; and an internal
circuit, connected to the antenna by way of the housing, for generating and receiving the
electromagnetic wave. The housing comprises an upper portion to which the antenna is
mounted, and a lower portion connected to the upper portion via a conductor wire. By
the division of the housing into two portions, the distribution pattern of the
electromagnetic wave is varied. As is well known in the field, an electromagnetic
radiation pattern of an antenna is varied when a
conductive article is located adjacent to this
antenna, since a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An antenna apparatus comprising:

a first conductor (12, 30);
an antenna (11, 50, 60) mounted on said first
conductor (12, 30);
a second conductor (13, 31, 46b) separately provided
with said first conductor (12, 30); and
a control element (14, 32) electrically connected
between said first conductor (12, 30) and said second

conductor (13, 31, 46b), for controlling distribution of
high frequency currents flowing through said first and

second conductors characterised in that the control element comprises either

a) a capacitor (27, 28) or
b) the series connection of a capacitor (14a) and a variable capacitor diode (14b)

whereby the capacitance of the control element has a value at which the
average radiation gain peaks.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said first conductor (12), said second conductor (13), and

said control element (14) are stored within a main body
case (40) made of a resin for a portable communication

apparatus.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein
said resin main body case (40) is arranged by a first

resin case (40a) and a second resin case (49b), which are
foldable via a hinge portion (40c) with respect to each

other; said first conductor (12) is stored within said
first resin case (40a); said second conductor (13) is

stored within said second resin case (40b), and said
control element (14) is stored into one of said first and

second resin cases.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 3,
wherein said first conductor is a conductive housing (12)

for storing therein a transmitting circuit and/or a
receiving circuit, and said antenna is a 1/4位 monopole

antenna (11) which is mounded on an upper surface of said
conductive housing, symbol "位" being a wavelength of an

electromagnetic wave received by said 1/4位 monopole
antenna.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 3,
wherein said first conductor is a conductive housing (12)

for storing therein a transmitting circuit and/or a 
receiving circuit, and said antenna (50, 60) is a plane

antenna which is mounted on a rear surface of said
conductive housing.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 3,
wherein said first and second conductors are conductive

housings (12, 13) for each storing therein a circuit unit,
the circuit units of said first and second conductors are

connected by a circuit connecting line (15) penetrating
through an opening portion (12a, 13a) formed in said first

and second conductive housings, and said circuit
connecting line is so arranged that said first and second

conductive housing are not shortcircuited with each other
via said circuit connecting line in view of the high

frequency currents.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein a
1/4位 open stub (18) is provided within said first and

second conductive housings, one end of which is connected
to said circuit connecting line, and the other end of

which is opened near said opening portion.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein
Sperrtopfs (23) are provided in the opening portions of

said first and second conductive housings, and said circuit
connecting line is penetrated through said Sperrtopfs

(23).
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein
said connecting line (15) is an optical fiber (24).
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 3,
wherein said first and second conductors are conductive

housings (12, 13) for each storing therein a circuit unit,
a speaker (41) is provided on said first conductive

housing, and a microphone (44) is provided on said second
conductive housing.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 3,
wherein said first and second conductors are conductive

housings for each storing a circuit unit, and said first
conductive housing (12) is positionally shifted from said

second conductive housing (13) along a front-to-rear 
direction.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein a
speaker (41) is provided at a position corresponding to

said first conductive housing (12) within said housing (40)
made of the resin, and a microphone (44) is provided at a

position corresponding to said second conductive housing
(13) within said housing (40) made of the resin.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein a
speaker (41) is provided within said first resin housing

(40a), and a microphone (44) is provided within said second
resin housing (40b).
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 13,
wherein said control element is a passive element.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 13,
wherein said control element is an element essentially

containing only a reactance component.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 13,
wherein said control element is an element whose impedance

is varied in response to an applied voltage thereto, and
said antenna apparatus further comprises a means (17b,

17d) for outputting a controlling voltage to said control
element so as to control the impedance of said control

element.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein
said controlling voltage outputting means is a means (17b)

for outputting a controlling voltage based upon operation
of a manual operation knob.
An antenna apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein
said controlling voltage outputting means is a means (17d)

for outputting a controlling voltage based on a strength
of a signal received by said antenna.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
