<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615334</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A power conversion system, and a method of power conversion using such a power conversion system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M766	H02M7757	H02M7155	H02M719	H02M712	H02M712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	H02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	H02M7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A power conversion system for converting between a.c. 
and d.c. power has a pair of line commutated converters 

(31,32;33,34) connected in series, and each is connected to 
a corresponding transformer (21,22;23,24), one of which 

transformers (21;23) is YY connected and the other (22;24) 
of which is YΔ connected. A pair of minimum voltage 

detectors (73,74;75,76) generate minimum voltage signals, 
a first one of the minimum voltage signals being YY related 

and a second one of the minimum voltage signals being YΔ 
related. The power conversion system has a control circuit 

(301;302) which generate two phase control signals for 
controlling the pair of line commutated converters 

(31,32;33,34) respectively. When a fault occurs in a.c. 
systems (11;12) connected to the power conversion system, 

the control circuit (301;302) generates the phase control 
signals on the basis of the first and second minimum 

voltage signals respectively. In this way, each of the 
line commutated converters (31,32;33,34) are controlled by 

an independent signal, so that the power conversion of each 
is optimized. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HITACHI, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMANO MASAHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONISHI HIROO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMANO, MASAHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KONISHI, HIROO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE, MASAHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a power 
conversion system for converting between a.c. and d.c. 
power. It is particularly, but not exclusively, 
concerned with power transmission between one a.c. 
system and another, where the power is transmitted in 
d.c. form and therefore has to be converted prior to, 
and after, transmission. The present invention also 
relates to a power transmission system incorporating 
such power conversion systems, to a control apparatus 
for such a power conversion system, and to a method of 
converting power using such a power conversion system. It is known to transmit power between two a.c. 
system via a d.c. power line. A power conversion 
system is connected between the power line and each of 
the two a.c. systems, to convert power from one a.c. 
system to d.c. power on the transmission line, and to 
convert the d.c. power on transmission line to a.c. 
power for the other a.c. system. In one known type of  
 
power converter, there is a pair of line commutated 
converters connected to the d.c. power line, the two 
line commutated converters normally being connected in 
series. The pair of line commutated converters are 
connected via a transformer system to the respective 
a.c. system. Normally, separate transformers are 
provided for each line commutated converter, but it is 
possible to provide a single transformer for each pair 
of line commutated converters if the power 
requirements of the transmission system are low. The pair of line commutated converter each has 
thyristors, and are controlled by a suitable control 
circuit to achieve the desired power conversion. In 
an arrangement for transmitting power from one a.c. 
system to another via a d.c. power line, depending on 
the direction of power transmission, the pair of line 
commutated converters of one power converter are 
operated to form an inverter, and the pair of line 
commutated converters of the other power converter are 
operated to form a rectifier. In such arrangements, 
it is known for each pair of line commutated 
converters to operate with their phases shifted by 30°, 
to form a 12-pulse power converter when they are 
connected in series. This phase shifting suppresses 
lower harmonics, such as 5th and 7th harmonics, 
thereby increasing the efficiency of power 
transmission.  
 One function of the control circuit for each pair of 
line commutated converters is to control the line 
commutated converters when there is a fault in the 
system, with the aim of providing minimum power losses 
and enable
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power conversion system having: 

a first line commutated converter (31;33) and a second 
line commutated converter (32; 34) for converting between 

a.c. and d.c. power, the first line commutated converter 
being connected in series with the second line commutated 

converter; 
YY - connected transforming means (21;23) connected to 
the first line commutated converter (31;33) for connecting it to AC power and YΔ - 

connected transforming means (22;24) connected to the 
second line commutated converter (32;34) for connecting it to AC power; and 
control means for controlling said first and second 
line commutated converters (31,32;33,34), said control 

means having first and second phase control circuits (AP1, 
AP2) arranged to generate first and second phase control 

signals respectively; 
 
   characterized in that: 


said first phase control signal is generated by said 
first phase control circuit (AP1) in dependence on the d.c. 

current through the first and second line commutated 
converters (31,32;33,34) and a voltage derived from the YY-connected 

transforming means (21;23), and said second phase 
control signal is generated by the second phase control 

circuit (AP2) in dependence on said d.c. current and a 
voltage derived from the YΔ-connected transforming means 

(22;24); 
said first line commutated converter (31;33) is 
connected to said first phase control circuit (AP1) and is  

 
arranged to receive said first phase control signal for 

controlling the power conversion thereof and said second 
line commutated converter (32;34) is connected to said 

second phase control circuit (AP2) and is arranged to 
receive said second phase control signal for controlling 

the power conversion thereof, whereby the extinction angle 
of the second line commutated converter (32;34) is 

controlled independently from that of the first line 
commutated converter (31;33). 
A power conversion system according to claim 1, 
wherein said control means includes a first comparison 

means (LV1) for comparing a first plurality of signals 
including said voltage derived from the YY-connected 

transforming means (21;23) and generating a first output to 
said first phase control circuit (AP1), said first output 

corresponding to a minimum one among said first plurality 
of signals, and a second comparison means (LV2) for 

comparing a second plurality of signals including said 
voltage derived from the YΔ-connected transforming means 

(22;24) and generating a second output to said second phase 
control circuit (AP2), said second output corresponding to 

a minimum one among said second plurality of signals. 
A power conversion system according to claim 1 
wherein: 


the control means includes first and second minimum 
voltage detection means (73,74;75,76) for deriving a YY 

minimum voltage signal from said YY-connected transforming 
means (21;23) and a YΔ minimum voltage signal from said YΔ-connected  

 
transforming means (22;24), said YY and YΔ 

voltage signals being independent, and control signal 
production means (301;302) for producing said first phase 

control signal using said YY minimum voltage signal and 
said second phase control signal using said YΔ minimum 

voltage signal, said control signal production means 
including said phase control circuits (AP1,AP2); 
d.c. current detector means (64) for detecting said 
d.c. current through said first and second line commutated 

converters (31,32;33,34) and generating a d.c. current 
signal; 
said control means includes means (AC1,AC2) for comparing 
the said d.c. current signal with a reference current 

signal (Ip) to generate a comparison signal; and 
said control means is arranged to produce said first 
phase control signal using said YY minimum voltage signal 

and said comparison signal, and to produce said second 
phase control signal using said YΔ minimum voltage signal 

and said comparison current signal. 
A power conversion system, according to claim 3 
wherein said control means comprises a first control 

channel (301a) linking said YY-connected transforming 
(21;23) means and said first line commutated converter 

(31;33), 
and a second control channel (301b) linking said 

YΔ-connected transforming means (22;24) and said second 
line commutator converter (32;34), each of said first and 

second control channels comprising:  
 


a corresponding one of said first and second minimum 
voltage detection means (73,74;75,76) 
an extinction angle control circuit (AG1,AG2) 
receiving a corresponding one of said YY and YΔ minimum 

voltage signals and a d.c. current signal and generating an 
extinction angle control signal; 
a current control circuit (AC1,AC2) for generating a 
current control signal from said d.c. current signal and a 

current reference signal; 
a voltage control circuit (AV1,AV2) for generating a 
voltage control signal from a reference current signal and 

the d.c. voltage across said first and second line 
commutated converters; 
a comparison means (LV1,LV2) for comparing said 
extinction angle control signal, said current control 

signal, and said voltage control signal so as to determine 
the minimum signal thereof; and 
the corresponding phase control circuit (AP1,AP2), 
which controls the corresponding line commutated converter 

(31,32;33,34) on the basis of said minimum signal. 
A power conversion system according to any one of the 
preceding claims, having means (63) for detecting the d.c. 

voltage across said first and second line commutated 
converters (31,32;33;34) and generating a d.c. voltage 

signal, said control means being arranged to produce said 
first phase control signal using said YY minimum volt
age 
signal, said d.c. voltage signal and a reference voltage 

signal (Vp), and to produce said second phase control  
 

signal using said YΔ minimum voltage signal, said d.c. 
voltage signal and said reference voltage signal (Vp). 
A power conversion system according to claim 3, 
wherein said control means further includes: 


a first extinction angle control circuit (AG1) 
receiving said YY related minimum voltage signal and said d.c. 

current signal and generating a first extinction angle 
control signal; 
a second extinction angle control circuit (AG2) 
receiving said YΔ related minimum voltage signal and said 

d.c. current signal and generating a second extinction 
angle control signal; 
a current control circuit (AC) for generating a 
current control signal from said d.c. current signal and a 

current reference signal (Ip); 
a voltage control circuit (AV) for generating a 
voltage control signal from a reference voltage signal (Vp) 

and the d.c. voltage across said first and second line 
commutated converters (31,32;33,34); 
a first comparison means (LV1) for comparing said 
first extinction angle control signal, said current control 

signal, and said voltage control signal so as to determine 
a first minimum signal thereof; and 
a second comparison means (LV2) for comparing said 
second extinction angle control signal, said current 

control signal, and said voltage control signal so as to 
determine a second minimum signal thereof; 
and wherein said first phase control circuit (AP1)  
 

controls said first line commutated converter (31;33) on 
the basis of said first minimum signal, and said second 

phase control circuit (AP2) controls said second line 
commutated converter (32;34) on the basis of said second 

minimum signal. 
A power transmission system comprising: 

a d.c. power line (51,52); 
first and second power conversion systems connected to 
opposite ends of said d.c. power line (51); and 
first and second a.c. systems (11,12) connected to 
said first and second power conversion systems 

respectively; 
wherein said first and second power conversion systems 
are each according to any one of the preceding claims. 
A method of power conversion in which power is 
converted between a.c. and d.c. power by first line 

commutated converters (31;33), a second line commutated 
converter (32;34), YY-connected transforming means (21;23) 

and YΔ-connected transforming means (22;24) for connecting the converters to AC power, said first and 
second line commutated converters (31,32;33,34) being 

connected in series, said YY-connected transforming means 
(21;23) being connected to said first line commutated 

converter (31;33) and said YΔ-connected transforming means 
(22;24) being connected to said second line commutated 

converter (32;34);
 
   characterized in that a first phase control signal is 

generated in dependence on d.c. current flow in the first 
and second line commutated converters (31,32;33,34) and a  

 
voltage derived from the YY-connected transforming means 

(21;23) and a second phase control signal is generated in 
dependence on said d.c. current and a voltage derived from 

the YΔ-connected transforming means (22;24) and
 
   said first and second line commutated converters 

(31,32;33,34) are controlled on the basis of said first and 
second control signals respectively, whereby the extinction 

angle of the second line commutated converter (32;34) is 
controlled independently from that of the first line 

commutated converter (31;33). 
A method of power conversion according to claim 8 
wherein: 


a YY minimum voltage signal and a YΔ minimum voltage 
signal are derived (73,74;75,76) from said YY-connected 

(21;23) and YΔ-connected (22;24) transforming means 
respectively, said YY and YΔ minimum voltage signals being 

independent; 
the d.c. current through the first and second line 
commutated converters (31,32;33,34) is detected and a d.c. 

current signal is generated; 
the d.c. current signal is compared with a reference 
signal and a comparison signal is generated 
said first phase control signal is generated using 
said YY minimum voltage signal and said comparison signal; 

and 
said second phase control signal is generated using 
said YΔ minimum voltage signal and said comparison signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
