<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642324</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INFLATABLE SEAT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61G710	A61G710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61G	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61G7	A61G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A seating device which comprises an inflatable seat (4) and an inflating means which provides for the controlled inflation and deflation of the seat. The seat (4) comprises a chamber defined by top, bottom and side walls (12, 13) which is connected to the inflation means. The inflation means comprises a motorised fan unit (20) and a control valve (6) connected by a supply pipe (10) to the seat (4). The device is inflatable from a deflated position on the base of a support surface such as a bath to an inflated position adjacent the rim of the bath such that a person sitting thereon can easily enter or exit the bath to bathe. The device is of particular use for handicapped or elderly persons and does not require mechanical actuation means and has sufficient inflatable characteristic to enable the seat to remain in a fixed position in relation to the bath.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JEANS EDWARD LEWIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JEANS, EDWARD LEWIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEANS EDWARD LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JEANS, EDWARD LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a seating device, especially but
not exclusively for use as a bathing aid. A particular
embodiment of the invention is a bathing seat which fits
inside a bath and which may be raised and lowered so as to
enable an elderly or a handicapped person to enter the bath
and be lowered to a position for bathing in the comfort of a
conventional bath tub.Many elderly and handicapped people experience difficulties
in simple movements which able bodied people take for
granted. For example climbing a flight of stairs is an easy
task for some people but to some elderly and handicapped
people the simple task becomes a hard one and to some it is
completely beyond their strength. Similar problems exist when
said elderly or handicapped people take a bath. To most
people the action of lowering themselves into and raising
themselves out of a bath is a very simple one but to others,
especially the elderly and handicapped, this is a very
difficult if not impossible task.Many elderly and handicapped people who have such
difficulties are tended by their family members. Bathing such
persons can be difficult for untrained people in particular
due to the requirement to lift the person in and out of the
bath. In the worst cases the help of two people is required
to lift or lower the said person into the bath however the
most common cases involve the elderly or handicapped person
requiring the aid of a helper to ensure that they do not fall
or injure themselves. This has the added disadvantage of
being potentially embarassing both to the helper and the
elderly or handicapped person.To overcome these problems a bathing chair of the type known 
can be used. One such known chair comprises a base unit which
has suction pads so as to firmly secure the chair to the
bottom of the bath, the base being connected to bellows which
are connected to the underside of a conventional plastic
seat. A power source is typically provided in the form of a
rechargeable battery which is connected to drive a pump which
in turn can pump water into the bellows so that the bellows
are inflated and thereby the seat is raised from the bottom
of the bath. An elderly or handicapped person can be
positioned on the seat and the bellows exhausted to lower the
seat and person thereon.Other forms of mechanically actuated seating aids are also
disclosed in German Patent application DE3825868 and European
Patent application 0131741. In the German patent application
the seat comprises a series of four hingedly connected
plates, each of which is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A seating device (2) comprising an inflatable seat (4) connected
with inflating means, said inflating means including a source (20) for

providing pressurised fluid and a control valve (6) for allowing the
inflation and deflation of the seat and characterised in that the

inflating means further includes a pressure sensing means (24) connected to
said valve to allow control of the pressurised fluid in the device (2).
A seating device according to Claim 1 wherein the seat (4)
comprises an inflatable chamber defined by top, side and bottom

walls (12, 13).
A seating device according to Claim 2 characterised in that the
side walls (12) are shaped such that when the seat is inflated, the side

walls assume substantially the contour of the sides of the support
surface such that the contact maintains the said seat in position.
A seating device according to Claim 3 characterised in that at
least a portion of said walls are further provided with suction means

(14) facing externally thereof such that in use the said suction means
contacts or contact at least the side or the base of the support

surface to render the seat in a fixed position therewith.
A seating device according to Claim 4 characterised in that
suction means (14) are provided on the lower half of the side walls

(12) and on the base (13) of the seat such that when the seat is in an
inflated or deflated state, fixed contact is maintained between the

seat and the support surface.
A seating device according to Claim 1 characterised in that the
control valve can be altered to cause the pressurised fluid source to

be switched on or off. 
A seating device according to Claim 6 characterised in that the
fluid source is a fan unit (20) providing blown air to the seat.
A seating device according to Claim 1 characterised in that the
control valve (6) can be altered to provide control of and

interruption in the inflation and deflation of the seat.
A seating device according to Claim 8 characterised in that the
control valve (6) is linked with the pressure sensing means said

means connected to the fan unit to switch the fan unit on or off
dependent on the gas pressure in the gas supply pipe to the valve.
A seating device according to Claim 9 characterised in that the
control valve (6) has defined therein a chamber linked to the

pressure sensing means such that, during inflation of the seat, the
chamber can be sealed to cause a build up of pressure therein to

activate the pressure sensing means and hence switch off the fan
unit.
A seating device according to Claim 10 characterised in that
further adjustment of the valve (6) causes the fan unit (20) to be

maintained in a switched off state.
A seating device according to any of the preceding claims
characterised in that said control valve has at least two settings; a

first setting to cause inflation of the seat; and a further position, to
allow deflation of the seat.
A seating device according to Claim 12 characterised in that said
valve has an intermediate setting to allow the seat, once inflated, to

be maintained in that position with the fan unit switched off.
A seating device according to any preceding claim characterised
in that the valve is provided with internal and/or external vents such 

that during the deflation of the seat gas is allowed to pass through
the vent, to escape and cause deflation of the seat.
A seating device according to Claim 14 characterised in that the
dimension of the vents in the control valve are such as to limit the

volume of gas which can escape at any one instant thereby providing
controlled deflation of the seat.
A seating device according to any preceding claim characterised
in that the control valve is manually operable by movement of two or

more components of the valve.
A seating device according to Claim 16 characterised in that
movement of the components is relative and is dictated by the

location of a pin in one of the components with a guide means
formed in the other component.
A seating device according to any of the preceding claims
characterised in that said support surface is a bath.
A seating device according to any of the preceding claims
characterised in that the seat is inflatable at least between a position

from the base of the bath to the rim of the bath to allow a person
sitting thereon to exit the bath.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
