<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631534</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR HANDLING A HINGED MAGNETIC MEMBER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B25J900	B25J900	B25J1506	B25J1506	B62D6500	B62D6514	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B25J	B25J	B25J	B25J	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B25J9	B25J9	B25J15	B25J15	B62D65	B62D65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC ROBOTICS NORTH AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FANUC ROBOTICS NORTH AMERICA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKEEL HADI A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAGER JAMES S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCANN RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKEEL HADI A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAGER JAMES S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCANN RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR HANDLING A HINGED MAGNETIC MEMBERTechnical Field5 This invention relates to methods and systems for constraining and for opening and closing a hinged member of a body and, in particular, to methods and systems for constraining and for robotically opening and closing a door of a body and 10 holding the door open without contacting the door.Background ArtA typical application where a fully automated door opening, holding, closing system is required is inside the paint booth of an automatic15 production plant. While painting a vehicle with a robotic manipulator, it is dangerous for a human to be inside its working envelope. During the painting cycle, doors must be opened and accurately held to a known position. This allows the robot to execute20 pre-taught paths to apply paint on the inside of the door and around trim locations consistently and without crashing into the vehicle door. Afterwards, the door must be closed to complete the paint application to the exterior and allow for the vehicle25 to index through the profile into and out of the booth.'itOne approach is illustrated in FIGURE 1 wherein a two-position (either open or closed), non- servo, pneumatically controlled arm 10 pivots about 

an axis 11 with a gripper 12 which grabs special fixture or tooling 14 attached to a vehicle door 16 is shown. This is a conventional approach that the assignee of the present application uses in its paint booths.The two position, non-servo controlled opening device, however, requires the attachment of fixtures to hold the vehicle door open. Fixtures are costly and require frequent maintenance. Also, the pivot axis of this device must be located directly under the door hinge. This area is typically one of the worst locations for overspray contamination. At this position the unit itself must be frequently cleaned and reliability decreases.Another approach is illustrated in FIGURE2 wherein a retractable pin 18 is attached to a two- axis, electric, servo-controlled manipulator 20, which is inserted through the window slot of the car door 22. The manipulator 20 is generally programmable within the radius determined by the pivot lengths of its two arms combined. Determining the position of the door window slot prior to inserting the pin 18 on the manipulator 20 is achieved via a seek routine requiring a proximity switch to actuate as a hook approaches the door 22. This method of holding the door 22 does not require fixtures on the vehicle door 22 and does allow for the two-axis manipulator 20 to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is:
1. A method for constraining a single first point (A) on a ferromagnetic body to a position in space defined by a second point (48) reachable by said first point by virtue of the constrained movement of said ferromagnetic body, the method comprising the steps of: locating a magnet (32) adjacent said second point (48) wherein the resultant magnetic force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body, when said first point is located at said second point, has a directional vector that intersects a first axis (45), and, wherein said magnet and said body are prevented from contacting each other by constraints limiting their movement along said first axis; and moving said ferromagnetic body such that said first point is at a third point (B) adjacent said second point and the force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body is adequate to move said ferromagnetic body from said third point towards said magnet to minimize the distance between said first and second points.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said ferromagnetic body is elongated and said magnet is elongated and pivoted to rotate angularly about said first axis such that the step of moving causes said elongated magnet to rotate about said first axis and align itself with said elongated ferromagnetic body. 


 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said ferromagnetic body is hinged to rotate about an axis substantially parallel to said first axis.
4. A method for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the method comprising the steps of: providing a magnetic holder mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot axis to align itself with an edge of the member at a holding position at the process station; providing a process robot with a tool; moving the robot through a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member; moving the robot through a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient magnetic strength to hold the member in the open position in a non- contact fashion; moving the robot through a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs the process within the body, wherein said magnetic holder remains at the holding position while the robot performs the process; moving the robot through a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position; and moving the robot through a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position. 


 5. The method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the step of providing the magnetic holder at the holding position includes the steps of: providing a programmable arm supporting the magnetic holder; and moving the programmable arm through an arm path so that the magnetic holder is located at the holding position.
6. The method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the magnetic holder is pivotally mounted on the programmable arm to permit the magnetic holder to pivot about the pivot axis from a predetermined angular position.
7. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the programmable arm includes means for returning the magnet to the predetermined angular position.
8. The method as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the programmable arm is adjustable in a substantially vertical direction.
9. The method as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the method further comprises the step of providing a track wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement along the track.
10. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement in unison along the track. 


 11. A system for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the system comprising: a magnetic holder mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot axis to align itself with an edge of the member at a holding position at the process station; a process robot having a tool and capable of moving along a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member, along a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient strength to hold the member in the open position in a non-contact fashion, along a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs a process within the body, along a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position and along a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position of the member wherein the open position remains immediately adjacent the holding position while the robot performs the process.
12. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the system further comprises a programmable arm for supporting the magnetic holder, the programmable arm moving through an arm path to position the magnetic holder at the holding position. 


 13. The system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the magnetic holder is pivotally mounted on the programmable arm to permit the magnetic holder to pivot about the pivot axis from a predetermined angular position.
14. The system as claimed in claim 13 wherein the programmable arm includes means for returning the magnetic holder to the predetermined angular position.
15. The system as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the programmable arm is rotatable about a pair of substantially vertical, non-coincident parallel axes.
16. The system as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the programmable arm is vertically adjustable.
17. The system as claimed in claim 12 or claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the system further comprises a track wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement on the track.
18. The system as claimed in claim 17 wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement in unison along the track.
19. A method for constraining a first point (A) on a ferromagnetic body to a position in space defined by a second point (48) reachable by said first point by virtue of the constrained 


movement of said ferromagnetic body, the method comprising the steps of: locating a magnet (32) adjacent said second point (48) wherein the resultant magnetic force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body, when said first point is located at said second point, has a directional vector that intersects a first axis (45), and, wherein said magnet and said ferromagnetic body are prevented from contacting each other by constraints limiting their movement along said first axis; and moving said ferromagnetic body such that said first point is at a third point (B) adjacent said second point and the force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body is adequate to move said ferromagnetic body from said third point towards said magnet to minimize the distance between said first and second points wherein said ferromagnetic body is elongated and said magnet is elongated and pivoted to rotate angularly about said first axis such that the step of moving causes said elongated magnet to rotate about said first axis and align itself with said elongated ferromagnetic body.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein said ferromagnetic body is hinged to rotate about an axis substantially parallel to said first axis. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 10 August 1993 (10.08.93); original claims 1-20 replaced by amended claims 1-16 (7 pages)]
1. A method for constraining a single first point (A) on a ferromagnetic body to a position in space defined by a second point (48) reachable by said first point by virtue of the constrained movement of said ferromagnetic body, the method comprising the steps of: locating a magnet (32) adjacent said second point (48) wherein the resultant magnetic force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body, when said first point is located at said second point, has a directional vector that intersects a first axis (45) , and, wherein said magnet and said [magnetic] body are prevented from contacting each other by constraints limiting their movement along said first axis; and moving said ferromagnetic body such that said first point is at a third point (B) adjacent said second point and the force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body is adequate to move said ferromagnetic body from said third point towards said magnet to minimize the distance between said first and second points, wherein said ferromagnetic body is elongated and said magnet is elongated and pivoted to rotate angularly about said first axis such that the step of moving causes said elongated magnet to rotate about said first axis and align itself with said elongated ferromagnetic body.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said ferromagnetic body is hinged to rotate about an axis substantially parallel to said first axis. 


 3. A method for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the method comprising the steps of: providing a magnetic holder mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot axis to align itself with an edge of the member at a holding position at the process station; providing a process robot with a tool; moving the robot through a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member; moving the robot through a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient magnetic strength to hold the member in the open position in a non- contact fashion; moving the robot through a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs the process within the body, wherein said magnetic holder remains at the holding position while the robot performs the process; moving the robot through a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position; and moving the robot through a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position wherein the step of providing the magnetic holder at the holding position includes the steps of: providing a programmable arm supporting the magnetic holder; and moving the programmable arm through an arm 


path so that the magnetic holder is located at the holding position, wherein the magnetic holder is pivotally mounted on the programmable arm to permit the magnetic holder to pivot about the pivot axis from a predetermined angular position.
4. The method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the programmable arm includes means for returning the magnet to the predetermined angular position.
5. The method as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the programmable arm is adjustable in a substantially vertical direction.
6. The method as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the method further comprises the step of providing a track wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement along the track.
7. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement in unison along the track.
8. A system for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the system comprising: a magnetic holder mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot axis to align itself with an edge of the member at a holding position at the process station; a process robot having a tool and capable 


of moving along a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member, along a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient strength to hold the member in the open position in a non-contact fashion, along a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs a process within the body, along a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position and along a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position of the member wherein the open position remains immediately adjacent the holding position while the robot performs the process wherein the system further comprises a programmable arm for supporting the magnetic holder, the programmable arm moving through an arm path to position the magnetic holder at the holding position, and wherein the magnetic holder is pivotally mounted on the programmable arm to permit the magnetic holder to pivot about the pivot axis from a predetermined angular position.
9. The system as claimed in claim 8 wherein the programmable arm includes means for returning the magnetic holder to the predetermined angular position.
10. The system as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the programmable arm is rotatable about a pair of substantially vertical non-coincident parallel axes. 


 11. The system as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the programmable arm is vertically adjustable.
12. The system as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the system further comprises a track wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement on the track.
13. The system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement in unison along the track.
14. A method for constraining a first point (A) on a ferromagnetic body to a position in space defined by a second point (48) reachable by said first point by virtue of the constrained movement of said ferromagnetic body, the method comprising the steps of: locating a magnet (32) adjacent said second point (48) wherein the resultant magnetic force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body, when said first point is located at said second point, has a directional vector that intersects a first axis (45) , and, wherein said magnet and said ferromagnetic body are prevented from contacting each other by constraints limiting their movement along said first axis; and moving said ferromagnetic body such that said first point is at a third point (B) adjacent said second point and the force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body is adequate to move said ferromagnetic body from said third point towards said magnet to minimize the distance between 



said first and second points wherein said ferromagnetic body is elongated and said magnet is elongated and pivoted to rotate angularly about said first axis such that the step of moving causes said elongated magnet to rotate about said first axis and align itself with said elongated ferromagnetic body.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein said ferromagnetic body is hinged to rotate about an axis substantially parallel to said first axis.
16. A system for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the system comprising: a magnetic holder located at a holding position at the process station; a process robot having a tool and capable of moving along a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member, along a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient strength to hold the member in the open position in a non-contact fashion, along a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs a process within the body, along a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position and along a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position of the member wherein the open position remains immediately adjacent the holding position while the robot performs the process wherein the system further 


comprises a programmable arm for supporting the magnetic holder, the programmable arm moving through an arm path to position the magnetic holder at the holding position and wherein the programmable arm is rotatable about a pair of substantially vertical, non-coincident parallel axes. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE19
The first prior art reference cited in the Search Report, the U.S. Patent to Larsson 4,946,336 discloses a system wherein the location of a magnetic holder pivoting axis is both positioned and orientation sensitive. The U.S. Patent to Larsson shows dependence on both position of the constraint point on the door and the orientation of the magnetic holder to achieve alignment with the bottom edge of the door. When a robot of Larsson moves at variable speeds with respect to a conveyor for line tracking applications, the mechanism illustrated in the Larsson patent requires that the holding mechanism must be mounted on a carrier independent of the robot. Also in the Larsson patent, the magnets of Larsson cannot self-align with the bottom edge of the door.
The second prior art reference cited in the Search Report, the U.S. Patent to Kiba et al. 4,498,414 discloses a device having tooling which requires a mimimum of one axis of motion. No provision is provided for securing the door during the process path taken by the process robot. Also, no provision is provided for detecting a door out of position during the process path taken by the robot. In this way, crashes between the robot and the door are likely. Finally, in the Kiba et al. patent, sensors are required to find the "door open" position after the robot completes its process path.
The third reference cited in the Search Report, the U.S. Patent to Akeel et al. 4,342,536 discloses the state of the art and it is not particularly pertinent to the claimed invention.
The prior art is to be contrasted with the present invention wherein no movable axes are required for tooling. Also, the door is secured by magnets during the process path taken by the robot. Furthermore, the door present detection exists to ensure that the door does not inadvertently enter the process path during the path execution of the robot. Consequently, no door location sensing is required with the 


present invention.
The construction of pivoting the magnetic holder of the present invention about the constraint position along with the self-aligning capability of the magnetic holder with the bottom edge of the door maximizes the holding strength of the magnetic force on the door and accurately holds the door in a known position. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
