<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0277624</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A COMPOSITION COMPRISING THE ADDITION PRODUCT OF A VINYL SULFONE DYE AND A SECONDARY AMINE AND PROCESS FOR DYEING A POLYAMIDE THEREWITH
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09B6244	C09B6244	C09B62503	C09B6700	C09B6724	D06P138	D06P138	D06P1384	D06P144	D06P162	D06P164	D06P1647	D06P324	D06P324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09B	C09B	C09B	C09B	C09B	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09B62	C09B62	C09B62	C09B67	C09B67	D06P1	D06P1	D06P1	D06P1	D06P1	D06P1	D06P1	D06P3	D06P3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Dyestuff compositions comprising the reaction product of 
a water-soluble, vinyl-sulfone type, reactive dye and a 

N-alkyl-amino-alkyl sulfonic acid and/or carboxylic acid or 
the salts thereof wherein the N-alkyl-amino-alkyl acid or 

salt is reacted with said dye in an amount of about 
0.5 to 1.0 mole per mole of dye. These dyestuff compositions 

used to dye synthetic polyamides according to a process 
where said composition is applied to a polyamide fiber from 

an aqueous solution having a pH from about 3 to about 4, 
preferably 3.5, and then fixed to said fiber by heat. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOECHST CELANESE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEICKE, MANFRED
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLEMING, SUZANNE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN CHAMBERS, THOMAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is directed to water-soluble, fiber-reactive 
dyestuff compositions and a process for using these 
compositions to dye polyamide fibers. The fiber-reactive, 
water-soluble dyestuffs useful in the practice of this 
invention are those of the vinyl-sulfone type which are 
well known. In the dyeing of a polyamide fiber, the vinyl 
sulfone group forms a chemical bond with the amino groups of 
the fiber which fixes the dye to the fiber by a strong 
covalent chemical bond. The chemical bonding of the dye molecule to the fiber by 
means of the vinyl sulfone group has many advantages. 
However, the vinyl-sulfone reactive dyes have not gained 
acceptance in the dyeing of the polyamide. This is because it is 
difficult to get well-penetrated, level, uniform dyeings 
especially with two or three color mixtures. The 
vinyl-sulfone type dyes tend to selectively concentrate on 
one portion of the fiber leaving other portions deficient in 
that color either due variations in the fiber's morphology 
or the strike rate of the dye or a combination of both. This 
problem is particularly evident in the dyeing of polyamide 
materials where the fiber is highly extended, for example, 
in nylon carpet or rug materials and where the dyeing is 
done by the continuous method. In the art, a dyestuff's initial diffusion and reactivity 
properties are characterized as its "strike" rate, and as 
used in the description it is intended to characterize the 
initial dyeing rate or uptake of a dye by a substrate in the 
early stages of the dyeing process. The strike rates of 
reactive vinyl-sulfone type dyestuffs towards polyamide 
fibers makes them unacceptable for many commerical polyamide  
 
dying applications, both in exhaust and continuous dyeing 
procedures where the acid dyes are more commonplace. Acid 
dyestuffs, however, form a salt bond with the polyamide 
which is susceptible to breaking under the influence of 
moisture and heat which results in a loss or bleeding of the 
dye, i.e. reduced fastness. The dyestuff compositions of this invention comprise the 
reaction product of vinyl-sulfone type reactive dyes with 
N-alkyl-amino-alkyl sulfonic and carboxylic acids or their 
salts, wherein mole ratio of the above secondary amine is 
about 0.5 to about 1 mole for each mole of vinyl-sulfone 
type dye. U.S. Patent No. 3,802,837 teaches that the reaction product 
of 1.5 to 4 moles of N-methyltaurine per mole of vinyl-­
sulfone type dye has increased solubility and increased 
reactivity in the exhaust dyeing of wool at
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A composition comprising the addition product of a fiber 
reactive, water-soluble dye, in particular of the general 

formula (1) 
      D―SO₂―Z)n      (1) 

wherein: 
D represents a dye chromophore preferably selected from 

the anthraquinone, dioxazine, formazan, phthalocyanine, 
monoazo and disazo series and their metal complexes, 

preferably copper, chromium, cobalt or iron complexes; 
Z represents the group -CH=CH₂ or -CH₂-CH₂-Y , 

wherein Y is a substituent capable of being split off 
by an alkaline reagent; 

n is an integer equal to 1, 2 or 3; 
with a secondary amine selected from a N-alkyl-amino-­

alkyl-sulfonic acid, a N-alkyl-amino-alkyl-carboxylic 
acid, a water-soluble salt thereof and mixtures of said 

acids and salts; 
said composition containing about 0.5 to 1.0 mole of 

said addition product per mole of said dye present in 
said composition. 
2. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said dye 
chromophore is selected from the anthraquinone, the 

phthalocyanine, the monoazo and the disazo series. 
3. A composition according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein, in 
formula (1), Z is a group of the formula -CH-CH₂-Y 

wherein Y is chloro, bromo, thiosulfato, sulfato, 
acyloxy, dimethylamino or dimethylamino. 
4. A composition according to at least one of Claim 1 to 3, 
wherein said secondary amine has the formula:

 
H――(CH₂)a―A 

wherein A represents a sulfonic acid or carboxylic acid 
group or a water-soluble salt thereof, R represents an 

alkyl group of 1 to 8, preferably of 1 to 4 carbons and 
"a" represents an integer from 1 to 25. 
5. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said secondary amine is an N-alkyl-amino-alkyl-­

sulfonic acid or the water-soluble salt thereof. 
6. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said secondary amine is N-methyltaurine or its 

water-soluble salt. 
7. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has, in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
8. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 


 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
9. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
10. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
11. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 


 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
12. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
13. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
14. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula  

and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 
with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
15. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
16. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
17. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
wherein x is 1.5 to 2 and y is 1.5 to 2, and said 

addition product is formed by reacting said dye with 
about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
18. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula 

 
and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 

with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
19. A composition according to at least one of claims 1 to 4, 
wherein said dye has in the free acid form, the formula  

and said addition product is formed by reacting said dye 
with about 0.5 to about 1 mole of said secondary amine. 
20. A mixture of at least two dyestuff compositions 
according to at least one of claims 1 to 19. 
21. A process for dyeing a synthetic polyamide fiber 
comprising: 


a) reacting a water-soluble, fiber-reactive, vinyl-­
sulfone dye with from 0.5 to about 1 mole of a 

secondary amine selected from N-alkyl-amino-alkyl 
sulfonic acids, N-alkyl-amino-alkyl carboxylic acids 

and the water-soluble salts thereof; and 
b) dyeing said fiber with an aqueous solution of the 
reaction product of step (a) hereof under acidic 

conditions at a pH range from about 3 to about 4. 
22. A process according to Claim 21 wherein said aqueous 
solution comprises at least two vinyl sulfone dyes of 

different colors. 
23. A method for modifying a water-soluble, vinyl-sulfone 
dyestuff for the purpose of attaining a uniform color 

shade when said dyestuff is used to dye a synthetic 
polyamide fiber, characterized by 


a) adding to said vinyl-sulfone dyestuff about 0.5 to 
about 1 mole of a secondary amine selected from 

 
N-alkyl-amino-alkyl sulfonic acids, k N-alkyl-amino-­

alkyl carboxylic acids and their water-soluble salts, 
per mole of vinyl-sulfone dye in said dyestuff; and 
b) said secondary amine being added in an amount 
effective to produce a uniform color shade after 

reaction with said vinyl-sulfone dye when applied to 
a synthetic polyamide fiber from an acidic aqueous 

solution having a pH value in the range of about 
3 to 4 to dye to polyamide fiber. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
