<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615814</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Blocking system for prescription lenses.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B24B13005	B24B13005	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B24B	B24B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B24B13	B24B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An adhesive blocking system (10), for generating and for 
fining and polishing eyeglass lenses (L), utilizes a collar (C) 

which slides over and engages a lens block (B), which lens 
block (B) is secured to a lens blank (L) by a relatively thick 

adhesive pad (A), to uniformly transfer pressure from the 
cylinder machine to the lens blank (L) without deforming the 

adhesive pad (A), which deformation adversely affects the 
optics. In this manner, a lens blank (L) is blocked only 

once for both generating and fining and polishing. In 
addition, the environmental risks and heating effects of 

current solder blocking systems are avoided. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT OPTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL OPTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEDY BRIAN HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEDY, BRIAN HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the blocking of 
optical lenses for fining and polishing. Prescription eyeglass lenses are often supplied to 
an optical laboratory in the form of a plastic blank. 
The blank is sized in diameter and thickness to be used 
in a large variety of eyeglass frames and for a large 
variety of prescriptions. Therefore, before the 
eyeglasses can be delivered to the customer, the optical 
laboratory must grind or generate the base and cross 
curves onto the back of the lens blank, fine and polish 
the generated surface of the lens blank to optical 
clarity, and edge the lens blank to the configuration 
necessary for the particular eyeglass frame chosen by the 
customer. The grinding, polishing, and edging operations are 
performed on machine tools which may be either manually 
or numerically controlled. It is necessary to position 
the lens blank during these processes, and the most 
common method of holding the lens is with a circular 
block secured to the front face of the blank. A lead 
solder may be used because of its low melting point 
(117°-121°F), speed in setting up, ease in deblocking, 
ease in reclaiming the alloy, and solid stability during 
the process. While this system is commonly used, it suffers from 
several drawbacks. Even though the solder has a  
 
relatively low melting point, the heat can cause problems 
with some lens materials. For this reason, the plastic 
lenses are first covered with a tape prior to blocking. 
In addition, while the alloy may be reclaimed, that 
requires additional steps, time, and processing 
equipment. Furthermore, this alloy system may pose 
environmental problems. The alloy not only contains 
lead, but also cadmium. Heavy metals may pose health 
risks to employees handling them and breathing their 
fumes, as well as a risk to the environment, particularly 
in the disposal of the water used in the reclaiming tank. Alternative methods of securing the block to the 
lens blank, such as with the use of a double-sided 
adhesive pad, are known. While these adhesive pads 
overcome of many of the environmental and health 
concerns, several problems still exist. The appropriate 
adhesive must exhibit a high resistance to torque because 
the lens blank is rotated on its geometric axis during 
the various generating and finishing processes. At the 
same time, however, the adhesive must have a low 
resistance to shear, because lab personnel must be able 
to remove the block and adhesive pad from the finished 
lens blank. In addition, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A collar for use in fining and polishing a lens, 
comprising: 

   a cylindrical body having first and second 
oppositely disposed faces and a circumferential wall 

extending therebetween; 
   a plurality of pressure contacts operatively 

associated with said first face for engaging a plurality 
of cylinder machine pressure pins; 

   a well opening on said second face for receiving 
therein a lens block; and 

   an edge extending from said second face and having a 
surface for contacting a face of a lens secured to a lens 

block received within said well. 
The collar of Claim 1, further comprising an 
interior wall and an interior surface normal thereto for 

therewith defining said well. 
The collar of Claim 1, wherein said edge is 
contiguous said circumferential wall. 
The collar of Claim 2, further comprising means 
for engaging cooperating means of a lens block so that 

axial stability of the lens block is maintained. 
The collar of Claim 4, wherein said engaging 
means is a pin disposed within said well parallel said 

interior surface. 
The collar of Claim 1, wherein said pressure 
contacts are hardened steel inserts. 
The collar of Claim 1, wherein said inserts 
extend in parallel normal to said first face. 
The collar of Claim 1, further comprising an O-ring 
extending from said contacting surface for 

contacting a face of a lens. 
The collar of Claim 8, wherein said O-ring is 
compressible. 
The collar of Claim 1, wherein said body is 
metallic. 
The collar of Claim 7, wherein there are two 
diametrically opposed inserts. 
A system for holding a lens blank, comprising: 
   a lens block; 

   a pad having adhesive applied to opposite sides 
thereof for securing said block to a lens blank; and

 
   a collar for receiving and engaging said lens block 

having a lens blank secured thereto. 
The system of Claim 12, wherein said lens block 
comprises a cylindrical element having first and second 

oppositely disposed faces, said first face having a 
nominal base curve and said second face having a 

plurality of generator pin locating holes disposed 
therein. 
The system of Claim 13, wherein said lens block 
further comprises means for cooperatively engaging said 

collar so that axial stability of said block is 
maintained. 
The system of Claim 14, wherein said 
cooperating means comprises a diametric slot opening on 

said second face. 
The system of Claim 15, wherein said collar 
comprises: 

   a cylindrical body having first and second 
oppositely disposed faces and a circumferential wall 

extending therebetween; 
   a plurality of inserts operatively associated with 

said first face for engaging a plurality of cylinder 
machine pressure pins;

 
   a well opening on said second face for receiving 

therein said lens block; and 
   a continuous edge extending parallel to the axis of 

said body from said second face and having a surface for 
contacting a face of a lens secured to said lens block 

when received within said well. 
The system of Claim 16, wherein said edge is 
radially outwardly spaced from said block and said pad 

thereby to reduce the pressure transmitted from said 
collar to the lens blank. 
The system of Claim 16, wherein said collar 
further comprises an interior wall and an interior 

surface normal thereto for therewith defining said well. 
The system of Claim 18, wherein said edge is 
contiguous said circumferential wall. 
The system of Claim 19, wherein said collar 
further comprises means for engaging said cooperating 

means. 
The system of Claim 20, wherein said engaging 
means is a roll pin disposed within said well parallel to 

said interior surface. 
The system of Claim 21, wherein said block is 
polymeric. 
The system of Claim 21, wherein said collar is 
metallic. 
The system of Claim 21, wherein said collar 
further comprises a compressible O-ring extending from 

said surface for contacting a front face of a lens. 
The system of Claim 21, wherein said slot has a 
bottom surface sufficiently spaced from said first face 

to prevent engagement with said pin. 
The system of Claim 25, wherein said holes 
extend beyond said bottom surface. 
The system of Claim 26, wherein a metal insert 
disposed with each of said holes. 
A system for holding a lens blank, comprising: 
   a circular polymeric block having first and second 

oppositely disposed faces, said first face having a 
nominal base curve for securing a lens blank thereto and 

said second face including a diametrically extending slot 
opening on said second face and on the periphery of said 

block;
 

   a circular collar having first and second oppositely 
disposed surfaces, said first surface including a 

plurality of diametrically opposed inserts extending 
perpendicularly therefrom, said second surface including 

an O-ring extending therefrom proximate the periphery of 
said collar for contacting the face of a lens blank and a 

centrally located well for receiving said block; and 
   a roll pin disposed proximate the back of said well 

for engaging said slot to maintain axial stability of 
said block. 
A lens block for use in finishing a lens blank, 
comprising: 

   a cylindrical element having first and second 
oppositely disposed faces; 

   a nominal base curve disposed in said first face for 
securing a lens blank thereto using a double-coated 

adhesive pad; 
   a plurality of generating pin locating holes 

disposed in said second face; and 
   means for engaging cooperative engagement means of a 

collar so that axial stability between said element and 
the collar is maintained without pressure being applied 

to said element by said collar. 
The lens block of Claim 29, wherein said 
cooperating means comprises a slot. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
