<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657224</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A foam dispensing system for a foamable liquid
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B700	B05B1100	B05B700	B05B1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B7	B05B11	B05B7	B05B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A foam dispensing system for a foamable liquid has a means for 
producing a spray of droplets in which the spray of droplets has key parameters 

of: the number averaged mean diameter and the mean axial droplet velocity. 
The foam dispensing system also has a foaming nozzle (10) connected 

to the means 
for producing a spray of droplets that is placed in fluid communication with the 

spray of droplets. The foaming nozzle (10) has a screen (120) which has 
a plurality of 

screen openings having a U.S. Sieve Series mesh range from 30 to 60 mesh. 
Key parameters of the screen (120) are: the percent open area is from 

about 35% to 
60%, and the screen openings are larger than the number average mean diameter 

of the spray of droplets. When the mean axial droplet velocity is at least 8 m/s, 
the spray of
 droplets is transformed into a foamed spray as the droplets pass 
through the plurality of screen openings. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to a foam dispensing system that transforms
spray droplets into a foamed spray via a foaming nozzle.Many consumer product packages known in the art utilize manually-actuated
pump sprayers to effectively atomize and evenly disperse products. U.S.
Patent No. 4,958,754, issued September 25, 1990 to Dennis discloses such a
package for use with products such as window cleaners, hair sprays, insect poisons,
carpet cleaners, automotive cleaners, and the like. Although such pump sprayers
are very effective at distributing a bulk liquid over a large coverage pattern area,
some applications are unsuitable for spray delivery. For example, when a product is
applied in a confined area such as a shower stall, fine spray droplets may be
inadvertently inhaled by the user creating potential health problems including
damage to the respiratory system.The pump sprayer industry has responded to these health concerns by
designing foaming nozzles that effectively aerate spray droplets to form a foamed
spray having a minimal number of unwanted fine spray particles. These foamed
sprays comprise large foamed particles having a plurality of bubbles which not only
reduce health risks, but, have performance benefits. The performance benefits
include improved visibility of the foamed product on the surface to be cleaned,
visually signaling the consumer the area is adequately covered by the product.
Furthermore, in context of cleaning products, the presence of foam provides the
consumer with a perception that cleaning is taking place. Finally, foamed sprays 
provide improved cling to vertical surfaces avoiding product run off as is
experienced with most liquid sprays.Despite the advantages foamed sprays have over liquid sprays, consumers
continue to demand improvements for foamed sprays. For example, consumers
prefer that foamed sprays have a wide and uniform coverage pattern to minimize
the number of pump strokes required to cover a targeted surface. Consumers also
prefer that the foamed sprays exhibit better cling to the vertical surfaces they are
applied to, thereby facilitating neater and more efficient use of the product. In
context of a cleaning product, good cling to a non-horizontal surface increases the
products residence time on the dirty surface to facilitate the breakdown of dirt and
grime and its subsequent removal from the surface.Consumers also desire foam dispensing systems requiring only minimal force
and work to dispense. Foam dispensing systems are not preferred by consumers if
they
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A foam dispensing system for a foamable liquid, said foam dispensing system
characterized by:


a) a spray system (20) for producing a spray of droplets, said spray of droplets
having a number averaged mean diameter and a mean axial droplet velocity

greater than 8 m/s;
b) a foaming nozzle (10) connected to said spray system (20) for producing said
spray of droplets, said foaming nozzle (10) placed in fluid communication with said

spray of droplets, said foaming nozzle (10) including a screen (120), said screen
(120) having a plurality of screen openings, each of said screen openings being

larger than said number averaged mean diameter of said spray of droplets, each
of said screen openings being square and having a side dimension ranging from

0.29 mm to 0.54 mm, and said screen (120) having a percent open area from 35%
to 60%, so that said spray of droplets is transformed into a foamed spray as said

spray of droplets passes through said plurality of screen openings.
The foam dispensing system according to claim 1, wherein said foaming nozzle
(10) connected to said spray system (20) provides an enclosed space between

said spray system (20) and said screen (120), open only at said screen (120), said
spray of droplets having an overall pattern dimension at said screen (120), and

said screen (120) having a dimension equal to said overall pattern dimension of
said spray of droplets, so that any air entering said space enters through said

screen (120) inside said overall pattern dimension of said spray of droplets. 
The foam dispensing system according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said
screen (120) of said foaming nozzle (10) has a mesh range from 30 to 60 U.S.

Sieve Series.
The foam dispensing system according to any of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said
spray of droplets passes through said screen openings such that a majority of

droplets foam upon contact with liquid bridges across said screen openings.
The foam dispensing system according to any of the preceding claims wherein
said spray system (20) for producing a spray of droplets is a manually-actuated

pump sprayer placed in fluid communication with and attached to a container (30)
of foamable liquid.
A foam dispensing system for a foamable liquid, said foam dispensing system
characterized by:


a) a spray system (20) for producing a spray of droplets, said spray of droplets
having a number averaged mean diameter from 0.02 mm to 0.05 mm and a mean

axial droplet velocity from 16 m/s to 18 m/s;
b) a foaming nozzle (10) connected to said spray system (20) for producing said
spray of droplets, said foaming nozzle (10) placed in fluid communication with said

spray of droplets, said foaming nozzle (10) including a screen (120) ranging in
U.S. Sieve Series mesh size from 30 to 60 mesh, said screen (120) having a

plurality of screen openings, each of said screen openings being square and
having a side dimension ranging from 0.29 mm to 0.54 mm, said screen (120) 

having a percent open area from about 40% to 46%, so that said spray of droplets
is transformed into a foamed spray as said spray of droplets passes through said

plurality of screen openings.
The foam dispensing system according to claim 6, wherein said foaming nozzle
(10) connected to said spray system (20) for producing a spray of droplets

provides an enclosed space between said spray system (20) and said screen
(120), open only at said screen (120), said spray of droplets having an overall

pattern diameter from about 3.5 mm to 4.5 mm at said screen (120) and said
screen (120) having a diameter equal to said overall pattern diameter of said spray

of droplets, so that any air entering said space enters through said screen (120)
inside said overall pattern diameter of said spray of droplets.
The foam dispensing system according to either claim 6 or claim 7 wherein said
spray of droplets passes through said screen openings such that a majority of

droplets foam upon contact with liquid bridges across said screen openings.
The foam dispensing system according to any of claims 6, 7 or 8 wherein said
means for producing a spray of droplets is a manually-actuated pump sprayer

placed in fluid communication with and attached to a container (30) of foamable
liquid, said pump sprayer comprising a spray discharge orifice having a diameter

from 0.60 mm to 0.62 mm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
