<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650284</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interface between text and voice messaging systems.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1258	H04L1258	H04M350	H04M353	H04M1100	H04M1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04M3	H04M3	H04M11	H04M11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for generating a voice message based on a text 
message from a text messaging system (12(1), 12(2) --, 16) is disclosed. The voice 

message may be stored in a voice messaging system (30(1) -- 30(N)) or may be 
directly transmitted to a recipient telephone number (32). The text messaging 

system comprises one or more addressable nodes (12(1) -- 12(m)) including a 
messaging system interface node (16), which receives the text message from the text 

messaging system based on its node address and generates a voice message 
responsive to the text message. Signals may be generated to access the voice 

messaging system (30(1) -- 30(N)), and the voice message may be communicated to 
the voice messaging system for storage. The voice message may comprise speech 

corresponding to the text of the text message, created, for example, by conventional 
text-to-speech synthesis techniques. The text message may also be communicated to 

a text message addressee with use of the text messaging system, and the voice 
message may comprise speech reflecting that a text message has been so 

communicated. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENZIAS, ARNO ALLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to automated messaging systems 
and specifically to the interconnection of computer-based text messaging systems 
and telecommunications-based voice messaging systems. Automated messaging systems have enjoyed widespread use in recent 
years. These systems provide a convenient and direct way of communicating a 
message to an individual, such as, for example, an individual who may not be 
immediately available to receive the message. In the field of telephone 
communications, for example, voice messaging systems allow a calling party to 
leave an audio message for a called party who is not presently available to receive a 
telephone call. Such systems vary in complexity from automatic telephone 
answering machines, typically employed in the home, to sophisticated voice 
messaging systems commonly connected with large PBX systems, such as the 
American Telephone and Telegraph Company's (AT&T's) DEFINITY® PBX 
system. Examples of the latter type include AT&T's AUDIX® voice messaging 
system for institutions and businesses. Simple voice messaging systems are activated when a called party fails 
to answer a telephone call. These systems typically record the voice message 
directly on conventional audio tape. In more sophisticated systems, the voice 
message may be converted into digital data for storage in computer memory and then 
converted back into voice signals upon retrieval by the message recipient. 
Sophisticated systems may also provide for direct message recording, without first 
requiring that the party to whom the message is directed fail to answer a telephone 
call. In the field of computer-based communication, text messaging systems 
allow one computer system user to send text messages to another user. These 
systems are commonly referred to as electronic mail, or "e-mail," systems. E-mail 
systems are commonly available on large computer systems (e.g., mainframes) 
which are shared by a number of users connected to the system by remote terminals, 
and on computers which are interconnected to other computers in a "network." Such 
computer networks include LANs (Local Area Networks) and WANs (Wide Area 
Networks), as well as otherwise independent computer systems interconnected 
through conventional telephone lines with the use of modems. In each of these  
 
cases, multiple users in different locations (i.e., different offices, different buildings, 
or even different cities or countries) are electronically interconnected enabling 
electronic communication
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of storing a voice message in a voice messaging system, the 
voice message based on a text message from a text messaging system, the text 

messaging system comprising one or more addressable nodes including a messaging 
system interface node, the text messaging system and the voice messaging system 

coupled by a communications network, the method comprising the steps of: 
   the messaging system interface node receiving the text message from 

the text messaging system based on an address of the messaging system interface 
node; 

   the messaging system interface node generating a voice message 
responsive to the text message; 

   communicating signals over the communications network to access the 
voice messaging system; and 

   communicating the voice message over the communications network to 
the voice messaging system for storage. 
The method according to claim 1 wherein the communications 
network comprises a telephone network and the signals comprise telephone access 

signals. 
The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of 
determining a voice messaging system address of a voice message addressee based 

on a text messaging system address, and wherein the step of communicating signals 
to access the voice messaging system comprises communicating said voice 

messaging system address. 
The method according to claim 3 wherein the voice messaging system 
address of the voice message addressee comprises a telephone number. 
The method according to claim 3 wherein the voice messaging system 
address of the voice message addressee comprises a lelephone extension. 
The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of 
determining the address of the messaging system interface node based on a text 

messaging system address of a text message addressee. 
A messaging system interface node for use in storing a voice message 
in a voice messaging system, the voice message based on a text message from a text 

messaging system, the text messaging system comprising one or more addressable 
nodes including the messaging system interface node, the text messaging system and 

the voice messaging system coupled by a communications network, the messaging 
system interface node comprising: 

   means for receiving the text message from the text messaging system 
based on an address of the
 messaging system interface node; 
   means for generating a voice message responsive to the text message; 

   means for communicating signals over the communications network to 
access the voice messaging system; and 

   means for communicating the voice message over the communications 
network to the voice messaging system for storage. 
The messaging system interface node according to claim 7 wherein the 
communications network comprises a telephone network. 
The messaging system interface node according to claim 7 further 
comprising means for determining a voice messaging system address for an voice 

message addressee based on a text messaging system address. 
A method of communicating a voice message, the voice message 
based on a text message from a text messaging system, the text messaging system 

comprising one or more addressable nodes including a messaging system interface 
node, the text messaging system and the voice messaging system coupled by a 

telephone network, the method comprising the steps of: 
   the messaging system interface node receiving the text message from 

the text messaging system based on an address of the messaging system interface 
node; 

   the messaging system interface node generating a voice message 
responsive to the text message; and 

   transmitting the voice message over the telephone network based on a 
recipient telephone number. 
The method according to claim 10 wherein the step of transmitting 
the voice message comprises transmitting the voice message to a person. 
The method according to claim 1 or 10 wherein the step of 
generating a voice message comprises performing text-to-speech conversion on the 

text message to produce the voice message. 
The method according to claim 1 or 10 further comprising the step of 
communicating the text message to a text message addressee with use of the text 

messaging system. 
The method according to claim 13 wherein the voice message reflects 
that a text message has been communicated with use of the text messaging system. 
The method according to claim 10 further comprising the step of 
determining the recipient telephone number based on a text messaging system 

address. 
The method according to claim 10 further comprising the step of 
determining the address of the messaging system interface node based on a text 

messaging system address of a text message addressee. 
A messaging system interface node for use in communicating a 
voice message, the voice message based on a text message from a text messaging 

system, the text messaging system comprising one or more addressable nodes 
including the messaging system interface node, the text messaging system and the 

voice messaging system coupled by a telephone network, the messaging system 
interface node comprising: 

   means for receiving the text message from the text messaging system 
based on an address of the messaging system interface node; 

   means for generating a voice message responsive to the text message; 
and 

   means for transmitting the voice message over the telephone network 
based on a recipient telephone number. 
The messaging system interface node according to claim 7 or 17 
wherein the means for generating a voice message comprises means for performing 

text-to-speech conversion on the text message to produce the voice message. 
The messaging system interface node according to claim 17 further 
comprising means for determining the recipient telephone number based on a text 

messaging system address. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
