<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640965</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetic head apparatus and manufacturing methods
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4514	G11B558	G11B11105	B29C4514	G11B558	G11B548	G11B548	G11B1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	G11B	G11B	B29C	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C45	G11B5	G11B11	B29C45	G11B5	G11B5	G11B5	G11B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Magnetic head apparatus for a magneto-optical recording medium 
recording and/or reproducing apparatus includes a head body (22) and an 

arm-shaped support mechanism. The head body includes a magnetic head 
unit (27) for generating a perpendicular magnetic field, and a 

sliding-contact portion (28) to which the magnetic head unit is secured 
and which is slidable along a magneto-optical recording medium in 

contact with a surface of the recording medium. The arm support 
mechanism to which the head body is secured is movable in such a 

direction that the magnetic head unit can be in contact with or 
displaced from the recording medium. The arm-shaped support mechanism 

has an arm portion, a fixed portion and first and second elastic 
displacing portions (29b, 29d). The head body is secured to one end 

side of the arm portion through the first elastic displacing portion. 
The fixed portion has one fixed end and another end which is linked to 

the other end of the arm portion through the second elastic displacing 
portion. The arm-shaped support mechanism may be disposed so as to 

sandwich the central axial line of the support mechanism and may 
include a pair of plate-shaped elastic members constituting the first 

and second elastic displacing portions, and a resin portion which is 
provided at both sides of at least one of the elastic members and forms 

the arm portion and the fixed portion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI TOMOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANAKA HIDEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, TOMOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANAKA, HIDEO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to magnetic head apparatus and methods of
manufacturing magnetic heads. The invention is particularly applicable
to a magnetic head which is slidable along the surface of a recording
medium in contact with the recording medium.A magneto-optical disc has been proposed as a so-called writable
optical disc allowing write-in, deleting and read-out of information by
means of a light beam.Fig. 1 shows the construction of such a magneto-optical disc. As
shown in Fig. 1, the magneto-optical disc 1 includes a transparent
substrate 2, a magneto-optical recording layer 3 formed of a
perpendicular-magnetization film which is formed on the transparent
substrate 2, a reflection film 4 formed of a metal thin film such as an
aluminum film which is laminated on the magneto-optical recording layer
3, and a protection film 5 formed of a resin which is cured by
ultraviolet rays or the like which is formed on the reflection film 4.As recording modes for magneto-optical discs, a magnetic field
modulation mode, an optical modulation mode, etc. have been proposed.
In the magnetic-field modulation mode, an over-writing operation in
which new signals are over-written on old signals can be performed. In
a magneto-optical recording and/or reproducing apparatus using the
magnetic-field modulation mode, as shown in Fig. 2, an optical pickup
(not shown), for irradiating a light beam 6 onto the magneto-optical
disc 1, and a magnetic-field generating means, that is, a magnetic
head 7 which is moved in synchronism with the light beam spot, are
disposed such that the magneto-optical disc 1 is sandwiched between the
optical pickup and the magnetic head 7. More particularly, the optical
pickup is disposed to face the substrate 2 through an objective lens
and the magnetic head 7 is disposed to face the protection film 5.
When an information signal is recorded on the magneto-optical disc, the
direction of current flowing in the magnetic head 7 is varied in
accordance with the information signal to be recorded to change the
direction of the generated perpendicular magnetic field.The magneto-optical disc 1 is rotated around its center portion
at a constant linear velocity or at a constant angular velocity during
a recording or reproducing operation. By supplying a perpendicular magnetic field corresponding to a
recording signal to a light beam spot 6a and its periphery, a portion
1A which is required to be rewritten is heated to a temperature more
than its Curie temperature by the light beam spot 6a, whereby the
portion
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Magnetic head apparatus comprising:

a head body (22) comprising a head unit (27) and a sliding-contact
portion (28) which is slidable along a recording medium in contact with a surface of

the recording medium while supporting said head unit; and
support means for supporting the head body (22),
said magnetic head apparatus being characterised in that: said support

means comprises first (23) and second (24) support portions and first (29b) and
second (29d) elastic displacing portions, said head body (22) being secured to one end

side of said first support portion through said first elastic displacing portion, and said
second support portion having one end which is secured to a fixed end and the other

end which is linked to said first support portion through said second elastic displacing
portion, and wherein said support means includes at least one elastic member (29)

constituting said first and second elastic displacing portions and a resin portion which
is fixed to said elastic member; and said first elastic displacing

portion (29b) supports said head body (22) such that said head body (22) can move
relative to said first support (23) without contacting said first support (23).
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said support
means is an arm-shaped support means and said elastic member is a plate-shaped

elastic member.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 or 2,
wherein said resin portion is integrally provided with said elastic member.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said
supporting means is an arm-shaped support means and said support means is arranged

to sandwich the central axial line thereof and includes a pair of plate-shaped elastic
members (129) and a resin portion which is provided at both sides of at least one of

said elastic members to form said first and second support portions. 
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
wherein said sliding-contact portion is integrally provided to said elastic member at

the tip side of said elastic member.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
wherein said first and second elastic displacing portions are formed in a direction

which is substantially perpendicular to a link direction of said first and second arm
portions.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein
said resin portion is formed to be sandwiched between upper and lower portions of

said elastic member.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
wherein a contact face of said sliding-contact port
ion with the recording medium is
a circular-arc shape in section.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
wherein said second elastic displacing portion has a stronger elastic force than said

first elastic displacing portion.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein
said first and second elastic displacing portions are formed so as to be displaceable

in such a direction that said head body is in contact with or displaced from the
recording medium.
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
wherein the tip side of said elastic member is further provided with a substantially

U-shaped elastic displacing portion, and said head body is secured to a free end side
of said U-shaped elastic displacing portion while a base end side of said U-shaped

elastic displacing portion is linked to said first elastic displacing portion. 
Magnetic head apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
wherein said elastic member is formed of conductive metal material, and electrically

connected to said magnetic head unit.
A method of manufacturing a magnetic head apparatus comprising at
least one plate-shaped elastic member (29) constituting first and second elastic

displacing portions, a head body (22) to which a magnetic head unit (27) is secured,
and first and second support portions, which are formed of resin, the head body and

the first support portion being linked to each other at the first elastic displacing
portion, and the first and second support portions being linked to each other at the

second elastic displacing portion, the method comprising the steps of:

pinching portions serving as the first and second elastic displacing
portions by male and female molds in a state where the elastic member is inserted

into plural cavities of the male and female molds, which are used to form the first and
second support portions; and
injecting resin into the plural cavities to form the head body and the first and
second support portions integrally with the elastic member so as to sandwich the

elastic member from the upper and lower sides in a thickness direction of the elastic
member.
A method as claimed in claim 13, including the step of suitably
disposing plural pieces formed of the same resin as the resin used for the head body

and the first and second support portions between the inner surfaces of the cavities
and the elastic member in a state where the elastic member is sandwiched between

the male and female molds.
A method as claimed in claim 13 or 14 including the step of securing
the magnetic head unit to the head body portion after a molded product is taken out

from the molds.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
