<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653965</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fluid delivery system uitlizing multiple port valve
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N130	B01J400	G01N100	C07H2104	G01N131	C07K104	C40B4006	B01J400	C07H2100	C07K100	C40B6014	B01J1900	C40B6014	B01J1900	G01N100	C07H2100	C40B4004	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	B01J	G01N	C07H	G01N	C07K	C40B	B01J	C07H	C07K	C40B	B01J	C40B	B01J	G01N	C07H	C40B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	B01J4	G01N1	C07H21	G01N1	C07K1	C40B40	B01J4	C07H21	C07K1	C40B60	B01J19	C40B60	B01J19	G01N1	C07H21	C40B40	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to the implementation of a multi-port rotary valve in an automated chemistry processing instrument which reduces chemical reagent cross contamination and simplifies system design and control. One or more multi-port rotary valves are used in conjuction with isolation valves which are each dedicated for an associated reagent in the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention, the instrument utilizes a multi-port valve which defines several fluid branches each associated with a reagent. The valve has a common inlet and common outlet which are selectively brought into fluid communication with the branches in a controlled sequence. At each branch, there is a two-way three-port isolation valve which controls introduction of an associated reagent into the branch. When a branch is selected by the rotary valve, the reagent introduced into the branch is delivered out of the common outlet by the flow from the common inlet. According to another embodiment of the present invention, the reagents are introduced through isolation valves between two multi-port rotary valves.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COASSIN PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COASSIN, PETER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to fluid 
delivery systems, and more particularly to a multiple 
port fluid delivery system for use in automated chemistry 
processing instruments. For fluid delivery systems designed for 
handling several types of fluids in a flow system, one of 
the design concerns is to reduce cross contamination 
between the fluids. Especially for systems handling 
chemical reagents, cross contamination between different 
reagents often adversely affects the chemical integrity 
of the reagents and thus the efficiency of the controlled 
chemical reactions that involve such reagents. For 
example, in an automated nucleic acid synthesis 
instrument, various steps are carried out by a reagent 
delivery system which dispenses a number of chemical 
reagents, in a predetermined sequence into a synthesis 
reaction column. This sequence is carried out in 
accordance with instructions from a system controller or 
computer. The synthesis efficiency depends in part on 
the integrity of the reagents. An example of a nucleic acid synthesis 
instrument is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5,112,575 to 
Whitehouse et al. which includes, in pertinent part, 
a plurality of liquid reactants and reagents for 
synthesizing peptides or polynucleotides. A manifold is 
provided having sufficient inlets to receive each liquid  
 
reactant or reagent and a common inlet to receive a wash 
liquid. Each inlet has a pair of tandem two-way valves, 
both of which share the same outlet that feeds into the 
manifold. All of the outlets of each pair of tandem 
valves feed into a common outlet of the manifold. The 
manifold is connected to a reaction column, and a 
controller is provided to control the flow of reactants 
or reagents and a wash fluid through the instrument. As a background, the chemistry of nucleic acid 
synthesis (generally referred to as "DNA synthesis") is 
well known. Generally, this is the process of 
constructing synthetic single-stranded oligonucleotide 
through linking of various nucleotides which are the 
basic building blocks of DNA. DNA synthesis is described 
generally in U.S. Patent No. 4,458,066 issued to 
Caruthers et al., entitled "Process for Preparing 
Polynucleotides". 
The process described therein constructs a 
single-stranded oligonucleotide using one of several 
approaches in synthesizing DNA, namely the so-called 
solid-phase phosphoramidite method which generally 
involves the steps of deblocking/activation, coupling, 
capping and oxidation in each synthesis cycle for linking 
a building
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for a fluid delivery system comprising:
 
   means for supplying a first fluid,
 
   a valve means having a plurality of fluid 

branches, each of said fluid branches having an inlet 
port and an outlet port, with said inlet port connected 

in constant fluid communication with said outlet port,
 
   a first common port and a second common port, 

said first common port connecting to said supply means,
 
   means for alternatively selecting fluid flow 

through a selected fluid branch by bringing said common 
input port into fluid communication with said outlet 

port, and bringing said common output port into fluid 
communication with said inlet port to uniquely associate 

said selecting means with a selected fluid branch, 
thereby preventing cross contamination between said fluid 

branches, and
 
   a plurality of isolation valves, each coupled 

to one of said fluid branches, each of said plurality of 
isolation valves connected to an external fluid and 

operating to control a flow of said external fluid into a 
fluid branch. 
The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the valve means 
is an integrated rotary valve having means for accessing 

the two ends of said selected fluid branch 
simultaneously.  

 
The apparatus as in claim 1 with said valve means 
having a first and a second multi-port valve, said first 

valve having a common inlet and a plurality of outlets, 
said second valve having a plurality of inlets and a 

common outlet and said selecting means including a first 
means for alternatively selecting fluid flow from said 

common inlet through one of said outlets and a second 
means for alternatively selecting fluid flow from one of 

the inlets to the common outlet, whereby each fluid 
branch is defined between a pair of said plurality of 

inlets and outlets, and the common inlet corresponds to 
the first common port of the valve means, the common 

outlet corresponds to the second common port of the valve 
means, each of said outlets correspond to an outlet port, 

and each of said inlets corresponds to an inlet port, 
wherein the isolation valves are each coupled between a 

pair of said plurality of inlets and outlets for 
controlling flow of the external fluid into a selected 

fluid branch between the first and second valves. 
The apparatus as recited in claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein 
each of said isolation valves is coupled to each of said 

fluid branches, equidistant between said inlet port and 
said outlet port of each of said fluid branches. 
The apparatus as recited in claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 
wherein said external fluids are reagents and further 

including a reaction chamber coupled to said second 
common port to receive said contents of said fluid 

branches in a predetermined sequence for carrying out a 
desired reaction. 
The apparatus as recited in claims 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 
wherein each of said fluid branches are of equal length.  

 
The apparatus as recited in claims 5 or 6 wherein the 
reagents are suitable for nucleic acid synthesis. 
The apparatus as recited in claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 
or 7 further including a plurality of conduits and a 

plurality of chambers containing said external fluid, a 
first end of each of said conduits connecting to a 

chamber, a second end of said conduits connecting to each 
of said isolation valves, wherein each of said conduits 

are the same length. 
The apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein each of 
said chambers are arranged in a circular symmetrical 

configuration around said valve means. 
The apparatus as recited in claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 
7, 8, 9 or 10 wherein said isolation valve is a two-way 

three-port valve, and said apparatus is automated. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
