<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659274</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF SAMPLE PREPARATION FOR URINE PROTEIN ANALYSIS WITH CAPILLARY ELECTROPHORESIS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J20281	B01J20285	C07K100	C07K116	C07K126	G01N110	G01N110	G01N136	G01N136	G01N27447	G01N27447	G01N3000	G01N3014	G01N3088	G01N33487	G01N3349	G01N3349	G01N33493	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	C07K	C07K	C07K	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J20	B01J20	C07K1	C07K1	C07K1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N27	G01N27	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Processes are provided for pretreating body fluid compositions and subsequently analyzing the pretreated body fluid compositions for analytes of interest. Processes for pretreating the compositions include providing size exclusion gel having a molecular weight fractionation range or a molecular weight exclusion such that the size exclusion gel is capable of excluding or fractionating the analytes of interest, and then causing the composition to contact the size exclusion gel in order to separate the analytes from low molecular weight composition components which interfere with the separation and analysis of the analytes of interest. Processes for analyzing pretreated compositions include electrophoretic methods such as capillary zone electrophoresis which involve the separation and detection of analytes of interest.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU CHENG-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG HANN-PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIU, CHENG-MING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, HANN-PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF SAMPLE PREPARATION FOR URINE PROTEIN ANALYSIS WITH CAPILLARY ELECTROPHORESISBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to processes for preparing body fluid samples for their subsequent analysis using sample component separation techniques. More particularly, the present invention involves methods for removing low molecular weight components from urine samples, thus providing samples which are free of compounds which interfere with the electrophoretic separation and detection of higher molecular weight species.2. Description of Relevant ArtProteins present in mammalian body fluids such as whole blood, serum, plasma, cerebrospinal fluids, tears, sweat, saliva and urine are useful as indicators of the presence or absence or certain disease states. Thus, the ability to identify and quantitate a variety of proteins in body -fluid clinical samples can provide diagnosticians a great deal of information leading to the diagnosis of a variety of diseases.For example, patients inflicted with kidney disease will excrete urine containing albumin and other serum proteins which are typically absent in the urine of healthy individuals. Additionally, the urine of myeloma patients is known to have free light chain gamma globulins, proteins not normally excreted in the urine of patients free of myeloma. Accordingly, techniques for identifying and quantitating these and other protein components of clinical urine samples can provide indicators of abnormal conditions such as kidney disease and the presence of myeloma in patients. 

 A number of techniques involving the analysis of proteins found in body fluids are known. These range from wet chemistry methods which simply indicate the presence or absence of proteins to relatively complex methods involving the separation, identification, and quantitation of proteins which may be present at very low concentrations. These methods typically involve separating the fluid components using electrophoretic or chromatographic techniques followed by detecting the separated proteins. Typically, the detection methods involve directly analyzing the separated proteins by measuring their uv absoφtion using a detection wavelength at which the protein has a relatively high absorbance. Other optical detection methods include those which involve labelling the sample proteins with fluorescent labels or chemiluminescent labels and then detecting the separated proteins using fluorescent or chemiluminescent detectors. All of these methods
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A process for pretreating a clinical liquid composition prior to analyzing said clinical liquid composition for at least one analyte having an analyte molecular weight, said process comprising the steps: providing size exclusion gel having a molecular weight fractionation range or molecular weight exclusion such that said size exclusion gel is capable of fractionating or excluding said at least one analyte; causing said composition to contact said size exclusion gel to provide a gel eluent, said gel eluent comprising said at least one analyte, wherein said size exclusion gel separates said analyte from low molecular weight components of said liquid composition.
2. The process of claim 1 wherein providing said size exclusion gel is accomplished by packing said size exclusion gel in a column.
3. The process of claim 2 wherein causing said composition to contact said size exclusion gel is accomplished by passing said composition through said column, whereby said at least one analyte is excluded or fractionated by said size exclusion gel.
4. The process of claim 1 wherein said size exclusion gel is prepared from a polymer selected from the group consisting of polyacrylamide gel and polysaccharide gel.
5. The process of claim 1 wherein said composition is mammalian urine. 


 6. The process of claim 5 wherein said analyte is selected from the group of proteins consisting of Bence Jones, albumin, transferrin, α-
2
 macroglobin, immunoglobulin, haptoglobin and α, antitrypsin.
7. The process of claim 1 wherein said size exclusion gel has a molecular weight fractionation range selected from the group consisting of 1,000 - 6,000 and 2,500 to 40,000.
8. The process of claim 1 wherein said size exclusion gel has a molecular weight cut-off of at least about 6,000.
9. A process for treating urine samples prior to analyzing said urine for proteins having a molecular weight greater than 6,000, said process comprising the steps: providing a column packed with size exclusion gel having a molecular weight cut-off of at least 6,000; and passing said urine sample through said column, wherein said size exclusion gel excludes urine sample components having a molecular weight greater than 6,000.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein said size exclusion gel is prepared from polymers selected from the group consisting of polyacrylamide gels and polysaccharide gels.
11. The method of claim 9 wherein said urine sample components are selected from the group of proteins consisting of Bence Jones protein, albumin, transferrin, α
2
 macroglobin, haptoglobin, a
x
 antitrypsin and gamma globulin. 


 12. A process for pretreating, separating and determining at least one analyte having a analyte molecular weight range in a clinical sample, said process comprising the steps: providing size exclusion gel having a molecular weight fractionation range or molecular weight exclusion such that said size exclusion gel is capable of fractionating or excluding said at least one analyte; causing said clinical sample to contact said size exclusion gel to provide an eluent comprising said analyte; subjecting said eluent to electrophoresis; and detecting said analyte.
13. The process of claim 12 wherein providing said size exclusion gel is accomplished by packing said size exclusion gel in a column.
14. The process of claim 13 wherein causing said clinical sample to contact said size exclusion gel is accomplished by passing said clinical sample through said column to provide a column eluent comprising said analyte, whereby said analyte is excluded or fractionated by said size exclusion gel.
15. The process of claim 12 wherein said size exclusion gel is prepared from a polymer selected from the group consisting of polyacrylamide gel and polysaccharide gel.
16. The process of claim 12 wherein said clinical sample is mammalian urine.
17. The process of claim 12 wherein said analyte is selected from the group of proteins consisting of Bence Jones, albumin, transferrin, α
2
 macroglobin, immunoglobulin, haptoglobin, and αj antitrypsin. 


 18. The process of claim 12 wherein said exclusion gel has a molecular weight cut-off of at least 6,000.
19. The process of claim 12 wherein subjecting said eluent to electrophoresis comprises the steps: a) loading said eluent onto a electrophoresis buffer filled capillary; and b) subjecting said electrophoresis buffer filled capillary to an electric field.
20. A process for separating and determining at least one urine analyte in a urine clinical sample, said analyte having a molecular weight greater than about 6,000, said process comprising the steps: providing size exclusion gel having a molecular weight cut-off of at least about 6,000; causing said urine clinical sample to contact said size exclusion gel to provide an eluent comprising said analyte; subjecting said eluent to capillary electrophoresis; and detecting said analyte. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
