<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622774</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System-provided window elements having adjustable dimensions
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G514	G09G514	G06F944	G06F944	G06F3048	G06F3033	G06F3033	G06F3048	G06F314	G06F314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G5	G09G5	G06F9	G06F9	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An operating system provides a number of window 
elements that the operating system itself or applications may 

use in displaying a window. The operating system includes a 
dialog box for enabling a user to adjust the individual sizes 

of the respective window elements independently of the size of 
the window. The bitmaps for the window elements are stored in 

a cache that is re-drawn each time the user changes the size 
of any of the window elements. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGDAN JEFFREY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGDAN, JEFFREY L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a data processing system and a method for use in a data
processing system and, in particular, relates to a system and a method allowing to
customise the size of window elements provided by an operating system.The WINDOWS, Version 3.1, Operating System, sold
by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond, Washington, provides
resources to application programs for generating windows
on a visual display. In particular, the operating system
provides bitmaps for the window elements. As a result,
every window that is generated by the application programs
has a similar appearance. In order to understand what
kind of bitmaps the operating system stores for window
elements, it is helpful to first review what kind of
elements are typically included in a window.Figure 1 shows an example of a typical window 10
generated by an application program. The window
includes a system menu box 12, which may be opened by a
user to display a list of system commands available to the
user. The window 10 also includes a caption or title
bar 14 that displays a title or a caption for the
application program that is executing. A menu bar 16 is
included in the window 10 to display application commands
that the user may perform in the current application. A
minimize button 18 and a maximize button 20 are also
provided in the window 10 to allow a user to minimize or
maximize the size of the window. When maximized, the
window 10 occupies most of the video display screen. When
minimized, the window 10 appears as an icon. The
winnow 10 also includes a sizing border 22 which may be
dragged using a pointing device, such as a mouse, to 
adjust the size of the window 10. The window 10
additionally includes a client area 24 in which the
application program may display output.The window 10, likewise, includes scroll bars 26
for scrolling through the contents of a document that is
displayed in the client area 24. A vertical scroll bar
and a horizontal scroll bar are included in the window 10
of Figure 1. Each of the scroll bars 26 includes a scroll
box or a thumb 29 that travels the length of the scroll
bar to indicate the current position of the displayed
document that is shown in the client area 24 relative to
the entire contents of the document being displayed.
Scroll bar arrows 28 are provided at each end of the
scroll bars 26. A user may click a mouse on the arrows at
the respective ends to scroll the contents displayed on
the screen in the direction of the arrow.The operating system provides bitmaps for the
system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for use in a data processing system (36) having an output
device (46), a memory means (40) holding an application program

and an operating system (48), and a processor (38) for running the
application program and the operating system, a method comprising

the steps of:

a) providing, in the operating system, standard window elements (12,
14,16,18,20) for providing functionality to windows (10) for use by the

operating system and the application program, wherein the operating
system (48) provides a bitmap of a given size for a selected one of

the window elements;
b) in response to a request by a user to change the selected one of
the window elements to a new size, storing a redrawn bitmap for the

selected one of the window elements to have the new size as part of
the operating system in the memory means; and
c) using the redrawn bitmap to output the selected one of the window
elements with the output device as part of a window.
The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of generating a
prompt that is output by the output device to request the user to select the

new size for the bitmap of the selected window element and, in response to
the prompt, receiving the request by user to change the selected window

element to the new size.
The method as recited in claim 2 wherein the step of generating the prompt
further comprises the step of generating a dialog box (64) that is output by

the output device and that exhibits a current choice of a size of the bitmap
for the selected window element.
The method as recited in claim 3, further comprising the step of outputting
by the output device a preview (68) of how the selected window element 

appears when output with the output device to have the current choice of the
size of the bitmap for the selected window element.
The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of storing the
re-drawn bitmap in a cache (52) that is part of the operating system (48).
The method as recited in claim 5 wherein the step of using the re-drawn
bitmap to output the selected window element further comprises the step of

retrieving the re-drawn bitmap from the cache and using the retrieved bitmap
to output the selected window element with the output device as part of the

window.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected window element is a
system menu button and the step of storing the re-drawn bitmap of the

selected window element further comprises the step of storing the re-drawn
bitmap of the system menu button as part of the operating system in the

memory means.
The method as cited in claim 1, wherein the selected window element is a
minimize button and the step of storing the re-drawn bit map of the selected

window element further comprises the step of storing the re-drawn bitmap of
the minimize button as part of the operating system in the memory means.
The method as cited in claim 1 wherein the selected window element is a
maximize button (20) and the step of storing the re-drawn bitmap of the

selected window element further comprises the step of storing the re-drawn
bitmap of the maximize button as part of the operating system in the

memory means.
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the selected window element is a
scroll bar arrow (28) and the step of storing the re-drawn bitmap of the

selected window element further comprises the step of storing the re-drawn
bitmap of the scroll bar arrow as part of the operating system in the memory

means.
The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the output device is a video
display and the step of using the re-drawn bitmap to output the selected 

window element with the output device as part of the window further
comprises the step of using the re-drawn bitmap to output the selected

window element with the video display as part of the window.
The method as cited in claim 1 wherein the output device is a printer (47)
and the step of using the re-drawn bitmap to output the selected window

element on the output device as part of the window further comprises the
step of using the re-drawn bitmap to output the selected window element

with the printer as part of the window.
A data processing system comprising:

an output device (46):
a storage device (40) for holding an application program and an
operating system (48), wherein said storage system includes;


i) standard window elements (12,14,16,18,20) 
for providing
functionality to windows
 for use by the operating system and the
application program, said operating system providing a bitmap of a

given size for a selected one of the window elements;
ii) a facility (64) for receiving user requests to change the selected

one of the
 window element
s
 to a new size; 
and
iii) a facility (52) for storing in the storage device a redrawn bitmap
for the selected 
one of the
 window element
s
 having the new size in
response to the user request.
The data processing system of claim 13 wherein the operating system
further comprises means for outputting the re-drawn bitmap to output the

selected window element with the output device.
The data processing system of claim 13, the operating system further
comprsising a cache (52) of bitmaps for the standard window elements for

use by the application program and the operating system.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
