<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634015</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ONE-WAY REACTION VESSEL FOR THE SOLID-PHASE IMMUNOLOGICAL ANALYSIS OF, AND A METHOD OF MEASURING CONSTITUENTS WHICH CAN BE DETERMINED VIA IMMUNE REACTIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N3353	G01N3002	G01N3000	B01L300	B01L300	G01N3060	B01J20281	G01N3353	B01J20281	G01N3088	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	B01L	B01L	G01N	B01J	G01N	B01J	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N30	G01N30	B01L3	B01L3	G01N30	B01J20	G01N33	B01J20	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABION OHG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABION BETEILIGUNGS- UND VERWALTUNGSGESELLSCHAFT MBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERHARDT URSULA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERHARDT, URSULA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Disposable reaction vessel open at the top and bottom (1) 
for solid-phase immunoanalytics having at least one 

immunological reactive component provided on a support 
material with an active or activated surface (3) with such 

a loading density that the component to be assayed will 
quantitatively (binding equilibrium) bind to said reactive 

component before the liquid flowing through exits from the 
support bed, the volume (8) of the support bed being up to 

600 µl, and the flow rate of the liquid being correspondingly 
determined exclusively by the flow resistance of the 

support bed. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 1, 
characterized in that said support material (3) is standardized 

and with the immunological reactive component and 
ready-made, allowing the disposable reaction vessel (1) to 

be immediately used. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to either of 
claims 1 or 2, characterized in that said support material 

(3) is selected from the group comprising polymeric sugars, 
plastic materials, plastic-modified organic or inorganic 

supports, porous metals and alloys, metal oxides, glasses, 
silicates or ceramic materials. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 3, 
characterized in that said support material is present in 

solid form as a frit or membrane, the porosity of the  
 

support material determining the flow rate of the liquid in 
accordance with claim 1. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claims 3 and 4, 
characterized in that said plastic material is a modification 

of polyethylene, polystyrene, polyacrylate, polyamide, 
of one of their copolymers, or of cellulose, said metal is 

aluminium, and said metal oxide is aluminium oxide, titanium 
dioxide or zirconium dioxide. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claims 1 and 2, 
characterized in that said support material has a significant 

surface structure with a high concentration of active 
binding sites for said immunological reactive component, 

the flow rate of the liquid being determined by the 
relationship between particle size and surface structure of 

the support material in accordance with claim 1. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 6, 
characterized in that said support material is a graft 

copolymer (tentacle polymer), the flow rate of the liquid 
being determined by the ratio of particle size to length of 

the side-chains in accordance with claim 1. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said immunological reactive component is 

covalently or adsorptively bound to said support material 
(3). 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 8, characterized 
in that said immunological reactive component is 

selected from the group comprising a hapten, an antigen, an 
antibody and immunological affinity proteins. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 9, characterized 
in that said antibody is a polyclonal antibody.  

 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 9, characterized 
in that said antibody is a monoclonal antibody. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 4, characterized 
in that said support material has a porosity of 

from 0.2 µm to 100 µm. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 4, characterized 
in that said support material has a layer thickness 

of from 0.1 mm to 20 mm. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 7, characterized 
in that said graft copolymer is polystyrene with 

grafted polyethylene glycol having a particle size of from 
10 to 15 µm. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to any of the 
preceding claims 1 to 14, characterized in that the vessel 

material (4) is selected from the group comprising plastics, 
glasses, metals and natural substances. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 15, characterized 
in that said plastic is polyethylene, polypropylene 

and/or polystyrene. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to any of the 
preceding claims 1 to 16, characterized in that said 

reaction vessel (1) bears a bead (5) at one end thereof 
allowing the reaction vessel to be engaged in holding and 

transporting devices for automated conveying. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to any of the 
preceding claims 1 to 17, characterized in that said 

reaction vessel (1) has a connection (6) with a diameter 
smaller than the vessel diameter at the end opposite that 

bearing a bead (5).  
 
The disposable reaction vessel according to claim 18, characterized 
in that the opposing ends of the reaction vessel 

permit coupling of the kind of a male-female plugging 
connection for connecting several disposable reaction 

vessels in series. 
The disposable reaction vessel according to any of the 
preceding claims 1 to 19, characterized in that said volume 

(8) of the support bed is 50 µl. 
A method for assaying components which can be determined by 
an immune reaction, characterized in that a sample to be 

analyzed is charged on a disposable reaction vessel 
according to any of claims 1 to 20, the component to be 

assayed in the sample is retained by the complementary 
immunologic reactive component in the disposable reaction 

vessel while the sample directly flows through, and the 
component to be assayed is 


a) eluted and determined; or 
b) labeled within the disposable reaction vessel via 
enhancement reactions with immunological markers and 

then determined; or 
c) determined via a compound competing with the component 
to be assayed. 
The method according to claim 21, characterized in that 
said determination is performed without prior calibration 

or regeneration of the support material and the reactive 
component provided thereon. 
The method according to claim 21 or 22, characterized in 
that the application of the sample and of further solutions 

is effected with usual laboratory accessories or with an 
automatic pipetting device. 
The method according to either of claims 21 or 22, characterized 
in that the application of the sample and the  

 
further process steps are performed by an automatic sample 

processing device. 
The method according to claim 24, characterized in that 
said the automatic sample application is performed in an 

on-line process control system. 
The method according to any of claims 21 to 25, characterized 
in that said disposable reaction vessel is 

subjected to gentle sucking or pressing forces after the 
application of the sample for the method to be performed 

more quickly. 
The method according to any of claims 21 to 26, characterized 
in that several disposable reaction vessels are 

connected in series or in parallel. 
The method according to claim 27, characterized in that 
allergens are assayed therewith. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
