<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621475</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for inspecting containers with a rotating inspection head.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2188	G01N2190	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for inspecting containers (14) that includes an 
inspection head (18) positioned for rotation about a fixed 

axis (40) adjacent to a container (14) under inspection. A 
light source (42) and a camera (44) are carried by the head 

(18) for directing illumination energy onto the container 
(14) and receiving energy from the container after 

interaction with the container. The camera (44) is 
connected to interface electronics (54) for controlling 

camera operation and receiving data signals from the 
camera. The light source (42), camera (44) and interface 

electronics (54) are mounted on the head (18) and rotate 
continuously, with the light source (42) and interface 

electronics (56) being connected by optical communication 
(64-67, 72) to external control devices (75). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWENS BROCKWAY GLASS CONTAINER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OWENS-BROCKWAY GLASS CONTAINER INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRKMAN JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINGLIEN JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRKMAN, JAMES A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINGLIEN, JAMES A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to optical imaging 
apparatus having particular utility for inspection of containers, 
and more particularly to an apparatus and method for inspecting 
containers for commercial variations and other characteristics. Conventional technology for mass production of glass or 
plastic containers involves forming the containers in a multiplicity 
of molds. Various types of faults or checks, termed "variations" in 
the art, may occur. Variations that may affect commercial 
acceptability of the containers are called "commercial variations." 
It has heretofore been proposed to employ optical scanning techniques 
for inspecting such containers for variations that affect optical 
transmission characteristics of the containers. In U.S. Patent Nos. 
4,378,493, 4,378,494 and 4,378,495, all assigned to the assignee 
hereof, there are disclosed methods and apparatus in which glass 
containers are conveyed through a plurality of stations where they 
are physically and optically inspected. At one inspection station, 
a glass container is held in vertical orientation and rotated about 
its vertical axis. An illumination source directs diffused light 
energy through the container sidewall. A camera, which includes a 
plurality of light sensitive elements or pixels oriented in a linear 
array parallel to the vertical axis of rotation, is positioned to 
view light transmitted through a vertical strip of the container 
sidewall. The output of each pixel is sampled at increments of  
 
container rotation, and event signals are generated when adjacent 
pixel signals differ by more than a preselected threshold level. An 
appropriate reject signal is produced and the rejected container is 
sorted from the conveyor line. U.S. Patent No. 4,701,612, assigned to the assignee hereof, 
discloses a method and apparatus for inspecting the finish of 
transparent containers, particularly glass containers, that include 
facility for directing diffused light energy laterally through the 
container finish as the container is rotated about its central axis. 
A camera includes a plurality of light sensitive elements or pixels 
disposed in a linear array angulated with respect to the container 
axis and coplanar therewith to view the external and internal finish 
wall surfaces, the latter through the open container mouth. Individual 
elements of the camera linear array are sampled by an information 
processor at increments of container rotation, and corresponding 
data indicative of light intensity at each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for inspecting containers comprising: 
an inspection head (18) including means (26) for rotating 

said head adjacent to a container (14) about a fixed axis 
(40), 

a light source (68, 70) disposed in fixed position adjacent 
to said head (18), 

first optical transmission means (34, 42) on said head (18) 
and aligned with said light source (68, 70) for receiving 

illumination light energy from said source and projecting 
said illumination energy onto the container (14), 

first light sensing means (44) on said head (18) for 
receiving at least a portion of said light energy following 

interaction of said light energy with the container and 
generating a first electrical signal (via 58) as a function 

thereof, 
second optical transmission means (64) on said head (18) 

responsive to said first electrical signal for generating 
light energy as a function thereof, 

second light sensing means (67, 72) disposed in fixed 
position adjacent to said head (18) in cooperation with 

said second optical transmission means (64) for receiving 
light energy generated by said second optical transmission 

means (64) and generating a second electrical signal as a 
function thereof, and 

means responsive to said second electrical signal for 
detecting commercial variations in the container. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 1 
wherein said second optical transmission means comprises at 

least one optical transmitter (64) carried by said head 
 

(18) at a first fixed radius from said axis (40), and 
electrical means (54) responsive to said first electrical 

signal (via 58) for energizing said at least one optical 
transmitter (64). 
The apparatus set forth in claim 2 
wherein said second light sensing means (67, 72) comprises 

annular light sensing means (72) concentric with said axis 
(40) at a second fixed radius opposed at said at least one 

optical transmitter (64), such that optical transmission 
between said at least one transmitter (64) and said annular 

light sensing means (72) is independent of rotation of said 
head (18). 
The apparatus set forth in claim 3 
wherein said second optical transmission means comprises a 

plurality of said optical transmitters (64) disposed in an 
annular array at said first fixed radius about said axis 

(40). 
The apparatus set forth in claim 4 
wherein said first and second radii are identical. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 3 
wherein said second light sensing means (67, 72) comprises 

annular optical transmission means (72) disposed at said 
second radius opposed to said optical transmitter (64), and 

information processing means (75) responsive to said second 
electrical signal. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 6 
wherein said information processing means (75) includes 

means for generating control signals for controlling 
operation of said electronic means (54) and means (67) for 

transmitting said control signals through said annular 
optical transmission means (72), and

 
wherein said electronic means (54) includes third light 

sensing means (66) carried by said head (18) at said first 
fixed radius opposed to said annular light transmission 

means (72) for receiving said control signals. 
The apparatus set forth in any of claims 1 to 7 
wherein said light source (68, 70) comprises first fiber 

optic transmission means (70) coaxial with said fixed axis 
(40), and 

wherein said first optical transmission means (34, 42) 
comprises second fiber optic transmission means (34) 

carried by said head (18) in axial alignment with said 
first fiber optic transmission means (70) such that said 

illumination lights energy is transmitted from said light 
source (68) through said first (70) and second (34) fiber 

optic transmission means for projection onto the container 
(14) independent of rotation of said head (18). 
The apparatus set forth in any of claims 1 to 8 
further comprising means (16) for presenting containers 

(14) in sequence for inspection and holding the containers 
in stationary position beneath said head (18) coaxially 

with said fixed axis (40). 
The apparatus for inspecting containers comprising: 
an inspection head (18a) including means (26a) for rotating 

said head (18a) adjacent to a container (14) about a fixed 
axis (40), 

light source means (42a) on said head (18a) for projecting 
illumination light energy onto the container (14) adjacent 

to said head (18a), 
first light sensing means (44) on said head (18a) for 

receiving at least a portion of said light energy following 
interaction of the light energy with the container (14), 

 
electronic means (54a) responsive to said first light 

sensing means (44) for generating electrical signals as a 
function thereof, 

means (75) coupled to said electronic means (54a) for 
detecting commercial variations in the container as a 

function of said electrical signals. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 10 
wherein said rotating means (26a) includes switch m
eans 
(84, 86) for controlling the rotation of said head (18a) in 

one or the other direction. 
The apparatus set forth in claim 11 
wherein said switch means includes a pair of angularly 

spaced limit switches (84, 86) and said head rotation is a 
back and forth pivotional movement. 
A method of inspecting containers comprising the steps 
of: 


(a) rotating an inspection head (18) continuously aobut a 
fixed axis (40) to a container (14), 
(b) generating light energy (68) externally of said head 
(18), 
(c) commutating (70/34) said light energy onto said head 
(18) to illuminate (42) the container (14), 
(d) generating optical signals (44) on said head (18) as a 
function of interaction of illumination light energy 

with the container (14), 
(e) providing information processing electronics (75) 
externally of said head (18), and 
(f) commutating (64/72) said optical signals off of said 
head (18) to said information processing electronics 

(75). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
