<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651914</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRUCTURE FOR USE IN PRODUCING SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES WITH BURIED CONTACTS AND METHOD FOR ITS PREPARATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2170	H01L2174	H01L21762	H01L310224	H01L310224	H01L310236	H01L310236	H01L3118	H01L3118	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved structure and method for use in producing semiconductor devices with buried contacts and particularly photovoltaic devices, such as solar cells, that have conductive material (22) in grooves (20) extending inwardly of one major surface (12) of the body (10), the structure having a plurality of trenches (14) formed in the body to a predetermined depth greater than the depth of the conductive grooves (20), which trenches aid in isolating and defining the edges of semiconductor devices or solar cells, and provide means for aiding in the separation of separate semiconductor devices or solar cells from the structure by cutting the structure through the bottom of selected trenches (14).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARAYANAN SRINIVASAMOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RONCIN STEVEN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOHLGEMUTH JOHN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NARAYANAN, SRINIVASAMOHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RONCIN, STEVEN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOHLGEMUTH, JOHN, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STRUCTURE FOR USE IN PRODUCINGSEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES WITH BURIED CONTACTS ANDMETHOD FOR ITS PREPARATIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONlj. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to structures for use in producing semiconductor devices with buried contacts and methods for producing these semiconductor devices, and, more particularly, to an improved structure and method for producing at least one or a plurality of semiconductor devices, particularly improved solar cells for converting incident light into electricity.2. Description of Related ArtIn the manufacture of semiconductor devices, it is common to form a large area semiconductor structure or wafer, to treat the wafer to fabricate electronically active regions, to apply conductive layers and insulating layers, and to cut or break the wafer into separate semiconductor devices or chips. "Electronically active region" is understood to mean a portion of the semiconductor device that produces a desired electronic function; for example, in the case of a photovoltaic or solar cell, a region which is capable of converting incident light into electrical energy. The region may have conductive layers or elements to conduct electrical energy from the region. In some devices, and in particular in some solar cells, it is desirable to have one or more conductive elements extend inwardly from portions of the surface of the semiconductor body of the device, which is also known as having buried contacts. A type of buried 

contact in a transistor device is shown in Figs. 5 and 6 of U.S. Patent No. 3,163,916. A type of buried contact in a colar cell is shown in Figures 1 and 2 of U.S. Patent No. 4,726,850 and a method for forming buried contacts in a solar cell is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,748,130.It has also been proposed in U.S. Patent No. 4,097,310, to form a solar cell on a wafer of silicon and to saw the wafer at and through a junction on the surface of the wafer at which electrons are generated when the surface is exposed to light, using a dicing saw having a diamond blade. This proposal requires sawing through the junction as well as the wafer.One particular method of producing a plurality of separate semiconductor devices is proposed in U.S. Patent No. 4,355,457. As there described, a plurality of semiconductor regions, each having at least one PN junction, are formed on a wafer, following which two sets of relatively wide U-shaped channels are cut in the wafer by sawing or by use of a laser, each set being generally perpendicular to the other.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM; 1. An improved structure for use in producing from said structure at least one semiconductor device having a major surface and at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from the one major surface, comprising: a. a semiconductor body having a major surface; b. said, body having at least one trench, said trench being in a predetermined position defining at least one border of a device to be obtained from the semiconductor body, said trench extending from said major surface into said body to a depth greater than the depth of the at least one conductive buried contact in said semiconductor device and extending inwardly from said major surface; c. said body having a diffused layer extending inwardly at least from said major surface; d. said trench in said body having the bottom thereof covered by a layer of insulating material; e. wherein said trench defines the at least one border of the at least one semiconductor device obtained therefrom and isolates the at least one device from an edge thereof.
2. The improved structure of Claim 1 wherein said diffused layer also extends inwardly from at least the bottom of said at least one trench, said trench providing 


means for aiding the subsequent cutting of said body along at least the bottom of said trench to at least a depth 
^
greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trench, to define the at least one border of the at least one semiconductor device obtained therefrom and to isolate the at least one device from an edge thereof.
3. The improved structure of Claim 1, wherein the semiconductor body is a silicon wafer and the layer of insulating material covering the bottom of the trench is silicon oxide formed from the semiconductor body.
4. The improved structure of Claim 2 for producing from said structure at least two semiconductor devices each having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface, wherein said at least one trench is positioned to define at least one border of each of the at least two semiconductor devices to be obtained from the semiconductor body and said at least one trench provides means for aiding isolation of said body wherein said body may be cut along said at least one trench to at least a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trench, to define the at least one border of each of the two semiconductive devices and to isolate the at least two semiconductor devices from an edge therefor. 



 5. The improved structure of Claim 2 for use in producing from said structure a plurality of semiconductor devices each having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface, said structure body having a plurality of trenches, each of said trenches being positioned to define at least one border of at least one of the semiconductor devices to be obtained from the semiconductor body and each of said trenches extending from said major surface into said body to a depth greater than the depth of the at least one conductive buried contact, each of said trenches having the bottoms thereof covered by a layer of insulating material, and said trenches providing means for aiding isolation of said semiconductor devices wherein said body may be cut along selected of said trenches to at least a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trenches, to define the at least one border of at least one of the semiconductive devices to be obtained and to isolate the at least one semiconductor device from an edge therefrom.
6. The structure of Claim 5, wherein the semiconductor body is a silicon wafer and the layer of insulating material covering the bottoms of said plurality of trenches is silicon oxide formed from the semiconductor body. 


 7. An improved photovoltaic device having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface for use in producing at least one solar cell for converting incident radiant energy to electrical energy comprising: a. a semiconductor body having a major surface; b. said body having at least one trench, said trench being in a predetermined position defining at least one border of the at least one solar cell to be obtained from the semiconductor body, said trench extending from said major surface into said body to a depth greater than the depth of the at least one conductive buried contact in said body extending inwardly from said major surface; c. said body having a diffused layer extending r inwardly at least from said major surface; d. said trench in said body having the bottom thereof covered by a layer of insulating material; e. wherein said trench defines at least one border of the at least one solar cell obtained therefrom and isolates the at least one solar cell from an edge thereof.
8. The structure of Claim 7, wherein the semiconductor body is a silicon wafer and the layer of insulating material covering the bottom of the trench is silicon oxide formed from the semiconductor body.
9. The improved structure of Claim 7 wherein said diffused layer also extends inwardly from at least the 


 bottom of said at least one trench, said trench providing means for aiding the subsequent cutting of said body along "at least the bottom of said trench to at least a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trench, to define the at least one border of the at least one solar cell obtained therefrom and to isolate the at least one solar cell from an edge thereof.
10. The photovoltaic device of Claim 9 for use in producing from said device at least two solar cells each having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface, wherein said at least one trench is positioned to define at least one border of each of the at least two solar cells to be obtained from the device and said at least one trench provides means for aiding isolation of said device wherein said body may be cut along said at least one trench to at least a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trench, to define at least one border of each of the two solar cells and to isolate the at least two solar cells from an edge thereof.
11. The photovoltaic device of Claim 9 for use in producing from said device a plurality of solar cells each having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface, said device having a plurality of trenches, each of said trenches being 


positioned to define at least one border of at least one of the solar cells to be obtained from the device and each of said trenches extending from said major surface into said body to a depth greater than the depth of the at least one conductive buried contact, each of said trenches having the bottoms thereof covered by a layer of insulating material, and said trenches providing means for aiding isolation of said solar cells wherein said device may be cut along selected of said trenches to a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trenches, to define the at least one border of at least one of the solar cells to be obtained and to isolate the at least one solar cell from an edge thereof.
12. The structure of Claim 11, wherein the semiconductor body is a silicon wafer and the layer of insulating material covering the bottoms of said plurality of trenches is silicon oxide formed from the semiconductor body.
13. An improved method for the production of at least one semiconductor device having a body of semiconductor material and having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface of the body, comprising: preparing a wafer of semiconductor material, said wafer having at least one major surface of greater area than the device to be produced; 


 forming a diffused layer extending inwardly at least from the at least one major surface; 
""""'
 cutting at least one trench in said wafer, said trench extending inwardly from said major surface to a predetermined depth greater than the depth to which the diffused layer extends, and said at least one trench being positioned to define at least one border of a device to be obtained from the semiconductor wafer; covering at least the bottom of said trench with a layer of insulating material; forming at least one groove in said major surface of said wafer extending inwardly from said major surface to a depth less than said predetermined depth of the trench; and coating said groove with conductive material; whereby said trench defines at least one border of the at least one semiconductor device obtained and isolates the at least one device from the edge thereof.
14. The improved method of Claim 13 wherein the step of cutting at least one trench in said wafer is performed prior to the forming of a diffused layer extending inwardly at least from the at least one major surface and wherein said diffused layer also extends inwardly from the bottom of said at least one trench, whereby said at least one trench provides means for aiding subsequent cutting of said wafer along at least the bottom of said trench to at least a depth greater than the depth 


to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trench, to define at least one border of the at least one semiconductor device obtained therefrom and to isolate the at least one device from an edge thereof.
15. The improved method of claim 14, wherein the at least one semiconductor device is separated from said wafer by cutting the wafer through the bottom of said trench.
16. The improved method of claim 15, wherein the cutting of said wafer to obtain the semiconductor device is performed by sawing said wafer through the surface opposite the said one major surface and the bottom of said trench.
17. The improved method of claim 15, wherein the cutting of said wafer to obtain the semiconductor device is performed by sawing said wafer through said trench from the top of the trench adjacent said major surface through the bottom of said trench and through the wafer.
18. The improved method of claim 13 for the production of a plurality of semiconductor devices having a body of semiconductor material and having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface of the body, including: cutting a plurality of trenches in said wafer, each of said trenches extending inwardly from said major 


surface to a predetermined depth greater than the depth of the diffused layer, and each of said trenches being positioned to define at least one border of at least one of the devices to be obtained from the semiconductor wafer; covering at least the bottoms of said plurality of trenches with a layer of insulating material; said at least one groove being positioned with respect to said trenches so that at least a portion of said groove is positioned within the borders of at least one of the semiconductor devices to be obtained from said wafer; whereby each of said trenches defines at least one border of the at least one semiconductor device obtained and isolates the at least one device from an edge thereof.
19. The improved method of Claim 18 wherein the step of cutting the plurality of trenches in said wafer is performed prior to the forming of the diffused layer extending inwardly at least from the at least one major surface and wherein said diffused layer extends inwardly from the bottom of said plurality of trenches, whereby said plurality of trenches provides means for aiding subsequent cutting of said wafer along at least the bottom of said trenches to at least a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trenches, to define at least one border of the at least one semiconductor device obtained therefrom and to isolate the at least one device from the edge thereof. 


 20. The improved method of claim 19, wherein the plurality of semiconductor devices are separated from said wafer by cutting the wafer through the bottoms of selected of said trenches.
21. The improved method of claim 20, wherein the cutting of said wafer into a plurality of semiconductor devices is performed by sawing said wafer through the surface opposite the said one major surface and the bottom of said selected trenches.
22. The improved method of claim 20, wherein the cutting of said wafer into a plurality of semiconductor devices is performed by sawing said wafer through said selected trenches from the top of the trenches adjacent said major surface through the bottom of said trenches and through the wafer.
23. An improved method for the production of at least one solar cell having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface for converting incident radiant energy to electrical energy, comprising: preparing a wafer of semiconductor material, said wafer having at least one major surface; forming a diffused layer extending inwardly at least from the one major surface; 


 cutting at least one trench in said wafer, said trench extending inwardly from said major surface to a predetermined depth greater that the depth to which the diffused layer extends, and being positioned to define at least one border of a solar cell to be obtained from the semiconductor wafer; covering at least the bottom of said trench with a layer of insulating material; forming at least one groove in said major surface of said wafer extending inwardly from said major surface to a depth less than said predetermined depth of the said trench; and coating said groove with conductive material; whereby said trench defines at least one border of the at least one solar cell obtained and isolates the at least one solar cell from an edge thereof.
24. The improved method of Claim 23 wherein the step of cutting at least one trench in said wafer is performed prior to the forming of the diffused layer extending inwardly at least from the at least one major surface and wherein said dif used layer extends inwardly from the bottom of said at least one trench, whereby said at least one trench provides means for aiding subsequent cutting of said wafer along at least the bottom of said trench to at least a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trench, 


whereby the border of the at least one solar cell obtained from said wafer is defined by said at least one trench and said trench isolates the at least one solar cell from an edge thereof.
25. The improved method of claim 24, wherein the at least one solar cell device is separated from said wafer by cutting the wafer through the bottom of said trench.
26. The improved method of claim 23 for the production of a plurality of solar cells having at least one conductive buried contact extending inwardly from one major surface for converting incident radiant energy to electrical energy, including: cutting a plurality of trenches in said wafer, each of said trenches extending inwardly from said major surface to a predetermined depth greater than the depth to which the diffused layer extends, and each trench being positioned to define at least one border of at least one of the solar cells to be obtained from the semiconductor wafer; covering at least the bottoms of said plurality of trenches with a layer of insulating material; and said at least one groove being positioned with respect to said trenches so that at least a portion of said groove is positioned within the borders of at least one of the solar cells to be obtained from said wafer; 


 whereby each of said trenches defines at least one border of the solar cells obtained and isolates the solar cells from an edge thereof.
27. The improved method of Claim 26 wherein the step of cutting the plurality of trenches in said wafer is performed prior to the forming of the diffused layer extending inwardly at least from the at least one major surface and wherein said diffused layer extends inwardly from the bottom of said plurality of trenches, whereby said plurality of trenches provides means for aiding subsequent cutting of said wafer along at least the bottom of said trenches to at least a depth greater than the depth to which said diffused layer extends from the bottom of said trenches, wherein each of said trenches defines at least one border of at least one solar cell obtained and isolates the at least one solar cell from an edge thereof.
28. The improved method of claim 27, wherein the plurality of solar cells are separated from said wafer by cutting the wafer through the bottoms of selected of said trenches.
29. The improved method of claim 28, wherein the cutting of said wafer into a plurality of separate solar cells is performed by sawing said wafer through the surface opposite the said one major surface and the bottom of selected trenches. 


 30. The improved method of claim 28, wherein the cutting of said wafer into a plurality of separate solar cells is performed by sawing said wafer through said trenches from the top of the trenches adjacent said major surface through the bottom of said selected trenches and through the wafer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
