<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653925</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STENT CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F284	A61F292	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A stent (10) for reinforcing a damaged wall in a body passage such as a vascular passage. The stent (10) takes the form of a sheet (11) of metal foil wound tightly around a spool (12) in a multiple layer roll (13) and held in a contracted state by a sheath (20) sleeved around the roll (13). The spool (11) is inserted into the body passage until the stent (10) is adjacent to the area of the damaged wall. The spool (11) and stent (10) are then advanced while the sheath (20) is held stationary. This pushes the stent (10) out the end of the sheath (20) and releases the stent (10) such that the roll (13) unwinds and expands against the damaged vessel wall.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ULTRASONIC SENSING AND MONITOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ULTRASONIC SENSING AND MONITOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEET JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINSTON THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NEET JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINSTON THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 STENT CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT METHODField of the Invention This invention relates in general to the field of medical implants and more particularly to a stent which is constructed in an improved manner for simple and effective placement in a body passage to reinforce a damaged area.Background of the Invention Tubular prostheses commonly known as stents have been used to reinforce and stren then damaged blood vessels and other body passages. For example, the blood vessels can collapse, dilate, become partially occluded or otherwise damaged by disease or other causes. The presence of an aneurysm or stricture in the blood vessel often requires implantation of a stent to strengthen the vascular wall in the area of the damage. Other passages in the body can also sometimes benefit from stent implantation, including the esophagus, the trachea, the gastro intestinal tract, the bile duct, the ureter and the urethra.The benefits of self-expanding stents have been recognized. A self-expanding stent is held in a contracted state until it has been positioned properly, typically with the aid of an instrument such as a catheter. After the stent has been placed properly in the damaged blood vessel, it is allowed to expand against the damaged vessel wall in order to reinforce the damaged area. Examples of self-expanding stents are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,026,377 and 5,078,720 to Burton et al. , U.S. Patent 

No. 5,019,085 to Hillstead, U.S. Patent No. 4,969,458 to Wiktor, and U.S. Patent No. 5,041,126 to Gianturco. The Wicktcr and Gianturco stents are in the form of coiled or looped wires that are unable to contact the entirety of the weakened vessel wall. The same is true of the Hillstead stent which takes the form of a multiple loop wire structure. The stents disclosed in the two Burton patents are braided structures that are likewise incapable of contacting the entirety of the damaged vessel wall. All of the stents and particularly their placement means are complicated to construct, and the stents are difficult to place precisely in the damaged vessel..«.ιτnτnaτ-v of the Invention The present invention is directed to an improved stent which is particularly characterized by a stronger construction, the ability to provide a solid and continuous wall that lines the entirety of the damaged part of passage wall in which it is implanted, and by ease and accuracy of placement. In accordance with the invention, a stent is provided in the form of a flexible metal sheet which is closely wound around a spool in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Having thus described the invention, we claim:
1. A stent assembly for placement in a body passage inforce a damaged wall in the passage, comprising: an elongated core; an elongated, flexible sheet arranged on said core in a multiple layer roll having expanded and contracted conditions and being urged toward the expanded condi¬ tion, said roll being tightly wound on the core in the contracted condition and presenting in the expanded condition a diameter at least equal to the diameter of the body passage, said roll being spirally wound on said core and having an inherent spring force tending to expand the roll, said roll presenting a plurality of adjacent, arcuate layers of said sheet in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of said core; releasable means for retaining said roll in the contracted condition on said core while the core is being inserted into the passage to the location of the damaged walls; and means for effecting release of said releasable means to permit the roll to expand against the damaged wall in the expanded condition of the roll, said roll in the expanded condition thereof having at least an inner and an outer layer which overlap and bear against one another over a substantial portion of the circumference of the inner layer, said expanded roll 


 securely contacting said damaged wall by virtue of said inherent spring force of the roll.
2. The stent assembly of claim 1, including a first flange on said core against which one end of said roll is engaged in the contracted condition.
3. The stent assembly of claim 2, including a second flange on said core, said roll being retained between the first mentioned flange and said second flange in the contracted condi¬ tion.
4. The stent assembly of claim 3, wherein said releasable means comprises a pair of control cords having slip knot connections with the respective first and second flanges arranged in a manner to retain the roll in the contracted condition, said slip knot connections being releasable upon pulling of said control cords to thereby release said roll for expansion thereof to the expanded condition.
5. The stent assembly of claim 4 , wherein said core comprises a hollow spool having na axial passage therethrough for receiving a guide wire along which the spool may be guided to the location of the damaged wall. 


 6. The stent assembly of claim 1, wherein said core comprises a hollow spool having na axial passage therethrough for receiving a guide wire along which the spool may be guided to the location of the damaged wall.
7. The stent assembly of claim 1, wherein said sheet is constructed of a think metal foil.
8. The stent assembly of claim 1, wherein said sheet is constructed of a think stainless steel foil.
9. The stent assembly of claim 1, wherein said releasable means comprises a sheath closely sleeved on said roll, said sheath being movable axially relative to said core to release from the roll. 


10. The stent assembly of claim 1, including: a second flexible sheet arranged on said core in a second multiple layer roll spaced from the first mentioned roll, said second roll having a contracted condition wherein the second roll is tightly wound on the core and an expanded condition wherein the second roll presents a diameter, substantially equal to the diameter of the body passage, said second roll being urged toward the expanded condition; releasable means for retaining said second roll in the con¬ tracted condition; and means for effecting release of the releasable means for said second roll.
11. The stent assembly of claim 10, wherein the releasable-means for the first and second rolls comprises a sheath closely sleeved on the first and second rolls, said sheath being movable axially relative to said core to release from the first and second rolls in succession. 

12. Apparatus for reinforcing a damaged wall of a body passage, comprising: an elongated core; an elongated stent in the form of a flexible sheet spirally wound around the core in a multiple layer roll having contracted and expanded conditions, said sheet being wound tightly on the core in the contracted condition and being biased having an inherent spring force biasing the roll to expand toward the expanded condi¬ tion thereof wherein the sheet assumes a size to contact the damaged wall, and said roll presenting a plurality of adjacent, arcuate layers of said sheet in a direction transverse top the longitudinal axis of the core; a sheath fitting closely around said roll to hold the sheet in the contracted condition, said sheath being movable axially relative to the roll to permit the sheath to release from the roll and thereby allow expansion of the sheet against the damaged wall in the expanded condition.,. said roll in the expanded condition thereof having at least an inner and an outer layer which overlap and bear against one another over a substantial portion of the circumference of the inner layer, said expanded roll securely contacting said damaged wall by virtue of said inherent spring force of the roll. 


 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, including a flange on said core against which one end of said roll is engaged in the contracted condition.
14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein said core comprises a spool having an axial passage therethrough for receiving a guide wire along which the spool may be guided to the location of the damaged wall.
15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein said sheet is constructed of a thin metal foil.
16. Apparatus as st forth in claim 12, wherein said sheet is constructed of a thin stainless steel foil.
17. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, including a second stent in the form of a second flexible sheet wound around said core in a second multiple layer roll having contracted and expanded conditions, said second sheet being wound tightly on the core in the contracted condition and being biased toward the expanded condition wherein said second sheet assumes a size to contact the passage wall, said sheath fitting closely on the second roll to hold the second sheet in the contracted condition and being movable axially to release from the second roll and thereby allow the second roll to expand against the wall in the expanded condition. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
