<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630115</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Configurable logic array
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K19177	H01L2182	H03K19173	H03K19177	H01L2170	H03K19173	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H01L	H03K	H03K	H01L	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	H01L21	H03K19	H03K19	H01L21	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A configurable semi-conductor integrated circuit 
comprising an area thereof formed with a plurality of 

logic circuits at discrete sites or cells (cc) 
respectively defining a matrix array of cells. The 

matrix array of cells is subdivided at least into zones 
comprising a porting arrangement for each zone and a 

hierarchical routing resource structure comprising:- 

(i) global connection parts (G,X) having selectable 
connections with the porting arrangement of each zone, 
(ii) medium connection parts (M) extending from the 
porting arrangement and selectably connectable with at 

least some of the cells in a zone, and 
(iii) local direct connection paths comprising a 
restricted signal translation system. 
The application also describes a configurable 
semi-conductor integrated circuit comprising a matrix 

array of core cells (cc), each of the cells having a 
first simple function in common and at least one 

subsidiary function, there being at least two different 
subsidiary functions, the core cells being grouped in 

tiles comprising a matrix array of the core cells 
smaller than the whole array and wherein each tile has 

at least one of each different subsidiary functions and 
wherein the tiles of core cells are arranged so as to 

uniformly cover the array. Preferably there are fours 

cells to a tile and the preferred subsidiary function 
are:- wired-OR, XOR, D-type flip flop and latch 

function. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES GARETH JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WORK GORDON STIRLING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, GARETH JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WORK, GORDON STIRLING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to semi-conductor
integrated circuits of the type comprising configurable
logic circuit arrays.The invention is a development of the
configurable logic circuit arrays disclosed in our
British Patent Specification No. 2180382 (having a
corresponding U.S. Patent No. 4935734) and U.S. Patent
No. 5001368. In the former, the logic circuit array
comprises a matrix of discrete sites or cells at each of
which is a logic circuit which is adapted to perform a
simple logic function. Typically the simple logic
function is implemented by means of a two input NAND
gate. As made each logic circuit has what may be
referred to as a restricted signal translation system
by which each logic circuit has selectable direct
connection paths to only a few of the other logic
circuits. More particularly each direct connection path
which is selectable as to its conduction state, extends,
for each said logic circuit, from its output to inputs
of a first set of some of other said logic circuits and
from its inputs to outputs of a second set of some of
other said logic circuits, all of the sets (for all of 
the logic circuits) each being unique. Such a
restricted signal translation system provides what can
be conveniently referred to as local direct connection
paths.An array of this type is capable of being
programmed in such a manner as to configure the various
NAND gates, as required, to perform various and
different logic functions. One such function is known
as a latching function and in the logic array as
disclosed in Specification No. 2180382, a latching
function may be implemented using four NAND gates. This
has the disadvantage that the greater the number of
latching functions that may be required from any logic
array, the fewer NAND gates remain for other required
functions. This has the effect of reducing the overall
effectiveness of the array.The invention of U.S. 5001368 overcomes this
disadvantage by providing an additional logic circuit
for inclusion in each of the logic circuits at each
discrete site to enable each site to have a greater
programmable facility and thereby increase the overall
utilisation of the array. As with GB 2180382 the
site/cell of each logic circuit has the aforesaid
restricted signal translation system. Each additional
logic circuit is arranged within the logic circuit of
the site or cell to be selectively controlled by control 
means to cause each logic circuit and additional logic
circuit comprising each cell to operate as either a
first or a second different
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semi-conductor integrated circuit comprising an
area thereof formed with a plurality of logic circuits

at discrete sites or cells (CC) respectively defining a
matrix array of cells, the matrix array of cells is sub-divided

at least into zones (11) each comprising a
matrix array of said cells and further comprising a

porting arrangement (VPC, HPC) for each zone, the
integrated circuit as made having an hierarchical

routing resource structure comprising:-

(i) global connection paths (G) which extend
continuously across more than one zone and have

selectable connections with the porting arrangement of
at least some of the zones,
(ii) medium connection paths (M) extending from the
porting arrangement and selectably connectable with at

least some of the cells in a zone, and in which all the
connections between the global connection lines and the

cells are via the porting arrangement and the medium
connection paths, and
(iii) local direct connection paths comprising for each
cell a restricted signal translation system between

inputs and outputs of the cells each selectable as to
its conduction state, those paths extending for each

said logic circuit from its output to inputs of a first 
set of some of other said logic circuits and from its

inputs to outputs of a second set of some of other said
logic circuits, each first set of logic circuits being 

different from any other first set of logic circuits,
and each second set of logic circuits being different

from any other second set of logic circuit.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 1 in which the zones are arranged in a matrix

array (11) of zones.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 1 or 2 in which the plurality of zones define a

quadrant (13) and the integrated circuit has a plurality
of quadrants.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 3 in which the quadrants are arranged in a matrix

array.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claims 1 to 4 in which there are 10 x 10 cells to a

zone, 5 x 5 zones to a quadrant and 2 x 2 quadrants.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims in which the global

connection paths (G1...4H, G1...4V) extend horizontally
and vertically across a plurality of zones.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims in which there are a

plurality of global connection paths for each row and
column of cells in a zone.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 7 in which there are four global (G1...4) 

connection paths for each row and column of cells.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims in which there are a

plurality of medium connection paths (M) for each row
and column of cells of a zone.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 9 in which there are four medium connection paths

for each row and column.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims in which each medium

connection path is selectably connectable with an output
and/or input of one or more cells.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims and comprising further

global routing resources comprising horizontal and
vertical buses (X) extending across a zone horizontally

and vertically respectively, and which are connectable
with the port cells and with one another.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 12 in which the further horizontal and vertical

buses are not connectable to the cells.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 12 or 13 in which there is one such further global

connection bus for each row and column of cells.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 14 in which there is a connection between the 

horizontal and vertical buses for each cell.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims comprising horizontal

and vertical port cells (HPC, VPC), the porting
arrangement of which permits resources to be routed from

the global lines through to the medium lines and thereby
into the cells.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims in which the general

interconnect structure are
interconnectable with special interconnect structure,

for example clocks and tristates, by way of the port
cells.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims further comprising clock

distribution channels, preferably comprising a vertical
clock bus extending between clock

pads (CP) to top and bottom of the array, a horizontal
clock distribution spine (HCS),

extending between clock pads to opposite sides of the
array and intersecting with the vertical clock bus.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 18 in which there is a vertical clock distribution

spine (VCS) for each zone
by which clock and reset

signals are distributed to the vertical port cell of 
that zone.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 18 or 19 in which alternate core cells have clock

and reset signal lines.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
any one of the preceding claims in which each cell has a

common logic function and at least one subsidiary
function, there being at least two different subsidiary

functions, the core cells being grouped in tiles (T)
comprising a matrix array of the core cells (CC) and

wherein each tile has at least one of each different
subsidiary functions.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 21 in which the different subsidiary functions

comprise:- wired-OR; XOR; D-type flip flop and latch
functions.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claims 21 or 22 when appended to claim 16 comprising

dedicated connection lines with the horizontal port
cell running

across each zone and connecting directly with the wired
-OR core cells.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 23 in which connection of the wired -OR buses may

be made to a certain number of global
buses, for example by way of the horizontal port cells. 
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 17 when appendant to claim 12 in which there are

wired -OR connections between the further global
horizontal buses and, for example, three horizontal global buses.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 21 in which the common simple logic function is a

NAND gate.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 22 in which there are two XOR functions to a tile.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 22 in which one cell offers optionally two

functions.
A semi-conductor integrated circuit as claimed in
claim 22 in which the tile comprises four cells.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
