<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625885</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPUTER ASSISTED PULSED DIGITAL ANGIOGRAPHY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B600	A61B600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B6	A61B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Blood flows through a blood vessel is monitored by angiography. A bolus of radio-opaque dye is injected by means of a motorised syringe (16) into the blood vessel over a period less than one cardiac cycle in response to the output of an ECG monitor (14). The dye bolus is injected at a predetermined point in the cardiac cycle. A sequence of X-ray images are then formed by X-ray apparatus (10) incorporating an image intensifier at predetermined intervals to provide an indication of movement of the bolus through the vessel and its branches. Preferably, the sequence of X-ray images are converted into digital format, the set of digital values representing each of the X-ray images being subtracted by means of computer (12) from those representing the next successive X-ray image in the sequence. Any negative digital values are converted to digital zeros. In order to provide an indication of volume flow through the blood vessel, the density of radio-opaque dye within a predetermined notional area at least a part of which overlies the area occupied by the blood vessel in the X-ray images is calculated for each set of digital values generated by the subtraction. The calculated densities can then be used to provide an indication of volume flow.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV SOUTHAMPTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHAMPTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODDS SIMON RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DODDS, SIMON RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPUTER ASSISTED PULSED DIGITAL ANGIOGRAPHYThe present invention relates to an improved technique of X-ray angiography.The radiological assessment of patients with peripheral vascular disease is currently performed using a technique called angiography. This technique requires an injection of a large quantity, typically 50-150 ml, of radio-opaque dye into an artery via a cannula, using a motorized syringe. The injection takes several seconds and its objective is to fill the artery and its branches with dye so that there is sufficient contrast between the artery and surrounding tissues for it to be visible on an X-ray. After the injection, the radio-opaque dye which acts as a contrast agent is carried with the blood into the smaller branches of the arterial tree and, ultimately, into the tissues and veins. A limited number, usually between one and ten, of single frame X-ray pictures are taken. The patient is usually moved between frames so that each X-ray picture is of a different region but, in each case, the blood vessels are well filled with the contrast agent.The X-ray images so generated display the anatomy of the arterial tree from which an experienced clinician is able to derive a limited, subjective assessment of the functional impairment that occlusive arterial disease may be causing. Arterial disease is usually irregularly distributed and functionally significant lesions are easily missed, especially if they overlie other X-ray dense structures such as bones. Even with X-rays taken in two planes at right angles to one another, the functional severity of the arterial disease is not measurable objectively.Digital X-ray imaging has been used to improve the quality of angiograms in terms of the anatomical information that they contain. The technique of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) uses the same dye injection method as is outlined above but records two images - one before the injection and one after. Converting the- 1 

images to a digital form and subtracting the first from the second leaves a representation of just the image of the dye bolus. The appreciation of arterial anatomy is easier with such an image as the effect of overlying tissues is removed.There are also in existence digital vascular imaging (DVI) techniques that use a sequence of many images, generated from an X-ray image intensifier, the images are either recorded or subject to immediate image processing.The advantage of these techniques is a reduction in the X-ray dose and the ability to subject the images to manipulation
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for monitoring blood flow through a blood vessel by angiography, characterized in that a bolus of radio-opaque dye is injected into a blood vessel over a period less than one cardiac cycle, and a sequence of X-ray images are formed at predetermined intervals to provide an indication of movement of the bolus through the vessel and its branches.
2. A method according to claim 1 in which the cardiac cycle is monitored and injection of the bolus is effected at a predetermined point in said cycle.
3. A method according to claim 1 or 2 in which the sequence of X-ray images are converted into digital format; the set of digital values representing each of the X-ray images are subtracted from those representing a successive X-ray image in the sequence; and any negative digital values are converted to digital zeros.
4. A method according to claim 3 in which the density of radio-opaque dye within a predetermined notional area at least a part of which overlies the area occupied by the blood vessel in the X-ray images is calculated for each set of digital values generated by the said subtraction, the calculated densities providing an indication of volume flow through the blood vessel.
5. A method according to claim 3 in which the sets of digital values generated by the said subtraction are added together to provide a composite image.
6. A method according to claim 3 in which the velocity of the dye bolus is calculated from the interval between successive X-ray images and the displacement of the dye bolus during the said interval derived from the sets of digital values generated by the said subtraction. 


7. A method according to claim 6 in which the digital values representing each X-ray image are used to calculate the position of the centre of gravity of the dye bolus in that image, the positions of the centre of gravity of the dye bolus in successive X-ray images being used in calculating the velocity thereof.
8. Apparatus for use in monitoring blood flow through a blood vessel by angiography, the apparatus comprising means for injecting a bolus of radio-opaque dye into the blood vessel, ECG means for monitoring the cardiac cycle, the output from the ECG means being connected to control means operable to cause the means for injecting to inject the radio-opaque dye over a period less than one cardiac cycle to form a localised bolus in response to the output from the ECG means, and X-ray imaging means operable to form a sequence of X-ray images at predetermined intervals to provide an indication of movement of the bolus through the vessel and its branches.
9. Apparatus according to claim 9 in which the control means causes the injection of the dye bolus to occur at a predetermined point in the cardiac cycle.
10. Apparatus according to claim 8 or 9 including means for converting the sequence of X-ray images into digital format; means for subtracting the set of digital values representing each of the X-ray images from those representing the next successive X-ray image in the sequence; and means for converting any negative digital values to digital zeros.
11. Apparatus according to claim 10 including means for calculating the density of radio-opaque dye within a predetermined notional area, at least a part of which overlies the area occupied by the blood vessel in the X-ray images, for each set of digital values generated by the said subtraction, the calculated densities providing an indication of volume flow through the blood vessel. 


12. Apparatus according to claim 10, including means for adding the sets of digital values generated by the said subtraction so as to provide a composite image.
13. Apparatus according to claim 10 including means for calculating the velocity of the dye bolus from the interval between successive X-ray images and the displacement of the dye bolus during the said interval derived from the sets of digital values generated by the said subtraction.
14. Apparatus according to claim 13 in which the means for calculating is operable to calculate from the digital values representing each X-ray image the position of the centre of gravity of the dye bolus in that image, the positions of the centre of gravity of the dye bolus in successive X-ray images being used in calculating the velocity thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
