<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627154</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A PERSON PAGING METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L2906	H04M700	H04L2906	H04Q300	H04L1228	H04M342	H04M700	H04Q300	H04L1228	H04M342	H04M1102	H04M1102	H04W8402	H04W412	H04W412	H04W8402	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04M	H04L	H04Q	H04L	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04L	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L29	H04M7	H04L29	H04Q3	H04L12	H04M3	H04M7	H04Q3	H04L12	H04M3	H04M11	H04M11	H04W84	H04W4	H04W4	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A person paging method in which a first user (A) wishes to page and transmit a message to a second user (B) with the aid of a paging service. The first user (A) requests paging of the second user (B) at a paging central (1) which offers an alerting service and a message service which supplements the alert with the message. The paging central (1) alerts the second user (B) by means of the alerting service. The invention is characterized in that the paging service is not associated with any particular telecommunication network, but can be performed in at least one telecommunication network (e.g. in N1 and N5) chosen from among at least two possible telecommunication networks (N1-N5). The message service is also made independent of the alerting service, in that the message service is not activated until a request to do so is received from the second user. The alerting service utilizes the aforesaid first telecommunication network (N1-N5) while the message service utilizes at least one telecommunication network (N1-N5) which is selectively different from the first-mentioned network (N1 and N5). The message is not transmitted until the aforementioned request is received.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON TELEFON AB L M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONSSON BJOERN ERIK RUTGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONSSON, BJOERN, ERIK, RUTGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of
communication services which are performed through selected
telecommunication networks. The invention relates
in particular to a person paging method.The present invention is related to the following five
patent applications, to which the following description
refers:
1) "A Method of Establishing an Intelligent Network
Service", WO93/16543.2) "A Method of Establishing a Connection",
WO93/16544;3) "A Method of Organizing Communication",
WO93/16545.4) "A Method of Establishing Cooperation with a Functionality",
WO93/16547; and5) "A Method of Supporting Communication", WO93/16546;These applications are enclosed as an annex to the
present description and describe mechanisms which can be
used in the method according to the present invention.By communication services is meant conventional telephony
services, telex services, datapack services, datel 
services, telefax services, videotext services, ISDN-services,
mobile telephony services, personal paging
services, tele-point-services and general communication
between two or more parties. The services recited above
are only examples of the services possible and are not
intended to limit the scope of the invention.By telecommunication network is normally meant the
telephone networks, telex networks, circuit connected
data networks, picture information transfer networks,
private telecommunication networks, radio networks,
satellite communication networks and general carriers of
the communication services, such as analog transmission,
digital transmission, synchronous, multiplex or asynchronous
multiplex transmission, ATM, etc., for example.
These networks are recited solely by way of example and
the invention is not restricted thereto.By functionality is meant the ability to perform an
operation in a telecommunication network. Examples of
functionality include activities and services that can
be performed in the telecommunication network. Examples
of functionalities include an enquiry to establish a
connection path or route between two parties, digit
analysis, billing or ticketing. Although not necessary,
the functionality may require the availability of dedicated
equipment for carrying out the functionality. For
instance, if the functionality is to receive tones and
to analyze tones, it is necessary to make a tone receiver
accessible. Other examples of functionalities
include voice-controlled speech information, number
translation service, conference calls. Other examples of
functionality include the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A person paging method in which a first user (A) wishes
to page a second user (B) and deliver a message to said second

user, said paging method comprising the following steps:

the first user (A) requests paging of the second user (B)
at a paging central (1) which provides a user alerting service

and a user message service, which is performed independently of
the user alerting service,
the message is transmitted to the paging central,
the message is stored at a first storage place,
the paging central (1) uses the user alerting service to
alert the second user (B) of the message by sending an alert

signal (22) in a paging network,
the second user activates the message service
characterised in that
the paging central assigns a first reference to the message,
the paging central includes in the alert signal said
first reference,
the second user (B), after receiving the alert signal and
at a time convenient to the second user (B), sends a message

collect request (33) to the paging central, the message collect
request comprising the reference, and
the paging central, upon receiving the message collect
request (33), transmits the message using the message service.
A paging method in accordance with claim 1, 
characterised in
that
 the message is stored in any selected node in a telecommunication
network (N1-N5), with which the second user can establish

communication.
A paging method in accordance with claim 2, 
characterised in
that
 the paging central selects the paging network among telecommunication
networks (N1-N5) over which the second user disposes. 
A paging method in accordance with claim 3, 
characterised in
that
 the paging central (1) sends the alert signal (22) in sequence
from network to network.
A paging method in accordance with claim 4, 
characterised in
that
 the paging central (1) sends the alert signal (22) in a
given order of priority.
A paging method in accordance with claim 3, 
characterised in
that
 the paging service is carried out at the same time in several
of the telecommunication networks (N1-N5) at the disposal

of the second user (B).
A paging method in accordance with claim 1, 
characterised in
that
 the message collect request (33) is supplemented with information
indicating the network to be used for delivery of the

message, said network being referred to as a message delivery
network.
A paging method in accordance with claim 1 or 7, 
characterised
in that
 the message delivery network is selected by the
second user among the telecommunication networks (N1-N5) over

which the second user (B) disposes.
A paging method in accordance with any of claims 1-8, 
characterised
in that
 the alert signal (22) further comprises second
reference to the place at which the message is stored.
A paging method in accordance with claim 9, 
characterised
in that
 the second reference is a destination address to the
place where the message is stored.
A paging method in accordance with claim 10, 
characterized
in that
 the destination address is a geographically differentiated
destination address which leads to a paging central within

respective geographical regions. 
A paging method in accordance with claim 10 or 11, 
characterised
in that
 the destination address is individual to the
paging request and is selected from among destination addresses

which a associated with the node in which the paging central is
found in the selected message delivery network.
A paging method according to any of claims 1-12 
characterised
in that
 the first storage location is with the first user
(A).
A paging method in accordance with claim 1, 
characterised
in that
 the message collect request (33) is supplemented with
information indicating the access point of the second user (B)

in the message delivery network.
A paging method according to claim , 
characterised in that
in that
 subsequent to delivery of the stored message, the second
user (B) sends to the first storage place an acknowledgement

(36) related to the presented message; and that the acknowledgement
is stored together with the first reference.
A paging method according to claim 15, 
characterised in
that
 the second user (B) sends to the first storage place, in
addition to said acknowledgement (36), a reply message intended

for the first user (A); and in that the reply message is stored
at the first storage place.
A paging method according to claim 16, 
characterised in
that
 the first reference and the acknowledgement (36) are presented
to the first user (A) when said first user makes a new

call to the paging central (1), whereby the first user is informed
that the message has been received by the second user

(B). 
A paging method according to claim 17, 
characterised in
that
 when the new call is made, the reply message intended for
the first user (A) as well as said acknowledgement (36) are

presented to the first user (A).
A paging method according to any of claims 1-18 in which
the message includes a short title and a message section, 
characterised in that
 only the short title is transmitted in
response to said message delivery request; and that the message

section is not sent until requested to do so by the second user
(B), this request, being referred to below as the message section

request.
A paging method according to claim 19, 
characterised in
that
 the short title is stored in a first storage place in the
paging central (1); in that the message section part is stored

in a second storage place with the first user (A); and in that
the message section part is not presented to the second user

(B) until a message section request is received.
A paging method according to any of claims 1-20, 
characterised
in that
 the first user (A) is either the first user (A) or
an agent (11) serving the first user; and in that the second

user (B) is either the second user (B) or an agent (12) serving
the second user.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
