<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652725</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPOSABLE ENDOSCOPE SHEATH.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B100	A61B100	A61B112	A61B112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	A61B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disposable endoscope sheath (10) includes a low-profile sleeve member (12) that can accommodate a variety of different endoscopes (34) having lengths that are longer than the sleeve member (12). The sleeve member (12) may include irrigation channels (140, 142) that do not communicate with an endoscope receiving space (130). In other embodiments of the invention, irrigation fluid passes through the endoscope receiving space (28) of the sleeve member (12). In all embodiments of the invention, irrigation fluid that is expelled from the sleeve member (12) can flush surgical debris away from the viewing end (94) of the endoscope (34). The sleeve member (12) has a generally low profile and does not require continuous suction to halt the expulsion of irrigation fluid from the sheath (10) when the irrigation function is not being used. A brief reverse suction can be used to remove a residual drop of cleaning solution from the viewing end (88) of the sheath (10).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XOMED TREACE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XOMED TREACE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONOFRIO WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONOFRIO WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DISPOSABLE ENDOSCOPE SHEATH BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention is directed to disposable sheaths for endoscopes and more particularly to a low profile disposable sheath that provides effective flushing of surgical debris away from the viewing end of an endoscope.The term surgical debris is intended to refer to any body material such as blood or tissue that obscures the field of view of an endoscope during surgery.Endoscopes permit a remote visual view of a surgical site while a surgical procedure is being performed. During surgery, blood, tissue or other body material from the surgical site can splatter onto the viewing end of the endoscope and impair the field of view through the endoscope. In some instances it is necessary to remove the endoscope from the surgical site to clean the viewing end, which usually interrupts and undesirably prolongs a surgical procedure.Because of the inconvenience of removing and cleaning an endoscope during surgery, some surgeons prefer to use an endoscope with a sheath that has provision for flushing away at the surgical site any surgical debris that obscures the view through the endoscope.Known endoscope sheaths, such as shown in U.S. Patents 4,991,565 and 4,974,580, are generally custom fitted 

to the endoscope. The sheath often includes air tubes, water tubes and suction tubes to flush away or suction away surgical debris from the viewing end of the endoscope. The irrigation, suction and air tubes on the endoscope sheath can add significant girth to the profile of the endoscope and thus require a relatively large incision to accommodate the sheath with the endoscope.Since many endoscopes are of different length, a diversity of corresponding sheath lengths are usually required to provide a compatible fit for each different length endoscope. Endoscope sheaths of different length are thus maintained in inventory by suppliers and users to ensure proper match-up with a selected endoscope.It is thus desirable to provide an endoscope sheath that is adaptable to a variety of different endoscope lengths, can be of low profile, and permits flushing of debris away from the viewing end of the endoscope.OBJECTS AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Among the several objects of the invention may be noted the provision of a novel endoscope sheath, a novel low profile disposable endoscope sheath for flushing debris away from the viewing end of an endoscope, a novel disposable endoscope sheath that can be adapted for use with endoscope barrels or shafts of different length, a novel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A disposable sheath for an endoscope comprising, a) a sleeve having an elongated wall defining an endoscope receiving space sized to accommodate an endoscope shaft with a viewing end through which a field of view is taken from the endoscope, b) said sleeve having an end cover and being of predetermined length to enable the end cover to engage the viewing end of the endoscope shaft when the endoscope shaft is in the endoscope receiving space, the end cover of the sleeve having an optically clear portion to provide a clear field of view through the end cover from the viewing end of the endoscope shaft, said optically clear portion having an outside surface, c) said sleeve being self supporting, non-inflatable, non-expandable and including an irrigation space in the endoscope receiving space between the elongated wall and the endoscope shaft when the endoscope shaft is in the endoscope receiving space, said sleeve being sized to ensure that irrigation solution passing into the irrigation space does not drip uncontrollably from the irrigation outlet opening when the flow of irrigation solution is stopped, d) the end cover of the sleeve having at least one irrigation outlet opening communicating with the irrigation space such that irrigating solution directed into the irrigation space can flow out of the irrigation outlet opening and onto the outside surface of the end cover to flush surgical debris from the outside surface of the end cover and away from the viewing end of the endoscope shaft to provide a clear field of view from the viewing end of the endoscope shaft.
2. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 1 wherein the sleeve is generally circular in cross section.
3. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 1 wherein the sleeve is non- circular in cross section. 


 4. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 1 wherein said end cover has a plurality of irrigation outlet openings.
5. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 4 wherein said irrigation outlet openings are equally spaced and formed on a circular path.
6. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 1 wherein said end cover is disk shaped.
7. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 1 wherein said end cover is cup shaped.
8. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 7 wherein said sleeve has an inside surface and said cup- shaped end cover has an annular wall secured to the inside surface of the sleeve.
9. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 7 wherein said sleeve has an outside surface and said cup- shaped end cover has an annular wall secured to the outside surface of the sleeve.
10. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sleeve is sized to provide an irrigation gap of approximately .001 to .003 inches between the endoscope shaft and the elongated wall of the sleeve.
11. A disposable sheath for an endoscope comprising, a) a sleeve having an elongated wall defining an endoscope receiving space sized to accommodate an endoscope shaft with a viewing end through which a field of view is taken from the endoscope, b) said sleeve having an end cover to enclose the endoscope receiving space and being of predetermined length to enable the end cover to engage the viewing end of the endoscope shaft when the endoscope shaft is in the endoscope receiving space, the end cover of the sleeve having an optically clear portion to provide a clear field of view through the end cover from the viewing end of the endoscope shaft, said optically clear portion having an outside surface. 


 c) said elongated wall being formed with at least one irrigation channel, non-communicable with the endoscope receiving space, said irrigation channel being sized to provide an irrigation gap of approximately .002 to .006 inches and having an inlet portion and irrigation outlet opening proximate the optically clear portion, such that irrigating solution passing into the irrigation channel does not drip uncontrollably from the irrigation outlet opening when the flow of irrigation solution is stopped and irrigating solution directed into the inlet portion of the irrigation channel can flow out of the irrigating outlet opening and onto the outside surface of the optically clear portion to flush surgical debris away from the outside surface of the optically clear portion and away from the viewing end of the endoscope shaft to provide a clear field of view from the viewing end of the endoscope shaft.
12. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim
11 wherein said end cover is disk shaped.
13. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim
12 wherein said end cover has at least one irrigation outlet opening.
14. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim
13 wherein said end cover has a plurality of irrigation outlet openings.
15. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim
14 wherein said irrigation outlet openings are equally spaced and formed on a circular path.
16. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 11 wherein said end cover is cup shaped.
17. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim
16 wherein said end cover has at least one irrigation outlet opening.
IB. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim
17 wherein said end cover has a plurality of irrigation outlet openings.
19. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 17 wherein said irrigation outlet openings are equally 


spaced and formed on a circular path.
20. The disposable sheath as claimed in claim 11 wherein the sleeve is generally circular in cross section. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
