<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630314</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CUT LINE INDICATOR FOR POWER CUTTING EQUIPMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23D3300	B23D3312	B23D5900	B23D5900	B23Q1724	B23Q1724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23D	B23D	B23D	B23D	B23Q	B23Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23D33	B23D33	B23D59	B23D59	B23Q17	B23Q17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cut line indicator for use with power cutting equipment provides a source (13) of collimated light (20) directed toward a cutting element (11), such as a saw blade, of a cutting apparatus (10) such that a shadow (23) of the cutting element (11) is cast on a workpiece (12) accurately indicating the path and width of the cut to be made.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAITE LANCE H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAITE, LANCE H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAITE LANCE H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAITE, LANCE H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CUT LINE INDICATOR FOR POWER CUTTING EQUIPMENTBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention This invention relates to visual cut line indicators for power cutting equipment, for example circular saws. More particularly, the invention relates to improved power cutting equipment of the type where a visual indication of the cut line is projected into a work place to be cut by the cutting equipment.Description of Related ArtCut line indicators allow an operator to more accurately relatively position a workpiece and a cutting element, such as a saw blade, to cut the workpiece. However, with conventional cut line indicators great skill and care must be exercised by the operator to cut only at the desired location on the workpiece. Time and training is required to develop this necessary skill. When cutting using such equipment, even a skilled operator must take the time to carefully align the workpiece for an accurate cut using conventional equipment, and even then a skilled operator may miscut a workpiece due to incorrect estimation of the alignment of the saw blade and the workpiece.Using conventional power cutting equipment, for example a miter saw, an operator wishing to make a cut in a workpiece must visually line up a place desired to be cut on the workpiece with a plane of motion of a saw blade. Various means are used to assist the operator in this alignment. For example, conventional miter saws have a channel in a fence and a table that supports a workpiece. The channel receives the saw blade when the workpiece is being cut through, and there¬ fore can be used as a cut line indicator in determining where the cut in the workpiece will be made. 

 Since the channel necessarily is larger than the width of the saw blade, the exact position of the cut to be made is difficult to determine with precision. Moreover, a place desired to be cut on a convoluted surface (for example a molding) may be difficult to reference to the channel, as it may be interior to the edges of the workpiece.The difficulties of making accurate cuts with conventional equipment are more stridently borne out in the situation where a workpiece is to be cut on an angle, as opposed to orthogonally. In this situation the point where the blade begins to cut the workpiece may appear to an operator to be displaced from the channel in a transverse direction due to the plane of cutting blade motion being disposed angularly to the operator. Lining up the place desired to be cut and the plane of blade motion is difficult even for an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CUT LINE INDICATOR FOR POWER CUTTING EQUIPMENT CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A method for providing an indication of a desired cut line of a cutting apparatus having a cutting element for cutting a workpiece, comprising: positioning a source of collimated light in fixed relation to the cutting element; and projecting collimated light from said light source such that the cutting element impinges the collimated light from the collimated light source to project a shadow line which indicates a desired cut line of the cutting element on the workpiece.
2. The method of claim l wherein the placement and dimensions of the shadow cut line indication projected substantially correspond to the desired cut line on the workpiece.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein collimated light is projected toward said cutting element by colli ating the light in a first direction perpendicular to a plane wherein the cutting element moves, said plane containing the light source and cutting element, and the light is relatively uncollimated in a second direction which is perpendicular to the first direction and parallel to said plane.
4. A cut-line indicator for use with a cutting apparatus having a cutting element for cutting a workpiece along a cutting path, comprising: a light source for projecting light to be impinged by the cutting element; means for mounting the light source to the cutting apparatus in fixed relation to the cutting element; collimation means for collimating said projected light impinged by the cutting element, whereby a shadow line indicative of the cutting path of the cutting element is projected.
5. The cut line indicator of claim 4 wherein the collimation means collimates the projected light in planes orthogonal to a first plane bisecting the light source and the cutting element, 


with said light being relatively uncollimated in planes parallel to the first plane, whereby the light projected by the light source and impinged by the cutting element casts a relatively long shadow of the cutting element.
6. The cut line indicator of claim 4 wherein the light source and collimation means are operative to project a shadow line having a first edge and a second edge which substantially correspond to a first edge and a second edge of the cutting path of the cutting element in the workpiece.
7. The cut line indicator of claim 5 wherein the collimation means comprises an opaque barrier having an elongated opening therethrough disposed in fixed relation to and between the light source and the cutting element, the elongated opening having a relatively elongated dimension oriented generally parallel to the first plane, and having a relatively narrow dimension oriented generally perpendicular to the first plane.
8. The cut line indicator of claim 5 wherein the collimation means comprises a lens having curvature in a direction perpendicular to the plane containing the light source and cutting element and no curvature in a direction parallel to said plane, disposed between the light source and the cutting elemen .
9. The cut line indicator of claim 7 wherein the opaque barrier comprises a shroud associated with the cutting element, and the elongated opening is formed in the shroud.
10. The cut line indicator of claim 4 wherein the cutting apparatus includes a shroud associated with the cutting element, and the collimated light source is mounted to said shroud.
11. The cut line indicator of claim 4 wherein the light source comprises a bulb emitting a partially collimated beam of light.
12. The cut line indicator of claim 4 wherein the light source 


comprises a halogen bulb.
13. The cut line indicator of claim 12 wherein the halogen bulb is tubular in configuration having an elongated dimension which is aligned with and contained in a plane containing the collimation means and the cutting element.
14. An illuminated power cutting apparatus, comprising: a shroud, a cutting element disposed adjacent said shroud for cutting a workpiece along a cutting path; a light source mounted to said shroud in fixed relation to said cutting element; a light collimator for collimating light projected by said light source, which light impinges said cutting element, whereby a shadow line indicative of the cutting path of said cutting element is projected onto said workpiece.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the light collimator collimates the light projected by the light source in a direction perpendicular to a plane containing the light source and the cutting element, with the light being relatively uncollimated in a direction parallel to said plane.
16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the light collimator includes a slot having a relatively narrow dimension in a first direction perpendicular to a plane containing the light source and the cutting element, and a relatively long dimension in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the light source comprises a tubular light bulb having an elongated dimension, oriented so that it is contained within the plane containing said slot and said cutting element.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the light source is a halogen light bulb.
19. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a sheet of otherwise transparent material having a roughened surface disposed between said light source and said slot. 


20. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of providing and existing cutting apparatus to be adapted for use with the source of collimated light, and providing a kit with materials to aid in adapting said existing cutting apparatus to said use. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
