<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637204</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE FOR DETACHING AND/OR REMOVING MEAT AND THE LIKE FROM ANIMAL HEADS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A22B700	A22B700	A22B500	A22C1702	A22B500	A22C1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A22B	A22B	A22B	A22C	A22B	A22C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A22B7	A22B7	A22B5	A22C17	A22B5	A22C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A boning apparatus for boning animal heads (2) comprising a conveyor (4) with a series of holders (3) and processing stations (1, 10, 20, 30, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 80, 85, 90) disposed along the conveyor. One or more stations comprises mechanically driven pin-shaped separating means (21, 36, 37, 51, 66) adapted to the shape of the animal head being processed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a device for detaching and/or removing 
meat and the like from animal heads, comprising a conveyor line with a 
series of holders for heads, placed one after the other, spaced apart, in 
the direction of conveyance, on which holders essentially identically 
shaped animal heads with essentially the same dimensions can be placed, 
and processing stations disposed along the conveyor line at a distance 
from each other, past which stations the animal heads are moved in 
succession by means of the conveyor line, and where the animal heads are 
treated, at least one first station situated downstream of one or more 
preliminary processing stations, viewed in the direction of conveyance, 
having scraper means for scraping meat and the like from an animal head 
processed in preceding stations. WO-A-88/07329 already discloses a device of the type mentioned 
in the preamble. With such a device it has been found possible to process 
animal heads industrially in an economically profitable manner. For this 
purpose, an animal head is placed by hand in the device and preparatory 
operations are then carried out by hand in successive stations. The head 
then passes a station with mechanically operated scraper means which move 
along it from the snout to the back of the head, thus scraping away from 
the head at least most of the meat on the outside of the head. The head 
subsequently passes a number of other stations, where for the most part 
manual operations are carried out, for example cutting away the meat 
loosened by means of the scraper means, removing meat and the like from 
inside the head, and removing and boning the lower jaw. For removing the 
contents of the skull, the head is sawn lengthwise through the middle in 
a station. The disadvantage of this known device is that a relatively 
large number of operations still have to be carried out by hand. This is 
not only relatively expensive, but it also means that for economic 
reasons meat is still left on the head. In addition, boning an animal 
head by hand is unattractive, given the working conditions. The object of the present invention is to provide a device of 
the abovementioned type by which more operations can be carried out  
 
without the intervention of human hands, so that the abovementioned 
disadvantages of the known device are eliminated. For this purpose, the 
device of the type mentioned in the preamble is characterised in that one 
or more stations situated upstream and/or downstream of said first 
station comprise
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Device for detaching and/or removing meat and the like from 
animal heads (2), comprising a conveyor line (4) with a series of holders 

(3) for heads, placed one after the other, spaced apart, in the direction 
of conveyance, on which holders essentially identically shaped animal 

heads (2) with essentially the same dimensions can be placed, and 
processing stations disposed along the conveyor line at a distance from 

each other, past which stations the animal heads are moved in succession 
by means of the conveyor line, and where the animal heads are treated, at 

least one first station situated downstream of one or more preliminary 

processing stations, viewed in the direction of conveyance, having 
scraper means for scraping meat and the like from an animal head 

processed in preceding stations, 
characterised in that
 one or more 
stations situated upstream (10; 20; 30) and/or downstream (50; 55; 65; 

70) of said first station comprise mechanically driven separating means 
(14, 21; 36, 37, 38; 51; 54; 66, 72, 74, 75) essentially adapting to the 

shape of the animal head being processed, for preliminary processing or 
further processing an animal head, the separating means comprising pin-shaped 

means (21, 36, 37, 51, 66) moveable towards and away from conveyor 
(4) and fixed in such a way that they resiliently moveable. 
Device according to claim 1, in which the device is provided 
with a station (70) with means for separating the lower jaw (22) from the 

animal head. 
Device according to Claim 2, in which said means for separating 
the lower jaw (22) from the head comprise a means for acting thereon on 

the free end (76) of the lower jaw, which means is suitable for moving 
said free end a distance from the animal head. 
Device according to Claim 3, comprising an elongated element 
(71) situated at a distance from the conveyor, viewed in the direction of 

conveyance, and being situated at such a distance from the conveyor (4) 
that it can project between the free end (76) of the lower jaw (22) and 

the animal head (2), and to which element a branch (72) connects, which 
branch downstream moves away from the element (71) and the conveyor (4). 
Device according to Claim 4, in which a drive means extends 
essentially parallel to the branch (72) and acts upon the lower jaw (22) 

and carries it along. 
Device according to Claim 5, in which the drive means comprises  
 

a driven endless belt (73) extending between two return wheels situated 
at a distance from each other, and having projections (74) which are 

disposed at a distance from each other and can interact in a power-transmitting 
manner with one or more lower jaws (22). 
Device according to one of the preceding Claims 2 - 6, in which 
means (121) are present for cutting out the tongue. 
Device according to Claim 7, in which the branch (72) is 
provided with a cutting means (121). 
Device according to Claim 7 or 8, in which means (120) are 
provided for moving the lower jaw to the side just before the elongated 

element (71). 
Device according to one of the preceding Claims 2 to 9, in 
conjunction with Claim 1, in which the station (70) for separating the 

head (2) from the lower jaw (22) comprises pin-shaped means (66) for at 
least partially detaching the maxillary joint from the head. 
Device according to one of the preceding Claims 2 to 10, in 
which the device is provided with a station (95) for further processing 

of the lower jaw separated from the animal head. 
Device according to Claim 22, comprising a disc-shaped element 
(96) which can rotate about its preferably horizontal axis, and which is 

provided with projecting retaining faces (98) which are spaced apart and 
against which a lower jaw (67) can rest with its end (76) facing away 

from the maxillary joint, and which element is connected to a drive 
means. 
Device according to one of the preceding claims, comprising 
means for separating meat and the like from the bone of the head or the 

lower jaw, comprising enclosing slits (99, 56, 54) which are situated on 
either side of the conveyor in front of the head (2) or the lower jaw 

(22) and run essentially parallel thereto, and which are closed at the 
downstream end, viewed in the direction of the conveyor. 
Device according to Claim 13, on either side of the conveyor 
provided with pressure means (58, 102) which can be moved up to the 

enclosing slits and which clamp the meat and the like caught in the 
enclosing slits. 
Device according to one of the preceding claims, provided with 
one or more stations (40; 60) with position-changing means (41; 61) for 

changing the position of the animal head. 
Device according to Claim 15, in which the holders (3) for  
 

holding the animal heads (2) comprise a hingedly fixed, spike-shaped 
element (7) onto which the animal head can be pushed, and in which the 

position-changing means comprise a hook element (41) which hooks in the 
downstream direction of the conveyor (4). 
Device according to Claim 14 or 15, in which one or more of the 
stations (40, 60) with position-changing means comprise elongated 

elements (61) rotatably driven about an end, which elements are disposed 
at the side of the conveyor (4), and which can exert a force on a passing 

animal head at a distance from the pivot point of the spike-shaped 
element (7). 
Device according to one of the preceding claims, in which the 
holders for containing the animal heads are provided with a spike-shaped 

element onto which an animal head can be pushed, and in which the device 
is provided with one or more pressure faces (5, 42) which can be moved in 

the downstream direction of the conveyor against a retaining force, and 
which can interact with the end of the animal head (2) which is facing 

away from the end in which the spike-shaped element (7) is inserted, so 
that an animal head is pressed on the holder. 
Device according to one of the preceding claims, provided with 
one or more cutters (11, 46, 47) for making incisions in the meat and the 

like of an animal head (2). 
Device according to Claim 19, comprising on either side of the 
conveyor cutters (46) which are rotatably driven and which can be moved 

towards and away from the conveyor, and which are suitable for making a 
circular incision. 
Device according to Claim 20, in which said cutters (46) are 
provided with a projecting centring means which is suitable for, for 

example, inserting into an eye socket of an animal head (2). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
