<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622595</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Air separation process and installation therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C21C528	F25J304	C21C528	F25J304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C21C	F25J	C21C	F25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C21C5	F25J3	C21C5	F25J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In an air-separation process, in order to keep the purities of the gaseous products of a distillation column (24) constant, an excess of a liquid rich in nitrogen is introduced into the column (24) if the product demand and the feed-air flow rate increase. When they decrease, an excess of the liquid rich in nitrogen is removed from the column (24). 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AIR LIQUIDE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
L'AIR LIQUIDE, SOCIETE ANONYME POUR L'ETUDE ET L'EXPLOITATION DES PROCEDES GEORGES CLAUDE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARREDEAU BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMAN JEAN-YVES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEYRON JEAN-MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DARREDEAU, BERNARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMAN, JEAN-YVES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PEYRON, JEAN-MARC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for separating air in a cryogenic distillation
apparatus comprising a distillation column and in which the

feed air is separated to produce an oxygen-rich fraction
and a nitrogen-rich fraction as products, wherein the

purities of these products are kept substantially constant
during variations in the demand for this product or in the

flow rate or pressure of the feed air, characterized in
that these purities are kept constant :


a) by introducing an excess of a nitrogen-rich liquid into
the distillation apparatus if the demand for the product or

the flow rate of the feed air increases or
b) by withdrawing an excess of a nitrogen-rich liquid from
the distillation apparatus and storing this liquid if the

demand for the product or the flow rate of the feed air
decreases.
Process according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus
comprises a medium pressure column (30) and a low pressure

column (42) and a reflux pipe (44; 11, 12) which enables
the reflux fluid to be withdrawn from the medium pressure

column (30) and to be injected into the low pressure column
(42).
Process according to claim 2, wherein the excess of
nitrogen-rich liquid is withdrawn or introduced into the

flow (44, 11, 12) in the reflux pipe (44).
Process according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
excess of nitrogen-rich liquid is stored in (or withdrawn

from) a reservoir (60) outside the column (24).
Process according to one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
nitrogen-rich liquid is stored in the distillation column

(24). 
Process according to one of claims 1 to 5, wherein an
air blower turbine (88) supplies the distillation column

(24), the flow rate of the blower turbine (88) being
adjustable.
Process according to one of claims 2 to 6, wherein a
variable part of the nitrogen withdrawn from the low

pressure column (42) is directed to a turbine (88) to
expand it before it is heated in an exchange line (32).
Process according to one of claims 1 to 7, according to
which part of a nitrogen-rich fraction produced in the low

pressure column (42) of the apparatus is reheated,
compressed and recycled to the medium pressure column (30)

of the apparatus and a variable part of the said recycled
nitrogen is turbined at an intermediate temperature and

reheated in the exchange line (32).
Process according to claim 8, according to which the
composition of the nitrogen-rich fraction is measured and

the flow rate of the nitrogen-rich fraction recycled to the
medium pressure column (30) is controlled as a function of

the said purity of the nitrogen fraction.
Process according to claim 8, according to which,
during the transitional phase, the composition of the

nitrogen-rich fraction is measured and the flow rate of the
fraction of the cycle which is turbined is controlled as a

function of the said purity of the nitrogen-rich fraction.
Process according to either of claims 2 or 3 or
according to one of claims 4 to 10, when these depend on

claims 2 or 3, comprising the following stages :

a) in the case of an increase in the oxygen demand, the
flow rates of the products withdrawn from the low pressure

column (42) of the apparatus are simultaneously increased 
so that an air flow received by the apparatus increases of

its own accord, by increasing the vaporizer-condenser (34)
temperature difference of the column (24) to the value

necessary for the required oxygen production at the
required purity, the pressure of the low pressure column

(42) being left free to adjust itself according to the
characteristics of the apparatus and the available air

pressure;
b) in the case of a reduction in the oxygen demand, the
flow rates of the products withdrawn from the low pressure

column (42) are simultaneously reduced so that an air flow
received by the apparatus decreases of its own accord, by

reducing the vaporizer-condenser (34) temperature
difference to the value necessary for the required oxygen

production at the required purity, the pressure of the low
pressure column (42) being left free to adjust itself

according to the characteristics of the apparatus and the
available air pressure.
Process according to claim 11, according to which the
purity of an oxygen-rich product is measured and the flow

rate of the air treated is controlled by acting on the flow
rate of the nitrogen-rich fraction(s), as a function of

this purity of the oxygen-rich product.
Process according to any of claims 1 to 12, according
to which at least one oxygen-rich product is withdrawn in

liquid form from the column, compressed by a pump (82) and
vaporized in an exchange line (32), and at least a fraction

of the feed air is compressed to a higher pressure,
liquefied in the exchange line (32) and conveyed in liquid

form to the distillation column (24).
Process according to claim 13, according to which,
when there is a reduced oxygen demand and a reduction in

air pressure, the flow rate of the air compressed and 
liquefied in the exchange line (32) is reduced less rapidly

than the flow rate of the oxygen-rich liquid which is
vaporized in the exchange line, so that the excess flow of

air which is boosted in pressure absorbs, at least partly,

the excess cooling provided by the imbalance between the
warming gas and the cooling gas flow rates in the exchange

line during this phase.
Process according to claim 13, according to which,
when there is an increased oxygen demand and an increase in

air pressure, the flow rate of compressed and liquefied air
is increased less rapidly than the flow rate of oxygen-rich

liquid which is vaporized in the exchange line (32), to
compensate for the thermal imbalance which is produced in

the exchange line during this phase resulting from the flow
rate imbalance between the products heating and the

products cooling in the latter.
Process according to any of the above claims,
according to which the cryogenic distillation apparatus

provides oxygen to an electrical power station of the
"integrated gasifier combined cycle" type and the pressure

of the air supplying the cryogenic distillation apparatus
depends on the gas production by the IGCC power station.
Process according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein at least one column (30, 42) contains structured

packings.
Process according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein at least one column (30, 42) contains bulk

packings.
Process according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein at least one column (30, 42) contains perforated

plates. 
Plant for the separation of air in a cryogenic
distillation apparatus comprising a distillation column

(30, 42) and in which the feed air is separated to produce
an oxygen-rich fraction and a nitrogen-rich fraction as

products, and means for ensuring the constant purities of
these products during variations in the demand for this

product or the flow rate or pressure of the feed air, these
means comprising :


a) means (11, 12, 44) for introducing an excess of a
nitrogen-rich liquid into the distillation apparatus if the

demand for the product or the flow rate of the feed air
increases or
b) means (44, 60, 60A, 60B) for withdrawing an excess of a
nitrogen-rich liquid from the distillation apparatus if the

demand for the product or the flow rate of the feed air
decreases, characterized in that it comprises means of

storage (60A, 60B) for nitrogen-rich liquid in a column of
the distillation apparatus (24).
Plant according to claim 20, wherein the means for
storing the nitrogen-rich liquid comprises a tank (60)

connected to two sections of the distillation column (24).
Plant according to claims 20 or 21, wherein a low
pressure column (42) includes a means of storage (60A,

60B).
Plant according to one of claims 20 to 22, wherein the
apparatus comprises a low pressure column (42), a medium

pressure column (30) and a reflux pipe (44) which enables
the reflux fluid to be withdrawn from the medium pressure

column (30) and to be introduced into the low pressure
column (42). 
Plant according to one of claims 20 to 23, having a
blower turbine (82) which turbines air supplying the

distillation column (24), the flow rate of the turbine
being adjustable.
Plant according to claim 23, having pipes (46)
connecting the top of the low pressure column (42) of the

apparatus with the top of the medium pressure column (30)
of the apparatus via a compressor (76, 84), so that

nitrogen can pass from the low pressure column (42) to the
medium pressure column (30).
Plant according to claim 25, having an expansion
turbine (88) which expands nitrogen withdrawn from a

distillation column (42), the flow rate of the expansion
turbine being adjustable.
Plant according to one of claims 20 to 23, having a
pump (82) for compressing oxygen withdrawn from the bottom

of a low pressure column (42) of the column (24).
Plant according to one of claims 20 to 27, wherein at
least one column contains structured packings.
Plant according to one of claims 20 to 28, wherein at
least one column (30, 42) contains bulk packings.
Plant according to one of claims 20 to 29, wherein at
least one column (30, 42) contains perforated plates.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
