<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617485</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
International electrical ground connector-adaptor for computer monitor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R464	H01R464	H01R466	H01R466	H01R1344	H01R13443	H01R2400	H01R2406	H01R3100	H01R3102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R4	H01R4	H01R4	H01R4	H01R13	H01R13	H01R24	H01R24	H01R31	H01R31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a power connector in 
accordance with IEC320 for providing common connections 

for individual male and female connectors (40, 42) and a 
ground lead (16), for example, to an anti-glare filter 

(10). The power connector device (30) includes an 
insulating body (38) which houses male ground (44) and 

power plugs (46) and female ground (48)and power 
receptacles (50) which are joined within the body to the 

male plugs; a common ground connector (56) adapted for 
external connection to a ground lead (34) as well as to 

the electrically common male (44) and female (48) ground 
connectors; and preferably a shroud (45) surrounding the 

external sections of the male plugs for preventing 
accidential human contact. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICAL COATING LABORATORY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OPTICAL COATING LABORATORY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RANCOURT JAMES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RANCOURT, JAMES D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electrical ground 
connections for CRT (cathode ray tube) monitors and other VDTs 
(video display terminals) and, in particular, to ground 
connections for contrast enhancement filters such as the 
GLARE/GUARD® anti-glare filters used on VDTs. Typically, ground connections for the contrast 
enhancement filters used in association with cathode ray tubes 
and other video display terminals comprise, in the U.S., a cord 
adapted for attachment to a 3-prong AC electrical outlet and, 
elsewhere, an alligator clip termination. These arrangements 
suffer from several problems. For example, a convenient 
grounding location may not be available. Also, the cord may not 
be connected or may be inadvertently disconnected, leading to an 
electrical shock hazard. Referring to FIG. 1, perhaps the most convenient 
prior art ground connection arrangement--one which does not 
suffer from the above disadvantages--is that used in the 
GLARE/GUARD® anti-glare filter available from assignee. The 
GLARE/GUARD® filter 10 comprises a bezel 12 which is adapted for 
mounting over the monitor or screen of the CRT monitor 26. The 
bezel 12 mounts an optically transparent plate or panel 14, which 
may have absorbing characteristics and has conductive, optical 
control thin film coatings (not shown) formed on one or both 
major surfaces, for example, for reducing glare. A long ground 
lead 16 is attached at one end to the filter, in electrical 
contact with the conductive coating(s). The free end 18 of the 
ground lead incorporates a male 3-prong electrical plug 20 which 
is designed for insertion into a standard 3-prong power 
receptacle or socket. The plug 20 comprises a conducting  
 
grounding pin 22 connected to the ground lead and two "dummy" 
prongs 24. As mentioned, the GLARE/GUARD® filter 10 does not 
suffer from the above-mentioned disadvantages of other prior art 
devices. However, despite its utility and advantages, like all 
things made by man, the GLARE/GUARD® filter can be improved. 
Specifically, the ground-only dummy plug 20 occupies an 
electrical outlet and prevents the outlet from being used for its 
intended purpose of supplying electrical energy. This may be an 
inconvenience in computer installations where multiple devices 
need to be connected to a power source. In one aspect, my invention is embodied in a power 
connector comprising an insulating body which houses electrically 
common male and female external receptacles, including a common 
ground connector; and an external
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power connector comprising: an insulating 
body; electrically common male and female external 

receptacles mounted in the insulating body, for 
connecting a first device to an electrical power outlet 

including a ground connector, the male and female 
external receptacles including a common ground connector 

for connecting the first device to the ground connector 
of the electrical outlet; and an external ground line 

electrically joined to the common ground connector and 
adapted for connection to a second device, whereby the 

external ground line connects the second device via the 
common ground connector to the ground connector of the 

electrical outlet. 
A power connector comprising: an insulating 
body; electrically interconnected male and female 

external receptacles mounted in the insulating body, for 
connecting a first device to a power electrical outlet, 

each receptacle including a ground connector; an external 
ground line adapted for the connection to a second 

device; and means for connecting the external ground line 
to the electrically interconnected ground connector of 

the male and female external receptacles to connect the 
second device to a ground connection of the electrical 

outlet via the electrically interconnected ground 
connectors of the male and female receptacles. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein the means for connecting the ground line to the 

ground connector provides permanent connection. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein the means for connecting the ground line to the 

ground connector provides removable connection. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 2 or 
claim 4, wherein the means for connecting the ground line 

to the ground connector comprises a socket housed in the 
body and a mating prong mounted on the ground line for 

removable insertion into the ground connector socket. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 5, 
wherein the ground line prong is a banana prong. 
A power connector for attaching a ground line 
to an electrical outlet, comprising an insulating body 

having receptacle means which comprises three sockets 
including a ground socket located at one side of the body 

and plug means which comprises three associated prongs 
including a ground prong extending from another side of 

the body; means electrically individually connecting the 
three sockets to associated ones of the prongs, including 

connecting the ground socket to the ground prong, to 
provide electrical through-connectors, including a ground 

connector, for electrically connecting an external plug 
connected to the receptacle means through the power 

connector to an external receptacle connected to the plug 
means; and means for connecting the ground line to the 

ground connector. 
A grounded contrast enhancement filter unit 
for a display, adapted for providing ground and power 

connections respectively to the filter and the display, 
comprising a contrast enhancement filter; a ground lead 

connected to the filter; and a power connector, 
comprising an insulating body including receptacles means 

comprising three sockets including a ground socket 
located at one side of the body and plug means including 

three prongs including a ground prong extending from 
another side of the body; means electrically individually 

 
connecting the three sockets to associated ones of the 

prongs, including connecting the ground socket to the 
ground prong, to provide electrical through-connectors, 

including a ground connector, for electrically connecting 
an external plug connected to the receptacle means 

through the power connector to an external receptacle 
connected to the plug means; and means for connecting the 

ground line to the ground connector of the power 
connector; whereby the power connector receptacle or plug 

means may be connected to the power plug or receptacle of 
the monitor and a power cord may be connected to the plug 

means or receptacle means, thereby simultaneously 
providing power and ground connections to the monitor and 

filter. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 8, 
wherein the means for connecting the ground line to the 

ground connector provides permanent connection. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 8, 
wherein the means for connecting the ground line to the 

ground connector provides removable connection. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 8 or 
claim 10, wherein the means for connecting the ground 

line to the ground connector comprises a socket housed in 
the body and a mating prong mounted on the ground line 

for removable insertion into the ground connector socket. 
A power connector as claimed in claim 11, 
wherein the ground line prong is a banana prong. 
The device of any of claims 1 to 12, further 
comprising a shroud mounted to the insulating body and 

extending laterally over the male receptacles or prongs, 
for preventing accidental human contact with the prongs. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
