<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659124</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VIBRATION DAMPENING DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60G2500	B60G2500	B62D3306	B62D3306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60G	B60G	B62D	B62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60G25	B60G25	B62D33	B62D33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A vibration dampening suspension device (10) for isolating a truck cab (1) from the force vibrations of a vehicle frame (2), which includes an impact plate (12) mounted to the truck cab (1), and a support plate (11) mounted to the vehicle suspension (4, 5). The device (10) further includes a link member (64) pivotally interconnected at one end (68) with the support plate (11) at a support pivot (82), and a lever member (66) with a first end (72) pivotally interconnected with the impact plate (12) at a main pivot (88). The link member (64) is pivotally interconnected with the lever member (66) for rotation of the lever member (66) with respect to the main pivot (88) during compression of the shock absorber (90) when the supporting body (2), suspended body (1) and device (10) are in a dynamic condition. A hydraulic shock absorber (90) is provided with a first end (92) pivotally interconnected with the lever member second end (74) at a shock pivot (89) and a second end (94) pivotally interconnected with the impact plate (12) at a pivot spaced from the main pivot (88). An air spring (50) interconnected between the impact (12) and support (11) plates, and a torque arm (44) pivotally interconnected between the impact plate (12) and support plate (11), are also included.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED POWER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED POWER INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONAWAY RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKENZIE THOMAS A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONAWAY, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCKENZIE, THOMAS, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VIBRATION DAMPENING DEVICETechnical FieldThe present invention relates to a vibration dampening device, and more particularly to an improved vibration dampening suspension device for a vehicle.Background of the InventionTo provide comfort for truck drivers and reduce driving fatigue experienced by operators of truck vehicles, it is desirable to suspend the operator's cab by utilizing a vibration dampening and shock absorption device intermediate the truck chassis and cab which reduces the shock, vibration and consequent pounding the driver experiences during the operation of the vehicle. Additionally, the continued application of vibration and shock forces to the cab results in structural damage which ultimately results in increased maintenance cost.The load carried by a truck vehicle is supported by the frame which is resiliently carried by suspension springs and supported by the truck wheels. Suspension springs have a high rate of stiffness which makes the ride more jarring on the operator of the vehicle. To dampen the vibration' and shock transmitted to the cab, suspension systems have been employed utilizing conventional hydraulic automotive shock absorbers and air springs to dampen jounce and rebound movement of the cab with respect to the truck frame.Typically, air springs and shock absorbers have been connected directly to the longitudinal side beam members of the truck frame such that the forces transmitted to the cab were located at points remote from the cab center of gravity and consequently resulted in substantial rolling movements in cab sway. For example, U.S. Patent No<. 3,944,017, provides a suspension device for a truck cab 

 having air springs with a low spring rate to isolate the vibration of the vehicle frame from the cab, but did not eliminate such rolling movement.Further improved devices having combinations of air springs and shock absorbers positioned such that the vibration forces transmitted from the vehicle frame to the truck cab were substantially reduced, are also provided inU.S. Patent Nos. 4,989,684 and 5,109,939.Summary of the Invention The present invention provides a new and improved vibration dampening device for a vehicle which further reduces cab vibration and shock forces experienced by the vehicle driver. By reducing vibration and shock to the vehicle cab, the improved device also reduces both driver fatigue and structural damage to the vehicle cab. Although the present invention has been described in a preferred embodiment for use with a truck cab, the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1
 Claims
1. A vibration dampening suspension device for isolating a suspended body from the force vibrations of a supporting body, comprising: a) an impact plate adapted for mounting to said suspended body or supporting body and having a vertical axis; b) a support plate adapted for mounting to the other of said suspended body or supporting body; c) a link member having first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said support plate at a support pivot; d) a lever member having a longitudinal axis and first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said impact plate at a main pivot; e) a hydraulic shock absorber having a central axis and first and second ends, where said first end is pivotally interconnected with said lever member second end at a shock pivot and said second end is pivotally interconnected with said impact plate at a pivot spaced from said main pivot; and f) wherein said second end of said link member is pivotally interconnected with said lever member at a lever pivot positioned intermediate said first and second ends of said lever member and intermediate said shock pivot and main pivot for rotation of said lever member with respect to said main pivot.
2. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 1, wherein said shock absorber central axis and said lever member longitudinal axis are parallel when the supporting body, suspended body and device are in a static condition.
3. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 2, wherein said lever pivot is on said lever member longitudinal axis. 


 4. A vibration dampening suspension device 
*
of the type recited in Claim 3, wherein said impact plate includes a cross member extending from said impact plate in a direction toward said support plate, and said main pivot and said pivot spaced from said main pivot interconnecting said shock absorber second end, are interconnected with said cross member.
5. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 4, wherein said main pivot and said shock absorber second end pivot are in a common plane of said cross member spaced from the impact plate, and said shock absorber central axis and said lever member longitudinal axis are in said plane in the static condition.
6. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claims 1 or 5, further comprising an air spring having a displacement axis and first and second ends, and said first and second ends are interconnected with said impact and support plates, respectively.
7. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 6, wherein said air spring displacement axis is transverse with respect to said impact plate vertical axis.
8. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 7, wherein said air spring displacement axis is inclined with respect to said impact plate vertical axis. 


 9. A vibration dampening suspension device for isolating a suspended body from the force vibrations of a supporting body, comprising: a) an impact plate adapted for mounting to said suspended body and having a vertical axis; b) a support plate adapted for mounting to said supporting body; c) a link member having first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said support plate at a support pivot; d) a lever member having a longitudinal axis and first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said impact plate at a main pivot; e) a hydraulic shock absorber having a central axis and first and second ends, where said first end is pivotally interconnected with said lever member second end at a shock pivot and said second end is pivotally interconnected with said impact plate at a pivot spaced from said main pivot; f) a torque arm having first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said impact plate and said second end pivotally interconnected with said support plate; and g) wherein said second end of said link member is pivotally interconnected with said lever member at a lever pivot positioned intermediate said first and second ends of said lever member and intermediate said shock pivot and main pivot for rotation of said lever member with respect to said main pivot.
10. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 9, wherein said impact plate includes a cross member extending from said impact plate in a direction toward said supporting body, and said main pivot, said pivot spaced from said main pivot interconnecting said shock absorber second end, and said torque arm, are interconnected with said cross member. 


 11. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 10, further comprising an air spring having a displacement axis and first and second ends, and said first and second ends are interconnected with said impact and support plates, respectively, and said air spring displacement axis is transverse with respect to said impact plate vertical axis.
12. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 11, wherein said air spring displacement axis is inclined with respect to said impact plate vertical axis.
13. A vibration dampening suspension device for isolating a suspended body from the force vibrations of a supporting body, comprising: a) an impact plate adapted for mounting to said suspended body and having a vertical axis; b) a support plate adapted for mounting to said supporting body; c) a link member having first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said support plate at a support pivot; d) a lever member having a central axis and first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said impact plate at a main pivot; e) a hydraulic shock absorber having a central axis and first and second ends, where said first end is pivotally interconnected with said lever member second end at a shock pivot and said second end is pivotally interconnected with said impact plate at a pivot spaced from said main pivot; f) an air spring having a displacement axis transverse with respect to said impact plate vertical axis, and first and second ends interconnected with said impact and support plates, respectively; 


 g) a torque arm having first and second ends, said first end pivotally interconnected with said impact plate and said second end pivotally interconnected with said support plate; and h) wherein said second end of said link member is pivotally interconnected with said lever member at a lever pivot positioned intermediate said first and second ends of said lever member and intermediate said shock pivot and main pivot for rotation of said lever member with respect to said main pivot during compression of said shock absorber when said supporting body, suspended body and device are in a dynamic condition.
14. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 13, wherein said impact plate includes a cross member extending from said impact plate in a direction toward said supporting body, and said main pivot, said pivot spaced from said main pivot inter¬ connecting said shock absorber second end, and said torque arm, are interconnected with said cross member.
15. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 14, wherein said air spring displacement axis is inclined with respect to said impact plate vertical axis.
16. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 15, wherein said shock absorber central axis and said lever member longitudinal axis are parallel when the supporting body, suspended body and device are in a static condition.
17. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 16, wherein said lever pivot is on said lever member longitudinal axis. 


 18. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 17, wherein said impact plate includes a cross member extending from said impact plate in a direction toward said supporting body, and said main pivot and said pivot spaced from said main pivot interconnecting said shock absorber second end, are interconnected with said cross member.
19. A vibration dampening suspension device of the type recited in Claim 18, wherein said main pivot and said shock absorber second end pivot are in a common plane of said cross member spaced from the suspended body, and said shock absorber central axis and said lever member longitudinal axis are in said plane in the static condition. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
