<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623334</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61H3100	A61H3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61H	A61H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61H31	A61H31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for performing cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation employs an applicator device having a body with 

an upper surface and a lower surface. The lower surface 
includes provisions for detachably securing to the patient's 

chest, such as a vacuum cup or an adhesive layer. For manual 
resuscitation, the upper surface will include a stra
p or other 
means for securing a performer's hand thereto. In an 

exemplary device, a disc-shaped handle (204) is attached to the 
upper surface of a vacuum cup applicator (202) by a short connecting 

stem structure (206). A pressure gauge (224) may be mounted in the handle 
structure (204), providing a positive and negative for scale to permit 

the user to monitor the force being applied. 
For automatic applications, a mechanical 

drive member will be secured to the upper surface. By 
alternately pressing and lifting on the applicator device, the 

patient's chest can be compressed and expanded to improve 
induced ventilation and circulation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to
a cardiopulmonary resuscitation device according to the preamble
of claim 1.Sudden cardiac arrest is a major cause of death
worldwide and can arise from a variety of circumstances,
including heart disease and trauma such as electrical
shock and suffocation. To improve a patient's chance of
survival (and diminish the likelihood of brain and heart
damage resulting from oxygen deprivation), it is
essential that measures be taken as soon as possible to
at least partially restore the patient's respiration and
blood circulation. Approximately thirty years ago,
techniques for external chest compression, generally
referred to as cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), were
developed and have enjoyed great success in reducing
mortality resulting from sudden cardiac arrest. Such
techniques, however, have remained largely unchanged over
the past two decades.External chest compression relies on actively
applying pressure to the patient's chest in order to
increase intrathoracic pressure. Such pressure increase
will induce blood movement from the region of the heart
and lungs through the peripheral arteries, thus partially
restoring the patient's circulation. Phase 1 of 
traditional CPR is referred to as the "active compression
phase" where the chest is compressed by the direct
application of external pressure. Phase 2, referred to
as the "relaxation phase," occurs when pressure is
withdrawn and the natural elasticity of the patient's
chest wall causes expansion. While such expansion is
generally sufficient to refill the cardiac chambers with
some blood, it is insufficient to ventilate the patient,
i.e., fill the lungs with sufficient air to oxygenate the
blood. Thus, conventional CPR further requires periodic
ventilation of the patient, e.g., mouth-to-mouth
ventilation, in order to provide the air necessary for
blood oxygenation.Manual CPR procedures generally require
performers to lean over the patient and to apply pressure
using the palms of their hands to the patient's sternum
as the patient lies supine on a flat surface. If no one
else is available, the performer must periodically shift
position to ventilate the patient through a mouth-to-mouth
procedure. Such manual procedures are thus very
tiring to the performer and furthermore have been found
to result in only marginal circulation.Manual CPR procedures can also result in injury
to the patient. For example, pressure applied by the
palm of the hand can fracture the patient's sternum
and/or ribs and cause other traumatic injury,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cardiopulmonary resuscitation device comprising:

a vacuum cup (202) composed of an elastomeric material
having a lower lip (208) joined by a reduced diameter juncture

(212) with an upper wall having a horizontal lower surface; a
connecting stem (206) having an upper and a lower end, wherein

the lower end (231) is attached to a central region of the
upper wall and
a handle (204) attached to the upper end of the connecting
stem (206),
characterized in that
the upper wall is so flexible that by applying a downward
force in the range from 294,2 N (30 kg) to 490,3 N (50 kg) on

the connecting stem the upper wall collapses to engage a
horizontal lower surface of the central region having an area

in the range from 6 cm
2
 to 40 cm
2
 with the patient's sternum to
cause chest compression and upward force can actively expand

the patient's chest.
A cardiopulmonary resuscitation device as in claim 1,
wherein the vacuum cup includes an upper chamber (210) and a

flared lower lip (208), further comprising a reinforcement ring
(214) circumscribing the vacuum cup above the flared lower lip.
A cardiopulmonary resuscitation device as in claim 1,
wherein the connecting stem (206) comprises an upper section

(226) attached to a lower surface of the handle and a lower
section (228) attached to the vacuum cup, wherein the upper and

lower sections are joined in a telescoping manner, further 
comprising a spring (232) extending between the upper and lower

sections.
A cardiopulmonary resuscitation device as in claim 1,
wherein the lower lip (208) of the vacuum cup is disposed in a

plane and the handle (204) includes a pair of generally
parallel, transversely spaced-apart gripping surfaces, located

in a plane parallel to the contact plane and wherein the
gripping surfaces each have an upper flat surface, a rounded

outer edge, and an undercut lower surface, wherein the handle
can be gripped by placing the palms of the hand against the

upper flat surface and wrapping the fingers around the edge and
into the undercut.
A cardiopulmonary resuscitation device as in claim 4,
wherein the handle (204) has a circular periphery and wherein

the gripping surfaces are defined continuously over said
circular periphery of the handle.
A cardiopulmonary resuscitation device as in claim 5,
wherein the handle (204) is a disc attached at the center of

its lower surface to the connecting stem (206), further
comprising a pressure gauge (224) mounted in the center of the

upper surface of the disc handle, whereby it is visible to a
performer grasping diametrically opposed peripheral sections.
A cardiopulmonary resuscitation device as in claim 1,
further comprising sealing ridges (216) formed

circumferentially about an inner surface of the lower lip (208)
of the vacuum cup.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
