<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624254</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASONIC IMAGING SYSTEM AND METHOD WITH FOCUSING CORRECTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B800	A61B800	G01N2906	G01N2906	G01S752	G01S752	G01S7523	G01S7523	G01S1500	G01S1589	G06T100	G06T100	G10K1100	G10K1134	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G06T	G06T	G10K	G10K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	G01N29	G01N29	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S15	G01S15	G06T1	G06T1	G10K11	G10K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Ultrasonic imaging apparatus and method are shown which include electronic correction or focus defects produced by acoustic refractive index inhomogeneities within an object (14) being imaged. The region of interest (38) within which focus correction takes place is selected by the operator using control (42 or 84). The imaging system includes adjustable time delays (28-1 through 28-c) through which return signals from transducers (10-1 through 10-n) pass. Outputs from the delays are summed (30) and the resultant signal is envelope detected (32). The envelope detector output is prepared for display at display (36) by scan converter (34). The output from a focus correction delay control circuit (64) is used to control delay times of individual delays (28-1 through 28-c) to provide for a delay profile across operative elements of transducer array (10), which delay profile includes delay profile components that correspond to low order terms of a series expansion, such as a Fourier series (fig. 4). The adjustable signal delays (28-1 through 28-c) are simultaneously adjusted by the focus correction delay control (64) during selection of delay profile component amplitudes which reduce focus defects within the region of interest (38). Either manual (fig. 1) or automatic (fig. 5) focus correction is provided.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STANFORD RES INST INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SRI INTERNATIONAL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREEN PHILIP S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREEN, PHILIP, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title: ULTRASONIC IMAGING SYSTEM AND METHOD WITH FOCUSING CORRECTIONSPECIFICATIONFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to ultrasonic imaging method and means with focusing correction for inhomogeneous media.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONUltrasonic images made in a media that is inhomogeneous in the acoustic refractive index, i.e. in its speed of sound, generally exhibit focusing errors. For imaging systems utilizing multi-element transducer arrays and adjustable time delay means connected to operative elements of the array for focusing and beam steering, it is possible to correct such focus errors to some degree by imposing adjustments to the time delays. One prior art method lor accomplishing reduction of focus defects includes cross correlating short segments of the signals received by adjacent or nearby array elements, corresponding to a point in the object space for which the correction is to be made. The cross- correlation coefficient should be maximum at a time shift equal to the beam steering and focusing delay required to image at that point. If it differs, a time shift correction is introduced to bring it into conformity. 

All time-shifted corrected waves are summed. Cross- correlation methods for correcting for distorting medium are shown in U.S. Patent No. 4,484,477 by Buxton, U.S. Patent No. 4,471,785 by Wilson et.al., U.S. Patent No. 4,817,614 by Hassler et al and in an article "Phase aberration Correction Using Signals from Point Reflectors and Diffuse Scatterers: Basic Principles" Flax et.al., IEEE Trans, on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control, vol. UFFC 37, No. 5, Sept. 1990, pp. 758-767. Another prior art method for at least partially correcting for focus errors produced by inhomogeneities in the media includes arbitrarily time shifting signals from each element or small group of elements and testing to see if the effect was to increase or decrease the quality of the detected summed signal corresponding to the region in the object space in which focus is to be improved. Each element or small group of elements is corrected in turn until the process converges. Quality of detected summed signal in the region of interest (ROI) may be determined by measuring the "speckle" amplitude, i.e. the mean of the Rayleigh-distributed magnitude, within the region of interest. Examples of such methods are shown in the following articles: "Phase Aberration Correction in Medical Ultrasound Using Speckle Brightness as a Quality Factor," Nock et al, J.Acoust. Soc. Am. 85(5),
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. In an ultrasonic imaging apparatus for imaging a section within an inhomogeneous object, which apparatus includes a transducer array and transmitter means for energizing elements of the transducer array for beaming ultrasonic energy into the section, said transducer array receiving ultrasonic waves and converting the same to electrical signals, an array of adjustable signal delay means to which electrical signals from operative elements of the transducer array are connected for electronic correction of focus defects produced by acoustic refractive index inhomogeneities within the object, means for controlling the adjustable signal delay means to provide a composite delay profile across operative elements of the transducer array, which composite delay profile comprises a plurality of selected delay profile components each of which components corresponds to a term of a series expansion, adjustable signal delay means being substantially simultaneously adjusted during selection of delay profile components that result in a composite delay profile which reduces focus defects within a region of interest within the section.
2. In an ultrasonic imaging apparatus as defined in Claim 1 wherein the series expansion comprises a Fourier series.
3. In an ultrasonic imaging apparatus as defined in Claim 1 wherein the series expansion comprises a power series.
4. In an ultrasonic imaging apparatus as defined in Claim 1 including visual display means, 


 means for processing of signals from said signal delay means for visual display of the section at said visual display means, and means under operator control for selecting the region of interest within the section and for controlling said means for controlling the adjustable signal delay means for manual correction of focus defects within the region of interest.
5. In an ultrasonic imaging apparatus as defined in Claim 1 including visual display means, means for processing of signals from said signal delay means for visual display of the section at said visual display means, means under operator control for selecting the region of interest within the section, means for determining the quality of image within the selected region of interest, said means for controlling the adjustable signal delay means being under control of said quality of image determining means during selection of said delay profile components that result in a composite delay profile which reduces focus defects within the selected region of interest.
6. In an ultrasonic imaging apparatus as defined in Claim 1 wherein selected delay profile components correspond to low order spatial frequency terms of the series expansion.
7. In a pulsed ultrasonic imaging method for imaging a section within an inhomogeneous object from reflections from discontinuities within the section of transmitted ultrasonic energy waves, comprising a) receiving by means of a transducer array 


reflected ultrasonic energy waves and converting the same to electrical signals, b) supplying the electrical signals to adjustable delay means, c) processing signals from the delay means for use in visual display of the section being imaged, d) adjusting the length of delay of the adjustable delay means so that signals from the delay means are provided with a delay profile comprising delay profile components corresponding to terms of a series expansion, for each delay profile component substantially simultaneously adjusting the length of delay of the adjustable delay means to change the amplitude of the delay profile component, e) obtaining a measure of quality of a region of interest within the section imaged during step d) , f) selecting for use during subsequent imaging, delay profile components which provide the best measure of quality.
8. In a method as defined in Claim 7 which includes visually displaying at a visual display an image of the section using processed signals from the delay means.
9. In a method as defined in Claim 8 wherein step e) comprises visually judging the quality of image within the region of interest provided at the visual display.
10. In a method as defined in Claim 7 wherein step e) is machine implemented.
11. In a method as defined in Claim 7 wherein delay profile components correspond to low order spatial frequency terms of the series expansion. 


12. In a method as defined in Claim 11 wherein said series expansion comprises a Fourier series.
13. In a method as defined in Claim 7 wherein said series expansion comprises a power series. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
