<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655005</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC RETRACTABLE SAFETY PENETRATING INSTRUMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1734	A61B1734	A61M531	A61M531	A61M3100	A61M3100	A61M3700	A61M3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61M5	A61M5	A61M31	A61M31	A61M37	A61M37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument (30) includes a sleeve (34) for being introduced in a body cavity and a penetrating member (32) disposed within the sleeve (34) and having a sharp distal tip (46) for penetrating a wall of the cavity. A retracting mechanism biases the penetrating member (32) to a retracted position wherein the sharp distal tip (46) is in a safe, protected position, and the penetrating member (32) is movable distally from the retracted position to an extended position wherein the sharp distal tip (46) extends beyond a distal end of the sleeve (34). The penetrating member (32) is automatically locked against movement to the retracted position upon axial rotation of a locking and releasing mechanism in response to movement of the penetrating member (32) to the extended position.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON, INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON, INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATIC RETRACTABLE SAFETY PENETRATING INSTRUMENTCROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation-in-part of pending patent applications SN 07/800,507, filed November 27, 1991, SN 07/805,506 filed December 6, 1991, SN 07/808,325, filed December 16, 1991, SN 07/848,838, filed March 10, 1992 and SN 07/868,566 and SN 07/868,578, filed April 15, 1992. The specifications of the above patent applications are incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention:The present invention pertains to safety penetrating instruments and, more particularly, to automatic retractable safety penetrating instruments having sleeves for introduction into anatomical cavities and penetrating members with sharp tips disposed within the sleeves for penetrating cavity walls with automatic retraction of the penetrating members into the sleeves upon penetration to protect tissue and organ structures within the cavities from the sharp tips of the penetrating members.Discussion of the Prior Art:Penetrating instruments are widely used in medical procedures to gain access to anatomical cavities ranging in size from the abdomen to small blood vessels, such as veins and arteries, epidural, plural and subachroniad spaces, heart ventricles and pinal and synovial cavities, with access being established via a sleeve positioned during penetration into the cavity with the penetrating instrument. Use of penetrating 

instruments has become an extremely popular and important first step in endoscopic, or least invasive, surgical procedures to establish an endoscopic portal for many various procedures with access being established via portal sleeves of the penetrating instruments. Such penetrating instruments typically include a portal sleeve and a penetrating member disposed within the portal sleeve and having a sharp tip or point to pierce or penetrate the tissue forming the cavity wall with the force required to penetrate the cavity wall being dependent upon the type and thickness of the tissue of the wall. Once the wall is penetrated, it is desirable to prevent the sharp tip of the penetrating member from inadvertent contact with or injury to tissue or organ structures in or forming the cavity, and a particular problem exists where substantial force is required to penetrate the cavity wall or the cavity is very small in that, once penetration is achieved, the lack of tissue resistance can result in the sharp tip traveling too far into the cavity and injuring adjacent tissue or organ
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument for introducing a sleeve into a cavity in the body comprising a sleeve for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal sleeve ends; a penetrating member disposed in said lumen of said sleeve and having a longitudinal axis and a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; retracting means for moving said sharp distal end of said penetrating member proximally relative to said sleeve from an extended position where said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said sleeve distal end to a retracted position to prevent contact of said sharp distal end with tissue; and locking and releasing means rotatable about said longitudinal axis for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said sharp distal end of said penetrating member to said retracted position in response to axial rotation of said locking and releasing means upon said sleeve distal end entering the body cavity.
2. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said retracting means includes a retracting member for carrying said penetrating member and biasing means for biasing said retracting member in a proximal direction.
3. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 2 wherein said locking and releasing means includes means for preventing movement of said retracting member in the proximal direction in the extended position.
. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 3 wherein said retracting member includes a retraction plate having an opening therein receiving said locking and releasing means and said movement preventing means includes 


protrusion means on said locking and releasing means for engaging said retraction plate in the extended position.
5. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 4 and further including slot means in said retraction plate along said opening for being aligned with said protrusion means upon rotation of said locking and releasing mechanism in response to said sleeve distal end entering the body cavity to permit movement of said retracting member in the proximal direction.
6. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 5 and further comprising distally movable operating means for axially rotating said locking and releasing means automatically to align said protrusion means with said slot means in response to distal movement of said operating means upon said sleeve distal end entering the body cavity.
7. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 6 and further comprising means for biasing said penetrating member in a distal direction to the extended position with said sharp distal end disposed distally of said sleeve distal end, said distal biasing means permitting said sharp distal end to move in a proximal direction to an operative position during penetration of the cavity wall and in a distal direction from the operative position toward the extended position upon said sleeve distal end entering the body cavity.
8. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 7 wherein said operating means includes cam means on said penetrating member and further including contact means on said locking and releasing means for being engaged by said cam means to rotate said locking and releasing means.
9. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 8 wherein said slot means includes at least two slots and said protrusion means includes at least one 


protrusion aligned with one of said slots in the retracted position and further comprising means for manually moving said penetrating member from the retracted position to the extended position.
10. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 9 wherein said contact means includes rib means for being engaged by said cam means to axially rotate said locking and releasing means a first increment to position said protrusion in engagement with said retraction plate at a first angular position between said slots when said penetrating member is manually moved from the retracted position to the extended position.
11. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 10 wherein said contact means includes projection means for being engaged by said cam means to axially rotate said locking and releasing means a second increment to position said protrusion in engagement with said retraction plate at a second angular position between said first position and the other of said slots when said penetrating member is moved to the operative position.
12. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 11 wherein said rib means is engaged by said cam means to axially rotate said locking and releasing means a third angular increment to align said protrusion with said other of said slots when said penetrating member is moved toward the extended position upon said sleeve distal end entering the body cavity.
13. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 12 wherein said protrusion means includes four protrusions disposed at 90° spaced locations and said slot means includes four slots disposed at 90° spaced locations. 


 14. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 13 wherein said projection means includes four projections disposed at 90° spaced locations longitudinally aligned with said protrusions, said rib means includes four ribs disposed at 90° spaced locations angularly offset from said projections and said cam means includes four cams disposed at 90° spaced locations for being longitudinally aligned with said ribs in the retracted and operative positions and with said projections in the extended position.
15. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 13 wherein said first, second and third angular increments are each 30°.
16. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 7 wherein said proximal biasing means includes means for rotating said locking and releasing means automatically upon said sleeve distal end entering the body cavity.
17. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 16 wherein said proximal biasing means and said rotating means include a single spring mounted in torsion between said retracting member and said locking and releasing means.
18. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 17 wherein said locking and releasing means includes means for preventing axial rotation of said locking and releasing means in the extended and operative positions.
19. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 18 wherein said locking and releasing means includes a shaft disposed in said penetrating member and said rotation preventing means includes a nub on said shaft and a slot in said penetrating member for engaging said nub. 


 20. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 19 and further comprising means for biasing said penetrating member in a proximal direction in opposition to said distal biasing means for positioning said slot to engage said nub in the extended and operative positions.
21. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said penetrating member includes a proximal end and an elongate shaft between said penetrating member distal and proximal ends and said locking and releasing means is disposed substantially entirely within said shaft.
22. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said penetrating member is formed of first and second telescoping parts, said first part carrying said sharp distal end and being movable proximally relative to said second part to move said sharp distal end to the retracted position.
23. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said sleeve includes a portal sleeve and said penetrating member includes a trocar.
24. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said sleeve includes a catheter and said penetrating member includes a needle.
25. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 and further comprising means for manually moving said penetrating member from the retracted position to the extended position.
26. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 25 wherein said penetrating member includes a proximal end and further comprising a hub mounting said penetrating member proximal end and wherein said moving means includes a pin for being moved in a distal direction along a longitudinal slot in said hub. 


 27. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 26 wherein said retracting means includes a retracting member for carrying said penetrating member and said pin is mounted on said retracting member.
28. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 25 wherein said penetrating member includes a proximal end and further comprising a hub mounting said penetrating member proximal end and wherein said moving means includes a push member and an end cap on said hub for moving said push member in a distal direction.
29. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 28 wherein said push member includes a push arm extending through a slot in said hub.
30. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 29 and further including a push finger on said push arm for engaging said retracting means.
31. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 30 and further including bias means for mounting said end cap for movement relative to said hub to move said push member in response to distal movement of said end cap.
32. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 31 and further including cam means for being moved distally through said slot in response to distal movement of said end cap to move said push arm out of engagement with said retracting means once said penetrating member has been moved to the extended position.
33. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 32 wherein said cam means is automatically held in said hub upon movement of said cam means distally through said slot. 


 34. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 33 and further including means for releasing said cam means from said hub.
35. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 34 wherein said push member includes a spring and said cam means includes a bump on said spring.
36. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 35 wherein said spring includes a base and a bend joining said base to said push arm and said releasing means includes a movable release bar extending into said end cap for compressing said bend to allow said cam means to move proximally through said slot in response to movement of said release bar against said bend.
37. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 36 wherein said release bar includes a button disposed externally of said end cap for moving said release bar against said bend.
38. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 37 wherein said mounting bias means includes a spring.
39. An automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 1 wherein said locking and releasing means includes a hollow shaft and further including a control tube disposed in said shaft.
40. A method of establishing communication with an anatomical cavity utilizing an automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument including a sleeve and a penetrating member disposed in the sleeve and having a longitudinal axis comprising the steps of 


 biasing the penetrating member to a retracted position wherein a sharp distal tip of the penetrating member is in a safe, protected position within the sleeve; moving the penetrating member from the retracted position to an extended position wherein the sharp distal tip is disposed beyond a distal end of the sleeve; locking the penetrating member against movement to the retracted position; forcing the automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument through tissue to enter the anatomical cavity; and rotating a mechanism about the longitudinal axis of the penetrating member in response to entry of the automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument into the anatomical cavity to unlock the penetrating member causing movement of the penetrating member to the retracted position.
41. A method of establishing communication with an anatomical cavity as recited in claim 40 wherein said moving step includes manually moving a knob in a slot of a hub of the automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument.
42. A method of establishing communication with an anatomical cavity as recited in claim 40 wherein said moving step includes squeezing a hub and end cap of the automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument.
43. A method of establishing communication with an anatomical cavity as recited in claim 40 wherein said locking step includes rotating the mechanism about the longitudinal axis a first increment in response to movement of the automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument from the retracted position to the extended position.
44. A method of establishing communication with an anatomical cavity as recited in claim 43 wherein said step of rotating the mechanism in response to entry of the automatic retractable safety penetrating instrument into the anatomical 


cavity includes rotating the mechanism about the longitudinal axis an additional increment. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
