<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644594</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Power supply wiring for semiconductor device
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L23528	H01L2704	H01L2702	H01L2352	H01L2704	H01L2702	H01L2170	H01L2182	H01L21822	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L23	H01L27	H01L27	H01L23	H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Ground lines 2 are disposed so as to sandwich a power 
supply line 1. A gate oxide film 3 and a gate 4 are formed below 

the power supply line 1. An n-type area 8 is formed adjacent 
to the end of the gate oxide film to set the ground potential 

thereto. A p-type area 9 is formed at most of the remaining 
part below the ground line to make it contact the substrate. 

Since the potential of the gate equals that of the power source, 
an inversion layer is formed below the oxide film, where the 

ground potential results through the n-type area. By sandwiching 
the gate oxide film between the gate and the inversion layer, 

a capacitor is formed. The size of the capacitor is half in 
length as large as the width of the power supply wiring, and 

the width substantially equals the length of the power supply 
wiring, the parasitic resistance generated at the gate or inversion 

layer is suppressed small, and the gate capacitance approximately 
corresponding to the area of master power supply wiring 

is interposed between the power source and the ground. As a 
result, a large capacitance bypass capacitor can be formed 

between the power source and the ground, and a power supply 
wiring which is great in effect of eliminating power supply 

noise can be obtained. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON ELECTRIC CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI KAZUMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUZUKI, KAZUMASA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a power supply wiring
of a semiconductor device and, in particular, to a power supply
wiring which pays attention to the reduction of noise of a semi-conductor
integrated circuit device which requires high speed
operation.In a CMOS circuit, current flows therethrough when the
output value changes. In particular, if the CMOS circuit is
operated at a fast speed, then the current is increased, and a
large current will flow in a short period of time. This current
causes noise to be generated at the power supply line and the
ground line. In order to reduce the noise, a bypass capacitor
may be connected between the power source and the ground to
supply electric charges thereto.In Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 62-237756
("MOS Integrated Circuit"), there is disclosed a method of
forming the foregoing bypass capacitor on a semiconductor chip.
This is intended for forming the bypass capacitor between a
power supply line 1 and a substrate, that is, a chip 10 by
forming an oxide film 3, which is similar to the gate oxide
film, below the power supply line 1 lying on the chip 10, as
shown in Fig, 1. However, in the conventional process of making
the CMOS integrated circuit, since an electrically conductive
film is formed on the gate oxide film by using polysilicon or 
polycide, which is high in resistivity, if only the oxide film
similar to the gate oxide film is formed below the power supply
line made of the polysilicon or polycide, parasitic resistance
is increased and the effect of eliminating noise becomes low.In Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open No. 2-144936
("Semiconductor Integrated Circuit Device"), there is disclosed
a method of forming a bypass capacitor in the wiring area of
the gate array. This is intended for forming the gate oxide
film 3 in the wiring area 11, on which the gate 4 is formed,
as shown in Fig. 2. The area of the gate oxide film is made to
extend up to the power supply line 1 to be connected through a
contact 5 to the power source while the gate is made to extend
up to the ground line 2 to be connected to the ground. A portion
where the gate oxide film and the gate are overlapped forms a
capacitor, which forms the bypass capacitor. However, since the
wiring area of the gate array is wide, the parasitic resistance
of the gate oxide film area and the gate is still increased,
and the effect of eliminating the noise is low. Further, in an
entirely laid-out gate array which provides no special wiring
area, this method cannot be used.In the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A power supply wiring of a semiconductor device,
having at least one first power supply line structure (1)

and at least two second power supply line structures (2)
which are disposed adjacent to both sides of said first

power supply line structure (1), wherein said first power
supply line structure (1) comprises a capacitance forming

insulating film (3) formed on a semiconductor substrate
(20), a capacitance forming electrically conductive film

(4) on said capacitance forming insulating film (3) and a
first power supply line (7a, 6a) formed on said capacitance

forming electrically conductive film (4) via a first
insulating layer (17a) and electrically connected to said

capacitance forming electrically conductive film (4)
through a through hole (THla) of said first insulating

layer (17a), and, said second power supply line structures
(2) each comprise a second power supply line (7b, 6b)

formed on said semiconductor substrate (20) via a second
insulating layer (17b) and electrically connected to said

semiconductor substrate (20) through a through hole (THlb)
of said second insulating layer (17b),

   
characterized
 in that

   each of said second power supply line structures (2)
includes a first area (8) of a first electrical conductivity type

formed on a first surface portion of said semiconductor
substrate (20) adjacent to said first power supply line

structure (1) and a second area (9) of a second electrical conductivity type
formed on a second surface portion of said

semiconductor substrate (20), said second
area (9) being adjacent and isolated from said first 

area (8), and, said second
power supply l
ine (7b, 6b) is electrically connected to
said first area (8) and said second area (9), so that a

bypass capacitor is formed between said first and second power supply lines by said capacitance forming
electrically conductive film (4), said capacitance forming

insulating film (3) and an inversion layer formed on a
third surface portion of said semiconductor substrate (20)

opposing said capacitance forming electrically
conductive film (4).
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein a plurality of first power

supply line structures (1) and a plurality of second power
supply line structures (2) are alternately disposed.
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein a plurality of through holes

(TH1a) of said first insulating layer (17a) are formed
along the length of said first power supply line structure (1), in a region

opposing a substantially central portion thereof.
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 3, wherein said through holes (TH1a) of

said first insulating layer (17a) are disposed at an
interval along the direction in which said

first power supply line structure (1) extends that is
smaller than the width of said first power supply

line structure (1).
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in Claim 1, wherein said capacitance forming

insulating film (3) comprises silicon oxide.
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein said capacitance forming 

electrically conductive film (4) comprises polysilicon or
polycide.
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein said first and second

insulating layers (17a, 17b) are made of silicon oxide.
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein said first and second power

supply lines (7a, 6a,, 7b, 6b) are made of metal.
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 8, wherein said first and second power

supply lines (7a, 6a, 7b, 6b) are made of aluminium or
aluminium alloy.
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein said first power supply line

includes a first metal layer (7a) formed on said
capacitance forming electrically conductive film (4) via

the first insulating layer (17a) and electrically connected
to said capacitance forming electrically conductive film

(4) through a through hole (TH1a) of said first insulating
layer (17a) and a second metal layer (6a) formed on said

first metal layer (7a) via a first additional insulating
layer (16a) and electrically connected to said first metal

layer (7a) through a through hole (TH2a) of said first
additional insulating layer (16a).
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 10, wherein a plurality of through holes

(TH2a) of said first additional insulating layer (16a) are
disposed at an interval substantially equal to that at

which through holes (TH1a) of said first insulating layer
(17a) are disposed. 
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein said second power supply line

includes a third metal layer (7b) formed on said
semiconductor substrate (20) via said second insulating

layer (17b) and electrically connected to said
semiconductor substrate (20) through said through hole

(TH1b) of said second insulating layer (17b) and a fourth
metal layer (6b) formed on said third metal layer (7b) via a

second additional insulating layer (16b) and electrically
connected to said first metal layer (7b) through a through

hole (TH2b) of said second additional insulating layer
(16b).
The power supply wiring of a semiconductor device as
set forth in claim 1, wherein said first and second power

supply lines lie at substantially the same level.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
