<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636875</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for testing chew-out strength of paperboard core.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N300	G01N300	G01N302	G01N304	G01N322	G01N3334	G01N3334	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N3	G01N3	G01N3	G01N3	G01N3	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a method and apparatus for 
testing the chew-out strength of paperboard cores. The 

apparatus of the invention includes a clamping element 
(20) for clamping a tubular core (40) to prevent rotation 

thereof; a splined chuck element (18) in the form of an 
axially tapered member having a plurality of 

circumferentially distributed splines (34) for insertion 
into one end face (38) of the core (40); and a means (14, 

22) for applying increasing torque at a controlled rate 
to the splined chuck element (18). A measuring means 

(76) measures the torque applied to the splined chuck 
element (18). In operation, increasing amounts of torque 

are applied by the torquing means (14, 22) until the 
splined chuck element (18) shears the end face (38) of 

the tube (40) resulting in chew-out of the core (40). 
The maximum torque force applied to the splined chuck 

element (18) provides an accurate indication of the chew-out 
strength of the core (40). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONOCO PRODUCTS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONOCO PRODUCTS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIFFIN RONALD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIFFIN, RONALD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method and 
apparatus for evaluating the resistance to so-called 
"chew-out" strength of the ends of paperboard cores. 
More specifically, the invention is directed to a 
method and apparatus useful in evaluating the 
capability of the ends of paperboard cores to withstand 
torque applied to the end faces thereof by splined 
chucks which are engaged into the end faces of the tube 
during various winding operations. Wound paper tubes, or cores, are widely used 
in industry for winding and supporting film, textile 
material, paper and the like. These tubes are 
typically spirally wound tubes, although convolute 
wound tubes are also used to achieve these functions. 
Winding apparatus used to support the tubes during 
winding and unwinding operations normally employ two 
independent chucks that grip the core at each of its 
opposed ends by means of various chuck systems. For heavy duty uses, such as for winding and 
unwinding for newspaper and Rotogravure Printing, the 
tubes can be very long, for example, up to about 10 
feet (3.08m) for U. S. Rotogravure Printing and 10.5 
feet (3.22m) for European Rotogravure Printing. In  
 
view of the large size, these tubes must be very heavy 
and strong in order to be able to carry the weight of a 
large roll of paper. In addition, the ends of the tube 
which are engaged by various chuck systems must also be 
very strong in order to withstand the torque applied to 
the tube ends during the wind and unwind operations. One common type of chuck employed in winding 
operations for paper is a splined chuck which supports 
the core axially and also functions to prevent the core 
from slipping on the chuck when torque is applied. 
Typically, these chucks have a frustoconical exterior 
shape and there are a plurality of circumferentially 
distributed, axially elongate splines on the outer 
surface of the chuck. The core is mounted onto the 
chuck by partial insertion of the chuck axially into 
the end of the paperboard core. The chuck is inserted 
into the core employing a predetermined amount of axial 
force so that the axially elongate splines on the face 
of the chuck are positively engaged with and embedded 
into the paperboard core end faces and the adjacent 
interior peripheral surfaces thereof. Typically, the rotation of the roll of paper 
material is achieved by means of a drive roll which 
contacts the face of the paper roll for rotation 
thereof. During the winding and unwinding operations, 
the rolls of material are often subjected to

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for testing the chew-out 
strength of a tubular core having first and second 

opposed ends comprising: 
   clamping means for clamping the core to 

prevent rotation thereof; 
   a splined chuck element for partial axial 

insertion into one end of the core comprising an 
axially tapered member having a plurality of axially 

elongate splines distributed circumferentially on the 
exterior surface thereof; 

   insertion means for inserting the splined 
chuck element into the core to positively engage and 

embed the splines of the splined chuck element into the 
first end face of the core at a predetermined axial 

force; 
   torquing means for applying increasing torque 

at a controlled rate to the splined chuck element; and 
   means for measuring a force representative of 

the torque applied to the splined chuck element. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 additionally 
comprising a frame for supporting said splined chuck 

element and wherein said clamping means is supported by 
said frame in a position coaxial with and spaced from 

said splined chuck element. 
The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said 
clamping means comprises a radially expandable chuck 

for insertion into the second end of said tubular core 
for gripping the interior periphery thereof. 
The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said 
radially expandable chuck is adapted and arranged on 

said frame for axial movement in the direction of said 
splined chuck element and for simultaneous radial 

expansion during said axial movement. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said 
torquing means for applying increasing torque to said 

splined chuck element comprises a lever arm extending 
from said chuck in a radially outward direction. 
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said 
torquing means for applying increasing torque to said 

chuck additionally comprises a linear force application 
means for applying linear force to an end portion of 

said lever arm. 
The apparatus of Claim 6 additionally 
comprising a frame supporting said splined chuck 

element and said clamping means in opposed coaxial 
relationship, said frame means including at least one 

elongate foot element at a lower portion thereof and 
being oriented transversely to said splined chuck and 

said clamping means and being positioned on the same 
side of said frame as said radially outwardly extending 

lever arm. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 additionally 
comprising a frame mean
s for supporting said clamping 
means and said splined chuck element in opposed coaxial 

relationship and wherein said insertion means for 
inserting said splined chuck element into said tubular 

core comprises a means for axially moving said clamping 
element in a direction toward said opposed splined 

chuck element. 
The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said 
means for moving said clamping means in an axial 

direction toward said splined chuck element 
additionally comprises a means for measuring the axial 

force applied to said clamping means during the axial 
movement thereof. 
An apparatus for testing the chew-out 
strength of a tubular core having first and second 

opposed ends and being adapted for use with linear 
force applying means and linear force measuring means 

comprising: 
   clamping means for clamping the core to 

prevent rotation thereof; 
   a splined chuck element for partial axial 

insertion into one end of the core comprising an 
axially tapered member having a plurality of axially 

elongate splines distributed circumferentially on the 
exterior surface thereof; 

   insertion means for inserting the splined 
chuck element into the core to positively engage and 

embed the splines of the splined chuck element into the 
first end face of the core at a predetermined axial 

force; 
   a frame for supporting said clamping means 

and said splined chuck element; 
   torquing means for applying increasing torque 

at a controlled rate to the splined chuck element, at 
least a portion of said torquing means extending 

outwardly of said frame; 
   whereby said linear force applying means can 

apply force to said portion of said torquing means 
exterior of said frame and said force applied to said 

torquing means can be measured by said linear force 
measuring means. 
The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said 
portion of said torquing means extending exterior of 

said frame is positioned for movement above an upper 
portion of said frame. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said 
portion of said torquing means exterior of said frame 

comprises an end portion of a lever arm having 
sufficient length for extending above the top of said 

frame. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said 
splined chuck element and said clamping means are 

coaxially supported by said frame in a spaced 
relationship. 
The apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said 
clamping means comprises a radially expandable chuck 

for insertion into the second end of said tubular core 
for gripping the interior periphery thereof. 
The apparatus of Claim 14 wherein said 
radially expandable chuck is adapted and arranged on 

said frame for axial movement in the direction of said 
splined chuck element and for simultaneous radial 

expansion during said axial movement. 
The apparatus of claim 15 additionally 
comprising a means for axially moving said clamping 

element in a direction toward said coaxial splined 
chuck element and a means for measuring the force 

applied by said means for axially moving said clamping 
element. 
A method for testing the chew-out 
strength of a tubular core having first and second 

opposed ends comprising: 
   clamping said tubular core to prevent 

rotation thereof; 
   positioning adjacent the first end of said 

clamped tubular core a splined chuck element comprising 
an axially tapered member including a plurality of 

 
circumferentially distributed axially elongate splines 

on the exterior surface thereof; 
   partially inserting said splined chuck 

element into said first end of said clamped tubular 
core sufficiently to positively engage and embed said 

splines of said splined chuck element into the end face 
of said first end of said clamped tubular core at a 

predetermined axially inward force; 
   applying increasing torque to said splined 

chuck element sufficiently to chew out a portion of the 
end face of said clamped tubular core; and 

   measuring the maximum torque force applied to 
said splined chuck element during said applying step. 
The method of Claim 17 wherein said 
clamping step comprises gripping a portion of the 

interior periphery of said core. 
The method of Claim 17 wherein said 
inserting step comprises axially moving said tubular 

core toward said splined chuck element. 
The method of Claim 19 additionally 
comprising the step of measuring the axial force 

applied to said tubular core during said insertion 
step. 
The method of Claim 20 additionally 
comprising the step of providing a torque application 

element operatively associated with said splined chuck 
element for the transfer of force thereto, and applying 

a linear force to said torque application element to 
thereby apply torque to said splined chuck element. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
