<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614375</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF TRANSFERRIN RECEPTOR SPECIFIC ANTIBODY-NEUROPHARMACEUTICAL OR DIAGNOSTIC AGENT CONJUGATES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4748	A61K4748	C07K1618	C07K1628	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K47	A61K47	C07K16	C07K16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention pertains to a method for delivering a neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent across the blood brain barrier to the brain of a host. The method comprises administering to the host a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate wherein the antibody is reactive with a transferrin receptor and the antibody is a chimera between the variable region from one animal source and the constant region from a different animal source. Other aspects of this invention include a delivery system comprising an antibody reactive with a transferrin receptor linked to a neuropharmaceutical or diganostic agent and methods for treating hosts afflicted with a disease associated with a neurological disorder. In embodiments of the present invention, the antibody that is reactive with a tranferrin receptor is a chimeric antibody. This antibody is composed of a variable region, immunologically reactive with the transferrin receptor, that is delivered from one animal source and a constant region that is derived from an animal source other than the one which provided the variable region. The chimeric antibodies of this invention can exist either as isolated entities or as conjugates with a neuropharmaceutical agent for transferal across the blood brain barrier. In the latter mode, the chimeric antibody-neuropharmaceutical agent conjugate forms a delivery system for delivering the neuropharmaceutical agent across the blood brain barrier.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALKERMES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALKERMES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIDEN PHILLIP M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIDEN, PHILLIP, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
PProcess for the preparation of transferrin receptor specific antibody-neuro¬ pharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugates.DescriptionBackgroundThe capillaries that supply blood to the tissues of the brain constitute the blood brain barrier (Goldstein et al. (1986) Scientific American 255:74-83; Pardridge, W.M. (1986) Endocrin. Rev. 7:314-330). The endothelial cells which form the brain capillaries are different from those found in other tissues in the body. Brain capillary endo¬ thelial cells are joined together by tight inter¬ cellular junctions which form a continuous wall against the passive movement of substances from the blood to the brain. These cells are also different in that they have few pinocytic vesicles which in other tissues allow somewhat unselective transport across the capillary wall. Also lacking are con¬ tinuous gaps or channels running through the cells which would allow unrestricted passage. 

 The blood-brain barrier functions to ensure that the environment of the brain is constantly controlled. The levels of various substances in the blood, such as hormones, amino acids and ions, undergo frequent small fluctuations which can be brought about by activities such as eating and exercise (Goldstein et al_, cited supra) . If the brain were not protected by the blood brain barrier from these variations in serum composition, the result could be uncontrolled neural activity.The isolation of the brain from the bloodstream is not complete. If this were the case, the brain would be unable to function properly due to a lack of nutrients and because of the need to exchange chemicals with the rest of the body. The presence of specific transport systems within the capillary endothelial cells assures that the brain receives, in a controlled manner, all of the compounds required for normal growth and function. In many instances, these transport systems consist of membrane-associated receptors which, upon binding of their respective ligand, are internalized by the cell (Pardridge, .M. , cited supra) . Vesicles containing the receptor-ligand complex then migrate to the abluminal surface of the endothelial cell where the ligand is released.The problem posed by the blood-brain barrier is that, in the process of protecting the brain, it excludes many potentially useful therapeutic agents.Presently, only substances which are sufficiently lipophilic can penetrate the blood-brain barrier < 

 (Goldstein et al, cited supra; Pardridge, W.M. , cited•s.4» supra) . Some drugs can be modified to make them
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate for the manufacture of a medicament for delivering the neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent across the blood-brain barrier to the brain of a host whereby the antibody binds to a transferrin receptor present on brain capillary endothelial cells and the neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent is transferred across the blood-brain barrier in a pharmaceutically active form, wherein the antibody is a chimeric antibody that is reactive with said transferrin receptor.
2. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 1 wherein the chimeric antibody is a chimera between the variable region of a murine antibody and the constant region of a separate antibody.
3. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 2 wherein the constant region is of an animal source other than murine.
4. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 3 wherein the animal source is human. 


 102
-68-
5. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 2 wherein the variable region is from a monoclonal antibody produced by the 128.1 hybridoma.
6. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 4 wherein the variable region is from a monoclonal antibody produced by the 128.1 hybridoma.
7. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 6 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4274 and PAG4270.
8.. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical. or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 6 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4625 and pAG4270.
9. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 6 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4807 and pAG4270.
10. An antibody-neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent conjugate according to Claim 6 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4808 and pAG4270. 


11. A delivery system for delivering a neuropharma¬ ceutical or diagnostic agent across the blood brain barrier comprising a chimeric antibody, reactive with a transferrin receptor present on brain capillary endothelial cells, linked to a neuropharmaceutical or diagnostic agent, whereby the delivery system transports the neuropharma¬ ceutical or diagnostic agent across the blood brain barrier when administered in vivo.
12. A delivery system according to Claim 11 wherein the chimeric antibody is a chimera between the variable region of a murine antibody and the constant region of a separate antibody.
13. A delivery system according to Claim 12 wherein the constant region is of an animal source other than murine.
14. A delivery system according to Claim 13 wherein the animal source is human.
15. A delivery system according to Claim 12 wherein the variable region is from a monoclonal antibody produced by the 128.1 hybridoma.
16. A delivery system according to Claim 14 wherein the variable region is from a monoclonal antibody produced by the 128.1 hybridoma. 


 -70-
17. A delivery system according to Claim 16 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4274 and pAG4270.
18. A delivery system according to Claim 16 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4625 and pAG4270.
19. A delivery system according to Claim 16 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4807 and pAG4270.
20. A delivery system according to Claim 16 wherein the constant region is from plasmids pAH4808 and pAG4270.
21. A chimeric antibody comprising a variable region reactive with a transferrin receptor present on brain capillary endothelial cells and a constant region of a separate antibody.
22. A chimeric antibody of Claim 21 wherein the variable region is of murine origin.
23. A chimeric antibody of Claim 22 wherein the constant region is of an animal source other than murine.
24. A chimeric antibody of Claim 23 wherein the animal source is human. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
