<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0498844</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and process for the production of acetylene.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10H1522	C10H2116	C01F1102	C10H1500	C10H1506	C10H2100	C01F1128	C10H300	C10H300	C01F1124	C10H1100	C01F1100	C07C1124	C07C132	C10H1100	C07C100	C07C1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10H	C10H	C01F	C10H	C10H	C10H	C01F	C10H	C10H	C01F	C10H	C01F	C07C	C07C	C10H	C07C	C07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10H15	C10H21	C01F11	C10H15	C10H15	C10H21	C01F11	C10H3	C10H3	C01F11	C10H11	C01F11	C07C11	C07C1	C10H11	C07C1	C07C11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-staged process for producing acetylene and calcium chloride from calcium carbide (12) and water (12) has two successive reaction steps. In step Number 1, calcium carbide is charged into an entrained flow-type reactor (10) vessel containing water. The reaction which follows proceeds to about 60-90 % completion. The entrained reaction products and the unreacted feed material are carried over to a secondary reactor (16) to complete the reaction, and the acetylene gas is drawn off (26). Calcium hydroxide product is removed from the reactor (23) and reacted with hydrogen chloride to form calcium chloride. Heat generated by the exothermic reactions of water with calcium carbide and HCl with calcium hydroxide is used to dry the calcium chloride product and improve its value. In the presence of excess of water, the calcium carbide-water reaction is effectively a first order, irreversible reaction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention comprises a process for 
simultaneous manufacture of acetylene and calcium 
chloride from calcium carbide and hydrogen chloride. In the currently practiced art, calcium 
carbide is charged to a large tank containing water and 
which is outfitted with slow moving stirring paddles. 
The carbide is dropped onto the surface of the water 
where it is allowed to react spontaneously. Acetylene 
gas is withdrawn from the top of the tank while calcium 
hydroxide and other impurities settle to the bottom of 
the tank. The reactor is cooled by internal coils 
containing cooling water or by spraying cold water on 
the exterior of the tank or both. The calcium hydroxide 
produced, along with its impurities, is discharged, 
stockpiled and disposed of as a low value neutralizer 
for industrial acid streams or for maintaining pH 
balance in sewage plants. Depending upon the 
application, acetylene is compressed and stored in high 
pressure vessels or, incases where it is used as a 
chemical feedstock, is pipelined to a nearby chemicals 
processing plant. The current problems with the state-of-the-art 
technology are: 
A. Uncontrolled contact of the carbide with 
the water, resulting in lower reaction rate control and 
the possibility of incandescence. Incandescence results 
when calcium carbide particles are buoyed by the 
evolution of acetylene and rise to the surface of the 
water where they react violently but without the benefit 
of cooling that prevails when the particles are 
submerged. The lack of cooling and the high 
exothermicity of the reaction may result in a localized  
 
temperature rise which heats the particle to 
incandescent or glowing temperatures. If the pressure 
of the acetylene is higher than approximately 190 kPa 
absolute, this condition may initiate detonation or 
deflagration reactions within the acetylene, resulting 
in a substantial pressure rise, rupture of the vessel, 
and uncontrolled release of the contents. This 
condition presents a significant fire and safety hazard. 
Thus, poor reaction control results in a higher 
probability for adverse chemical reactions and 
necessitates the requirement that the primary reaction 
vessel be operated at a low operating pressure. B. Currently practiced technology utilizes a 
single reactor vessel of a stirred tank reactor design. 
Because of the inherent characteristics of a stirred 
tank reactor large vessels are required in relationship 
to the throughout of carbide to avoid discharge of 
unreacted carbide. In practice, slow mixing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for the production of 
acetylene which comprises; 


(a) a two-stage reactor system comprising a 
primary reactor and a secondary reactor, 
(b) means for continuously charging 
particulate calcium carbide to the primary reactor, 
(c) means for contacting particulate calcium 
carbide with an excess of water in the primary reactor 

to provide aqueous phase reaction conditions of calcium 
carbide and water with a residence time to partially 

react the calcium carbide, 
(d) means for continuously conveying the 
partially reacted particulate calcium carbide of step 

(c) from the primary reactor to the secondary reactor, 
(e) means to provide a plug flow reaction 
environment in the secondary reactor, 
(f) means for removing acetylene gas from the 
reaction system, and 
(g) means for removing calcium hydroxide from 
the secondary reactor. 
The apparatus of claim 1 additionally 
comprising means for recycling water from the secondary 

reactor to the primary reactor. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the 
residence time provided in the primary reactor is such 

to react between 60 and 90 percent of the calcium 
carbide. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the 
contacting means in (c) comprises a means for directing 

a flow of water upwards through particles of calcium 
carbide. 
The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the 
upward flow of water is regulated to entrain partially 

reacted particles of calcium carbide and carry them to 
the secondary reactor via the conveying means.  

 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the 
upward flow of water is regulated to entrain particles 

of calcium carbide which have reached a size between 
about 2 and 3 millimeters in diameter. 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein calcium 
hydroxide produced in the primary reactor from reaction 

of the calcium carbide and water is entrained in the 
upward flow and carried to the secondary reactor via the 

conveying means. 
The apparatus of claim 1 additionally 
comprising a means for removing particles having a 

density greater than calcium carbide from the primary 
reactor. 
The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the 
particle removing means comprises a velocity control 

restrictor zone wherein an upward flow of water is 
provided at a velocity such that particles having a 

density greater than calcium carbide are carried 
downward through the zone. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the 
plug-flow reaction environment in the secondary vessel 

is provided by a secondary vessel of a configuration to 
allow calcium hydroxide produced by reaction of the 

calcium carbide and water to settle. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the 
calcium hydroxide settles to a dense zone in the bottom 

of the secondary reactor. 
The apparatus of claim 11 wherein means 
for removing the calcium hydroxide from the secondary 

reactor comprises a tube directing flow from the dense 
zone. 
The apparatus of claim 1 additionally 
comprises a neutralizer for reacting the calcium 

hydroxide removed from the secondary reactor with 
hydrogen chloride to form calcium chloride. 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the 
hydrogen chloride is hydrochloric acid.  

 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the 
hydrogen chloride is anhydrous hydrogen chloride. 
The apparatus of claim 13 additionally 
comprising a means for drying the calcium chloride. 
The apparatus of claim 16 additionally 
comprising a heat conveying means for conveying the heat 

produced by reaction of the calcium carbide and water in 
the primary reactor to the calcium chloride drying 

means. 
The apparatus of claim 13 additionally 
comprising a means for utilizing the heat produced by 

reaction of the calcium hydroxide and hydrogen chloride 
to dry the calcium chloride. 
A process for the production of acetylene 
which comprises; 


(i) continuously adding an excess of water and 
particulate calcium carbide to a primary reactor, 
(ii) contacting in the primary reactor the 
water and calcium carbide for reaction to form acetylene 

gas and calcium hydroxide under aqueous phase reaction 
conditions, 
(iii) transferring the unreacted calcium 
carbide to a secondary reactor, 
(iv) reacting the unreacted calcium carbide in 
the secondary reactor under plug-flow reaction 

conditions, 
(v) recovering acetylene gas generated in the 
primary reactor and the secondary reactor, and 
(vi) recovering calcium hydroxide from the 
secondary reactor. 
The process of claim 19 additionally 
comprising the step of recycling water from the 

secondary reactor to the primary reactor. 
The process of claim 19 wherein the 
residence time in the primary reactor is such to react 

between 60 and 90 percent of the calcium carbide.  
 
The process of claim 19 wherein the 
contacting is accomplished by directing a flow of water 

upwards through particles of calcium carbide. 
The process of claim 22 wherein the 
upward flow of water is regulated to entrain partially 

reacted particles of calcium carbide for transfer to the 
secondary reactor. 
The process of claim 22 wherein the 
upward flow of water is regulated to entrain particles 

of calcium carbide which have reached a size between 
about 2 and 3 millimeters in diameter. 
The process of claim 22 wherein calcium 
hydroxide produced in the primary reactor from reaction 

of the calcium carbide and water is entrained in the 
upward flow and transferred to the secondary reactor. 
The process of claim 19 wherein particles 
having a density greater than calcium carbide are 

removed from the primary reactor. 
The process of claim 26 wherein the 
particles are removed by an upward flow of water in a 

restrictor zone at a velocity such that particles having 
a density greater than calcium carbide are carried 

downward through the zone. 
The process of claim 19 wherein the plug-flow 
reaction environment in the secondary vessel is 

under conditions wherein the calcium hydroxide produced 
by reaction of the calcium carbide and water is allowed 

to settle. 
The process of claim 28 wherein the 
calcium hydroxide settles to a dense zone in the bottom 

of the secondary reactor. 
The process of claim 29 wherein the 
calcium hydroxide is removed from the secondary reactor 

by directing flow from the dense zone through a tube. 
The process of claim 19 wherein the 
calcium hydroxide removed from the secondary reactor is 

reacted with hydrogen chloride to form calcium chloride.  
 
The process of claim 31 wherein the 
hydrogen chloride is hydrochloric acid. 
The process of claim 31 wherein the 
hydrogen chloride is anhydrous hydrogen chloride. 
The process of claim 31 wherein the 
calcium chloride is dried. 
The process of claim 34 wherein heat 
produced by reaction of the calcium carbide and water in 

the primary reactor is conveyed to a means to dry the 
calcium chloride. 
The process of claim 31 wherein heat 
produced by the neutralization of the calcium hydroxide 

and hydrogen chloride is used to dry the calcium 
chloride. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
