<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618584</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and circuit for configuring I/O devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27108	G11C11401	G11C11409	H01L218242	G11C11401	H03K190175	G11C710	H03K190175	H01L2182	H01L27108	H01L21822	H01L2710	H01L2170	H01L2704	G11C11409	H01L2704	G11C710	H01L2710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	G11C	G11C	H01L	G11C	H03K	G11C	H03K	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	G11C	H01L	G11C	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	G11C11	G11C11	H01L21	G11C11	H03K19	G11C7	H03K19	H01L21	H01L27	H01L21	H01L27	H01L21	H01L27	G11C11	H01L27	G11C7	H01L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and circuit for configuring I/O devices, such as a DRAM or other memory 
device, uses master-slave buffer circuits in configurable I/O devices. When arranged 

in a master-slave arrangement, the slave data buffer (23) is adapted to receive both 
input data (DI) and the output (EXTDI) of an associated master circuit (22). In one 

configuration, each data buffer outputs data (GDW) based upon the input data (DI). 
In another configuration, each slave buffer (23) outputs the output (EXTDI) of an 

associated master buffer (22). The circuit of the present invention is preferably 
employed with a configurable I/O device incorporated in a lead-on-chip (LOC) 

package, although could be used in any configurable I/O device. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIIPON STEEL SEMICONDUCTOR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED MEMORIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NIPPON STEEL SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED MEMORIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES OSCAR FREDERICK JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, OSCAR FREDERICK, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method and circuit for configuring I/O devices and more
particularly to a master-slave buffer/latch circuit for configurable I/O devices.An I/O device generally is used to receive input data and to generate output data. I/O
devices as used herein includes memory devices, such as DRAMs and SRAMs, and
microprocessors or other controller chips. In a "configurable" I/O device, it is
possible to select between different modes or configurations. A 16 MB DRAM may
illustratively include forty-two input pins, sixteen of which may be dedicated to
receive or output data. The data input/output pins are coupled to bond pads on the
chip, and the bond pads may communicate with data buffers in the DRAM. The
DRAM may also include eleven address pins to receive an address designating the
location in the DRAM where the data is to be stored or read from. The remaining
pins are used typically for control signals, power supply, and ground (or are not
connected).A configurable 16 MB DRAM may be configured as a "by-16" device or a "by-8"
device. When configured as a by-16 device, a 16 MB DRAM receives sixteen data
bits at the sixteen data input/output pins. These input data bits represent a single 16-bit
word which is stored in the DRAM at a location determined by address bits
received at the address pins. Therefore, conventional data buffers, which are
generally located in the peripheral circuitry of the DRAM, can be employed because
there are sixteen available inputs pins of the DRAM to receive the sixteen bits of
data.When such a DRAM is configured as by-8 device, only eight bits of data at a time
are input to the DRAM. However, sixteen bond pads (for data) on the chip may still
be required to allow full use of the DRAM. For example, eight bond pads on the
chip may be used to provide data to one half of the DRAM and eight other bond pads
on the chip may be used to provide data to the other half of the DRAM. If only eight
bond pads were used, some of the storage capacity of the DRAM could be forsaken. Therefore, it is preferred that all sixteen internal bond pads coupled to input buffers
of the DRAM be coupled to receive respective ones of the eight input data bits in
order to use efficiently the available space in the DRAM.When the DRAM is configured as a by-8 device, one way to ensure that each of the
sixteen internal bond pads receives a respective one of the eight input data bits would
be by physically connecting each data input/output pin receiving data to multiple bond
pads. In particular,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An input/output circuit for a configurable memory to avoid utilizing only
part of the memory when a selected configuration is chosen, comprising:


a master data buffer circuit (22) having a first input (58) for receiving input
data (DI) and a first output (62, 64) for providing output data (GDW, EXTDOUT);
a slave data buffer circuit (23) coupled to said master data buffer and having
a second input (66) coupled to receive said output data from said master data buffer

circuit, a third input (70) for receiving input data (DI), and a second output (74) for
providing output data, and
wherein said slave data buffer circuit includes a fourth input (72) for receiving
a control signal (BY8PAD);
wherein said slave data buffer is configured to provide, to said second output
(74), data from a selected one of said second input (66) and said third input (70),

based on the control signal (BY8PAD); whereby
when the control signal is in one state, the master data buffer and the slave data buffer receive
respective data bits at said first and third inputs respectively and provide them to the

first and second outputs respectively, and
when in another state, the data input to the first input (58) of the master data
buffer circuit is provided to both said first output and said second output.
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 1 further
including a plurality of master data buffer circuits and a plurality of slave data buffer

circuits, each said master data buffer circuit being coupled to at least one said slave
data buffer circuit.
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 2 wherein the
configurable memory is a DRAM; and

   wherein said master data buffer and slave data buffer circuits are configured
in pairs.
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 3 wherein said
control signal (BY8PAD) includes a first state and a second state; 


wherein said output data received at said second input (66) is generated as
output data at said second output when said control signal (BY8PAD) is in a first

state; and
wherein said input data received at said third input (70) is generated as output

data at said second output when said control signal (BY8PAD) is in said second state.
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 1 further
including at least one control circuit (18, 19) coupled to said master data buffer

circuit (22) and said slave data buffer circuit (23) to generate a data latch signal
(LDLAT, UDLAT).
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 5 including
a first control circuit (18) and a second control circuit (19), said first control circuit

being coupled to said master buffer data circuit (22) to generate a first data latch
signal (LDLAT), and said second control circuit being coupled to said slave data

buffer circuit to generate a second data latch signal (UDLAT).
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 6 wherein
each said control circuit is adapted to receive write control signals (WEB, CEB) and

includes a data latch circuit (20), each said data latch circuit having a feedback circuit
to monitor said data latch signal (LDLAT, UDLAT) and to generate a stable data

latch signal (LDLAT, UDLAT).
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 3 wherein said
master and said slave buffers are substantially similar.
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 8 wherein
each said data buffer circuit includes an input buffer (166) to receive said input data

(DI), a latch (168) coupled to said input buffer to latch said input data from said input
buffer, a control circuit (172) coupled to said input buffer and to said latch to control

the latching of said input data, and an output circuit (174) coupled to receive said
latched input data (DI). 
The input/output circuit for a configurable memory of Claim 1 including:

a plurality of substantially similar buffer circuits including master buffer
circuits (22) and slave buffer circuits (23), each said master buffer circuit

including
a second input (56) for receiving external data (EXTDI), and a third

input (60) for receiving a control signal (BY8PAD);
wherein said second input (56) of said master buffer circuit for receiving external data in each said master
buffer circuit is not connected and said third input (60) for receiving a controi signal

(BY8PAD) in each said master circuit is maintained at a predetermined voltage (VSS)
so that the input data received at said first input (58) is coupled to said output (62,

64) in each said master buffer circuit; and
wherein
said control signal

(BY8PAD) of each said slave buffer circuit is selected to determine whether said
output signal generated at said output (74, 76) is said input data (DI) received at said

first input (70) or said external data received at said slave buffer circuit second input
(66).
A method of operating input/output circuitry for a configurable memory
to avoid utilizing only part of the memory when a selected configuration is chosen,

comprising the steps of:

applying a first input (DI) data bit to an input (58) of a master data buffer (22)
and providing output data therefrom:
applying a second data bit (DI) to an input (70) of a slave data buffer (23);
applying output data (EXTDOUT) from the master data buffer to another input
(66, EXTDI) of the slave data buffer;
coupling a seiected one of the output data from the master data buffer and the
second data bit to an output of the slave data buffer (74);
operating selectively in one mode of operation where the master data buffer
and the slave data buffer receive respective data bits at said respective inputs and

provide them to respective outputs, and in another mode of operation, the data input
to the master data buffer is provided to both of said outputs; and 
applying data signals from said outputs to a group of I/O pads of the memory,
each I/O pad receiving a data bit regardless of how the memory is configured.
The method of claim 11 further including applying a control signal
(BY8PAD) to the slave data buffer and determining the mode of operation based on

the control signal (BY8PAD).
The method of claim 11 wherein for a memory configurable as a "by-N"
device or as a "by-kN" device, k and N being integers, multiple groups are provided,

each group having a respective master data buffer and one or more slave data buffers
coupled thereto,


the method including the step of applying data from the master data buffer to
a respective input of each slave data buffer within the corresponding group;
so that each of N I/O pads will receive a data bit from corresponding data
buffers regardless of whether the memory is configured as a "by-N" device or as a

"by-kN" device.
The method of claim 11 further comprising selectively powering down
at least a latch portion of the slave buffer.
The method of claim 11 for configuring a memory including circuits
having an input for receiving input data and an output for providing output data

further comprising the step of:

   arranging said circuits into master/slave groups, each group having a master
buffer data circuit (22) and a slave data buffer circuit (23).
The method for configuring a memory of Claim 15 wherein said memory
is a DRAM. 
The method for configuring a memory of Claim 15 wherein each said
group consists of one master buffer circuit and one slave buffer circuit.
The method for configuring a memory of Claim 17 wherein said master
buffer circuits and said slave buffer circuits are substantially similar.
The method for configuring a memory of Claim 15 further including the
step of coupling the input of said master buffer data circuit (22) of one group to the

output thereof and selectively to the output of the corresponding slave data buffer of
that one group.
The method for configuring a memory of Claim 19 further including the
step of coupling said another input of said slave data buffer circuit to the output of

said at least one second circuit when a control signal (BY8PAD) is in a first state,
and coupling the input of said slave data buffer circuit to said output of said slave

data buffer circuit when said control circuit is in a second state.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
