<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647925</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Postal rating system with verifiable integrity
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07B1700	G07B1704	G07B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07B	G07B	G07B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07B17	G07B17	G07B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data center provides a rate table to a user. The 
rate table is communicated to the mailer along with a hash 

code. The hash code is based on information from the rating 
table. The hash code provides a unique number based on the 

rating table provided. The algorithm within a secure device 
and to which the rate table is loaded regenerates the hash 

code based on the information received from the rate table 
and compares the transmitted hash code with the generated 

hash code. A comparison is made of the received hash code 
and the generated hash code to verify that the rate table 

data has not been intentionally or unintentionally 
corrupted. The transmitted hash code may be encrypted by 

the data center and when received decrypted by the mailer. 
The encryption decryption process establishes authenticity 

of the data center if desired. 
The generation of a hash code based on the stored rate 
table and a comparison with a stored hash code previously 

transmitted can be initiated prior to postage printing and 
used to insure proper rating. Printing is enabled only 

after the rating process has been properly implemented. The 
hash code and rating information may be printed on the mail 

piece such that a verifying party can reconstruct the rating 

process and determine if rating inaccuracy occurred. 
Various rating inaccuracy for a particular user can be 

stored by the verifying party to detect a recurrence of 
rating errors. Rating profiles for particular users or 

group of users may be stored to enable generation of user 
profiles. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PITNEY BOWES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNELL RICHARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINTSOV LEON A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANSONE RONALD P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT ALFRED C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONNELL, RICHARD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINTSOV, LEON A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANSONE, RONALD P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHMIDT, ALFRED C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to rating of mail for postal systems, for example to a postal rating system having verifiable integrity determinable from the information printed on a mail piece.Various postal services and private carrier services throughout the world have developed rate tables for mail and parcels. These rate tables specify the rate for any given mail piece (hereinafter intended to include parcels and other mailable items as well).US-A-5 214 702 describes verification of electronic mail sent over an unprotected data channel. Multiple mail items, such as a cover letter and an associated enclosure, may be signed together such that each item is individually verifiable, while indicating the relationship of each item to the whole group. An aggregation of data related to all items (possibly the HASH of each item, together with control information) is gathered into an ordered list, which is then signed, or the hash of the list is signed.US-A-5 008 827 describes a mailing system in which it is verified that a user has received and stored the latest rate table.The rating may involve the desired class of service, such as first class or third class mail in the United States, the weight of the mail, the size of the mail, the distance of which the mail is to be sent, the level of service such as Express Mail involving delivery the next day, and/or a discount associated with a level of work sharing. Each postal service and each private carrier service usually establish their own rate tables for mail and parcels. Postal service as used herein is intended to apply equally to mean both governmental or other postal services and also private carrier services. Similarly, postal value as used herein is intended to apply equally to mean both governmental or other postal values and also private carrier service delivery charge and other values.To facilitate a mailer applying proper postage or other charges (such as, for example, insurance or certified delivery or return receipt, etc.) to a mail piece or to a tape to be adhered to a mail piece, various devices have been provided such as scales which include rate tables to provide a visual indication to the user of the appropriate postage for the given nail piece to be deposited with the postal service. In some instances, these weighing devices having rating tables allow for the automatic setting of the postage meter print wheels wherein the scale includes a connection to an electronic postage meter and conveys setting information. This now enables a more rapid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A postal rating system comprising:

a postal rating device (114) having non-volatile storage means (116);
means (112) for transmitting a postal rate table to said postal rating device such that said postal rate table is stored in said rating device non-volatile storage means (116);
characterised by
:

means (112) for transmitting to said postal rating device a code such that said code is stored in said rating device non-volatile storage means (116), said code based on information from said rating table;
means (118) in said postal rating device (114) for generating a code based on information from said received rate table stored in said rating device non-volatile storage means (116); and
means (118) for comparing the received code with the generated code.
A postal rating system according to Claim 1, wherein said transmitted code is an encrypted code and including means in said rating device (114) for decrypting the encrypted code and comparing the decrypted code with the generated code.
A postal rating system according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the received code and the generated code are each based upon the entire rate table.
A postal rating system according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein said transmitted code and said transmitted rate table each includes data as to the time period when the rate table is valid.
A postal rating system according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the non-volatile storage means (116) is secure.
A postal rating system according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said transmitted code and said generated code are hash code.
A postage evidencing device (114) comprising:

means (118) for storing a transmitted postal rate table in a non-volatile memory (116);
characterized by
:

means (118) for storing a transmitted code in said non-volatiie memory (116), said code based on information from the rate table;
means for receiving a request for printing of postage value;
means (118) for recomputing the code from said information from said rate table stored in said non-volatile memory (116); and
means (118) for comparing said recomputed code and said stored code.
A postage evidencing device as defined in Claim 7, further including:

means (122) for printing at least one of said stored and said recomputed codes on a mail piece; and
means (122) for printing said mail piece rating parameters on said mail piece such that a verifying party can reconstruct the rating process and determine if rating inaccuracy occurred.
A postage evidencing device as defined in Claim 8, further including means (118) for encrypting said code such that said printing means is enabled to print an encrypted code on said mail piece.
A postage evidencing device as defined in any one of Claims 7 to 9, wherein said stored code and said recomputed code are hash code.
A system for verifying the accuracy of postal rating, comprising:

means for scanning a mail piece to detect a code printed on a mail piece and rating parameters also printed on the mail piece, said code based on information from a postal rate table;
means (118) for verifying that the code represents a current postal rate table;
means (118) for recomputing the rating process to determine the rating accuracy; and
means (118) for determining the correctness of said rating for said scanned mail piece.
A system as defined in Claim 11, further including means for storing a profile of a mailer based on information from said determining means to provide data concerning rating activities for a series of mail pieces.
A system as defined in Claims 11 or 12, wherein said printed code is a hash code.
A method for postal rating, comprising the steps of:

transmitting a postal rate table to a postal rating device (114) and storing it;
transmitting to said rating device (114) a code and storing it, said code based on information from said rating table;
generating a code based on information from the received rate table; and
comparing the received code with the generated code.
A method as defined in Claim 14, wherein said received code and said generated code are hash code.
A method as defined in Claim 15, wherein said transmitted hash code is an encrypted hash code and including the further steps of decrypting the encrypted hash code and comparing the decrypted hash code with the generated hash code.
A method as defined in Claim 16, wherein said transmitted hash code and said transmitted rate table each include data as to the rate table validity time period.
A method as defined in any one of Claims 14 to 17, wherein the transmitted and said generated codes are based upon the entire rate table.
A method for verifying the accuracy of postal rating, comprising the steps of:

scanning a mail piece to detect a code for a mail piece printed on said mail piece and rating parameters also printed on said mail piece, said code based on information from a postal rate table;
verifying that said code represents a current postal rate table;
recomputing the rating process to determine the rating accuracy; and
determining the correctness of said rating for said scanned mail piece.
A method as defined in Claim 19, wherein said code is a hash code.
A method as defined in Claim 19 or 20, wherein said code is an encrypted code and including the further steps of decrypting said encrypted code.
A method as defined in any one of Claims 19 to 21, further including storing a profile of a mailer or group of mailers based on scanned data concerning rating activities for a series of mail pieces for said mailer or group of mailers.
A method of processing a rate table in a postal rating device (114) comprising the steps of:

storing a postal rate table;
storing a code based on information from the rate table;
receiving a request for printing of postage value;
recomputing the code from said information from said stored rate table; and
comparing said recomputed code and said stored code.
A method as defined in Claim 23, wherein said stored code and said recomputed code are each hash codes.
A method of printing postage as defined in Claim 23 or 24, further including the steps of:

printing said code on a mail piece; and
printing said mail piece rating parameters on said mail piece to enable reconstruction of the rating process from information imprinted on said mail piece.
A method as defined in Claim 25, wherein said code is encrypted and said encrypted code is printed.
A method as defined in Claim 23 or 24, further including printing a postage rate, printing the date of printing the postage rate and printing said code on said mail piece, said code containing data as to the time period when said rate table is valid.
A method as defined in Claim 27, wherein said code is encrypted and said encrypted code is printed.
A method according to any one of Claims 23 to 28, wherein the rate table is stored in a non-volatile memory.
A method for postal rating according to any one of Claims 14 to 18, further comprising the step of enabling operation of the postage rating device if the postal rate table is determined to be valid by the comparing step.
A method as defined in Claim 30, wherein said code value is respectively generated and stored for later retrieval and verification.
A method as defined in Claim 31, wherein said code value is stored in a secure memory.
A method as defined in any one of Claims 30 to 32, wherein said transmitting, generating and comparing steps are initiated periodically based on a calendar clock value in said postage rating device.
A method as defined in any one of Claims 30 to 32, wherein said transmitting, generating and comparing steps are initiated based on the amount of postage printed by said postage rating device.
A method according to any one of Claims 30 to 34, further comprising generating a request for recharging a postage rating device with additional postage value to be printed.
A method as defined in Claim 35, wherein said request for recharging is transmitted to a remote location with a code value of a rate table currently associated with said postage rating device.
A method as defined in Claim 35, wherein the recharging operation includes transmitting to said postage rating device a code value based on a currently valid rate table.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
