<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612264</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO SEPARATORS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1700	B01D1700	B01D2100	B01D2100	B01D2101	B01D2101	B01D2126	B01D2126	B03D300	B03D300	C02F138	C02F138	C02F152	C02F152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B03D	B03D	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D17	B01D17	B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	B01D21	B03D3	B03D3	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method of, and apparatus for, separating contaminates from a base liquid and whereby the contaminated base liquid is passed through a pretreatment vessel before being passed to a conventional separator. In one described embodiment, the pretreatment vessel (11) is of generally cylindrical form arranged with its axis substantially vertical, base liquid to be de-contaminated is supplied into the mid-height regions of the vessel through a tangential device (16) to cause circulating flows within the vessel (11), and the vessel (11) includes an outlet (13a) in its top regions (13) for the release of light contaminates, an outlet (12a) in its lower regions for the release of heavy contaminates, and an outlet duct (30) in its mid-region, spaced from the inlet for releasing partially contaminated liquid from the vessel (11), for release into a conventional separator (26). Preferably the method includes the steps of introducing a first treatment material to the base liquid before, or as, the base liquid enters the vessel (11) and adding a second treatment material into the partially decontaminated base liquid to be directed to the conventional separator (26).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLEAN WATER CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE CLEAN WATER COMPANY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIMMONS ALBAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TIMMONS, ALBAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 " -PROVE-.ENTS IN OR RELATING TO SEPARATORS"This invention relates to separators and, more particularly, to separators for separating particulate solids and semi-solids contaminates from a base liquid.Separators for separating particulate solids and semi-solids contaminates from a base liquid are well known in the art and in one form comprises a generally cylindrical vessel, arranged with its axis substantially vertical, a conical bottom closing the lower regions of the vessel and a top or roof closing the upper regions of the vessel. The vessel includes an outlet for "heavy" contaminates, that is to say contaminates having a specific gravity greater than the specific gravity of the base liquid, in the lower regions of said bottom and from which the heavy contaminates are 

 continuously extracted, an outlet for "light" contaminates, that is to say contaminates having a specific gravity less than the specific gravity of the base liquid, in the upper regions of the vessel and from which light contaminates are continuously extracted and an outlet for de-contaminated liquid in the upper regions of the vessel from which de-contairiinated liquid is continuously extracted.The contaminated liquid is supplied into the vessel tangentially through a side opening and the tangential entry of the contaminated base liquid generates circulating flows within the vessel, which induce laminar flows to assist in the vertical displacement of the contaminates within the vessel.This form of separator, hereinafter referred to as a separator of the type defined, is well known in the art and the construction and method of operation are known in such detail, as for example from British Patent Publication No.2205512 and British Patent Publication No. 2158741, that no further description of the separator, or its mode of operation, is required herein.Separators of the type defined work efficiently only within relatively close limits, wherein the rates of flow of C-Ontaπ nated base liquid into the vessel and through the outlets from the vessel are substantially constant and the residence time of the contaminates in the separator is sufficient for said contaiiiinates to fall or rise towards their respective outlets and thereby out of the flows to the de¬ contaminated liquid outlet.A serious problem with separators of the type defined arises when the contaminated base liquid is very heavily contaminated with light or heavy contaminates, when the relevant ccmtarninate outlet(s) may be inadequate for dealing with the excessive volume
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for separating contaminates from a base liquid comprising the steps of supplying contaminated base liquid at a substantially uniform rate to a pre-treatment vessel in a manner to cause circulating flows within said vessel, treating said contaminated liquid in said vessel, allowing contaminated base liquid to flow from the vessel through an outlet so spaced f om the inlet for the contaminated liquid, in the direction of said circulating flows, that the liquid flowing through said outlet has spent at least a predetermined time in said vessel and passing the treated contaminated base liquid to a separator of the type defined.
2. A method according to claim 1, characterised by the steps of introducing the contaminated liquid tangentially into the said pre-treatment vessel.
3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterised by the steps of treating the contaminated base liquid in said vessel by inducing flows in said vessel to concentrate at least part of the contaminates in one part of the vessel, continuously extracting the concentration of contaminates from said vessel, allowing partially de-contaminated base liquid to flow from the vessel through an outlet spaced from that part of the vessel in which contaminates are concentrated and passing the partially de-contaminated base liquid to the separator of the type defined.
4. A method according to claim 3, characterised by the steps of arranging an outlet through which heavy contaminates can be extracted in the lower regions of the vessel and arranging the outlet for the partially de-contaminated liquid in the upper regions of said vessel.
5. A method according to claim 3, characterised by the steps of arranging an outlet through which light contaminates can be extracted in the upper regions of the vessel and arranging the outlet for the partially de-contaminated liquid in the lower regions of said vessel. 


 6. A method according to any one of claims 1,2,3,4 or 5, characterised by the step of arranging an outlet through which light contaminates can be extracted in the upper regions of the vessel, arranging an outlet through which heavy contaminates can be extracted in the lower regions of the vessel and arranging the outlet for the partially de¬ contaminated liquid to open into the mid-height region of the vessel.
7. A method according to claim 6, characterised by the steps of arranging the outlet for the partially de-contaminated liquid to open adjacent the central axis of the said vessel
8. A method according to any one of claim 1 to 7 inclusive characterised by the steps of introducing a treatment material into the contaminated base liquid.
9. A method according to claim 8, characterised by the steps of introducing the treatment material into the contairiinated base liquid before said contaminated base liquid is passed into said vessel.
10. A method according to claims 8 or 9, characterised by the steps of selecting said treatment material from the group comprising ferric salts, (sulphate or chloride), aluminium sulphates, lime, lime carbonate, caustic soda or any other of the materials for chemically changing or flocculating contaminates well known in the art.
11. A method according to claim 8,9 or 10, characterised by the steps of introducing a second treatment material into the partially de-contaminated base liquid being supplied to the separator of the type defined.
12. A method according to claim 11, characterised by the steps of selecting the second treatment material to comprise a polymer material intended to cause a reaction of the contaminates in the base liquid, after intimate mixing with the first treatment material.
13. Apparatus comprising a separator of the type defined in combination with a pre-treatment vessel, characterised by means for generating circulating flows in the contaminated 


 liquid in said pre-treatment vessel and means for supplying treated contaminated liquid to the separator of the type defined.
14. Apparatus according to claim 13, characterised in that the pre-treatment vessel comprises a substantially cylindrical vessel arranged with its axis substantially vertical..
15. Apparatus according to claims 13 or 14, characterised by means for removing heavy ccrntaminates from the lower regions of the vessel and means for extracting partially de-contaminated liquid from the upper regions of the vessel.
16. Apparatus according to claims 8,13 or 14, characterised by means for extracting light contaminates from an upper region of the vessel and means for extracting partially de-contaminated liquid from the lower regions of the vessel.
17. Apparatus according to claims 13,14,15 or 16, characterised by means for extracting light contaminates from the upper regions of the vessel, means for removing heavy contaminates from the lower regions of the vessel and means for removing treated contaminated liquid from a mid-height region of the pre-treatment vessel.
18. Apparatus according to claims 13,14,15,16 or 17, characterised by means for introducing a treatment material into the contaminated base liquid being supplied to said pre¬ treatment vessel.
19. Apparatus according to claim 18 characterised by means for mixing the said treatment material into said contaminated base liquid.
20. Apparatus according to claims 18 or 19 characterised by means for mixing a second treatment material into the base liquid being supplied from said pre-treatment vessel to said separator.
21. Apparatus according to claims 19 or 20 characterised in that said means for mixing comprise a hydro- brake -nixing device. 


22. Apparatus for separating contaminates from a base liquid substantially as herein before described with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
