<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659074</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTILAYERED CONTROLLED-RELEASE ORAL SOLID PHARMACEUTICAL FORMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K924	A61K924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a novel pharmaceutical form, consisting of a tablet capable of releasing the active material under controlled and differentiated rates; the novel pharmaceutical form is designed so as to obtain optimum plasmatic levels of the drug for a predeterminable period of time and thus making it possible to simplify the posological scheme, achieving at the same time a higher and certain therapeutic utilisation. Fundamentally, it is a two or more layered tablet, of which one at least intended to release a drug portion in short times, a second layer and optionally a third layer being suitable for gradually releasing portions of active principle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED PHARMA RES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APR APPLIED PHARMA RESEARCH S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTE UBALDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIUNCHEDI PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAGGI LAURETTA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CONTE, UBALDO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIUNCHEDI, PAOLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAGGI, LAURETTA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTI LAYERED CONTROLLED-RELEASE ORAL SOLID PHARMACEUTICAL FORMSThe present invention relates to novel pharmaceutical forms for oral administration capable of releasing active substances at controlled and differentiated rate. It is well knows that the pharmaceutical forms for the oral administration are the overwhelming majority of the pharmaceutical market for numerous and diversified reasons which, in the case of tablets, are mainly determined in that they guarantee precise dosage, excellent stability of carried active materials and easy administration. In the last twenty years, of great importance has been the achievement of more and more sophisticated and diversified pharmaceutical forms, with the purpose of simplifying the posological scheme and a consequent greater patient's compliance. Such so called modified or controlled release pharmaceutical forms were aimed at, in the majority of cases, releasing the active material carried therein at constant rate in time, following a release kinetics defined as being of zero order.In some cases it was also possible to highlight that, to a drug release at a constant "in vitro" rate, corresponded a more regular trend of plasmatic levels obtainable consequently to the administration to the patient.If, in theory, such approach could have been correct so far some drugs are concerned, in the practice it has been noticed that, in many cases, the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the active material in biological liquids are influenced and sometimes strictly determined by chronobiological rhythms. Furthermore, the developments of systems able to realese the active material at constant rate has brought to the designing and therapeutical utilization of dosage forms more and more sophisticated that required the use of always new polymeric substances with specific properties from the technological and productive point of view. However, such polymeric materials, which are normally biocompatible, not always appears biodegradable as well, and this implies that residues of these polymeric materials employed in creating said therapeutic systems could remain in the organism and, above all, by repeated administration, cause unwanted accumulation phenomena.In this respect, the setting in of now and then serious and, in some cases, lethal side effects occurred following the administration of the so called OROS systeme osmotic pump disclosed in the US Patent No. 4.160.020, 1979, may be mentioned. In the majority of cases, the slowing down of the active material release
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Pharmaceutical form for oral administration and in a solid form capable of releasing the active material or the active materials carried therein in subsequent times, characterized in that:
- at least a first layer contains an active material, carried with excipients and additives, selected from the group of the disintegrating and/or superdisintegrating croos-linked, such as cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone, sodium carboxy methylcellulose carboxymethyl starch, potassium methacrylate - divinylbenzene copolymer, polyvinylalcohols, starches, starch derivatives, microcrystalline cellulose an cellulosic derivatives, beta cyclodextrin, dextrins derivatives, and their mixtures such as to guarantee a fast release of the active material and
- at least a second layer, placed upon the first, containing a portion of the same active material of said first layer or of a second active material, the formulation of said second layer involving the use of excipients and adjuvants which can adjust the releasing rate of the active material at a definitely differentiated value in comparison with that of the aforementioned first layer, selected from the group comprising hydroxypropylmethylcellulose of molecular weight from 1.000 to 4.000.000, hydroxypropylcellulose of molecular weight from 2,000 to 2,000,000, carboxyvinylpolymers, polyvinylalcohls, glucans, scleroglucans, mannans,xanthans, alginic acid and poly(methylcellulose and it derivatives, methylcellulose.
2. Pharmaceutical form according to claims 1, characterized in that said disintetrating or superdisintetrating compounds of said first layer make up from 10 to 90% by weight of the same layer preferably from 20 to 70% by weight.
3. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1, characterized in that said additives contained in said first layer are adjuvants selected form the groups including starch, pregelled starch, calcium phosphate, mannitol, lactose, sucrose, glucose, sorbitol, microcrystalline cellulose and binding agents such as gelatin, polyvinylpyrrolidone, methyl cellulose, starch water (o paste) ethylcellulose, gum arabic, tragacanth gum, and lubricants and antiadhering compounds such as magnesium stearate, stearic acid, colloidal silica, glyceril mnostearate, polyoxyethyleneglycols of 400 to 50000 molecular waight, hydrogenated castoroil, waxes and mono, bi and tri-substituted glycerides.
4. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1 , characterized in that said additives in said first layer are made of effervescent mixture that is capable to cause a rapid disintegration said first layer when it camos in contact with an aqueous enviroument and preferably with gastric juice. 


5. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 4, characterized in that said additives are selected from the group of sodium carbonates and/or of other alkaline metals and/or alkaline-earth metals, sodium bicarbonate and other bicarbonates, glycine sodium carbonate, and other pharmaceutically acceptable salts, that can produce effervescence in acid anviroument, as well citric acid, tartaric acid, fumaric acid, capable of producing the effervescence and the rapid disintegration of said first layer, indipendently from the pH.
6. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 5, characterized in that said materials capable of producing effervescence make up 3 to 40% by weight of said first layer.
7. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1, characterized in that it comprises a second and a third layer including a same or different active material together with polymeric materials, excipients and adjuvants.
8. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 7, characterized in that said polymeric materials of said second and possible third layer make up to 5 to 90% by weight of the same layer.
9. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1, characterized in that said adjuvants contained in said at least one slow release layer are selected from the group including polyvinylpyrrolidone, methylcellulose, starch water (o paste) ethylcellulose, arabic gum and tragacanth gum, and other materials with binding properties in wet and/or dry conditions.
10. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1, characterized in that said adjuvants of said least one slow release layer are selected form the group comprising glyceril monostearate, semi-synthetic glycerides, glycerilpalmitostearate, glyceril behenate, microcristalline cellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, magnesium stearate, stearic acid, sodium stearate, talc, sodium benzoate, boric acid and colloidal silica.
11. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1, characterized in that said adjuvants of said at least one slow release layer are selected from the group comprising hydrogenated castor oil, fatty acids, waxes and mono-bi-and tri-substituted glucerides, polyoxyethyleneglycols and their derivatives with molecular weight of form 400 to 60.000.
12. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1, characterized in that said active materials are selected form the group including steroidal or non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAID 1 ), sleeping substances and tranquillizers, active substances for preventing anginous and hypertensive attacks, and antihistaminic acnd/or antiasthmatic drugs and combinations thereof. 


13. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 12, characterized in that said anti-inflammatory is selected from diclofenac sodium, indomethacin, ibuprofen, ibuprofen lysine salt, ketoprofen, diflunisal, piroxicam, naproxen, flurbiprofen.
14. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 12, charaterized in that said sleeping substance or tranquillizer is selected among diazepam, nitrazepam, flurozepam, oxazepam, chlorodiazepoxide.
15. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 12 charaterized in that said antianginous and antihypertensive active material is selected among diltiazem, trapidil, verapamil, urapidil, benziodarone dipyridamole.
16. Pharmaceutical form according to claim 12, characterized in that said antihistaminic or antiasthmatic material is selected among ephedrine, terfenadine, theophylline, chloropheniramine, terbutiline.
17. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1 , characterized in that said first layer has a thickness from 0,5 to 5 mm and contains from 1 to 90% by weight of active material.
18. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1, characterized in that said second layer and possible third layer has a thickness of from 0,1 to 6,0 mm and contains from 10 to 90% by weight of gellable, and/or soluble and/or erodible polymer and from 1 to 90% by weight of active material.
19. Pharmaceutical form according to claim 1 or 8, characterized in that said second and third layer contain a portion of the same active material carried in the first layer.
20. Pharmaceutical form according to Claim 1 or 8, characterized in that an active material, different from that included in the first layer, is carried in the second and third layer.
21. Pharmaceutical form according to Claims 1 or 8, characterized in that said third layer contains, in addition to the active material or active materials, also other adjuvants selected among those mentioned in Claims 1 to 6. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
