<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1374055</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CALL CENTER ADMINISTRATION MANAGER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06Q1000	G06Q1000	H04L1224	H04L1224	H04L2906	H04L2906	H04M342	H04M342	H04M350	H04M351	H04M3523	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04Q358	H04Q358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06Q	G06Q	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06Q10	G06Q10	H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M11	H04M11	H04Q3	H04Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A network-based call center for managing a company's interactions with its customers used resources (112, 114) supplied by an application service provider (116). The call center stores sensitive information on a database (166) within the company's private network (110), behind a firewall. When a call center resource (112, 114) or another client or server obtains new sensitive information, the resource (112, 114) writes the information to the database (166) and then erases the information. When a resource (112, 114) needs sensitive information stored on the database (166), the resource (112, 114) requests the information from the database (166), uses it, and then erases the information. The call center further provides a browser-based tool (146), running on the Internet (140), for enabling non-technical personnel of the company to provision a call center from the resources (112, 114) of the application service provider (116).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEPHONY WORK INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELEPHONY@WORK, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALJANE ALI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORODOW ELI BEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EZERZER RAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLY GERALD AUGUSTIN JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARQUIN ROBERTO ARMANDO PORTIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALJANE, ALI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORODOW, ELI, BEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EZERZER, RAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLY, GERALD, AUGUSTIN, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JARQUIN, ROBERTO, ARMANDO, PORTILLO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Call Center Administration ManagerRELATED APPLICATION This application claims priority benefit of copending U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 09/638,274, entitled Call Center, filed on 14 August 2000, which application is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.COMPUTER PROGRAM LISTING APPENDIX Two compact discs (CDs) are being filed with this document. They are identical. their content is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Each CD contains files listing code in FTP Server files and Internet Manager Server files used in an embodiment of the Call Center. The following is a listing of the files included on each CD, including their names, sizes, and dates of creation: 

 Volume in drive E is 010302 1414Volume Serial Number is 3D93-F774Directory of E : \ FTPSER-5 <DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p FtpServerSourceIMSERV-7 <DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p IMServerSource0 file(s) 0 bytesDirectory of E:\FtpServerSource<DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p . .. <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p ..COM <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p com0 file(s) 0 bytesDirectory of E:\FtpServerSource\com . <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p .<DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p .. TAW <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p taw0 file(s) 0 bytesDirectory of E : \FtpServerSource\com\taw<DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p . <DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p .. NET <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p net 

SERVER <DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p serverSERVLET <DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p servletUTIL <DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p util0 file(s) 0 bytesDirectory of E:\FtpServerSource\com\taw\net<DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p <DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p REQUES-6 JAV 575 02-09-01 2:22p RequestClient . javaREQUES-8 JAV 1,793 02-09-01 2:20pRequestServicingThread . j avaSERVE-10 JAV 4,359 02-21-01 1:05aServerConnection. j ava SERVE-12 JAV 3,662 02-26-01 10:19pServerNetworkConnection . j ava4 file(s) 10,389 bytesDirectory of E:\FtpServerSource\com\taw\server . <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p .<DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p .. DYNAMI-6 JAV 2,138 02-21-01 1:05aDynamicLibraryLoader . j ava 

FTP <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p ftpIM <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p imINTER-12 JAV 348 02-09-01 2:19pInternetRequest . j ava INTER-14 JAV 6,205 02-09-01 2:22pInternetRequestImpl . j avaINTER-16 JAV 272 02-09-01 2:22pInternetResponse . j avaINTER-18 JAV 1,190 02-09-01 2:18p InternetResponselmpl . j ava5 file(s) 10,153 bytesDirectory of E:\FtpServerSource\com\taw\server\ftp<DIR> 03-02-01 2:14p . .. <DIR> 03-02-01 2 : 14p ..FILERE-6 JAV 2,411 02-27-01 3:17aFileRetrievalSubsystem. j avaFILERE-8 JAV 3,916 02-28-01 2:07aFileRetrievalThreadPool . j ava FILER-10 JAV 3,499 03-02-01 3:42aFileRetrievalThreadPoolWorker . j avaFTPSE-12 JAV 2,744 02-13-01
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim: 1. A company call center comprising: a plurality of call -center resources running on a third- party network, the plurality of resources comprising a first server and a second resource; a third server running on a private network of the company behind a firewall; a database for storing sensitive information, the database running on the private network behind the firewall, the database communicating with the third server; wherein the second resource generates a first record of sensitive data, and transmits the first record to the database through the first server and the third server. 2. A call center according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality of resources further comprises a fourth resource; the fourth resource issues a request through the first server and the third server for a second record stored on the database; and in response to the request, the database transmits the second record to the fourth resource through the first server and the third server. 3. A call center according to claim 2, wherein: 


 the second resource erases the first record after transmitting the first record to the database; and the fourth resource erases the second record after receiving it from the database. 4. A call center according to claim 3, further comprising a wide area network-based computer having a graphical user interface and memory for storing and running a program that allows an operator of the computer to administer the call center. 5. A call center according to claim 3, further comprising a browser-based administration manager means for administering the call center from a wide area network. 6. A company call center comprising: a plurality of call-center resources running on a third- party network, the plurality of resources comprising a first resource that generates data; a database for storing sensitive information, the database running on a private network of the company behind a firewall; and means for transmitting the generated data from the first resource to the database . 7. A call center according to claim 6, wherein: 


 the plurality of call center resources further comprises a second resource that needs a first record of sensitive information stored in the database; further comprising means for requesting the first record from the database and means for transmitting the first record from the database to the second resource . 8. A call center according to claim 7, wherein: the first resource erases the generated data after transmitting the generated data to the database; and the second resource erases the first record after the second resource no longer needs the first record.
9. A call center according to claim 8, further comprising browser-based administration manager means for administering the call center from a wide area network. 

10. An administration manager apparatus for administering a network-based company call center using at least some service provider resources, the administration manager apparatus being coupled to the call center through a network, the administration manager apparatus comprising a computer for running a program that allows an operator of the computer to provide data to the call center, the provided data comprising: a plurality of skill definitions describing capabilities of agents of the call center at endpoints of the call center, the agents servicing interactions with a plurality of call center customers, the capabilities being related to interaction servicing; a plurality of agent descriptions, each agent description of the plurality of agent descriptions being associated with a different agent, said each agent description comprising: one or more skill data objects, each skill data object identifying a skill definition to describe a capability of the agent associated with said each agent description; and 


 one or more efficiency ratings, one efficiency rating per one of said one or more skill data objects describing a capability of the agent associated with said each agent description, each efficiency rating being indicative of the efficiency of the agent associated with said each agent
description in the corresponding capability. 11. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 10, wherein: the provided data further comprises a company descriptor, the company descriptor comprising an identifier of the company and an identifier of an administrator of the company call center; said each agent description further comprises an identifier of the agent associated with said each agent description; and the skill data objects and the efficiency ratings enable the call center to route the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' described capabilities and efficiency ratings. 

12. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the provided data further comprises a maximum number of allowed concurrent interactions for the company call center.
13. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said each agent description further comprises a permission variable indicative of an authorization level of the agent associated with said each agent description, the permission variable in said each agent description directing the call center to allow and disallow the agent associated with said each agent description access to at least some information based on the value of the permission variable in said each agent description.
14. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said each agent description further comprises a first flag indicative of Follow Me activation for the agent associated with said each agent description, and a second flag indicative of call recording enablement for the agent associated with said each agent description. 

15. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said each agent description further comprises: an extension type variable indicative of a type of endpoint of the agent associated with said each agent description, the extension type variable being capable of indicating at least two different endpoint types from a list consisting of: a local extension type, a virtual extension type, a VoIP extension type, a voice mail extension type, and a PBX extension type; and an extension descriptor defining the endpoint of the agent associated with said each agent description.
16. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 13, wherein: the plurality of agent descriptions comprises a supervisory agent description associated with a supervisory agent of the call center; a first value of the permission variable indicates supervisory authorization level; when the permission variable indicates supervisory authorization level for the supervisory 


agent, the supervisory agent description further comprises a list of agents supervised by the supervisory agent, the first value of the permission variable directing the call center to enable the supervisory agent to see information displayed by the endpoints associated with the agents on the list to the agents on the list.
17. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 16, wherein: the provided data further comprises a plurality of agent status definitions, each agent status definition defining one of a plurality of agent statuses, each agent on the list being assigned one of the agent statuses depending on the state of said each agent on the list; the first value of the permission variable directs the call center to enable the supervisory agent to see the status of said each agent on the list; and the call center assigns the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents' statuses. 


18. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said each agent description further comprises Interaction Manager configuration data for configuring Interaction Manager Options, the Interaction Manager configuration data comprising data for designating at least one default status for at least one state of the agent associated with said each agent description.
19. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the plurality of agent statuses comprises : a busy agent status signifying an ongoing interaction with a call center customer; a wrapup agent status signifying a time period immediately following a termination of an interaction with a call center customer, the time period being allowed for wrapup of the terminated interaction; and an available agent status signifying availability for handling the interactions.
20. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said each agent description 


further comprises email parameters of the agent associated with said each agent description.
21. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said each agent description further comprises long distance enable flag for enabling and disabling long distance access of the agent associated with said each agent description.
22. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 11, wherein: outcomes of at least some interactions are characterized and stored in the call center; and said each agent description further comprises an outcome access flag for enabling and disabling access of the agent associated with said each agent description to the stored outcome characterizations.
23. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 11, wherein: the provided data further comprises at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a 


list of agents assigned to the defined at least one workgroup; and the call center routes the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments.
24. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the at least one workgroup definition comprises automatic call distributor configuration data means for configuring ACD options of the at least one workgroup.
25. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the at least one workgroup definition comprises data means for substantially simultaneous modification of skill data objects of all agents assigned to the workgroup corresponding to the at least one workgroup definition.
26. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 23,, wherein: the provided data further comprises a first interaction script definition data object defining a first interaction script screen that the call center 


displays to one of the agents assigned to the defined at least one workgroup when a customer's interaction is routed to said one of the assigned agents.
27. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 23, wherein: the provided data further comprises a first push URL definition data object defining a first push screen pop-up window that the call center is capable of pushing to a computer of a first customer of the plurality of call center customers for display on the first customer's computer when the first customer interacts with the call center by computer chat interaction; the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the provided data further comprises chat project definition data for creating a chat project, the chat project definition data defining handling of the chat interaction by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the chat project definition data comprising 


an identifier of the first push screen pop-up window and an identifier of a point within the chat interaction where the call center pushes the first push screen pop-up window to the first customer's computer for display on the first customer's computer.
28. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising an instruction directing the call center automatically to return to the first workgroup a first call abandoned after being routed to the first workgroup.
29. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 23, wherein: the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the provided data further comprises email project definition data for creating an email project defining handling of an email interaction by the agents 


assigned to the first workgroup, the email project definition data comprising email configuration data for configuring an email server for use by the agents assigned to the first workgroup in processing the email interaction. 30. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 15, wherein: the provided data further comprises at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the corresponding defined workgroup ; the call center assigns the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments; and the provided data further comprises a plurality of menu definition data objects defining a plurality of configurable project menus, each configurable project menu enabling a call center customer to route an interaction of the customer, said each configurable project menu comprising menu event definition data for defining a destination for the routed interaction based on touch-tone input of the customer, or for 


defining a default destination for the routed interaction.
31. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 30, wherein: the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the provided data further comprises predictive project definition data for creating a predictive project defining handling of outbound telephone call interactions originated by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the predictive project definition data comprising a first number for setting a minimum number of attempts to place each of the outbound telephone call interactions, and a second number for setting a maximum number of attempts to place said each of the outbound telephone call interactions.
32. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 15, wherein: the provided data further comprises at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each 


said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the corresponding defined workgroup ; the provided data further comprises phone project definition data for creating a phone project defining handling of telephone call interactions received by the call center based at least in part on telephone numbers dialed by call center customers who originated the received telephone call interactions; and the call center assigns the received interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments and the telephone numbers dialed by call center customers who originated the received telephone call interactions.
33. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 32, wherein the phone project definition data further comprises a plurality of menu definition data objects defining a plurality of configurable project menus, each configurable project menu enabling a call center customer who originated one of the received telephone call interactions to route the interaction, said each configurable project menu comprising menu 


event definition data for defining a destination for the routed interaction based on touch-tone input of the customer, or for defining a default destination for the routed interaction.
34. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the plurality of menu definition data objects comprises: a first menu definition data object defining a first configurable project menu, the first configurable project menu comprising first menu event definition data defining a first destination; and a second menu definition data object defining a second configurable project menu, the second configurable project menu comprising second menu event definition data defining a second destination; wherein the first destination is the second configurable project menu, thereby creating a first call flow data object.
35. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the provided data further comprises a web callback project definition data for creating a web callback project defining handling of 


an outbound telephone call interaction in response to a computer network-based interaction originated by a first call center customer requesting a callback.
36. An administration manager apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the provided data further comprises: a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; and first project definition data for creating a first project and defining handling of at least some interactions based at least in part on parameters of each of said at least some interactions, the first project definition data comprising first schedule definition data for setting times when the first project is active, and a first workgroup identifier for identifying the first workgroup in order to route interactions whose parameters indicate handling by the first workgroup to the agents assigned to the first workgroup when the first project is active, the first schedule definition data permitting the call center to 


remove at least some resources used for servicing the interactions whose parameters indicate handling by the first workgroup during at least some time period when the first schedule definition data does not indicate that the first project is active.
37. A method for administering a network-based company call center using at least some service provider resources, the method comprising the steps of: providing to the call center, through a network and a computer coupled to the network, a plurality of skill definitions describing capabilities of agents of the call center at endpoints of the call center, the agents servicing interactions with a plurality of call center customers, the capabilities being related to interaction servicing; and providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, a plurality of agent descriptions, each agent description of the plurality of agent descriptions being associated with a different agent, said each agent description comprising: 


 one or more skill data objects, each skill data object identifying a skill definition to describe a capability of the agent associated with said each agent description; and one or more efficiency ratings, one efficiency rating per one of said one or more skill data objects describing a capability of the agent associated with said each agent description, each efficiency rating being indicative of the efficiency of the agent associated with said each agent
description in the corresponding capability. 38. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 37, further comprising the step of providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, a company descriptor, the company descriptor comprising an identifier of the company and an identifier of an administrator of the company call center; wherein: 


 said each agent description further comprises an identifier of the agent associated with said each agent description; and
the skill data objects and the efficiency ratings enable the call center to route the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents' described capabilities and efficiency ratings.
39. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 38, further comprising the step of providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, a maximum number of allowed concurrent interactions for the company call center.
40. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 38, wherein said each agent description further comprises a permission variable indicative of an authorization level of the agent associated with said each agent description, the permission variable in said each agent description directing the call center to allow and disallow the agent associated with said each agent 


description access to at least some information based on the value of the permission variable in said each agent description.
41. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 40, wherein said each agent description further comprises a first flag indicative of Follow Me activation for the agent associated with said each agent description, and a second flag indicative of call recording enablement for the agent associated with said each agent description.
42. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 40, wherein said each agent description further comprises: an extension type variable indicative of a type of endpoint of the agent associated with said each agent description, the extension type variable being capable of indicating at least two different endpoint types from a list consisting of: a local extension type, a virtual extension type, a VoIP extension type, a voice mail extension type, and a PBX extension type; and 


 an extension descriptor defining the endpoint of the agent associated with said each agent description.
43. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 40, wherein: the plurality of agent descriptions comprises a supervisory agent description associated with a supervisory agent of the call center; a first value of the permission variable indicates supervisory authorization level; when the permission variable indicates supervisory authorization level for the supervisory agent, the supervisory agent description further comprises a list of agents supervised by the supervisory agent, the first value of the permission variable directing the call center to enable the supervisory agent to see information displayed by the endpoints associated with the agents on the list to the agents on the list.
44. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 43, further comprising the step of providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the 



network, a plurality of agent status definitions, each agent status definition defining one of a plurality of agent statuses, each agent on the list being assigned one of the agent statuses depending on the state of said each agent on the list; wherein: the first value of the permission variable directs the call center to enable the supervisory agent to see the status of said each agent on the list; and the call center assigns the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents' statuses.
45. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 44, wherein said each agent description further comprises Interaction Manager configuration data for configuring Interaction Manager Options, the Interaction Manager configuration data comprising data for designating at least one default status for at least one state of the agent associated with said each agent description. 

46. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 44, wherein the plurality of agent statuses comprises: a busy agent status signifying an ongoing interaction with a call center customer; a wrapup agent status signifying a time period immediately following a termination of an interaction with a call center customer, the time period being allowed for wrapup of the terminated interaction; and an available agent status signifying availability for handling the interactions.
47. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 38, wherein said each agent description further comprises email parameters of the agent associated with said each agent description.
48. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 38, wherein said each agent description further comprises long distance enable flag for enabling and disabling long distance access of the agent associated with said each agent description. 

49. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 38, further comprising the step of characterizing outcomes of at least some interactions and storing the characterized outcomes in the call center; wherein said each agent description further comprises an outcome access flag for enabling and disabling access of the agent associated with said each agent description to the stored outcome characterizations.
50. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 38, further comprising the step of: providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the defined at least one workgroup; wherein the call center routes the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents' workgroup assignments. 

51. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 40, wherein the at least one workgroup definition comprises automatic call distributor configuration data means for configuring ACD options of the at least one workgroup.
52. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 40, wherein the at least one workgroup definition comprises data means for substantially simultaneous modification of skill data objects of all agents assigned to the workgroup corresponding to the at least one workgroup definition.
53. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 40, further comprising the step of providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, a first interaction script definition data object defining a first interaction script screen that the call center displays to one of the agents assigned to the defined at least one workgroup when a customer's interaction is routed to said one of the assigned agents. 

54. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 50, wherein the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the method further comprising the steps of: providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, a first push URL definition data object defining a first push screen pop-up window that the call center is capable of pushing to a computer of a first customer of the plurality of call center customers for display on the first customer's computer when the first customer interacts with the call center by computer chat interaction; and providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, chat project definition data for creating a chat project, the chat project definition data defining handling of the 


 chat interaction by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the chat project definition data comprising an identifier of the first push screen pop-up window and an identifier of a point within the chat interaction where the call center pushes the first push screen pop-up window to the first customer's computer for display on the first customer's computer. 55. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 50, wherein the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising an instruction directing the call center automatically to return to the first workgroup a first call abandoned after being routed to the first workgroup.
56. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 50, wherein the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the 


first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the method further comprising the step of providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, email project definition data for creating an email project defining handling of an email interaction by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the email project definition data comprising email configuration data for configuring an email server for use by the agents assigned to the first workgroup in processing the email interaction.
57. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 42 , further comprising the steps of: providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the corresponding defined workgroup ; and 


 providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, a plurality of menu definition data objects defining a plurality of configurable project menus, each configurable project menu enabling a call center customer to route an interaction of the customer, said each configurable project menu comprising menu event definition data for defining a destination for the routed interaction based on touch-tone input of the customer, or for defining a default destination for the routed interaction; wherein the call center assigns the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments.
58. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 57, wherein the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the method further comprising the step of providing to the call center, through the network and 



the computer coupled to the network, predictive project definition data for creating a predictive project defining handling of outbound telephone call interactions originated by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the predictive project definition data comprising a first number for setting a minimum number of attempts to place each of the outbound telephone call interactions, and a second number for setting a maximum number of attempts to place said each of the outbound telephone call interactions.
59. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 42, further comprising the step of: providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the corresponding defined workgroup; providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, phone project definition data for creating a phone project defining 


handling of telephone call interactions received by the call center based at least in part on telephone numbers dialed by call center customers who made the received telephone call interactions; wherein the call center assigns the received telephone call interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments and the telephone numbers dialed by call center customers who originated the received telephone call interactions.
60. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 59, wherein the phone project definition data further comprises a plurality of menu definition data objects defining a plurality of configurable project menus, each configurable project menu enabling a call center customer who originated one of the received telephone call interactions to route the interaction, said each configurable project menu comprising menu event definition data for defining a destination for the routed interaction based on touch-tone input of the 


customer, or for defining a default destination for the routed interaction.
61. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 60, wherein the plurality of menu definition data objects comprises: a first menu definition data object defining a first configurable project menu, the first configurable project menu comprising first menu event definition data defining a first destination; and a second menu definition data object defining a second configurable project menu, the second configurable project menu comprising second menu event definition data defining a second destination; wherein the first destination is the second configurable project menu, thereby creating a first call flow data object.
62. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 50, further comprising the step of providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, web callback project definition data for creating a web callback project defining handling of 


an outbound telephone call interaction in response to a computer network-based interaction originated by a first call center customer requesting a callback.
63. A method for administering a network-based company call center according to claim 42, further comprising the steps of: providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; and providing to the call center, through the network and the computer coupled to the network, first project definition data for creating a first project and defining handling of at least some interactions based at least in part on parameters of each of said at least some interactions, the first project definition data comprising first schedule definition data for setting times when the first project is active, and a first workgroup identifier for identifying the first workgroup in order to route interactions whose parameters indicate handling by the first workgroup to 


the agents assigned to the first workgroup when the first project is active, the first schedule definition data permitting the call center to remove at least some resources used for servicing the interactions whose parameters indicate handling by the first workgroup during at least some time period when the first schedule definition data does not indicate that the first project is active.
64. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code, wherein, when the computer code is executed on a computer coupled to a network based call center with at least some service provider resources, the computer enables an operator of the computer to configure the call center by providing data to the call center, the provided data comprising: a plurality of skill definitions describing potentially available capabilities of agents of the call center at endpoints of the call center, the agents servicing interactions with a plurality of call center customers, the agents having capabilities related to interaction servicing; 


 a plurality of agent descriptions, each agent description of the plurality of agent descriptions being associated with a different agent, said each agent description comprising: one or more skill data objects, each skill data object identifying a skill definition to describe a capability of the agent associated with said each agent description; and one or more efficiency ratings, one efficiency rating per one of said one or more skill data objects describing a capability of the agent associated with said each agent description, each efficiency rating being indicative of the efficiency of the agent associated with said each agent
description in the corresponding capability. 65. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 64, wherein: the provided data further comprises a company descriptor, the company descriptor comprising an 


identifier of the company and an identifier of an administrator of the company call center; said each agent description further comprises an identifier of the agent associated with said each agent description; and the skill data objects and the efficiency ratings enable the call center to route the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' described capabilities and efficiency ratings.
66. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 65, wherein the provided data further comprises a maximum number of allowed concurrent interactions for the company call center.
67. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 65, wherein said each agent description further comprises a permission variable indicative of an authorization level of the agent associated with said each agent description, the permission variable in said each agent description directing the call center to allow and disallow the agent associated with said each agent 


description access to at least some information based on the value of the permission variable in said each agent description.
68. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 67, wherein said each agent description further comprises a first flag indicative of Follow Me activation for the agent associated with said each agent description, and a second flag indicative of call recording enablement for the agent associated with said each agent description.
69. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 67, wherein said each agent description further comprises : an extension type variable indicative of a type of endpoint of the agent associated with said each agent description, the extension type variable being capable of indicating at least two different endpoint types from a list consisting of: a local extension type, a virtual extension type, a VoIP extension type, a voice mail extension type, and a PBX extension type; and 


 an extension descriptor defining the endpoint of the agent associated with said each agent description.
70. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 67, wherein: the plurality of agent descriptions comprises a supervisory agent description associated with a supervisory agent of the call center; a first value of the permission variable indicates supervisory authorization level; when the permission variable indicates supervisory authorization level for the supervisory agent, the supervisory agent description further comprises a list of agents supervised by the supervisory agent, the first value of the permission variable directing the call center to enable the supervisory agent to see information displayed by the endpoints associated with the agents on the list to the agents on the list .
71. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 70, wherein: 


 the provided data further comprises a plurality of agent status definitions, each agent status definition defining one of a plurality of agent statuses, each agent on the list being assigned one of the agent statuses depending on the state of said each agent on the list; the first value of the permission variable directs the call center to enable the supervisory agent to see the status of said each agent on the list; and the call center assigns the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents' statuses.
72. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 71, wherein said each agent description further comprises Interaction Manager configuration data for configuring Interaction Manager Options, the Interaction Manager configuration data comprising data for designating at least one default status for at least one state of the agent associated with said each agent description. 

73. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 71, wherein the plurality of agent statuses comprises: a busy agent status signifying an ongoing interaction with a call center customer; a wrapup agent status signifying a time period immediately following a termination of an interaction with a call center customer, the time period being allowed for wrapup of the terminated interaction; and an available agent status signifying availability for handling the interactions.
74. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 65, wherein said each agent description further comprises email parameters of the agent associated with said each agent description.
75. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 65, wherein said each agent description further comprises long distance enable flag for enabling and disabling long distance access of the agent associated with said each agent description. 

76. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 65, wherein: outcomes of at least some interactions are characterized and stored in the call center; and said each agent description further comprises an outcome access flag for enabling and disabling access of the agent associated with said each agent description to the stored outcome characterizations.
77. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 65, wherein: the provided data further comprises at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the defined at least one workgroup ; and the call center routes the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments.
78. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 77, 


wherein the at least one workgroup definition comprises automatic call distributor configuration data means for configuring ACD options of the at least one workgroup .
79. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 77, wherein the at least one workgroup definition comprises data means for substantially simultaneous modification of skill data objects of all agents assigned to the workgroup corresponding to the at least one workgroup definition.
80. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 77, wherein the provided data further comprises a first interaction script definition data object defining a first interaction script screen that the call center displays to one of the agents assigned to the defined at least one workgroup when a customer's interaction is routed to said one of the assigned agents. 

81. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 77, wherein: the provided data further comprises a first push URL definition data object defining a first push screen pop-up window that the call center is capable of pushing to a computer of a first customer of the plurality of call center customers for display on the first customer's computer when the first customer interacts with the call center by computer chat interaction; the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the provided data further comprises chat project definition data for creating a chat project, the chat project definition data defining handling of the chat interaction by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the chat project definition data comprising an identifier of the first push screen pop-up window and an identifier of a point within the chat interaction where the call center pushes the first 


push screen pop-up window to the first customer's computer for display on the first customer's computer.
82. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 77, wherein the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a _ first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising an instruction directing the call center automatically to return to the first workgroup a first call abandoned after being routed to the first workgroup.
83. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 77, wherein: the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the provided data further comprises email project definition data for creating an email project defining handling of an email interaction by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the email project definition data comprising email configuration data 



for configuring an email server for use by the agents assigned to the first workgroup in processing the email interaction.
84. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 69, wherein: the provided data further comprises at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the corresponding defined workgroup ; the call center assigns the interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments; and the provided data further comprises a plurality of menu definition data objects defining a plurality of configurable project menus, each configurable project menu enabling a call center customer to route an interaction of the customer, said each configurable project menu comprising menu event definition data for defining a destination for the routed interaction based on touch-tone input of the customer, or for 


defining a default destination for the routed interaction.
85. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 84, wherein: the at least one workgroup definition further comprises a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; the provided data further comprises predictive project definition data for creating a predictive project defining handling of outbound telephone call interactions originated by the agents assigned to the first workgroup, the predictive project definition data comprising a first number for setting a minimum number of attempts to place each of the outbound telephone call interactions, and a second number for setting a maximum number of attempts to place said each of the outbound telephone call interactions.
86. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 69 , wherein: 


 the provided data further comprises at least one workgroup definition of at least one workgroup, each said at least one workgroup definition comprising a list of agents assigned to the corresponding defined workgroup ; the provided data further comprises phone project definition data for creating a phone project defining handling of telephone call interactions received by the call center based at least in part on telephone numbers dialed by call center customers who originated the received telephone call interactions; and the call center assigns the received interactions to the agents based at least in part on the agents ' workgroup assignments and the telephone numbers dialed by call center customers who originated the received telephone call interactions.
87. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 86, wherein the phone project definition data further comprises a plurality of menu definition data objects defining a plurality of configurable project menus, each configurable project menu enabling a call center 


customer who originated one of the received telephone call interactions to route the interaction, said each configurable project menu comprising menu event definition data for defining a destination for the routed interaction based on touch-tone input of the customer, or for defining a default destination for the routed interaction.
88. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 87, wherein the plurality of menu definition data objects comprises: a first menu definition data object defining a first configurable project menu, the first configurable project menu comprising first menu event definition data defining a first destination; and a second menu definition data object defining a second configurable project menu, the second configurable project menu comprising second menu event definition data defining a second destination; wherein the first destination is the second configurable project menu, thereby creating a first call flow data object. 

89. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 77, wherein the provided data further comprises a web callback project definition data for creating a web callback project defining handling of an outbound telephone call interaction in response to a computer network-based interaction originated by a first call center customer requesting a callback.
90. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code according to claim 69 , wherein the provided data further comprises : a first workgroup definition of a first workgroup, the first workgroup definition comprising a first list of agents assigned to the first workgroup; and first project definition data for creating a first project and defining handling of at least some interactions based at least in part on parameters of each of said at least some interactions, the first project definition data comprising first schedule definition data for setting times when the first project is active, and a first workgroup identifier 


for identifying the first workgroup in order to route interactions whose parameters indicate handling by the first workgroup to the agents assigned to the first workgroup when the first project is active, the first schedule definition data permitting the call center to remove at least some resources used for servicing the interactions whose parameters indicate handling by the first workgroup during at least some time period when the first schedule definition data does not indicate that the first project is active.
91. A storage medium encoded with machine- readable computer program code for configuring a company call center, the call center comprising: a plurality of call-center resources running on a third-party network, the plurality of resources comprising a first server and a second resource; a third server running on a private network of the company behind a firewall; a database for storing sensitive information, the database running on the private network behind the firewall ; and 


 a computer on a wide-area network, the wide area network being coupled to the private network; wherein, when the computer program code is executed by the computer, the computer communicates with the third server and the first server to configure the third server and the first server so that the third server is capable of communicating information to, and receiving information from, the database and the first server, and the first server is capable of communicating with the second resource, so that when the second resource generates a first record of sensitive data, the second resource is capable of transmitting the first record to the database through the first server and the third server.
92. An encoded storage medium according to claim 91, wherein: the plurality of resources further comprises a fourth resource; when the computer program code is executed by the computer, the computer communicates with the first server to configure the first server so that the first server is capable of communicating with the fourth 


 resource, so that the fourth resource is capable of issuing a request through the first server and the 1 third server for a second record stored on the database, and the database is capable of transmitting the second record to the fourth resource through the first server and the third server in response to the request .
93. An encoded storage medium according to claim 92 , wherein: the second resource erases the first record after transmitting the first record to the database; and the fourth resource erases the second record after receiving it from the database . 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
