<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1128504</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical amplifier
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01S306	H01S3067	H01S310	H01S310	H01S313	H01S313	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical amplifier includes an optical amplification medium, an excitation source to stimulate
the amplification medium to output at least one wavelength gain peak, and a gain equalizer to

equalize the output of the amplification medium such that gain is produced at wavelengths
other than the wavelength gain peak. The gain equalizer may attenuate gain at the peak

wavelength. The gain equalizer may equalize the output of the amplification medium such that
gain is produced at wavelengths less than the wavelength gain peak. The optical amplifier may

include both a gain equalizer and automatic level control circuitry to respectively maintain
substantially uniform gain at wavelengths within an optical signal band and maintain constant

output power.

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJITSU LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INAGAKI SHINYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINOSHITA SUSUMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
INAGAKI, SHINYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KINOSHITA, SUSUMU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application is based on and hereby claims priority to Japanese Application No.
046467 filed on February 23, 2000 in Japan, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
reference.Wavelength division multiplexed (WDM) amplifiers amplify optical signals that are
composites of multiple wavelength optical signals. WDM optical comimmications systems
relay multi-wavelength composite optical signals through multiple optical amplifiers.The band over which losses are low in optical fiber transmission circuits (less than
approximately 0.3 dB/km) is the band from 1450 nm to 1650 nm. As shown in Figure 1, a
variety of optical fiber amplification devices have been developed for this transmission band.At present, with the popularity of cellular telephones and the rapid increase in internet
use, the demand for telecommunications capacity is expanding explosively. There are global
intense research and development efforts for technologies that can increase the information
transmission capacity on a single fiber.Optical wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) technology that uses the broadband
characteristics of optical fiber amplifiers having silica erbium-doped fibers (EDF) is critical. 
The conventional wavelength band is known as both "the 1550 mn band" (1530 to 1560 nm) or
"the C band" (conventional-wavelength band).In addition, EDF optical amplifier equipment for a 1580 nm band (1570 to 1600 nm)
"the L band"(longer-wavelength band) has been developed. The competition has become
intense in developing a commercial optical fiber telecommunications system that is able to
transmit an ultra large capacity (perhaps 1.6 terabit/s) of information by modulating each
multiplexed wavelength at 10 Gb/s with about 80 waves in each of the bands for a total
composite of 160 waves.Because there is a capacity of approximately eight THz when C band and L band are
combined, when 10 Gb/s transmission signal channels are established with the 2.5 GHz
spacing, the overall transmission capacity of 1.6 terabit can be expanded further up to 3.2 Tb/s
(10 Gb/s × 8,000 GHz25 GHz)On the other hand, there is demand for even greater carrying capacity, and so optical
fiber amplification devices that have new optical amplification bands, in addition to the current
C band and L band, are required.In Figure 1, even though GS-TDFA (gain-shifted thulium-doped fluoride-based fiber
amplifiers) are being developed for amplification in the S band region from 1490 nm to 1530
nm, GS-TDFA devices have a gain in the region between 1475 and 1510 nm, and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical amplifier comprising:

an optical amplification medium;
an excitation source to stimulate the amplification medium to output at least one
wavelength gain peak; and
a gain equalizer to equalize the output of the amplification medium such that gain is
produced at wavelengths other than the wavelength gain peak.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the gain equalizer attenuates
gain at the peak wavelength.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the gain equalizer equalizes
the output of the amplification medium such that nearly even gain is produced at wavelengths

shorter than the wavelength gain peak.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, further comprising:

a variable attenuator, and
automatic level control circuitry to monitor at least one of the input of the optical
amplifier and the output of the optical amplifier and maintain the output level of the optical

amplifier at a substantially constant level.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the optical amplification
medium is segmented and comprises a plurality of amplification medium structures which

together produce at least one wavelength gain peak when stimulated by the excitation source.
An optical amplifier according to claim 5, wherein the amplification medium
structures are semiconductor optical amplifiers.
An optical amplifier according to claim 5, wherein the gain equalizer comprises
a plurality of gain equalizer segments, which together produce gain at wavelengths other than

the wavelength gain peak.
An optical amplifier according to claim 7, wherein the gain equalizer segments
are positioned with amplification medium structures positioned therebetween.
An optical amplifier according to claim 7 wherein

the excitation source stimulates the amplification medium with pumping light having a
pumping wavelength, and
the gain equalizer segments are substantially transparent to the pumping wavelength.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the optical amplification
medium is doped with at least one rare earth element.
An optical amplifier according to claim 10, wherein

the excitation light source stimulates the optical amplification medium to achieve a
population inversion ratio having a positive throughout an optical gain signal wavelength band,
the wavelength gain peak is outside of the optical signal wavelength band, and
the gain equalizer attenuates the wavelength gain peak.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the optical amplification
medium has an input and an output, the optical amplifier further comprising a feedback loop to

the excitation source, to monitor the input and the output of the amplification medium and
maintain a substantially constant gain within the amplification medium over time.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the optical amplification
medium has an input and an output, the optical amplifier further comprising:


monitors located at the input and output of the amplification medium to provide
feedback; and
an automatic gain control circuit connected to the monitors to control the excitation
source so as to maintain a substantially constant population inversion ratio within the

amplification medium over time.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, farther comprising a resonator, the
optical amplification medium being located within the resonator.
An optical amplifier according to claim 14, wherein

the optical amplification medium has an input and an output, and
the resonator comprises:

a pair of mirrors that reflect a selected wavelength; and
optical couplers provided at the input and the output of the amplification
medium to divert a portion of the light emitted from the optical amplification medium to the

mirrors.
An optical amplifier according to claim 15, wherein the optical couplers are 9:1
couplers.
An optical amplifier according to claim 15, wherein the mirrors are fiber grating
mirrors.
An optical amplifier according to claim 15, wherein the gain equalizer is
substantially transparent to the selected wavelength.
An optical amplifier according to claim 15, wherein
the selected wavelength reflected by the mirrors is within a signal band used for optical
signals to be amplified, and
no optical signal is transmitted at the selected wavelength.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the excitation source causes
excited emission within the amplification medium.
An optical amplifier according to claim 1, wherein the optical amplification
medium comprises:


a cladding;
a doped core provided interior to the cladding; and
gratings provided within the highly doped core.
An optical amplifier according to claim 21, wherein the core is highly doped.
An optical amplifier according to claim 21, wherein the gratings provided within
the doped core serve as the gain equalizer.
An optical amplifier according to claim 21, wherein the gratings are long-period
gratings.
An optical amplifier device, comprising:

an amplification medium comprising at least one erbium doped fiber;
an excitation light source to produce a population inversion ratio of about 0.7 to about
1.0 within the amplification medium; and
a gain equalizer to obtain substantially identical wavelength characteristics for a
wavelength band of from about 1490 nm to about 1530 nm.
An optical amplifier device, comprising:

an amplification medium comprising at least one erbium doped fiber;
an excitation light source to produce a population inversion ratio of about 0.8 to about
1.0 within the amplification medium; and
a gain equalizer to obtain substantially identical wavelength characteristics for a
wavelength band of from about 1450 nm to about 1490 nm.
An optical amplifier device, comprising:

an amplification medium comprising at least one erbium doped fiber;
an excitation light source to produce a population inversion ratio of about 0.3 to about
1.0 within the amplification medium; and
a gain equalizer to obtain substantially identical wavelength characteristics for a
wavelength band of from about 1610 nm to about 1650 nm.
An optical amplification method, comprising:

selecting a population inversion ratio to achieve positive gain throughout an optical
signal wavelength band;
exciting the amplification medium to the selected population inversion ration to produce
a wavelength gain peak at a wavelength outside of the optical signal wavelength band;
equalizing the gain to achieve substantially uniform gain over the optical signal
wavelength band; and
attenuating amplification in wavelength bands outside of the optical signal wavelength
band.
An optical amplification method according to claim 28, wherein the optical
signal wavelength band is at wavelengths less than the wavelength of the wavelength gain peak

for the amplification medium.
An optical amplifier comprising:

a WDM splitter to separate first and second different optical signal wavelength bands;
an optical amplification device for the first wavelength optical signal band, comprising:

a first amplification medium;
an excitation light source to produce a first population inversion ratio within the
first amplification medium; and
a gain equalizer to obtain substantially uniform gain over the first optical signal
wavelength band;
an optical amplification device for the second wavelength band, comprising:

a second amplification medium; and
an excitation light source to produce a second population inversion ratio within
the second amplification medium, the first and second population inversion ratios being

different: and
a WDM coupler to recombine the first and second optical wavelength bands
after amplification.
An optical amplifier according to claim 30, wherein the first population
inversion ratio is less than the second population inversion ratio.
An optical amplifier according to claim 31, wherein

the first and second optical amplification mediums each comprise at least one rare earth
element doped optical fiber, and
the length of the at least one rare earth element doped optical fiber for the first
amplification medium is greater than that for the second amplification medium.
An optical amplifier according to claim 30, wherein

the first amplification medium has a wavelength gain peak, and
the wavelength gain peak is outside of the first optical signal wavelength band.
An optical amplifier according to claim 30, wherein the WDM splitter separates
first, second and third different optical signal wavelength bands, the optical amplifier further

comprising an optical amplification device for the third wavelength band.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
