<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1009974</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SOLID STATE MICROANEMOMETER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B81B100	B81B100	G01F1684	G01F1684	G01F1692	G01P510	G01P512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B81B	B81B	G01F	G01F	G01F	G01P	G01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B81B1	B81B1	G01F1	G01F1	G01F1	G01P5	G01P5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A solid state microanemometer (10) is micromachined from a bonded silicon wafer comprising two silicon layers (12, 14). The microanemometer comprises a first semiconductor wafer (12) doped with an impurity having an upper planar surface and a lower planar surface with a peripheral edge; and a second semiconductor wafer (14) bonded to the first semiconductor wafer (12) having an upper planar surface; a lower surface; and a cavity (16) having a peripheral edge and a peripheral margin defined on the upper planar surface and bounded by the peripheral edge of the cavity (16) wherein the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor (12) is bonded to the peripheral margin of the cavity (16) so as to at least partially close the cavity (16) wherein 0.025 to 99 % of the peripheral edge of the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor (12) overlaps with the peripheral edge of the cavity (16).
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEMSYS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MEMSYS, INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GENOVA PERRY A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUEI TIMOTHY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GENOVA, PERRY, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TSUEI, TIMOTHY, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SOLID STATE MICROANEMOMETERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a solid state microanemometer with improved structural integrity, sensing capability and versatility in application.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ARTA microanemometer is a device which measures the velocity and direction of fluid flow. This device is readily adaptable for use in a wide variety of applications. For instance, an array of these devices may be connected to associated computer interfaces to provide "intelligent" sensing of microflow patterns for medical, industrial or other applications.Henderson, U.S. Pat. No. 4,930,347 discloses a solid state microanemometer micromachined out of a single deep level doped semiconductor crystal and includes four corner supports interconnected to four spanning members which form the resistor legs of a Wheatstone bridge. This device relies upon substantial thermal and electrical isolation of the resistor legs to provide high temperature sensitivity and fast response time.For many applications, it is necessary for a microanemometer to withstand varying degrees of mechanical vibration over a long period of time. Otherwise, frequent breakage would necessitate excessive material and labor costs associated with replacement. Especially in sensing liquid flow, solid state microanemometers seem to be particularly susceptible to conditions of mechanical or physical wear. Therefore, the success of a solid state microanemometer 

depends not only upon its high temperature sensitivity and fast response time, but also upon its ability to maintain these qualities under conditions of mechanical stress over a period of time.It is also known that raising the operating temperature of a microanemometer increases its sensing capability. For a microanemometer of the type shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4,930,347, which utilizes self-heating resistors, this would suggest operation of the device at a higher current to increase the operating temperature of the resistors. However, because the self-heating resistors are interconnected by silicon, which has a high thermal conductivity, an increased current magnifies thermal shorting between the resistors, and thereby diminishes the capability of the device to detect small temperature differences. This capability may be for necessary for accurate sensing of fluid flow direction. Henderson, U.S. Pat. No. 5,231,877 discloses a solid state microanemometer which is micromachined from a crystal to a shape with four thick external sides that define an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
I claim:
1. A microanemometer comprising: a) an electrically conductive resistor means comprising a first semiconductor wafer doped with an impurity having 1) an upper substantially planar surface; 2) a lower substantially planar surface having a peripheral edge; b) a second semiconductor wafer bonded to the first semiconductor wafer having
1) an upper substantially planar surface; 2) a lower surface;
3) a cavity having a peripheral edge and a peripheral margin defined on the upper planar surface and bounded by the peripheral edge of the cavity wherein the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor is bonded to the peripheral margin of the cavity so as to at least partially close the cavity wherein .025 to 99% of peripheral edge of the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor overlaps with the peripheral edge of the cavity; and c) a means for electrically connecting the resistor means to a current source.
2. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the upper planar surface of the first semiconductor is smaller than the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor.
3. A microanemometer according to claim 1 further comprising an 


oxide layer wherein the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor is bonded to the peripheral margin of the cavity by an oxide layer residing between the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor and the peripheral margin.
4. A microanemometer according to claim 3 wherein the oxide layer has a thickness of about 1 micron.
5. A microanemometer according to claim 3 wherein the oxide layer comprises Silicon oxide.
6. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the first semiconductor has height of about 10 to 50 microns.
7. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the first semiconductor has height of about 20 microns.
8. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the first semiconductor has lateral dimensions of about 1.4 mm by about .8 mm.
9. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the second semiconductor has height of about 250 to 400 microns.
10. A microanemometer according to claim 9 wherein the second semiconductor has height of about 300 microns.
11. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the first semiconductor comprises silicon doped with a n+ deep level impurity.
12. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the resistor 


means comprises two metal lines connected to the upper surface of the first semiconductor.
13. A microanemometer according to claim 12 further comprising two pads wherein the two pads are connected respectively to the two metal lines.
14. A microanemometer according to claim 13 further comprising two through-wafer holes wherein the two pads are respectively backed by the through-wafer holes filled with electroplated metal.
15. A microanemometer according to claim 14 wherein the electroplated metal filling the through-wafer holes protrude from their respective through- wafer holes at least 20 microns.
16. A microanemometer according to claim 14 wherein a sidewall oxide layer coats the interior of each of the through- wafer holes.
17. A microanemometer according to claim 1 further comprising a passivation layer wherein the passivation layer covers the upper surface of the first semiconductor wafer and the upper surface of the second semiconductor wafer.
18. A microanemometer according to claim 17 wherein the passivation layer comprises nitride.
19. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein at least two opposing edges of the peripheral edge of the cavity are covered by the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor. 

20. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the first semiconductor comprises four comers and at least two of the four comers overlap with the peripheral edge of the cavity. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 07 December 1999 (07 12 99), original claims 1 and 12 amended, new claims 21-26 added, remaining claims unchanged (5 pages)] I claim
1 A microanemometer comprising a) an electrically conductive resistor m the form of a first semiconductor wafer doped with an impurity having
1) an upper substantially planar surface, 2) a lower substantially planar surface havmg a peπpheral edge. b) a second semiconductor wafer bonded to the first semiconductor wafer having
1) an upper substantially planar surface. 2) a lower surface.
3) a cavity having a peripheral edge and a peripheral margin defined on the upper planar surface and bounded b\ the peripheral edge of the cavity wherem the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor is bonded to the peripheral margin of the cavity so as to at least partially close the cavitv wherem 025 to 99% of peripheral edge of the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor overlaps with the peπpheral edge of the cavity and c) a means for electrically connecting the resistor to a current source
2 A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the upper planar surface of the first semiconductor is smaller than the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor
3 A microanemometer according to claim 1 further comprising an 


oxide layer wherem the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor is bonded to the peripheral margin of the cavity by an oxide layer residing between the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor and the peripheral margin
4 A microanemometer according to claim 3 wherem the oxide layer has a thickness of about 1 micron
5 A microanemometer according to claim 3 wherem the oxide layer comprises Silicon oxide
6 A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherem the first semiconductor has height of about 10 to 50 microns
7 A. micioanemometer according to claim 1 wherem the first semiconductor has height of about 20 microns
8 A microanemometer accordmg to claim 1 wherem the first semiconductor has lateral dimensions of about 1 4 mm by about 8 mm
9 A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherem the second semiconductor has height of about 250 to 400 microns
10 A microanemometer according to claim 9 wherem the second semiconductor has height of about 300 microns
11 A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherem the first semiconductor comprises silicon doped with a n+ deep level impurity
12 A microanemometer accordmg to claim 1 wherem the means for 


electrically connecting the resistor to a current source comprises two metal lines connected to the upper surface of the first semiconductor.
13. A microanemometer according to claim 12 further comprising two pads wherein the two pads are connected respectively to the two metal lines.
14. A microanemometer according to claim 13 further comprising two through-wafer holes wherein the two pads are respectively backed by the through-wafer holes filled with electroplated metal.
15. A microanemometer according to claim 14 wherein the electroplated metal filling the through-wafer holes protrude from their respective through-wafer holes at least 20 microns.
16. A microanemometer according to claim 14 wherein a sidewall oxide layer coats the interior of each of the through-wafer holes.
17. A microanemometer according to claim 1 further comprising a passivation layer wherein the passivation layer covers the upper surface of the first semiconductor wafer and the upper surface of the second semiconductor wafer. .
18. A microanemometer according to claim 17 wherein the passivation layer comprises nitride.
19. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein at least two opposing edges of the peripheral edge of the cavity are covered by the lower planar surface of the first semiconductor. 

20. A microanemometer according to claim 1 wherein the first semiconductor comprises four comers and at least two of the four comers overlap with the peripheral edge of the cavity.
21. A microanemometer comprising: a) an electrically conductive resistor in the form of a semiconductor wafer doped with an impurity having 1) an upper surface; 2) a lower having a peripheral edge; b) a substrate bonded to the semiconductor wafer having
1) an upper surface;
2) a cavity having a peripheral edge and a peripheral margin defined on the upper surface and bounded by the peripheral edge of the cavity wherein the lower surface of the semiconductor wafer rests on and is supported by at least part of the peripheral edge of the cavity such that the semiconductor wafer is over the cavity; and c) a means for electrically connecting the resistor to a current source.
22. A microanemometer according to claim 21 wherein the substrate is a semiconductor wafer.
23. A microanemometer according to claim 21 which further comprises two metal lines connected to the upper surface of the semiconductor wafer.
24. A microanemometer according to claim 23 further comprising two pads wherein the two pads are cormected respectively to the two 


metal lines.
25. A microanemometer according to claim 24 further comprising at least one through-wafer hole at least one pad is backed by a through- wafer hole filled with electroplated metal.
26. A microanemometer according to claim 25 wherein the electroplated metal filling the through-wafer holes protrude from their respective through-wafer holes at least 20 microns. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
