<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1030484</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Data link layer quality of service for UMTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04L1256	H04L2906	H04L2906	H04L2908	H04L2908	H04W418	H04W418	H04W2802	H04W2806	H04W2816	H04W2824	H04W7200	H04W7212	H04W8000	H04W8002	H04W8402	H04W8404	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	H04L29	H04W4	H04W4	H04W28	H04W28	H04W28	H04W28	H04W72	H04W72	H04W80	H04W80	H04W84	H04W84	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A Data Link Layer (DLL) protocol for direct support of the Internet
Protocol (IP) networking in the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System

(UMTS) (100), is provided. The disclosed Data Link Layer comprises a
Radio Link Control (RLC) (70) sublayer and a Medium Access Control (MAC)

(80) sublayer. At a transmit end, as well as at a receiving end of the UMTS
wireless system (100), a plurality of Quality of Service (QoS
) planes (1...n) are
created according to IP QoS requirements. At the RLC level, each QoS plane

(1...n) comprises a Data-RLC and a Control-RLC. The QoS planes (1...n)
are optimized to handle the QoS requirements of a corresponding

Class of Service (CoS). At the transmitting end, the data packets
received from the upper layers are directed to a QoS plane according

to the particular QoS information they contain, and processed according to
their particular QoS requirement. A Segmentation, Concatenation, and

Reframing module (SCR) is used to generate variable size RLC frames,
including multiframing. The variable size RLC frames are

transmitted to the MAC sublayer (80) using logical channels. At the MAC
sublayer (80), the RLC frames are multiplexed onto transport

channels based on their QoS requirements and transmitted to the
physical layer for propagation to the receiving end.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTEL NETWORKS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTEL NETWORKS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHDMADVAND NIMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FONG MO-HAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU GENG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AHDMADVAND, NIMA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FONG, MO-HAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU, GENG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to Data Link Layer (DLL)
protocols, and more particularly to a DLL protocol for direct support of network
layer protocol data services, i.e. the Internet Protocol (IP), for the Universal
Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS).Layered architecture is a form of hierarchical modularity used in data
network design. All major emerging communication network technologies rest
on the Open System Interconnections (OSI) layer architecture of the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO), illustrated in Figure 1. In
this architecture, a layer performs a category of functions or services. The OSI
model defines a Physical Layer (Layer 1) which specifies the standards for the
transmission medium, a Data Link Layer (Layer 2), a Network Layer (Layer
3), a Transport Layer (Layer 4) and Application Layers (Layers 5 to 7).
Data Link Control protocols are used to mitigate the effects of
impairments introduced by the physical transmission medium. A Data Link
Control protocol is designed to deal specifically with the types of impairments
found on the radio link and comprises mechanisms to deal with errors on the
communications link, delays encountered in transmitting information, lost
information, bandwidth conservation, and contention resolution.The third layer is the Network Layer which implements routing and flow
control for the network.The fourth layer, Transport Layer, provides reliable and transparent
transfer of data between end points. It also provides end-to-end error recovery
and flow control. For the Internet based protocol model, the Transport Control
Protocol (TCP) mainly corresponds to the Transport Layer of the OSI model.Current wireless networks use layer 2-4 protocols designed specifically
for the wired networks. However, there are some major differences between
the wireless and the wired environment, resulting in important differences in 
the way these networks operate.In a wired network the bit error rates are typically on the order of 10-9 or
better, and errors and packet loss have a tendency to be random. Therefore,
the wired transmission medium could be considered essentially error-free and
the TCP data packets are lost mainly due to congestion in the intervening
routers. Moreover, in a wired system the transmission channel has a constant
bandwidth and is symmetrical, which means the characteristics of the channel
in one direction can be deduced by looking at the characteristics of the
channel in the other direction. Therefore, it is often easier to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A Data Link Control (DLC) protocol for direct support of a network layer
protocol, comprising:


at a transmit end of a wireless communication system:

a plurality of Quality of Service (QoS) data planes, a QoS data plane
for processing a QoS oriented data packet according to a class of service

(CoS), and to provide a radio link protocol data unit (RLP PDU);
a QoS processing module for receiving a network layer protocol data
packet, converting said network layer protocol data packet into said QoS

oriented data packet, and directing said QoS oriented data packet to one of
said QoS data planes according to QoS information in said network layer

protocol data packet; and
an interface between said DLC and a physical layer for receiving said
RLP PDU and transmitting same to said physical layer.
A DLC protocol as claimed in claim 1, wherein each said QoS data
plane comprises:


a Link Access Control (LAC) protocol instance for receiving said QoS
oriented data packet and generating a HDLC-like LAC frame; and
a Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol instance for receiving said
LAC frame and generating said RLP PDU.
A DLC protocol as claimed in claim 2, wherein said LAC protocol
instance comprises:


a segmentation and re-assembly (SAR) module for receiving said
service oriented data packet and dividing same into a number of sequence

frames; and
a framing and automatic repeat request (ARQ) module for receiving
said sequence frames and encapsulating a plurality of said sequence frames

into said LAC frame.
A DLC protocol as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein said MAC protocol
instance comprises:
a dedicated/common router (DCR) for receiving and routing said LAC
frames to be carried over a radio traffic channel; and
a radio link protocol (RLP) for receiving said LAC frames and
converting said LAC frames into said RLP PDUs.
A DLC protocol as claimed in claim 4, further comprising a MAC control
state machine (CSM) for regulating the delivery of said LAC frames to said

RLP.
A DLC protocol as claimed in claim 4 or 5, wherein said RLP comprises
an automatic repeat request (ARQ) function for automatic retransmission of

said RLP PDUs if received in error at a receiving end of said wireless system.
A DLC protocol as claimed in claim 6, wherein said ARQ function has a
selective repeat component active during a normal-mode (NM) of operation

and a stop and wait (SW) component active during a burst-mode (BM) of
operation.
A DLC protocol as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein said
LAC frame has a variable size, said size being dynamically optimized based

on the conditions of the communication link.
A DLC protocol as claimed in claim 8, wherein said size of said LAC
frame is automatically reduced: i) when a predetermined number of negative

acknowledgments (NAK) are received, or ii) if no acknowledgments are
received for a predetermined period of time.
A DLC protocol as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said
interface is a multipl
exer for receiving said RLP PDU, and multiplexing same
into a physical channel according to the QoS of said RLP PDU, for

transmission to a receiving end of said wireless system.
A DLC protocol as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising a
resource control unit for mapping a QoS requirement to a DLC class of

service (CoS), and separating said CoS inside the DLC protocol into said QoS
data planes.
A method for direct processing a network layer protocol data packets
for transmission over a wireless communication system, comprising the steps

of:

separating the data link layer of the wireless communication system
into a plurality of Quality of Service (QoS) data planes, a QoS plane for

processing a QoS oriented data packet according to a class of service (CoS),
and to provide a radio link protocol data unit (RLP PDU);
processing said network layer protocol data packet by converting said
network layer protocol data packet into said QoS oriented data packet and

directing said QoS oriented data packet to one of said QoS data planes
according to QoS information in said network layer protocol data packet; and
forwarding said RLP PDU to a physical layer according to the QoS of
said RLP PDU.
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein said step of separating
comprises:


providing a plurality of QoS oriented Link Access Control (LAC)
protocol instances, a LAC protocol instance for each said QoS data plane,

said LAC protocol instance for receiving said service oriented data packet and
generating a HDLC-like LAC frame; and
providing a plurality of QoS oriented Medium Access Control (MAC)
protocol instances, a MAC protocol instance for each QoS data plane, said

MAC protocol instance for receiving said LAC frames and generating said
radio link protocol data unit (RLP PDU).
A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said step of generating a
HDLC-like LAC frame comprises dividing said QoS oriented data packet into a

number of sequence frames and encapsulating a plurality of said sequence
frames into said LAC frame.
A method as claimed in claim 13 or 14, wherein said step of generating
said RLP PDU comprises receiving said LAC frames and converting said LAC

frames into said RLP PDUs.
A method as claimed in claim 15, further comprising regulating the
delivery of said LAC frames to said RLP.
A method as claimed in claim 13, 14, 15 or 16, further comprising an
automatic repeat request (ARQ) function for automatic retransmission of said

RLP PDUs if received in error at a receiving end of said wireless system.
A method as claimed in any of claims 12 to 17, wherein said step of
processing comprises mapping a QoS requirement to a DLC class of service

(CoS), and separating said CoS inside the DLC protocol into said QoS data
planes.
A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein said step of processing
further comprises adding a length indicator to said network layer protocol data

packet.
A Data Link Layer (DLL) protocol for direct support of a network layer
protocol in the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS),

comprising:

at a transmitting end of the UMTS,

a plurality of Quality of Service (QoS) planes, a QoS plane for
processing a QoS oriented data packet according to a Quality of Service

(QoS) requirement, and to provide a radio link control (RLC) frame;
a subflow processing module for receiving a network layer protocol
data packet, converting said network layer protocol data packet into said QoS

oriented data packet, and directing said QoS oriented data packet to one of
said QoS planes according to QoS information in said network layer protocol

data packet; and
an interface between said Data Link Layer and a physical layer for
receiving said RLC and transmitting same to said physical layer.
A DLL protocol as claimed in claim 20, wherein each said QoS plane
comprising:


a Radio Link Control (RLC) instance for receiving said QoS oriented
data packet and generating a RLC frame; and
a Medium Access Control (MAC) instance for receiving said RLC frame
over logical channels and multiplexing said RLC frames onto transport

channels.
A DLL protocol as claimed in claim 21, wherein said RLC instance
comprising a Data-RLC instance and a Control-RLC instance.
A DLL protocol as claimed in claim 22, wherein said Data-RLC
instance comprising a segmentation, concatenation and reframing (SCR)

module for receiving a plurality of said QoS oriented data packet, dividing
same into sequence frames, and generating said RLC frame.
A DLL protocol as claimed in claim 23, wherein said RLC frame has a
variable size, said size being dynamically optimized based on the conditions

of the communication link.
A DLL protocol as claimed in any of claims 21 to 24, wherein said MAC
instance comprising a multiplexer for receiving said RLC frame and

multiplexing same onto a transport channel according to said QoS
requirement for transmission to said physical layer.
A DLC protocol as claimed in any of claims 21 to 25 further comprising
a radio resource control (RRC) module for controlling said subflow processing

module and the delivery of said RLC frames to said physical layer over said
transport channels.
A DLL protocol as claimed in claim 26, wherein said radio resource
control (RRC) unit also for controlling the mapping said QoS requirement to a

class of service (CoS) inside the DLL protocol.
A DLL protocol as claimed in any of claims 21 to 27, wherein said
interface is a multiplexer for receiving said RLC frame from said QoS plane,

and multiplexing same into said transport channels.
A DLL protocol as claimed in any of claims 20 to 28, wherein said QoS
plane is totally reconfigurable and accepts various types of error recovery

selected according to said QoS requirement.
A DLL protocol as claimed in any of claims 20 to 29, further comprising
identical said QoS planes and said subflow processing module at the

receiving end of the UMTS.
A method for direct processing a network layer protocol data packets
for transmission over the UMTS wireless communication system, comprising

the steps of:

separating the radio link control layer of the wireless communication
system into a plurality of Quality of Service (QoS) planes, a QoS plane for

processing a QoS oriented data packet according to a QoS requirement, and
generating a radio link control (RLC) frame;
processing said network layer protocol data packet by converting said
network layer protocol data packet into said QoS oriented data packet and

directing said QoS oriented data packet to one of said QoS planes according
to QoS information in said network layer protocol data packet; and
forwarding said RLC frame to a physical layer over a transport channel.
A method as claimed in claim 31, wherein said step of separating
comprising:


providing a plurality of Radio Link Control (RLC) instances, a RLC
instance for each said QoS plane, said RLC instance for receiving said QoS

oriented data packet and generating said RLC frame; and
providing Medium Access Control (MAC) instances for receiving said
RLC frames and multiplexing same onto said transport channels.
A method as claimed in claim 31 or 32, wherein said step of processing
comprising mapping said QoS requirement to a class of service (CoS), and

separating said CoS inside the DLL protocol into said QoS planes.
A method as claimed in claim 33, wherein said step of processing
further comprising dividing said QoS oriented data packet into smaller

sequence frames and refraining same into said RLC frame.
A method as claimed in claim 34, wherein said step of processing
comprising adding a length indicator, a beginning of frame field, a sequence

number field, and a QoS plane number to said network layer protocol data
packet.
A method as claimed in any of claims 31 to 35, wherein said step of
generating said RLC frame provides a dynamic optimization of the size of said

RLC frame based on the conditions of the communication link, for enhancing
the quality of the air transmission.
A method as claimed in any of claims 31 to 36, comprising regulating
the delivery of said RLC frames to said physical layer over said transport

channel.
A method as claimed in any of claims 31 to 37, wherein the step of
processing comprising multiframing.
A method as claimed in any of claims 12 to 19 or 31 to 38 or the DLC
protocol of any of claims 1 to 11 or the DLL protocol of any of claims 20 to 30,

wherein said network layer protocol is Internet Protocol (IP).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
