<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1190694</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus for automatic application of compositions to the skin
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A45D3404	A45D3404	A61H3500	A61H3500	A61H3700	A61H3700	B05B1512	B05B1512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A45D	A45D	A61H	A61H	A61H	A61H	B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A45D34	A45D34	A61H35	A61H35	A61H37	A61H37	B05B15	B05B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus is described for the coating of a human body with a tanning
composition, such as a sunless tanning composition, wherein an arm with a plurality of

nozzles thereon traverses within a booth to spray coat a body in the booth. The spray
nozzles are oriented to avoid opposing air flows and excessive air flows which cause

inefficient and uneven, dripping or streaking in the deposition of tanning composition
on the skin. In another aspect, the apparatus provides for a foot rinser to rinse the feet

of a user while the apparatus applies a sunless tanning composition to the user to avoid
overly darkening the user's feet. In yet another aspect, the apparatus provides for a

sanitation system to wash-down the spray booth between successive uses.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPECTRUM PRODUCTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPECTRUM PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLACK NEIL ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER MARTIN HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER ANTHONY JONES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLACK, NEIL ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, MARTIN HOWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER, ANTHONY JONES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for the application of compositions to a
person's skin, and more particularly, for example, to an apparatus adapted for use in a
booth for the uniform spray application of artificial tanning compositions to the human
body.The cosmetic effect of tanned skin has long been a desired goal for many
people. This desire has led to the development of a large and varied industry
supplying compositions and devices to facilitate natural or UV radiation induced
tanning of the skin. Another market has developed for compositions to more rapidly
provide the visual effect of tanned skin without sun exposure. In addition to the
development of the multitude of sun tanning, sun screening and artificial tanning and
bronzing lotions, creams and oils now available, various applicator devices for the
different compositions have been devised, ranging from simple squeeze bottles and
pump sprays, to hand-held spray canisters similar to pump-style pesticide spray
canisters, to elaborate spray rooms that generate mists of suntan lotions or artificial
tanning compositions for application to a user standing in the room.These various applicator devices include U.S. Patent No. 1,982,509 to Frank
showing a belt-driven carriage apparatus in a vertically oriented cabinet designed to
carry, among several alternatives, a compressed air sprayer head and one or more
reservoirs for liquid or powder compositions to be spray applied through the sprayer
head to all or part of the body of a user standing in front of the apparatus. The '509
patent does not disclose the spray application of tanning compositions, and the single
spray nozzle would necessarily result in an uneven application in overlap areas as the
user turns for sequential sprayer passes, and/or missed areas under the arms or on the
insides of the arms and legs. The belt driven carriage of the '509 patent is raised and
lowered along a guide pole in the cabinet with the start and stop positions for the 
carriage and the activation of the sprayer apparatus being coordinated by a
complicated set of electromechanical linkages and trip-switches.U.S. Patents 5,460,192 and 5,664,593, both to McClain, describe variations of
an apparatus to coat a user's body up to the neck with suntan lotion or sunscreen. Both
variations provide for a cylindrical enclosure in which the user stands with head and
neck protruding through a hole in the top of the enclosure. The apparatus of the '192
patent provides for three liquid spray nozzles directed at the shoulder
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for applying a sunless tanning composition to a human user
without overly darkening the user's feet comprising:


a) a booth suitable for containing a user's torso, legs and feet;
b) a foot rinser near the bottom of the booth; and
c) a coating sprayer above the bottom of the booth containing a sunless tanning
composition including a sunless tanning agent for spraying portions of said user's

torso and legs and operable while said foot rinser is in use.
The apparatus of claim 1 in which said foot rinser includes a sprayer.
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the foot rinser uses a solution containing a
lower concentration of said sunless tanning agent than said sunless tanning

composition.
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the foot rinser solution contains no active
amount of said sunless tanning agent.
The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the foot rinser solution is water or an
aqueous detergent solution.
The apparatus of claim 5 in which the foot rinser solution is water.
The apparatus of claim 5 in which the foot rinser solution is an aqueous
detergent solution.
The apparatus of claim 1 in which said booth is suitable for a user's entire
body.
The apparatus of claim 1 in which said coating sprayer includes a moveable
coating sprayer.
The apparatus of claim 9 in which said movable coating sprayer has more than
one nozzle.
An apparatus for applying a sunless tanning composition to a human body
comprising:


a) a booth with a location for a human body within said booth;
b) a first arm moveably mounted within said booth;
c) three or more active spray nozzles on said arm with none of said active spray
nozzles oriented to spray in a direction substantially toward any other active spray

nozzle; and
d) a sunless tanning composition within said three or more active spray
nozzles.
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each of said three of more spray nozzles
defines a spray direction towards said location in said booth and wherein the spray

directions of said three of more spray nozzles are substantially parallel.
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said first arm has opposing ends and
defines outer portions adjacent said opposing ends and a central portion between said

outer portions; and

wherein at least one of said three or more spray nozzles is on each of said outer
portions and on said central portion of said arm; and
wherein each spray nozzle defines a spray direction towards said location in
said booth, wherein the outer portion spray nozzles are each convergingly directed

towards said location in said booth at an angle between about 10 and about 20 degrees
from the central portion nozzle spray direction.
An apparatus for differentially applying a composition to a human body
comprising:
an applicator for spray applying a first liquid containing a certain non-zero
concentration of an active agent to one part of a human body and for spray applying a

second liquid having a different concentration of said active agent to a different part of
the body.
The apparatus of claim 14 in which said applicator uses different nozzles for
said first liquid and said second liquid.
The apparatus of claim 15 in which said different nozzles for said first and
second liquids can operate simultaneously.
The apparatus of claim 16 in which at least one nozzle for said second liquid
operates substantially the entire time said nozzles for said first liquid operate.
The apparatus of claim 14 in which said second liquid has an active agent
concentration of zero.
The apparatus of claim 14 in which said active agent is a sunless tanning agent.
The apparatus of claim 19 in which said applicator uses different nozzles for
said first liquid and said second liquid.
The apparatus of claim 20 in which said different nozzles can operate
simultaneously.
The apparatus of claim 21 in which at least one nozzle for said second liquid
operates substantially the entire time a nozzle for said first liquid operates.
The apparatus of claim 22 in which said one part of the body includes the torso
and said different part of the body is the feet.
The apparatus of claim 23 in which said second liquid has an active agent
concentration of zero.
The apparatus of claim 24 in which said second liquid is water.
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said location is at a horizontal distance
from said three or more nozzles of between about 25 cm and about 60 cm.
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each of said three or more spray nozzles
produces a spray pattern and each spray pattern overlaps with adjacent spray patterns

by at least 10% at said location.
The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said spray patterns combine to provide a
combined spray pattern with a width of between about 70 cm and about 100 cm at said

location.
The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said three or more spray nozzles are
configured to spray between about 0.30 mL and about 0.45 mL tanning composition

per vertical centimeter traversed by said arm.
The apparatus of claim 29, wherein each of said three or more spray nozzles
produces a spray with a volume mean diameter of not greater than about 100 µm and a

liquid feed pressure of between about 5 and about 20 psi and an air feed pressure of
between about 15 and about 30 psi.
The apparatus of claim 26, wherein

a) each of said three or more spray nozzles produces a spray pattern and each
spray pattern overlaps with adjacent spray patterns by at least 10% at said location;
b) said spray patterns combine to provide a combined spray pattern with a
width of between about 70 cm and about 100 cm at said 
location;
c) said three or more spray nozzles are configured to spray between about 0.30
mL and about 0.38 mL tanning composition per vertical centimeter traversed by said

arm; and
d) wherein each of said three or more spray nozzles produces a spray with a
volume mean diameter of not greater than about 100 µm and a liquid feed pressure of

about 10 psi and an air feed pressure of between about 15 and about 30 psi.
The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising an input device mounted to said
booth to measure the height of a person standing in said booth, and wherein said arm is

moveable to vertically traverses to an upper height equivalent to about the measured
height of the person.
The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the input device is a keypad.
The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the input device is a height sensor mounted
to said arm.
The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the input device is a vertical array of height
sensors mounted to said booth.
An apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising:

a) a second arm moveably mounted within said booth;
b) three or more second active spray nozzles on said second arm and operable
when offset from first said arm, with none of said second active spray nozzles oriented

to spray in a direction substantially toward any other second active spray nozzle, and
said three or more second active spray nozzles oriented to spray in a direction towards

said location in said booth; and
d) sunless tanning composition within said three or more active spray nozzles.
The apparatus of claim 36 in which said second arm is positioned on the
opposite side of said location from said first arm.
The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising:

a) at least one wash-down nozzle mounted within said booth; and
b) a source of sanitizing solution operably connected to said at least one wash-down
nozzle to wash said booth.
The apparatus of claim 27, wherein at least one of said wash-down nozzles is a
rotating tank washing nozzle of at least 180 degrees.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
