<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1259435</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VENTED CONTAINER END APPARATUS AND METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D800	B65D802	B65D1728	B65D1732	B65D1734	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D8	B65D8	B65D17	B65D17	B65D17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A container end is provided so that upon opening, a generally triangular vent region (862) is formed with an apex (872) pointing rearwardly (272) toward the head space to vent the container, e.g. during pouring. A container is provided that achieves a fast and smooth pour with a relatively small increase in the opening area (822) relative to previous configurations and achieves a superior pour without increased bursting, buckling or opening failures associated with relatively larger openings.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BALL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BALL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHASTEEEN HOWARD CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHASTEEEN, HOWARD, CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VENTED CONTAINER END APPARATUS AND METHODThe present invention relates to a container end which provides venting during emptying of contents and, in particular, a container with an end having a score defining a vent area providing good pouring characteristics without undue increase in the opening's size.BACKGROUND INFORMATIONA number of containers are configured to achieve easy opening, such as without the need for a can opener or other tool and preferably which does not involve separation of any parts (so that there is no separate tab or cover piece to dispose of). A number of features of such containers and container ends affect the level to which end users, as well as bottlers, manufacturers, distributors, shippers and retailers, are satisfied with the container. One factor believed to be of some importance to consumers is the pour characteristics of the container. In general, it is believed that consumers prefer to use containers capable of providing a relatively high pour rate, such as pouring about 350 ml in less than about 10 seconds, preferably less than about 8 seconds, and more preferably less than about 7 seconds (e.g., measured using pour rate testing as described below). Additionally, it is believed consumers prefer containers that provide a smooth or substantially laminar pour, i.e. a pour which is not characterized by a series of surges (which can cause splashing and/or can affect a beverage head, fizz or other carbonation or pressurization-related characteristics of the contents, after pouring).Certain previous containers have been configured in an attempt to address these concerns by providing relatively large openings, e.g. openings covering greater than about 0.5 square inches (about 3.2 cm2). Unfortunately, such larger openings tend to be associated with a higher rate of problems such as bursting, buckling, leakage, opening failures and the like, particularly when the contents are pressurized, such as being provided with an overpressure of about 35 psi (about 250 kPa) or more. In some cases, large opening panels are provided in designs having relatively smaller hinge or "gate" regions, which can, in some instances, be associated with container leakage and/or separation of the panel, or other components, upon opening, sometimes causing parts to be expelled ("missileing"). Furthermore, such larger openings are difficult or infeasible to provide in container ends which are relatively small, such as round container ends having a diameter of less than about 2 inches (about 5 cm).
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A vented container end having a perimeter, the container end comprising: a cover region generally defining a plane, with a score defining first and second rupture endpoints, wherein at least a portion of said score extending between said first and second rupture endpoints together with a gate axis between said first and second rapture endpoints defines an opening area of said cover region; a tab coupled to said cover region so as to permit said tab to be moved about a pivot point to press against a contact region of said opening area to create rupture along at least part of said rupture score, the pivot point and contact region generally lying along an opening axis, said pivot point defining a second axis passing through said pivot point and perpendicular to said opening axis; wherein said first and second rupture endpoints lie on the same side of said opening axis; wherein said second rupture endpoint is farther from said opening axis than said first rupture endpoint; wherein said gate axis defines an edge of a generally triangular vent region, defining an apex, with an edge of said triangular region substantially aligned with said gate axis; and wherein said first rupture endpoint is located substantially adjacent said apex.
2. A container end as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a stiffening shape formed in said cover region having a first edge substantially adjacent a portion of said gate.
3. A container end as claimed in claim 2 wherein said stiffening shape is defined by a region positioned out of said plane of said cover region.
4. A container end as claimed in claim 2 wherein said stiffening shape defines a generally triangular area with said first edge comprising an edge of said triangular area. 5. A container end as claimed in claim 4 wherein said triangular area defines at least one triangular area apex substantially adjacent said vent region apex.
6. A container end as claimed in claim 1 wherein as said tab is moved about said pivot point, said tab defines a contact path on said opening area, said contact path intersecting said stiffening shape. 7. A container end as claimed in claim 2 with at least a first anti-fracture score, parallel to at least a first portion of said score, at least a first end of said anti-fracture score teπninating adjacent an edge of said stiffening shape. 

8. A container end as claimed in claim 1 wherein a distance between said first and second rupture end points is at least about 0.1 inches.
9. A container end as claimed in claim 1 wherein, as said tab is moved about said pivot point, said opening area pivots inwardly to a position substantially interior to said container, about said gate axis, substantially in the absence of non-plastic buckling of regions spaced from said gate axis.
10. A container end as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second termination points are on opposite sides of said second axis.
11. A container end as claimed in claim 2 wherein said first and second termination points are substantially adjacent said stiffening region.
12. A container end as claimed in claim 1 wherein said rupture propagates substantially to said apex before said rupture propagates to the forward most intersection of said rupture score with said opening axis.
13. A container end, as claimed in claim 1 wherein said opening axis is at an angle to a third axis which passes through said pivot point and also passes through the center of the portion of the rupture score which is closest to the perimeter of the container end.
14. A container end, as claimed in claim 13 wherein said angle is between about 10 degrees and about 30 degrees.
15. A container end, as claimed in claim 13 wherein said opening area has a forward half and wherein at least said forward half has an edge which is substantially symmetrical with respect to said third axis.
16. A container end as claimed in claim 13 wherein, in a forward portion of said triangular area, and said third axis are on opposite sides of said opening axis.
17. A method for forming a container end comprising: providing a generally flat cover region with at least an outer surface substantially defining a plane; forming a score on said generally flat cover region, defining first and second rupture end points, wherein at least a portion of said score, extending between said first and second rupture end points, together with a gate axis between said first and second rupture end points defines an opening area of said cover region, said opening area being spaced from a pivot point for coupling a tab, said tab movable about said pivot point so as to permit said tab to press against a contact region of said opening area, said contact region generally lying along 


 36 an opening axis, said pivot point, wherein a second axis passes through said pivot point peφendicular to said opening axis; wherein said first and second rupture end points lie on the same side of said opening axis; wherein said second rupture end point is farther from said opening axis than said first rapture endpoint; wherein said gate axis defines an edge of a generally triangular event defining an apex with an edge of said triangular region substantially aligned with said gate axis.
18. A method as claimed in claim 17 further comprising forming a stiffening shape defining a region positioned out of said plane defined by said surface of said generally flat cover region.
19. A vented container end comprising: a cover region generally defining a plane with a score means for defining a rupture path having first and second rapture end points, wherein at least a portion of said score which extends between said first and second rapture end points, together with gate means between said first and second rapture end points, defines an opening area of said cover region; tab means moveably coupled to said cover region for pressing against a contact region of said opening area as said tab is moved about a pivot point, the pivot point and contact region generally lying along an opening axis, said pivot point defining a second axis passing through said pivot point and peφendicular to said opening axis; wherein said first and second rupture end points lie on the same side of said opening axis; wherein said second rupture end point is farther from said opening axis than said first rapture end point; wherein said gate means defines an edge of a generally triangular vent region defining an apex with an edge of said triangular region substantially adjacent to said gate axis; wherein said first rapture end point is located substantially adjacent said apex.
20. A container end as claimed in claim 19, further comprising a stiffening means, wherein said stiffening means defines a generally triangular area with said first edge substantially adjacent an edge of said triangular area. 


 21 A container end as claimed in claim 19 wherein as said tab means is moved about said pivot point, said tab means defines a contact path on said opening area, said contact path intersecting said stiffening means
22 A container end as claimed in claim 19 wherein said first and second termination points are substantially adjacent said stiffening means
23 A container end as claimed in claim 19 further comprising means for propagating said rupture substantially to said apex before said rupture propagates to the forward most intersection of said rupture score with said opening axis
24 A ventable end for use with a container comprising a generally flat cover region with a score defining first and second rupture endpoints, wherein at least a portion of said score extending between said first and second rupture endpoints together with a gate axis between said first and second rupture endpoints defines an opening area of said cover region, a tab coupled to said cover region so as to permit said tab to be moved about a pivot point to press against an initial contact region of said opening area, the pivot point and initial contact region generally lying along an opening axis, with a second axis passing through said pivot point and perpendicular to said opening axis, a reinforcing region, wherein at least a portion of a first side of said reinforcing region is substantially parallel to said gate axis, and wherein said reinforcing region lies entirely on one side of said gate axis and does not extend across said gate axis, and wherein at least part of an edge of a vent region is aligned with said gate axis, at least a portion of said vent region extending rearwardly to provide venting of a headspace of said container when said container is tipped for pouring
25 A ventable end, as claimed in claim 24, wherein said reinforcing region and said pivot point are on the same side of said gate axis
26 A ventable end, as claimed in claim 24, wherein said vent region is sufficiently large to provide a standard pour rate, using said opening area, of at least about 40 ml per second
27 A ventable end, as claimed in claim 24, wherein, said container end is capable of maintaining integrity when contents of said container are pressurized to at least about 35 

28. A container comprising: a container body; a container end, coupled to said container body, having a generally flat cover region with a score defining first and second rupture endpoints, wherein at least a portion of said score extending between said first and second rapture endpoints, together with a gate axis between said first and second rapture endpoints defines an opening area of said cover region spaced from a pivot point for coupling an opening tab; a reinforcing region, wherein at least a portion of an edge of said reinforcing region is substantially adjacent said gate axis, and wherein said reinforcing region lies entirely on one side of said gate axis and does not extend across said gate axis; wherein said second rupture endpoint is farther from said pivot point than said first rupture endpoint and is positioned along an edge of a vent region, at least a portion of said vent region extending rearwardly to provide venting of a headspace of said container when said container is tipped for pouring; wherein said opening area is greater than 0.451 square inches and less than about 0.5 square inches.
29. A container, as claimed in claim 28, wherein, said container end, when coupled to a container, provides a vent region sufficiently large to provide a standard pour rate, using said opening area, of at least about 40 ml per second. 30. A container, as claimed in claim 28, wherein said container end, when coupled to a container, is capable of retaining integrity when contents of said container are pressurized to at least about 35 psi.
31. A method for forming a container end comprising: providing a generally flat cover region; forming a score on said generally flat cover region, defining first and second rapture endpoints, wherein at least a portion of said score extending between said first and second rupture endpoints, together with a gate axis between said first and second rupture endpoints, defines an opening area of said cover region; coupling a tab to said cover region so as to permit said tab to be moved about a pivot point to press against an initial contact region of said opening area, the pivot point and initial contact region generally lying along an opening axis, with a second axis passing through said pivot point and peφendicular to said opening axis; 


 forming a reinforcing region, wherein said reinforcing region has a first edge substantially parallel to said gate axis, and wherein said reinforcing region lies entirely on one side of said gate axis and does not extend across said gate axis; wherein said gate axis defines at least a portion of an edge of a vent region, at least a portion of said vent region extending rearwardly to provide venting of a headspace of said container when said container is tipped for pouring.
32. A method for forming a container comprising: providing a generally flat cover region; forming a score on said generally flat cover region defining first and second rapture endpoints, wherein at least a portion of said score extending between said first and second rapture endpoints, together with a gate axis between said first and second rupture endpoints, define an opening area of said cover region spaced from a pivot point for coupling an opening tab, wherein said opening area is greater than 0.451 square inches and less than about 0.5 square inches; forming a reinforcing region, wherein said reinforcing region has a first side substantially adjacent said gate axis, and wherein said reinforcing region lies entirely on one side of said gate axis and does not extend across said gate axis; wherein said second rapture endpoint is farther from said pivot point than said first rupture endpoint and defines an apex of a generally triangular vent region; and coupling said cover region to an open end of a container body.
33. A container comprising: a container body; a container end, coupled to said container body, with a pivot point for coupling an opening tab; said container end having a generally flat cover region with a score defining first and second rupture endpoints, with a gate, lying along a gate axis, between said first and second rapture endpoints; wherein at least a portion of said score extending between said first and second rupture endpoints, together with said gate defines an opening area of said cover region; wherein said second rupture endpoint is positioned along an edge of a vent region, at least a portion of said vent region extending rearwardly to provide venting of a headspace of said container when said container is tipped for pouring; wherein said gate has a length of at least about 0.25 cm. 

34. A container end comprising: a generally flat cover region with a score defining first and second rupture endpoints, wherein at least a portion of said score extending between said first and second rapture endpoints, together with a gate axis between said first and second rupture endpoints defines an opening area of said cover region spaced from a pivot point for coupling an opening tab; a reinforcing region, wherein said reinforcing region has a portion substantially adjacent said gate axis without extending across said gate axis; wherein said second rupture endpoint is positioned on an edge of a vent region, at least a portion of said vent region extending rearwardly to provide venting of a headspace of said container when said container is tipped for pouring; wherein said opening area is greater than 0.451 square inches and less than about 0.5 square inches. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
