<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999033265</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF TIME SHIFTING TO SIMULTANEOUSLY RECORD AND PLAY A DATA STREAM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2010	G11B2010	G11B27031	G11B27034	G11B2710	G11B2710	H04N576	H04N576	H04N5765	H04N5765	H04N5781	H04N5781	H04N584	H04N585	H04N5907	H04N5907	H04N592	H04N592	H04N593	H04N593	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	G11B20	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A video stream is received at an input (102). The video stream is recorded to a storage unit (108). While the video stream continues to be recorded, a portion of the video stream is retrieved from the storage unit (108) and provided at an output (120). In one embodiment, the storage medium (108) is a random access storage unit, such as a hard disk.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONNOR DENNIS M O
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
O'CONNOR, DENNIS, M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNOR DENNIS M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNOR, DENNIS, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF TIME SHIFTING TO SIMULTANEOUSLY RECORD ANDPLAY A DATA STREAMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe described invention relates to the field of imaging. In particular, the invention relates to the recording and playing back of a video stream. A video stream includes any combination of audio and/or video data streams. However, the concepts disclosed may be applied to other types of data streams.2. Description of Related ArtVideo streams have typically been recorded on analog media such as a video cassette. A video cassette recorder (VCR) is used to record the video stream on the video cassette. The video stream may come via a broadcast signal, via cable, via satellite signal, or from another video playback device. Once the video stream has been recorded, the VCR is used to rewind the recording medium and play what was recorded. However, due to the nature of the analog medium, once the VCR has started recording, it is not possible to play back the portion of the video stream that has already been recorded until the recording session is terminated.For example, imagine that a person sets up a VCR for recording a one hour show because he knows that he will miss the first 15 minutes of the show. When he arrives home 15 minutes into the show, he will have to wait for the entire show to be recorded before he can start watching the program from the beginning. A way of being able to view the show from the beginning without having to wait for the recording session to terminate is desirable.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONA method of providing a time-shifted video stream is disclosed. A video stream is received at an input. The video stream is recorded to a storage unit. While the video stream continues to be recorded, a portion of the video stream is retrieved from the storage unit and provided at an output. In one embodiment, the storage unit is a random access storage unit, such as a hard disk. 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFigure 1 shows a block diagram of a video record and playback system in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.Figure 2 shows a flowchart of the method of providing a time-shifted video stream.Figure 3 shows one embodiment of performing block 206 of Figure 2.Figure 4 shows one embodiment of an apparatus for storing the video stream on a hard disk.Figure 5 shows an exemplary method of using the storage unit as a temporary buffer.Figure 6 shows a flowchart of the playback of a video stream catching up to the incoming video stream.Figure 7 shows another
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of displaying a video stream comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving a video stream at an input;
(b) recording the video stream to a storage unit;
(c) retrieving a portion of the video stream from the storage unit while continuing to record the video stream in the step (b); and
(d) providing at an output the portion of the video stream retrieved in the step (c).
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step (b) is further comprised of recording the video stream to a hard disk.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step (b) is further comprised of recording the video stream to a random access media.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step (c) of retrieving the portion of the video stream retrieves the video stream recorded in the step (b) time shifted by a time delay, and wherein when the time delay falls below a predetermined threshold, the step (c) of retrieving a portion of the video stream from the storage unit is discontinued, and the step (d) of providing at an output the portion of the video stream retrieved in the step (c) is substituted by the step of providing at an output the video stream as it is received in the step (a).
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of:
(e) retrieving two or more frames of the video stream shifted by different time delays;
(f) displaying the two or more frames of the video stream; and
(g) allowing a user to select one of the frames of the video stream as a starting point for playing back the video stream.
6. A method of displaying a video stream comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving the video stream at an input;
(b) initiating one or more stores of the video stream into a storage unit; 


(c) initiating one or more reads of the video stream from the storage unit, wherein the one or more stores of the step (b) are multiplexed with the one or more reads of the step (c); and
(d) displaying the video stream.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the one or more reads of the video stream from the storage unit are used to play back the video stream at a rate faster than it is being stored in the step (b).
8. The method of claim 6 wherein the one or more reads of the step (c) correspond to the video stream of the step (a) shifted by a time delay, wherein when the time delay falls below a predetermined amount of time, the one or more reads from the storage unit cease, and the step (d) is further comprised of the step of:
(d) displaying the video stream received in the step (a).
9. The method of claim 6 wherein the one or more reads of the step (c) access the video stream offset by a time delay from the video stream being stored in the step (b), the time delay being variable over time.
10. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of:
(e) retrieving two or more frames of the video stream shifted by different time delays;
(f) displaying the two or more frames of the video stream; and
(g) allowing a user to select one of the frames of the video stream as a starting point for playing back the video stream.
11. A method of displaying a video stream, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving the video stream;
(b) storing the video stream received in the step (a) to a storage unit; and
(c) displaying the video stream at least initially delayed by a time delay, wherein when the time delay is greater than a predetermined threshold the video stream is displayed from the storage unit, and wherein when the time delay is less than the predetermined threshold the video stream is displayed from the video stream received in the step (a). 

12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step (b) of storing the video stream to the storage unit comprises performing one or more stores to the storage unit, and the step (c) of retrieving the video stream from the storage unit when the time delay is greater than the predetermined threshold comprises performing one or more reads from the storage unit, and the one or more stores to the storage unit are multiplexed with the one or more reads from the storage unit.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the storage unit is a random access memory unit, and the one or more reads from the storage unit retrieve the video stream with one or more time delays that are user-specified.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the step (b) of storing the video stream to the storage unit further comprises compressing the video stream prior to storing the video stream to the storage unit.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the step (c) of retrieving the video stream from the storage unit when the time delay is greater than the predetermined threshold comprises decompressing the video stream after retrieving the video stream from the storage unit.
16. A method of recording a video stream, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving the video stream;
(b) initiating storing the video stream in a storage unit;
(c) deleting older portions of the video stream from the storage unit as new portions of the video stream are stored to the storage unit;
(d) receiving a user input designating a start of a record cycle; and
(e) storing the video stream received after the start of the record cycle.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the steps of:
(f) maintaining at least a portion of the video stream prior to the record cycle.
18. A method of recording a video stream, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving the video stream;
(b) displaying the video stream as it is received; 


(c) responsive to a first user input, suspending display of the video stream and storing to a storage medium the video stream received subsequent to the first user input.
19. The method of claim 18 further comprising:
(d) responsive to a second user input, reading the video stream from the storage medium, and providing the video stream at an output while continuing to record the video stream as it is received.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein reading the video stream from the storage medium in the step (d) is performed at an overall rate faster than a rate that the video stream is being received.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein reading the video stream from the storage medium is performed by skipping portions of the video stream.
22. The method of claim 19 wherein the step (d) is further comprised of:
(d) reading the video stream from the storage medium to provide the video stream at the output.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the video stream read in the step (d) corresponds to the video stream received in the step (a) shifted by a time delay, wherein when the time delay falls below a predetermined amount of time, the method further comprising the step of:
(e) providing at an output the video stream received in the step (a) without first storing the video stream to the storage medium.
24. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of:
(e) retrieving two or more frames of the video stream shifted by different time delays;
(f) displaying the two or more frames of the video stream; and
(g) allowing a user to select one of the frames of the video stream as a starting point for playing back the video stream.
25. A method of recording a video stream, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) receiving the video stream; 


(b) storing the video stream into a temporary buffer, wherein older portions of the video stream are continually updated by new portions of the video stream; and
(c) responsive to a user input, displaying a portion of the video stream stored in the temporary buffer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
