<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1997000434</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIEZORESISTIVE PRESSURE TRANSDUCER CIRCUITRY ACCOMMODATING TRANSDUCER VARIABILITY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L900	G01L900	G01L906	G01L906	G01L1904	G01L1904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L9	G01L9	G01L9	G01L9	G01L19	G01L19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A microminiature piezoresistive pressure transducer (12) has first (RA) and second (RB) variable resistive elements. Circuitry (51) is coupled to the variable resistive elements of the transducer, and includes third (RF1) and fourth (RF2) fixed resistances of known values. The first (RA) and third (RF1) elements are coupled to an amplifier (61) and analog-to-digital converter (41), and the second (RB) and fourth (RF2) elements are coupled to a separate and independent amplifier (76) and analog-to-digital converter (42). Thus, the analog-to-digital converters (41, 42) have indepedent outputs with digitized voltages thereon, having a pressure component and a temperature component. A computer (46) coupled to the outputs of the analog-to-digital converters (41, 42) ascertains the unknown first (RA) and second (RB) variable resistances as independent variable resistance elements in solving a set of equations having these variable resistances elements as unknowns and pressure and temperature as the remaining unknowns to provide a temperature compensated pressure value as measured by the microminiature pressure transducer (12).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIOMETRICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARDIOMETRICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COWAN MARK W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COWAN, MARK, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PIEZORESISTIVE PRESSURE TRANSDUCER CIRCUITRY ACCOMMODATING TRANSDUCER VARIABILITYThis invention relates to a piezoresistive transducer circuitry accommodating transducer variability and having reduced dynamic range requirements.Conventional pressure transducer systems, both strain gauge and piezoresistive types, typically utilize a balanced Wheatstone bridge-type circuit between two variable and two fixed resistive elements. The transducer itself may contain only the two variable resistive elements or all four resistive elements. Typically the resistive elements are trimmed during manufacture to ensure a close tolerance to and match between the nominal zero-pressure resistance values. The resistive elements are also trimmed to provide a close match between individual pressure-resistance characteristics. Electrical circuitry typically utilized therewith permits a small adjustment to the value of one of the fixed resistors by adding a small offset voltage to one of the output legs of the bridge. The demodulated amplified output can then be supplied to an analog-to-digital converter. With such circuitry, typically the dynamic range of the amplified signal is matched to the input of the analog-to-digital converter and only 9 bits (1 part in 512) of resolution is needed in the analog-to-digital converter to provide adequate pressure resolution 

(resolution better than 1 mmHg from 0-300 mmHg or over a 0-300 mmHg span as typically required for human blood pressure measurements) . With the advent of ultraminiature pressure sensors such as that disclosed in the co-pending application Serial No. 08/300,445 filed on September 2, 1994, it has been found that the conventional Wheatstone circuitry of the type hereinbefore described is incapable of assimilating the various characteristics of such ultraminiature pressure sensors such as insensitivity to pressure, variability of resistor values, sensitivity to temperature, and with pressure sensitivity decreasing inversely with temperature increases. There is therefore need for a new and improved circuitry for use with such ultraminiature pressure sensors which can accommodate such variabilities.In general, it is an object of the present invention to provide piezoresistive pressure transducer circuitry and method accommodating transducer variability.Another object of the invention is to provide circuitry which makes it possible to measure the pressure component and the temperature component of the change in resistance of each variable resistor.Another object of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
HAT IS CLAIMED:
1. Pressure transducer circuitry accommodating pressure transducer variables for making pressure measurements in a living body comprising a microminiature piezoresistive pressure transducer having first and second variable resistive elements, the pressure transducer being characterized as having a pressure sensitivity ranging from 1.2 to 15 ohms per 1,000 ohms per 100 millimeters of mercury, each having first and second ends, circuitry coupled to the first and second variable resistive elements of the transducer including third and fourth fixed resistive elements external of the transducer and of known values, each having first and second ends, means for connecting the first ends of the first and second resistive elements, means for connecting the second ends of the first and third resistive elements to form a first junction, means for connecting the second ends of the second and fourth resistive elements to form a second junction, means for supplying excitation to the first ends of the third and fourth resistive elements, first amplifier means having an input coupled to the means for connecting the second ends of the first and third resistive elements, second amplifier means having an input coupled to the means for connecting the second ends of the second and fourth resistive elements, a first analog-to- digital converter having an input coupled to the output of the first amplifier means, a second analog-to-digital converter having an input coupled to the output of the second amplifier means, said analog-to-digital converters having independent outputs with digitized voltages thereon having a pressure component and a temperature component and computer means coupled to the outputs of the first and second analog-to-digital converters for ascertaining the unknown resistances of the first and second variable resistive elements as independent variable resistance elements in solving a set of equations having said first 


and second variable resistance elements as unknowns and pressure and temperature as the remaining unknowns to provide a temperature compensated pressure value as measured by the microminiature pressure transducer. 2. Circuitry as in Claim 1 wherein each of said first and second resistive elements has independent undesired characteristics including deviation from nominal resistance values and temperature characteristics resulting in offset voltages at the inputs of said first and second amplifier means said circuitry further including feedback control means controlled by the computer coupled through the third and fourth fixed resistive elements to the first and second variable resistive elements of the transducer for compensating for the offset voltages resulting from the resistance and temperature characteristics of the first and second variable resistive elements of the transducer.
3. Circuitry as in Claim 1 wherein said means for supplying excitation to the first ends of the third and fourth resistive elements includes excitation means for supplying a fixed excitation voltage to each of the first ends of the third and fourth resistive elements.
4. Circuitry as in Claim 2 wherein said first and second amplifier means include first and second differential amplifiers, each having a reference input and means for supplying a fixed reference voltage to the reference input of the first and second differential amplifiers and wherein said means for supplying excitation to the first ends of the third and fourth resistive elements includes means coupled to the computer for supplying a varying independent excitation voltage to each of the first ends of the third and fourth resistive elements so that the output voltages of the transducer will substantially match the fixed reference voltages supplied to the firεt and second differential amplifiers. 


 5. Circuitry as in Claim 3 wherein said first and second amplifier means include first and second differential amplifiers, each having a reference input means coupled to the computer for supplying a varying independent reference voltage to each reference input to the first and second differential amplifiers to substantially match the offset voltage and temperature characteristics of the first and second variable resistive elements. 6. Circuitry as in Claim 1 wherein said first and second amplifier means are comprised of first and second independent and separate amplifiers.
7. Circuitry as in Claim 4 wherein said means coupled to the computer for supplying a varying independent excitation voltage includes a first digital- to-analog converter connected to the first end of the third resistive element and a second digital-to-analog converter connected to the first end of the fourth resistive element. 8. Circuitry as in Claim 5 wherein said means coupled to the computer for supplying a varying independent reference voltage to each reference input to the first and second differential amplifiers includes first and second digital-to-analog converters. 9. Circuitry as in Claim 4 wherein said means for supplying a fixed reference voltage to the reference inputs of the first and second differential amplifiers includes a voltage divider network.
10. A method for utilizing circuitry with a microminiature piezoresistive pressure transducer for making pressure measurements in a living body in which the transducer is characterized as having a pressure sensitivity ranging from 1.2 to 15 ohms per 1,000 ohms per 100 millimeters of mercury and is provided with first and second variable resistive elements, each having first and second ends, circuitry coupled to the first and second resistive elements including third and fourth fixed 


resistive elements each having first and second ends, means for connecting the second ends of the first and third resistive elements to form a first junction, means for connecting the second ends of the second and fourth resistive elements to form a second junction, and means including a computer supplying excitation voltages to the first ends of the third and fourth resistive elements so that first and second analog signals appear respectively on the first and second junctions, the method comprising amplifying the first and second analog signals to provide first and second amplified analog signals, converting the first and second amplified analog signals to first and second digital signals and supplying the first and second digital signals to the computer and then utilizing the computer to ascertain the unknown resistances of the first and second variable resistive elements as independent variable resistive elements in solving a set of equations having said first and second variable resistive elements as unknowns and pressure and temperature as the remaining unknowns to provide a temperature compensated pressure value being measured by the microminiature pressure transducer.
11. A method as in Claim 10 for reducing the requirements of the dynamic range in converting the first and second amplified analog signals to first and second digital signals where the first and second variable resistive elements have independent undesired characteristics including deviation from nominal resistance values and temperature characteristics the method further including the steps of using first and second differential amplifiers having references for amplifying the first and second analog signals, supplying an offset voltage to each of the references of the differential amplifiers, ascertaining the temperature of the transducer and adjusting the outputs of the first and second differential amplifiers so that the outputs only reflect the pressure being measured by the transducer. 


 12. A method as in Claim 11 wherein adjusting the outputs of the first and second differential amplifiers includes the step of varying independently the excitation voltages to the first ends of the third and fourth fixed resistive elements to compensate for the offset voltages and for the temperature characteristics of the first and second variable resistive elements.
13. A method as in Claim 11 wherein the amplifying is carried out by the use of first and second differential amplifiers having references and wherein the computer varies independently the references utilized during amplification of the first and second analog signals to . compensate for the offset voltage and temperature characteristics. 14. A method as in Claim 11 further including the steps of utilizing digital-to-analog converters for connecting the computer and the reference voltage to the first ends of the third and fourth fixed resistive elements. 15. A method as in Claim 11 further including the steps of utilizing digital-to-analog converters for connecting the computer and the reference voltage to the differential amplifiers for providing the references for the differential amplifiers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
