<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1991008065</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR HYDROFORMING SHEET METAL
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D	B21D2200	B21D2210	B21D2400	B21D2408	B21D2414	B21D2600	B21D2602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D	B21D22	B21D22	B21D24	B21D24	B21D24	B21D26	B21D26	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for forming sheet metal blanks (80) within a press (10) having base and outer (11) and inner (12) slides and including a basic die (15, 16, 17, 18) mountable to the press and tooling (25, 51) mountable to the basic die. The basic die includes an upper shoe (15) mountable to the outer slide (11), and hydraulic cylinder assemblies (17, 18) mounted on the base and actuatable by the inner slide for providing pressurized fluid to the tooling. The tooling includes upper and lower dies (51, 25) connected to the upper shoe (15) and base. A blank (80) is positioned upon the lower die (25) the upper die (51) is moved to a closed position by the outer slide (11), the blank (8) is clamped by gripper steels (75) located in the upper die (51). The outer slide (11) dwells while the inner slide (12) moves down, actuating the cylinder assemblies (17, 18), causing hydraulic fluid to be forced between the blank (80) and the lower die (25) to 100 % stretch form the blank into the upper die (51).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARMCO STEEL CO LP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAPH TECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARMCO STEEL COMPANY L.P.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAPH-TECH, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROPER RALPH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROPER, RALPH, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR HYDROFORMING SHEET METALREFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThe present application is a continuation-in-part of United States patent application Serial No. 443,112, filed on November 29, 1989.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the field of sheet metal forming, and in particular to an apparatus and method for hydroforming sheet metal into parts such as automobile fenders, doors, hoods and the like.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn the high-production cookware, appliance and automotive industries, as well as the low- and medium-production aircraft, aerospace, and job-shop industries, metallic sheet may be formed by a variety of different dies, the type and size of the 

die being dictated by the shape and intended use of the particular part. One process which is used to form a wide variety of these parts is the conventional drawing process. In a draw die, the blank is drawn across a binder surface allowing metal to flow from the bind surface and onto the part. Unfortunately, variable and non-uniform stresses are thereby developed throughout the part which results in localized stretching. This creates severe springback and shape retention problems which makes it nearly impossible to predict, especially with large parts, the amount of springback that will occur. The common practice to overcome this springback or shape retention problem is to overcrown (deform beyond the desired shape) the part. Finding the appropriate degree of overcrown requires a number of costly trial and error procedures. There is also a significant amount of material waste in the drawing process because the blank is oversized to compensate for the metal flowing across the binder surface and to account for varying part strength resulting from non-uniform work hardening.In my U.S. Patent No. 4,576,030, I describe a process wherein sheet metal .can be one hundred percent stretch formed between co-acting male and female die halves. This is accomplished by providing a pair of opposed gripper steels, at least one of which is provided with a number of spaced apart beads adapted to bite into the sheet metal, around the 

 periphery thereof, when the gripper steels are closed. This permits the sheet metal to be homogeneously, one hundred percent stretch formed, thus resulting in a higher quality of shape retention, a reduction in the number of shock lines and stretch lines, less waste, and increased overall part strength. Another procedure which enhances the quality of the formed part is that of fluid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal and adapted for operation within a double action press having a base and outer and inner vertically reciprocating slides, comprising: a basic die mountable to the press and including an upper shoe mountable to the outer slide and hydraulic means connectable to a lower die, mechanically actuatable by the inner slide and for providing pressurized fluid to specific tooling; speci ic, tooling including upper and lower dies moveable between open and closed positions, said upper die being replaceably mounted to said upper shoe and having a downwardly facing, die mating surface which defines a part print cavity, and said lower die being replaceably mountable atop the base and having an upwardly facing bind surface aligned below the die mating surface, said lower die including first passageway means for transmitting pressurized fluid from said hydraulic means to said bind surface; and, wherein said upper and lower dies are adapted to receive and clamp a sheet metal blank between the die mating surface and the bind surface. 


 2. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 1 further including gripping means for firmly gripping and fixedly holding the periphery of a sheet metal blank positioned between said upper and lower dies when said dies are in the closed position.
3. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 2 wherein said gripping means includes a gripper steel having at least two outwardly extending beads, said at least two beads circumscribing the part print cavity and adapted to bite into the periphery o the blank when said upper and lower dies are in the closed position.
4. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 3 wherein said gripper steel is a number of gripper steel members, each having the at least two beads, said gripper steel members held by said upper die in end to end relation so that the beads of said gripper steel members substantially continuously surround the part print cavity.
5. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 3 wherein said gripper steel is mounted in said upper die and wherein the apparatus further includes a back-up steel mounted in said lower die so as to be in alignment below said gripper steel when said upper and lower dies are in the closed position. 


 6. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 3 wherein a first height of said at least two beads, measured between adjacent beads of said at least two beads, is approximately between two and three percent less than a second height of said at least two beads, measured outside of said at least two beads.
7. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 3 wherein a first height of said at least two beads, measured between adjacent beads of said at least two beads, is approximately 0.002 inches less than a second height of said at least two beads, measured outside of said at least two beads.
8. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 3 wherein there are three outwardly extending beads.
9. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 1 wherein said hydraulic means includes at least one hydraulic cylinder assembly having a reciprocating piston rod adapted to be depressed by the downward stroke of the inner slide. 


 10. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 9 wherein said hydraulic means includes a fluid reservoir pan mountable atop the base and adapted to collect fluid spilling from said dies, said reservoir supplying fluid for said at least one cylinder assembly and wherein said lower die sits within said pan.
11. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 10 wherein there are two hydraulic cylinder assemblies located on opposite sides of said lower shoe.
12. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 11 wherein each of said two hydraulic cylinder assemblies includes two hydraulic cylinder units and includes spring means opposing downward movement of the inner slide and for lifting piston rods of said cylinder units to a reset position.
13. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 11 further including gripping means for firmly gripping and fixedly holding the periphery of a sheet metal blank positioned between said upper and lower dies when said dies are in the closed position. 


 14. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 13 wherein said gripping means includes a gripper steel having at least two outwardly extending beads, said at least two beads circumscribing the part print cavity and adapted to bite into the periphery of the blank when said upper and lower dies are in the closed position.
15. A self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal, comprising: a press having a base and outer and inner vertically reciprocating slides; an upper shoe fixed to said outer slide; a lower die replaceably mounted atop said base; an upper die defining a part print cavity and being replaceably mounted to said upper shoe, said upper die having an open position above and lifted away from said lower die by said outer slide and a closed position above and biased toward said lower die by said outer slide, said upper and lower dies adapted to tightly clamp a sheet metal blank therebetween when said upper die is in the closed position; and, hydraulic means, mechanically actuatable by said inner slide, for providing pressurized fluid to a region between said lower die and a blank clamped between said upper and lower dies to form the blank into the part print cavity. 


 16. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 15 wherein said inner slide has reciprocating upward and downward strokes and wherein said hydraulic means includes at least one hydraulic cylinder assembly having a piston rod adapted to cooperate with and be driven by said inner slide on at least one of the upward and the downward strokes thereof.
17. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 16 wherein said piston rod extends upwardly toward, is aligned below, and is not attached to said second slide, said second slide being adapted to depress said piston rod on the downward stroke thereof.
18. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 16 wherein there are two cylinder assemblies of said at least one hydraulic cylinder assembly, the two cylinder assemblies being located on opposite sides of said lower die and wherein said lower die defines first passageway means for transmitting pressurized fluid from said two hydraulic cylinder assemblies to said region. 

19. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 18 wherein said hydraulic means further includes a fluid reservoir pan mounted atop said base, and wherein said two cylinder assemblies sit within and are mounted atop said pan, and wherein said lower die sits within said pan between said two cylinder assemblies.
20. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 19 wherein said fluid reservoir pan is adapted to collect fluid spilling from said dies, said reservoir pan supplying fluid for said two cylinder assemblies.
21. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 15 wherein said lower die defines an upwardly extending bind surface around which a metal sheet can be forcibly wrapped and preformed when said upper die is moved downwardly toward said lower die and against the metal sheet positioned between said upper and lower dies.
22. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 19 wherein each of said two hydraulic cylinder assemblies includes two hydraulic cylinder units and includes spring means for lifting piston rods of said cylinder units to a reset position. 


 23. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 22 wherein each cylinder assembly includes a common head block mutually connected to piston rods of the two respective cylinder units and to the respective spring means to vertically reciprocate as a unit therewith and be engaged and depressed by the inner slide.
24. A method for forming sheet metal, comprising the steps of: providing a press having a base, outer and inner vertically reciprocating slides and a basic die, said basic die including an upper shoe fixed to said outer slide and hydraulic means, actuatable by said inner slide, for providing pressurized fluid to a die; providing specific tooling which includes mating upper and lower dies relatively moveable between open and closed positions, said upper die defining a part print cavity and said lower die having an upwardly facing bind surface and first passageway means for transmitting pressurized fluid from said hydraulic means to said bind surface; replaceably mounting said upper die to said upper shoe; replaceably mounting said lower die atop said base; positioning metal sheet between said upper and lower dies; 


 actuating said outer slide downwardly whereby said upper die moves downwardly toward said lower die and against the sheet until the sheet is firmly clamped between said upper and lower dies; and, forming the sheet by moving said inner slide downwardly whereby said inner slide actuates said hydraulic cylinder assembly and forces fluid into a region between said lower die and the sheet.
25. The method for forming sheet metal of claim 24 wherein said positioning step includes the metal sheet being a sheet metal blank.
26. The method for forming sheet metal of claim 24 wherein said providing a press step includes said inner slide having reciprocating upward and downward strokes and said hydraulic means including at least one hydraulic cylinder assembly having a piston rod adapted to engage with and be driven by said inner slide on at least one of the upward and the downward strokes thereof.
27. The method for forming sheet metal of claim 26 wherein said providing a press step includes said piston rod extending upwardly toward, being aligned below, and being unattached from said inner slide, said inner slide being adapted to depress said piston rod on the downward stroke thereof. 


 28. The method for forming sheet metal of claim 27 wherein said providing a press step includes said hydraulic means defining a fluid reservoir pan mounted atop said base and adapted to collect fluid spilling from said dies, said reservoir pan supplying fluid for said at least one cylinder assembly.
29. The method for forming sheet metal of claim 28 wherein said providing said press step includes there being two cylinder assemblies of said at least one cylinder assembly, both of which are .moun e with said pan.
30. The method for forming sheet metal of claim 29 wherein said providing a press step includes each of said two hydraulic assemblies includes two hydraulic cylinder units and includes spring means for lifting piston rods of said cylinder units to a reset position.
31. The self-contained apparatus for forming sheet metal of claim 30 wherein the providing a press step includes each cylinder assembly including a common head block mutually connected to piston rods of the respective two cylinder units and to the respective spring means to vertically reciprocate as a unit therewith and be engaged and depressed by the inner slide. 


 32. The method for forming sheet metal of claim 24 wherein said providing specific tooling step includes said lower die defining an upwardly extending bind surface around which metal sheet can be forcibly wrapped and preformed when said upper die is moved downwardly toward said lower die and against the metal sheet positioned between said upper and lower dies. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
