<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2002011294</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-PROTOCOL RECEIVER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B	H04B106	H04B106	H04B110	H04B110	H04B128	H04B128	H04B130	H04B130	H04B140	H04B140	H04B702	H04B710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B7	H04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-protocol receiver system for receiving wireless communications. The system comprises programmable stages for controlling each steps of the demodulation of at least one broadband signal to provide the I and Q signals of at least one specific frequency narrow band for further processing. The receiver can be used in a software defined radio system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISAAC NEWTON TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUNEAU LOUIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ISAAC NEWTON TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LUNEAU, LOUIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUNEAU LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUNEAU, LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MULTI-PROTOCOL RECEIVERFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to wireless receivers. More precisely, this invention describes a multi-protocol receiver for intercepting, monitoring and/or recording conversation over a cellular network.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONWith the increasing complexity of telecommunication means, criminals are finding new ways to escape from the surveillance of the police or other law enforcement agencies. This can, potentially, become a threat to society. More specifically this problem is increasing with the global development of mobile telecommunication means.The term mobile telecommunication can include technologies ranging from cordless telephones, digital cellular mobile radios, and personal communication systems that are evolving to wireless data and networks.A mobile telecommunication system is usually composed of a base station 13, connected to the public telephone network via a Mobile Telephone Switching Office (MTSO), and of a group of mobile users 14. The base station 13 covers a certain geographical area.A communication between a mobile user and a standard public network user is thus performed using the base station 13. Each communication link uses a particular frequency band known as a voice channel. The uplink transmission refers to the signal sent by a mobile station 14 to a base station 13, while the downlink transmission refers to a signal sent by the base station 13 to a mobile station 14. Therefore, a single conversation requires two voice channels. The monitoring of a particular conversation implicitly requires the monitoring of the two voice channels. One prior technique for monitoring cellular telephone 

conversations involves a simple tuner that scans voice channels. This technique is not efficient when the number of communications to handle is high and when the frequency of the voice channel changes often.A second technique consists of monitoring the two voice channels and the traffic channels of the communication system in order to handle the handover (i.e. when a user, by a physical displacement, changes base stations). Thus it is possible to track a user through a cellular network.Focusing more precisely on wide band receivers, the prior art comprises one type of system which is composed of a group of front end radio frequency demodulation stages which include parallel narrow-band receivers. Usually, the Radio Frequency (RF) band coverage provided by these narrow-band receivers is of adjacent frequency. Each RF stage has its own local
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A multi-protocol receiver for receiving wireless transmissions comprising: a plurality of RF receiver units each adapted to receive a wireless signal and output a different broadband IF signal; at least one tunable down converter unit, each able to tune over a frequency range of all of said broadband IF signal of all of said RF receiver units, said tunable down converter units outputting raw I and Q signals; at least one tunable filter receiving said raw I and Q signals from one of said at least one tunable down converter units and providing filtered I and Q output signals; a switch for connecting a selected one of said RF receiver units to a selected one of at least one of said tunable down converter unit; a management unit receiving a request for a specific frequency band and setting a tuning frequency of a selected one of a plurality of at least one tunable down converter unit, setting filter parameters of a selected one of a plurality of at least one of said tunable filter, and setting said switch to obtain said filtered I and Q output signals corresponding to said specific frequency band.
2. The receiver as claimed in claim 1 , further comprising a plurality of ADC units each connected to one of said RF units, wherein said switch connects a broadband digital output of said ADC units to said tunable down converter units.
3. The receiver as claimed in claim 1 wherein the management unit comprises: a channel selection signal input; a memory for storing said filter parameters for channels from said broadband IF signal of all of said RF receiver units and frequency parameters for all of said tunable down converter units and switch parameters; an interpreter receiving said selection signal and setting said filter parameters, said tunable down converter, and said switch parameters based on data stored in said memory. 

4. The receiver as claimed in claim 2 wherein the management unit comprises: a channel selection signal input; a memory for storing said filter parameters for channels from said broadband IF signal of all of said RF receiver units and frequency parameters for all of said tunable down converter units and switch parameters; an interpreter receiving said selection signal and setting said filter parameters, said tunable down converter, and said switch parameters based on data stored in said memory.
5. The receiver as claimed in claim 1 wherein there are at least two of said tunable down converter units in order to receive full duplex conversations.
6. The receiver as claimed in claim 2 wherein there are at least two of said tunable down converter units in order to receive full duplex conversations.
7. The receiver as claimed in claim 3 wherein there are at least two of said tunable down converter units in order to receive full duplex conversations, said memory for storing switch parameters provides information for allocating said at least two of said tunable down converter units to said full duplex conversations.
8. The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 1 -7, wherein a single frequency band, larger than one handled by a single one of said RF unit, is handled by a plurality of said RF units.
9. The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 2, 4 and 6 wherein said at least one tunable filter is an N tap FIR filter.
10. The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 2, 4, 6 and 9 wherein said switch is provided by an FPGA. 

11. The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 1-10 wherein each of said RF receiver unit handles at least 25 MHz bandwidth signal.
12. The receiver as claimed in claim 2, 4, 6, 9 or 10 wherein each of said ADC units performs the conversion at a rate of at least 50 MHz.
13. The receiver as claimed in claims 1 -12, wherein said specific frequency is a cellular frequency band.
14. A method for receiving a wireless communication, the method comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of RF receiver units, each of said RF receiver units outputting a different IF broadband signal; providing at least one tunable down converter unit; selecting a specific frequency band and a combination of at least one of said plurality of RF receiver units and at least one tunable down converter unit; in use, receiving a wireless signal from an antenna at said selected one specif ic frequency band and outputting an IF broadband signal; down converting the IF broadband signal to provide a raw I and Q signals; filtering said raw I and Q signals to provide I and Q signals.
15 . The method as claimed in claim 14, further comprising the step of digitizing the IF broadband signal using an ADC before said down converting.
16. The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-15, wherein the step of providing at least one tunable down converter unit comprises the step of loading the parameters of said at least one tunable down converter unit.
17. The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-16, wherein the steps of providing a plurality of RF receiver units comprises the step of loading the parameters of said plurality of RF receiver units. 

18. The method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said step of loading the parameters of said at least one tunable down converter unit comprises the step of accessing a look-up table, the look-up table comprising said parameters and an identifier for each of said parameters.
19. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said step of loading the step of loading the parameters of said plurality of RF receiver units comprises the step of accessing a look-up table, the look-up table comprising said
"
 parameters and an identifier for each of said filter parameters.
20. The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-19, further comprising the steps of: selecting at least one channel to monitor; monitoring the control channel of said selected at least one channel; in use, adjusting the parameters of the selected combination of at least one of said plurality of RF receiver units and at least one tunable converter unit in order to track at least one user located on said at least one channel to monitor.
21. The method as claimed in claim 20, further comprising the step of displaying at least one identifier, each of the at least one identifier characterizing each of the at least one user located on said at least one channel to monitor over time.
22. The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-19, further comprising the step of: selecting a user to monitor, the user being selected using an identification of its mobile unit; monitoring a control channel; in use, adjusting the parameters of the selected combination of at least one of said plurality of RF receiver units and at least one tunable converter unit in order to track the user located on a channel. 

23. The method as claimed in claim 22, further comprising the step of displaying the location of said selected user using the parameters of said control channel.
24. The method as claimed in claim 22, wherein the step of selecting a user to monitor comprise the step of accessing a look-up table, the look-up table comprising an identifier for said user and the identification of its mobile unit.
25. The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-24, further comprising the step of recording I and Q signal over time.
26. The management unit as claimed in any one of claims 3 and 7 wherein the interpreter is a Digital Signal Processor (DSP). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
