<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2001009714</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR DEFERRED COMPLETION OF MULTI-STEP USER TRANSACTION APPLICATIONS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F946	G06F946	G06F1724	G06F1724	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed are server features for allowing a client user to defer completion of multi-step user transaction applications ("MUTAs") and later resume the MUTA. One disclosed feature is providing a selectable deferral action in a page implementing part of the MUTA, e.g., HTML, XML, JavaScript/ECMA Script document. If the client user selects to defer completion, a state object is created by the server and stores state information including information previously entered during the MUTA. The server provides a resumption object to the user including a resource for resuming the deferred MUTA. When the user selects the resource, state information stored in the state object is loaded and the use may complete the remainder of the MUTA. An additionally disclosed aspect is automatic state saving where state information is stored automatically during multiple steps in the MUTA; the user then need not select deferral.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD, APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR DEFERRED COMPLETION OF MULTI-STEP USER TRANSACTIONAPPLICATIONSFIELDAspects of the invention relate generally to server architectures for transaction processing and more particularly to architectures with features allowing user control over the timing of the completion portion of transaction processing.BACKGROUNDThe collection of protocols and applications commonly referred to as the World Wide Web ("Web") is a widely used client-server architecture for transaction applications. The convenience of carrying on transactions with Web applications is leading to an increasing portion of the transactions persons engage in day-to-day being performed with Web applications.Typically, transaction applications involve many steps each with its own page. The network user generally must interact must with each page of the transaction application. When such a multi-step user transaction application (hereinafter "MUTA") is started by the user, they may not have expected the MUTA to require as many steps as it does, or some other activity may interrupt the user's ability to complete the MUTA at the current time. This is particularly true with increasingly popular platforms where, for instance, Web applications, are combined with televised entertainment. Such platforms are frequently known as "Enhanced TV" or "Interactive TV" (hereinafter "ITV"). In such a context, a viewer of a video program may be prompted by a Web resource enhancing the video program to initiate a transaction. However, the user may wish to return to viewing the video program quickly and not wish to spend the time to complete the transaction at that moment. 

Thus it would be desirable for a mechanism to exist that allowed the user to defer completion of such a transaction.Related series of technologies include user registration systems. In a typical user registration system, a user provides information to the operator of, for instance, a Web application. The user may be able to pre-specify information that is relevant to a later interaction during the registration process. However, the registration information that is stored cannot provide information that would allow a user to return to the precise position in a later-initiated transaction where the user decided to defer completion. Put another way, while user data stored, for instance as part of a registration process, may be relevant to a later transaction and form part of the state of the transaction at any particular step, user registration data
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for deferring completion of a multi-step user transaction application ("MUTA"), said computer-implemented method comprising:
providing a page to a client application, said page comprising one or more resources for input of information related to completion of said MUTA; and a resource for selection of a deferral action; receiving an indication of the selection of said deferral action; storing state information comprising: a position in said MUTA; and information related to completion of said MUTA; and generating a resumption object comprising an identifier of a resource for completion of said MUTA.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein said step of storing state information is performed at plural steps in said MUTA.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 2 wherein storing state information comprises:
monitoring an elapsed time since a transaction page was provided;
determining whether said elapsed time exceeds a predetermined time limit; and
storing state information if a user response is received within said predetermined time limit. 

4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 further comprising:
transmitting said resumption object to a client application.
5. An apparatus comprising a processor, a storage, and an input-output system, said apparatus configured for deferring completion of a multi-step user transaction application ("MUTA"), said apparatus comprising: server process logic configured for:
providing a page to a client application, said page comprising one or more resources for input of information related to completion of said MUTA, and a resource for selection of a deferral action, receiving an indication of the selection of said deferral action, and generating a resumption object comprising an identifier of a resource for completion of said MUTA; and a data storage system configured for storing state information comprising: a position in said MUTA, and information related to completion of said MUTA.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said server process logic is configured for storing state information in said data storage system at plural steps in said MUTA.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising process logic configured for monitoring an elapsed time since a transaction page was provided.
8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said server process logic is further configured for transmitting said resumption object to a client application.
9. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable code embodied therein for deferring completion of a multi-step user transaction application, said computer readable code comprising: 


 code for providing a page to a client application, said page comprising one or more resources for input of information related to completion of said MUTA; and a resource for selection of a deferral action; code for receiving an indication of the selection of said defeπal action; code for storing state information comprising: a position in said MUTA; and information related to completion of said MUTA; and code for generating a resumption object comprising an identifier of a resource for completion of said MUTA.
10. The computer program product according to claim 9 wherein said code for storing state information comprises: code for storing state information at plural steps in said MUTA.
11. The computer program product according to claim 10 wherein said code for storing state information comprises:
code for monitoring an elapsed time since a transaction page was provided;
code for determining whether said elapsed time exceeds a predetermined time limit; and
code for storing state information if a user response is received within said predetermined time limit.
12. A computer-implemented method for completing a previously-deferred MUTA, said computer-implemented method comprising: providing a resumption object to a client application, said resumption object comprising an identifier of a resource for completion of said MUTA; 


 receiving a request for said resource for completion of said MUTA retrieving previously -received information for returning to a state at which said MUTA was previously deferred; and providing a resource corresponding to said state at which said MUTA was previously deferred.
13. An apparatus comprising a processor, a storage, and an input-output system, said apparatus configured for completing a previously-deferred MUTA, said apparatus comprising: a data storage system configured for storing a state object; and server process logic configured to provide a resumption object to a client application, said resumption object comprising an identifier of a resource for completion of said MUTA; receive a request for said resource for completion of said MUTA retrieve previously-received information from said state object for returning to a state at which said MUTA was previously deferred; and provide a resource corresponding to said state at which said MUTA was previously deferred.
14. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable code embodied therein for completing a previously- deferred MUTA, said computer readable code comprising: code for providing a resumption object to a client application, said resumption object comprising an identifier of a resource for completion of said MUTA;
code for receiving a request for said resource for completion of said MUTA code for retrieving previously-received information for returning to a state at which said MUTA was previously deferred; and code for providing a resource corresponding to said state at which said MUTA 


was previously deferred. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
