<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-2000024284</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DUAL DENSITY PLASTIC CLEAT FOR FOOTWEAR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A43B1314	A43B1322	A43B1326	A43C1300	A43C1304	A43C1500	A43C1502	A43C1516	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A43B	A43B	A43B	A43C	A43C	A43C	A43C	A43C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A43B13	A43B13	A43B13	A43C13	A43C13	A43C15	A43C15	A43C15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a removably attachable cleat for shoes, and in particular, to a removable athletic shoe cleat. The cleat has a base of a strong material (21) and an outer layer of a soft material (20) which absorbs some of the impact force when the cleat strikes a surface. Giving the base material and the outer layer material distinctively different visual appearances also provides clear indication to a user of when the outer layer has worn away and the cleat should be replaced.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACNEILL ENG CO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACNEILL ENGINEERING COMPANY, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACNEILL HARRIS L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACNEILL, HARRIS, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DUAL DENSITY PLASTIC CLEAT FORFOOTWEARField of the Invention This invention relates to the mounting of traction gear on the bottom of footwear, in particular, athletic footwear.Background Art An athletic cleat is intended to engage the athletic surface so as to resist excessive slipping of the athletic shoe. Thus, the cleat must be constructed of a material stiff enough to withstand the substantial forces attendant upon such non-slipping engagement. However, such cleat materials are also relatively rigid. As a result, the impact of the cleat striking the athletic surface is transmitted without significant diminution to the athletic shoe and the foot encased therein. Over a prolonged period, a wearer becomes uncomfortable and fatigued. This problem is particularly significant on hard surfaces which the cleat does penetrate. Unfortunately, softer cleat materials which better absorb and dissipate the striking impact are not stiff enough to properly engage the athletic surface without slipping. No single cleat material offers an ideal combination of strength and shock-absorption.Summary The present invention provides a removable cleat for footwear. A preferred embodiment has an internal support structure made of a first material— -e.g., metal— with a vertical axis and upper and lower ends. At the upper end there is attachment means for removably attaching the cleat to the footwear. A base made of a second material— e.g., nylon, acetal, hard polyurethane, or hard plastic— is connected to the internal support structure. A ground-traction outer layer made of a third material softer than the second material— e.g., natural rubber, thermoplastic rubber, soft poly vinyl-chloride, or soft plastic— is substantially supported by the base. The second material may be chosen to be relatively hard so as to contribute strength and stability to the overall cleat structure. The 

third material may be chosen to be relatively soft so as to resiliently absorb some of the impact force of the cleat engaging the ground.In a further embodiment, the base has a first characteristic appearance and the outer layer has a second characteristic appearance different from the first characteristic appearance. Such characteristic appearances may be, for example, distinctive colors, or the outer layer may be translucent. In such an embodiment, the base becomes externally observable as the outer layer wears away so as to indicate a need to replace the cleat.In some embodiments, the cleat may be designed so that a portion of the base— e.g., a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A removable cleat for footwear comprising: an internal support structure having upper and lower ends, the support structure being made of a first material; attachment means at the upper end of the internal support structure for removably attaching the cleat to the footwear; a base connected to the internal support structure, the base being made of a second material; and an outer layer substantially supported by the base, the outer layer being made of a third material which is softer than the second material.
2. A removable cleat as in claim 1 , wherein the first material is metal.
3. A removable cleat as in claim 1, wherein the second material is nylon, acetal, hard polyurethane, or hard plastic.
4. A removable cleat as in claim 1 , wherein the third material is natural rubber, thermoplastic rubber, soft polyvinyl-chloride, soft polyurethane, or soft plastic.
5. A removable cleat as in claim 1 , wherein the third material is translucent.
6. A removable cleat as in claim 1 , wherein the base has a first characteristic appearance and the outer layer has a second characteristic appearance different from the first characteristic appearance.
7. A removable cleat as in claim 6, wherein the first characteristic appearance is a first distinctive color and the second characteristic appearance is a second distinctive color.
8. A removable cleat as in claim 6, wherein as the outer layer wears away, the base becomes externally visible. 

9. A removable cleat as in claim 6, wherein a portion of the base is externally visible when the cleat is attached to the footwear.
5 10. A removable cleat as in claim 9, wherein the externally visible portion of the base is a centered disc.
11. A removable cleat as in claim 9, wherein as the outer layer wears away, the portion of the base which is externally visible increases in size.
10
12. A removable cleat as in claim 1 , wherein the cleat further comprises a plurality of projections for contact with an athletic turf.
13. A removable cleat as in claim 12, wherein the base has an outer circumference is and the plurality of projections are disposed around the outer circumference.
14. A removable cleat for footwear comprising: attachment means to removably attach the cleat to the footwear; and a ground traction member connected to the attachment means, the member comprising an 20 inner layer of a first material having a first visual appearance and an outer layer of a second material having a second visual appearance different from that of the inner layer such that as the outer layer wears away, the inner layer becomes externally visible.
25 15. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein the first material is nylon, acetal, hard polyurethane, or hard plastic.
16. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein the second material is natural rubber, thermoplastic rubber, soft polyvinyl-chloride, soft polyurethane, or soft plastic.
30
17. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein the second material is translucent. 

18. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein the second material has a solid color.
19. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein the second material is softer than the 5 first material.
20. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein the first visual appearance is a first distinctive color and the second visual appearance is a second distinctive color.
lo 21. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein a portion of the inner layer is externally visible when the cleat is attached to the footwear such that as the outer layer wears away, the portion of the inner layer which is externally visible increases in size.
22. A removable cleat as in claim 20, wherein the externally visible portion of the is inner layer is a centered disc.
23. A removable cleat as in claim 14, wherein the cleat further comprises a plurality of projections for contact with an athletic turf.
20 24. A removable cleat as in claim 22, wherein the base has an outer circumference and the projections are disposed around the outer circumference.
25. A removable cleat for footwear comprising: attachment means to removably attach the cleat to the footwear; and 25 a ground traction member connected to the attachment means, the member having a harder first material which contributes strength and stability to the member, and a softer second material which resiliently absorbs force when the ground traction member contacts the ground.
30 26. A removable cleat as in claim 24, wherein the first material is nylon, acetal, hard polyurethane, or hard plastic. 

27. A removable cleat as in claim 24, wherein the second material is natural rubber, thermoplastic rubber, soft polyvinyl-chloride, soft polyurethane, or soft plastic.
5 28. A removable cleat as in claim 24, wherein the first material has a first characteristic appearance and the second material has a second characteristic appearance different from the first characteristic appearance.
29. A removable cleat as in claim 27, wherein the first characteristic appearance is a o first distinctive color and the second characteristic appearance is a second distinctive color.
30. A removable cleat as in claim 24, wherein as the second material wears away, the first material becomes externally visible.
15
31. A removable cleat as in claim 24, wherein portions of the first material and the second material are externally visible when the cleat is attached to the footwear.
32. A removable cleat as in claim 30, wherein the externally visible portion of the 20 first material is a centered disc.
33. A removable cleat as in claim 30, wherein as the second material wears away, the externally visible portion of the first material increases in size.
25 34. A removable cleat as in claim 24, wherein the cleat further comprises a plurality of projections for contact with an athletic turf.
35. A removable cleat as in claim 33, wherein the base has an outer circumference and the plurality of projections are disposed around the outer circumference. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
