<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613927</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recording apparatus comprising a waste-ink absorbent
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08L10100	B41J217	C09D1100	C09D1100	B41J2175	B41J217	B41J2175	C08L10100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08L	B41J	C09D	C09D	B41J	B41J	B41J	C08L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08L101	B41J2	C09D11	C09D11	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	C08L101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A waste-ink absorbent to be mounted on an ink-jet 
recording apparatus comprises a composition 

containing a biodegradable polymer and a microorganism 
growth nutrient. An ink contains a recording agent and 

a liquid medium for dissolving or dispersing the 
recording agent, the recording agent comprising a 

composition containing a biodegradable polymer linked 

to a solubilizing group of a water-soluble dye by 
coordination bonding. An ink-jet recording method 

conducts recording by ejecting droplets of the ink 
through an ejection orifice of a recording head in 

correspondence with recording signals. An ink-jet 
recording apparatus is equipped with a recording unit 

having an ink container holding the ink therein and the 
head. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIMURA ISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIMURA, ISAO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an ink-jet
recording apparatus for preventing environmental pollution,
particularly to an ink-jet recording apparatus comprising a biodegradable waste-ink
absorbent of environment protection type which will not
cause environmental pollution, and which is effective in
absorbing a waste aqueous dye-containing ink in ink-jet
recording apparatus such as printers, copying machines,
and plotters for recording letters and images.The present invention also relates to an ink-cartridge
comprising a container containing such a waste-ink
absorbent.The present invention further relates to an
apparatus employing the above ink.Hitherto, in ink-jet recording and related 
technical fields employing an aqueous dye-containing
ink, improvement of weatherability of the ink such as
lightfastness, water resistance, and ozone resistance
have been studied to prevent natural deterioration of
inks. Therefore, various efforts have been made to
improve weatherability of the ink dye itself,
namely the coloring matter in the ink.For example, the number of solubilizing groups
(e.g., -OH, -SO3, -COOH, etc.) in a dye molecule has been
decreased to raise the water fastness of the dye. Such
dyes are stable in a relatively high pH range because
of their lower water-solubility, but tend to deposit at
the pH of environmental water (pH=5.8 to 8.6).
Accordingly, the dye, if discharged to the environment,
is liable to deposit and accumulate in the soil, or
bottoms of river, lake or sea to color the ecosystem
therein.On the other hand, with propagation of color
image recording in recent years, high color-developing
inks are being consumed in larger quantities.
The consumption of water-based color inks is
increasing year by year, particularly in ink-jet
recording and in general writing. Especially, high
color-developing dyes, which provide high quality
recorded images, are expected to be used increasingly.
Ideally, the aforementioned aqueous ink charged in the
recording apparatus is used only for recording. 
Practically, however, not all of ink is consumed
during recording, but some ink is partly
recovered by a built-in mechanism called recovery
system to secure the reliability of the recording
apparatus.This recovery system serves at the start of
recording to suck out a part of ink from the recording
head causing it to be replaced with fresh ink to facilitate the
start of recording after a long period of non-use or standing of the
recording head. The ink sucked out by this step is
sent along a waste ink transfer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ink-jet recording apparatus comprising a waste-ink
absorbent, wherein the waste-ink absorbent is

composed of a composition containing a biodegradable
polymer and a microorganism growth nutrient, and a

container, made of a material containing an antimicrobial
agent, housing said absorbent.
The ink-jet recording apparatus according to claim
1, wherein the biodegradable polymer is a biodegradable

synthetic polymer.
The ink-jet recording apparatus according to claim
2 wherein the biodegradable polymer is a biodegradable

synthetic polymer selected from the group consisting of
starch-compounded synthetic polymers, modified starch-compounded

synthetic polymers, micronized-cellulose-compounded
synthetic polymers, and microorganism-produced

synthetic polymers, or a mixture thereof.
The ink-jet recording apparatus according to any
preceding claim wherein the microorganism growth nutrient

is a powdery solid foodstuff, powdery starch, or powdery
sugar.
The ink-jet recording apparatus according to claim
4, wherein the microorganism growth nutrient is a powdery 

solid foodstuff which is selected from the group
consisting of powdery solid soup, dried rice and dried

wheat.
The ink-jet recording apparatus according to any
preceding claim, wherein the waste-ink absorbent

container comprises an ink cartridge which also contains
an ink container holding an ink.
The ink-jet recording apparatus according to claim
6, wherein the ink contains a recording agent and a

liquid medium, the recording agent comprising a
composition containing an ink biodegradable polymer

linked to a solubilizing group of a water soluble dye by
coordination bonding.
The ink-jet recording apparatus of claim 7, wherein
the ink biodegradable polymer is an organic acid salt of

cationic chitosan or cationic starch.
The ink-jet recording apparatus of 7 or 8, wherein
the ink biodegradable polymer is present in an amount of

1% to 30% by weight based on a water soluble dye in the
ink.
The ink-jet recording apparatus of any preceding
claim, wherein the antimicrobial agent is a mildew-proofing 

agent.
An ink cartridge comprising a container equipped
with an ink container holding an ink and a waste-ink

absorbent for absorbing a waste-ink, wherein the waste-ink
absorbent is composed of a composition containing a

biodegradable polymer and a microorganism growth
nutrient, and the container is made of a material

containing an antimicrobial agent.
The ink cartridge according to claim 11, wherein the
biodegradable polymer is a biodegradable synthetic

polymer.
The ink cartridge according to claim 12, wherein the
biodegradable polymer is a biodegradable synthetic

polymer selected from the group consisting of starch-compounded
synthetic polymers, modified starch-compounded

synthetic polymers, micronized-cellulose-compounded
synthetic polymers, and microorganism-produced synthetic

polymers, or a mixture thereof.
The ink cartridge according to any of claims 11 to
13, wherein the microorganism growth nutrient is a

powdery solid foodstuff, powdery starch, or powdery
sugar. 
The ink cartridge according to claim 14, wherein the
microorganism growth nutrient is a powdery solid

foodstuff which is selected from the group consisting of
powdery solid soup, dried rice and dried wheat.
An ink cartridge according to any of claims 11 to
15, wherein the ink contains a recording agent and a

liquid medium, the recording agent comprising a
composition containing an ink biodegradable polymer

linked to a solubilizing group of a water soluble dye by
coordination bonding.
An ink cartridge according to any of claims 11 to 16
wherein the ink biodegradable polymer is an organic acid

salt of cationic chitosan or cationic starch.
An ink cartridge according to any of claims 11 to
17, wherein the ink biodegradable polymer is present in

an amount of 1% to 30% by weight based on a water soluble
dye in the ink.
An ink cartridge according to any of claims 11 to
18, wherein the antimicrobial agent is a mildew-proofing

agent.
A method of storing waste ink which arises from ink-jet
printing wherein waste ink is absorbed on an 

absorbent located in an ink-jet apparatus and composed of

a composition containing a biodegradable polymer and a
micro-organism growth nutrient, the absorbent being in a

container made of a material containing an antimicrobial
agent.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
