<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635096</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAGNETICALLY ACTUATED FLUID MOTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01L2300	F01L2300	F01L2500	F01L2508	F04B900	F04B9105	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01L	F01L	F01L	F01L	F04B	F04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01L23	F01L23	F01L25	F01L25	F04B9	F04B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRANK AND ROBYN WALTON 1990 FA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FRANK AND ROBYN WALTON 1990 FAMILY TRUST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROUT EDWARD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTON FRANK A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GROUT, EDWARD, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALTON, FRANK, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MAGNETICALLY ACTUATED FLUID MOTOR BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the InventionThe invention pertains to an improved magnetically actuated fluid motor powered by a primary fluid stream and useful for attachment to a pumping apparatus for injecting predetermined quantities of secondary fluid additive into the primary fluid stream. Background of the Prior Art It has been found that a reciprocating fluid motor can be powered by energy from a pressurized primary fluid line which is useful to drive an attached pump which injects a secondary fluid into the primary fluid stream. Such devices have been useful in applications such as adding medication to drinking water for livestock, treating water with additives such as halogens, or adding fertilizer concentrate to irrigation water. A shifter mechanism with valves carried by the piston enables the fluid pressure to be applied to either face of a stepped piston which forms the driving member for a metering piston interacting with a cylinder in communication with a storage vessel of the product to be injected. Such devices are found in my own U.S. Patents 4,558,715 and 4,809,731, as well as U.S. Patent 4,756,329 to Jean Cloup. In conventional reciprocative fluid power motors, a sliding shaft extends through the head of a differential stepped piston, usually through the center of the piston, and extends on both sides of the piston. The shaft is connected to a toggle mechanism which controls two sets of valves to alternately close fluid passages in one stepped piston face and open a flow passage or passages in the other stepped piston face. When the piston moves up or down and responds to greater fluid pressure on one of the stepped faces, the upper or lower ends of the rods strike the housing causing the rod to stop moving while the piston continues to move. This causes relative sliding movement between the rod and the pressurized face of the piston requiring a seal therebetween to prevent the loss of pressure. 

It would be desirable to eliminate the need for such a seal.The toggle mechanisms require strong springs in order to provide a sufficient "kick" to shift the rod which controls the valve members. This is necessary to ensure continued operation especially in the face of contamination over extended periods of time with aqueous solutions and contaminants. Thus, conventional designs for these pump motors have a multitude of parts which are subject to stresses, wear and corrosion which decrease the ease of assembly, disassembly and maintenance. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A magnetically actuated fluid motor for installation in a primary fluid line for reciprocating in response to primary fluid pressure during primary fluid flow, in operative combination comprising: housing means having primary fluid inlet and outlet; stepped piston means having a large face and a smaller face, mounted for reciprocation in said housing and separating the interior of the housing into at least first and second variable chambers; spaced apart magnet attracting members mounted within the piston for movement therewith; shiftable member and valve means carried with the piston, shiftable relative to the piston between a first position and a second position wherein said valve means at said first and second positions alternately close one and open the other of said piston faces to pressurized fluid; magnetic means carried with said shiftable member between said magnet attracting members, being alternately proximate one of said magnet attracting members in said first and second position of the shiftable member, said magnetic means generating a magnetic holding force sufficient to hold the shiftable member in said first or second position against counterforces exerted on the shiftable member by resilient means; resilient means to exert counterforces on the shiftable member tending to mov the magnetic means away from the magnet attracting member at each of said first and second positions of the shiftable member, said counterforce bdng insufficient to cause the shiftabl member to shift significantly until said magnetic force is weakened by separation of th magnetic means firom a magnet attracting member; and separating means sufficient to weaken said magnetic force by separating the magnetic means firom a magnet attracting member, such that said counterforce overcomes th weakened magnetic force to shift the shiftable member thereby alternating the valve members and reversing the reciprocation of the piston.
2. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 1 wherein said shiftabl member is an elongated spool member having an end portion extending through one of th piston faces and an opposite end portion positioned within the piston, said spool membe carrying said valve means.
3. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 2 wherein said spoo 


member receives at least an end portion of a rod member in a hollow center opening in t spool member, said rod member being attached to the housing and serving as a support f the resilient means.
4. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 3 wherein said magnet means is fixed around the outside of the spool member for shifting with the spool betwe said magnet attracting members, the magnet attracting members being mounted within t interior of the piston for movement therewith.
5. The magnetically actuated fluid member of claim 4 wherein at least pa of said resilient means are captured between the rod member and the hollow center of t spool member for compression caused by reciprocating movement of the piston with respe to the rod member.
6. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 5 wherein said resilie means comprise upper and lower springs having opposite ends, one opposite end of ea spring being supported against a spool abutment located within said hollow center of t spool member.
7. The magnetically actuated fluid member of claim 6 wherein said low spring is compressible between said spool abutment and an abutment at the lower end of sa rod member.
8. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 7 wherein said upp spring is compressible between a spool abutment and a stop positioned above the spo member along the rod.
9. The combination of claim 8 further including an injection pump mea operated by the magnetically actuated fluid motor for injecting a secondary fluid into t primary fluid stream. 10. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 6 wherein said spo member extends through the large face of the piston and being farthest extended in said fi position wherein said large face is open and said smaller face is closed and less farth extended at said second position wherein said smaller face is open and said large face of t piston is closed by action of said valve means carried by the spool member. 11. The magnetically activated fluid motor of claim 10 wherein sa separating means comprises an abutment surface on the spool member and a contact surfa on the housing which stop the spool member while the piston is moving, causing separati of the magnetic means to shift the spool member from first to second position, thus reversi 



piston reciprocation.
12. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 11 wherein said separating means comprises said lower spring being compressible between said spool abutment and the lower end of the rod member to generate said counterforce, and when fully compressed, stops the spool member while the piston is moving, causing separation of the magnetic means to shift the spool member from the second to the first position, thus reversing reciprocation.
13. The magnetically activated fluid motor of claim 8 wherein said separating means comprises alternate shifting of the spool member and valve means by contact with the housing and the spool member in one position, and by full compression of the lower spring in the opposite position.
14. The magnetically activated fluid motor of claim 4 wherein said magnetic means is an annular collar mounted on the spool member within a central opening of the piston. 15. The magnetically activated fluid motor of claim 14 wherein said magnetic attracting members are annular rings spaced above and below the magnetic means and supported in the piston by one or more spacers in said central opening.
16. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 15 wherein said shifter means and valve means comprise said spool member having a first end and an opposite second end having respective first and second flanges for holding respective first and second valve members, said first valve member cooperating with corresponding valve seats in the large face of the piston and said second valve member cooperating with corresponding valve seats in the smaller face of the piston, the valve members being operable to open the large face and close the small face in a first shifted position of the spool member and to close the large face and open the smaller face in a second shifted position of the spool member.
17. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 16 wherein initiation of shifting of the spool member from the first to the second position is caused by contact between the spool member and the wall of the housing with the piston moving in one direction and shifting is initiated from the second to the first position with the piston moving in the opposite direction by engagement between an abutment surface on the spool member and a stop on the rod member attached to the housing.
18. The combination of claim 17 further including an injection pump means operated by the magnetically actuated fluid motor for injecting a secondary fluid into the 


primary flmd stream. 

19. A magnetically actuated fluid motor for installation in a primary fluid line for reciprocating in response to primary fluid pressure during primary fluid flow, in operative combination comprising: housing means having primary fluid inlet and outlet; stepped piston means having a large face and a smaller face, mounted for reciprocation in said housing and separating the interior of the housing into at least first and second variable chambers; shifter means and valve means carried by the piston, said shifter means being shiftable for establishing a stroke cycle of said piston by alternately moving said valve means, to close one face of the piston and at the same time open the other of said piston faces to pressurized primary fluid; magnet means mounted for movement with the shifter means between opposed magnetic attractors for generating a magnetic holding force which varies between a maximum when the magnet means is positioned adjacent one attractor, a minimum when the magnetic means is at a neutral position between the attractors and a maximum when the magnetic means is positioned adjacent the other attractor, the maximum magnetic holding force being sufficient to hold the shifter in a shifted position in opposition to resilient shifting force generated by resilient means, the maximum magnetic holding force being weakened by separation from an adjacent one of said attractors a separating distance; resilient means operating on said shifter to generate resilient shifting force in opposition to the magnetic holding force, said resilient force being sufficient to overcome the magnetic holding force as soon as the magnet means has been separated said separating distance from an opposed attractor, but less than sufficient to separate them when the magnetic holding force is at a maximum; and means for separating said magnet means a separating distance from either one of the opposed attractors to weaken the magnetic holding force whereupon the resilient shifting force provided by the resilient means overcomes said weakened force thereby causing the shifter means to shift, reestablishing the magnetic holding force and causing said valve means to simultaneously close one face of said piston and open the other of said piston faces to pressurized primary fluid, to cause reciprocation of the piston.
20. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 19 wherein: the valve means are biased for limited relative movement with respect to the shifter means an amount sufficient to keep the closed face of the piston closed until the 


magnet means is separated said separating distance from an adjacent attractor by the mean for separating so that the magnetic holding force is weakened to less than the force provide by the resilient means whereupon further shifting movement exceeds the limited relativ movement of the closed valve means and opens the closed face of the piston in preparatio for reciprocation in an opposite direction when shifting is complete.
21. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 20 wherein: said valve means comprise at least one first valve member cooperating wit at least one corresponding first valve seat in the large face of the piston and at least on second valve member cooperating with at least one second valve seat in the smaller face the piston to alternately open one face of the piston and close the other face of the pisto said first and second valve members include a biasing member which operates to keep th at least one first or second closed valve member in contact with its at least one seat until th magnet means is separated said separating distance, whereupon shifting occurs.
22. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 21 wherein: said at least one first and at least one second valve members are supported b arms connected to the shifter means and moveable therewith, and said biasing member comprise springs which bias the valve members with respect to the arms and allow the valv members to move at least said separating distance relative to said arms.
23. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 22 wherein: said shifter means comprise an elongated spool member passing through on of said piston faces in an unsealed condition with respect to the piston and having upper an lower collars which hold the arms supporting said at least first and second valve member
24. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 23 wherein: the magnet means is an annular collar mounted on the elongated spool memb within a central opening of the piston and shiftable between upper and lower magne attractors, the attractors being mounted in the piston for movement with the piston, sai magnetic holding force being at a maximum to resist upward shifting force when the magn means is adjacent the lower attractor and being at a maximum to resist downward shiftin force when the magnet means is adjacent the upper attractor. 25. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 24 wherein: the weakened magnetic holding force reduces the resilient shifting force durin shifting of the spool member until the magnet means reaches the neutral position between t attractors and then upon further shifting of the spool member, increases the resilient shifti 



force until the magnetic holding force reaches the maximum at the opposite attractor.
26. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 25 wherein: the upper and lower magnetic attracting members are annular rings spaced apart above and below the magnet means and supported in the piston by one or more spacers in a central opening of the piston, the spacers including fluid passages which serve as damping ports.
27. The magnetically actuated fluid motor of claim 26 wherein: the housing includes a centrally located depending rod member which extends into the spool member and supports said resilient means, wherein initiation of shifting of the spool member is caused by contact between the spool member and a wall of the housing with the piston moving in one direction and shifting is initiated with the piston moving in the opposite direction by engagement between an abutment surface inside the spool member and a stop located on the rod member which is attached to the housing.
28. The combination of claim 27 further including an injection pump reciprocally operated by the magnetically actuated fluid motor for injecting a secondary fluid into the primary fluid stream. 

29. A magnetically actuated fluid motor for installation in a primary flui line for reciprocating in response to primary fluid pressure during primary fluid flow, i operative combination comprising: housing means having primary flmd inlet and outlet; stepped piston means having a large face and a small face, mounted fo reciprocation in said housing within cylinder walls contained in said housing; a shiftable member carrying valve means comprising at least one upper sprin loaded valve member for opening and closing the large face of the piston and at least on lower spring loaded valve member for opening and closing said small piston face, th shiftable member being shiftable with respect to the piston between a first position in whic the upper face is open and the lower face is closed and a second position in which the lowe face is open and the upper face is closed, said shiftable member being pre-shiftable relativ to the piston, a pre-shift amount while the piston face being closed by one of said valv members remains closed in response to spring loaded movement of one of said at least on valve members; magnet means and spaced apart upper and lower magnetic attractors carrie with the piston, the magnet means being operable by the shiftable member to collocate th magnet means and one of said magnet attractors in a shifted position of the shiftable memb to create a magnetic holding force sufficient to retain the shiftable member in a first o second shifted position during movement of the piston; resilient means for providing a shifting force on the shiftable member i opposition to the magnetic holding force in both the first and second shifted position of th shiftable member, the shifting force being sufficient to initiate shifting
'
 of the shiftabl member after the holding force is weakened by separating the shiftable member said pre-shi amount in response to a separating force; and separating means operable to provide separating force in response to moveme of the piston, sufficient to move the shiftable member relative to the piston a pre-shift amou whereby the resilient means overcomes the weakened magnetic holding force and shifts th shiftable member to a first or second shifted position, establishing the end of the stroke an causing reciprocation of the piston.
30. The combination of claim 29 wherein: pre-shifting of the shiftable member is initiated at one end of the piston stro by contact of the shiftable member with a wall of the housing. 


 31. The combination of claim 30 wherein: pre-shifting at the other end of the piston stroke is initiated by a fixed stop supported by the housing which arrests the shiftable member while the piston continues to move said pre-shift amount, during which pre-shifting movement said at least one valve member moves with the piston relative to the shiftable member, keeping the closed face of the piston closed until pre-shifting is complete.
32. The combination of claim 31 wherein: said shiftable member comprises an elongated spool member passing through one of said piston faces in an unsealed condition with respect to the piston and having collars respectively supporting said at least one upper and at least one lower spring loaded valve member.
33. The combination of claim 32 wherein: said magnet means is an annular collar mounted on the elongated spool member within a central opening of the piston and said magnetic attractors are annular ring members spaced above and below the magnet means and supported by the piston in combination with a spacer having fluid ports which act as a dampening means to dampen the shifting action.
34. The combination of claim 32 wherein: the magnet means cooperates with the resilient means after pre-shifting is complete to initially reduce the shifting force because of continued attraction to the immediately previously collocated attractor until the magnet means is equidistant between the magnetic attractors and then increase the shifting force by further movement toward another magnetic attractor during shifting.
35. The combination of claim 34 wherein: a rod member attached to the housing has an end portion extending at least partially into a hollow center opening in the spool member, and serving as a support for the resilient means.
36. The combination of claim 35 wherein: said resilient means comprise upper and lower springs having opposite ends, one opposite end of each spring being supported by a spool abutment located within the hollow center of the spool member.
37. The combination of claim 29 further including an injection pump means operated by the magnetically actuated fluid motor for injecting a secondary fluid into the 


primary fluid stream. 

38. A magnetically actuated fluid motor for installation in a primary fluid line for reciprocating in response to primary fluid pressure during primary flmd flow, in operative combination comprising: housing means having primary flmd inlet and outlet; stepped piston means having a large face and a small face, mounted for reciprocation in said housing within cylinder walls contained in said housing; a shiftable member carrying valve means comprising at least one upper spring loaded valve member for opening and closing the large face of the piston, and at least one lower spring loaded valve member for opening and closing the small piston face, the shiftable member being shiftable with respect to the piston between a first position in which the upper face is open and the lower face is closed and a second position in which the lower face is open and the upper face is closed, said shiftable member being pre-shiftable relative to the piston, a pre-shift amount, while the piston face being closed by one of said valve members remains closed in response to spring loaded movement of one of said at least one valve members; magnetic attractor means and spaced apart upper and lower magnet means carried with the piston, the magnetic attractor being operable by the shiftable member to collocate the magnet attractor and one of said magnet means in a shifted position of the shiftable member to create a magnetic holding force sufficient to retain the shiftable member in a first or second shifted position during movement of the piston; resilient means for providing a shifting force on the shiftable member in opposition to the magnetic holding force in both the first and second shifted position of the shiftable member, the shifting force being sufficient to initiate shifting of the shiftable member after the holding force is weakened by separating the shiftable member said pre-shift amount in response to a separator; and separating means operable to provide separating force in response to movement of the piston, sufficient to move the shiftable member relative to the piston a pre-shift amount whereby the resilient means overcomes the weakened magnetic holding force and shifts the shiftable member to a first or second shifted position establishing the end of the stroke and causing reciprocation of the piston. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
