<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620536</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetostrictively resonating label.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K1906	G06K1906	G08B1324	G08B1324	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	G08B	G08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K19	G06K19	G08B13	G08B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a magnetostrictively resonating 
label, intended for a detection or identification system. The 

label consists of a strip of amorphous magnetostrictive material (3) 
with a strip of hardmagnetic material opposite thereto (4,5). The 

hardmagnetic material (4,5) serves to ensure the presence of a bias 
magnetic field in the magnetostrictive material (3). The strip of 

hardmagnetic material is built up of two or more segments (4,5) of 
material of different coercivity, enabling polarization of one of 

these segments corresponding to the polarization direction of the 
applied magnetic field. Consequently, by means of a detection or 

identification system adapted for this purpose, depending on the 
polarization direction of the segments, the fundamental or 

dominant tone of the mechanically oscillating magnetostrictive 
strip can be detected. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGEN ESCH JOHANNES HARM LUKAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOGEN ESCH, JOHANNES HARM LUKAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a magnetostrictively resonating 
label for use in a detection or identification system, provided 
with at least one strip of a first type which comprises 
magnetostrictive material and responds to an electromagnetic 
field upon the generation of a bias magnetic field in the strip 
of the first type, and at least one strip of a second type which 
comprises hardmagnetic material and whereby a bias magnetic field 
can be generated in the strip of the first type upon 
magnetization of the strip of the second type. Such a system is disclosed in, inter alia, European patent 
application 0352936. The label according to the European patent 
application comprises a separate strip, the strip of the first 
type being capable of being brought into an active or inactive 
mode through demagnetization or magnetization of this separate 
strip. In electromagnetic detection systems based on labels 
consisting of amorphous magnetic material which either generate 
harmonics at the moment when magnetic saturation in the material 
arises, or are magnetostrictive and resonate mechanically at a 
resonance frequency, one of the problems is that these effects 
also occur in metal objects and articles other than the labels in 
question. Efforts are directed to constructing these detection systems 
so as to be as selective as possible, in order to prevent "false 
alarm" as much as possible. To achieve this, one of the possibilities is, for instance, 
to design a system wherein, instead of going from an active to an 
inactive mode, the labels, which should be activatable and 
deactivatable, go from one detectable mode to another detectable  
 
mode or from a mode having a combination of several detectable 
components to an inactive mode. It is very unlikely that the same combination of detectable 
components occurs in other materials, objects or articles. The necessity to use activatable and deactivatable labels is 
caused by the fact that these labels are used only once and are 
not removed after the sale of the article in question, but 
deactivated, so that no alarm is generated at the exit of a 
shop. By providing several detectable components in the labels, it 
is also possible to design an identification system wherein the 
different labels in the system can be distinguished from each 
other. One of the conditions for such a system is that the label 
should be capable of being switched from one active mode to the 
other active or inactive mode in a very simple manner. In an identification system, the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A magnetostrictively resonating label for use in a detection 
or identification system, provided with at least one strip of a 

first type which comprises magnetostrictive material and responds 
to an electromagnetic field upon the generation of a bias-magnetic 

field in the strip of the first type, and at least one 
strip of a second type which comprises hardmagnetic material and 

whereby a bias magnetic field can be generated in the strip of 
the first type upon magnetization of the strip of the second 

type, characterized in that the strip of the second type is built 
up of at least two segments of material having mutually different 

coercivity and capable of being magnetized, independently of each 
other, in different directions, so that depending on the 

respective polarization directions of the segments, a fundamental 
tone or a dominant tone is generated by the strip of the first 

type upon being irradiated by the electromagnetic field. 
A label according to claim 1, characterized in that one 
strip is provided with filamentary material. 
A label according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the segments are arranged relative to each 

other in the longitudinal direction of the strip of the second 
type. 
A label according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that 
one segment extends in the longitudinal 
direction of the strip of the second type. 
A label according to claim 4, characterized in that the 
polarization direction of one segment extends in the longitudinal 

direction of said segment. 
A label according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the strip of the first type is at least 

practically paralllel to the strip of the second type. 
A label according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the strip of the first type comprises 

amorphous magnetostrictive material. 
A label according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the label comprises a plurality of strips 

of the first type having mutually different lengths so that 
resonance frequencies of said strips of the first type are also 

different from each other. 
A label according to claim 8, characterized in that the 
resonance frequencies of the fundamental tones and the dominant 

tones of the last-mentioned strips are different from each other. 
A label according to claim 8 or 9, characterized in that the 
label comprises a plurality of combinations of strips of the 

first and the second type cooperating with each other. 
A label according to claim 10, characterized in that one 
combination consists of one strip of the first and one of the 

second type. 
A label according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that different segments of a strip of the second 

type respectively comprise different materials having a different 
coercivity. 
A label according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the segments of a strip of the second type 

are respectively formed through electrochemical deposition of 
different materials having different coercivity. 
A system for detecting and/or identifying a label or group 
of labels according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein 

the system comprises a transmitting unit for generating an 
electromagnetic interrogation field and a detection unit for 

detecting resonance effects caused by a label located within the 
interrogation field. 
A system according to claim 14, characterized in that the 
system identifies a label or a group of labels on the basis of 

the presence or absence of a fundamental tone, dominant tone or a 
 

combination of said tones transmitted by a label or group of 
labels. 
A system according to claim 14 or 15, characterized in that 
the system is used for combatting shoplifting. 
A system according to claim 14 or 15, characterized in that 
a label in the system is used for identifying persons, for 

instance for permitting access to areas, buildings, vehicles or 
computer systems. 
A system according to claim 14 or 15, characterized in that 
a label in the system is used for identifying animals, for 

instance for the purpose of feeding. 
A system according to claim 14 or 15, characterized in that 
a label in the system is used for identifying articles, for 

instance for the purpose of controlling logistic processes. 
A method for coding a label according to any one of claims 
1-13, characterized in that by means of a magnetic field of a 

first strength, segments of the label having a coercivity smaller 
than or equal to a first value are polarized in the same 

predetermined first direction. 
A method according to claim 20, characterized in that 
subsequently, by means of a magnetic field of a second strength 

that is smaller than the first strength, at least one segment 
polarized by means of the first magnetic field and having a 

coercivity smaller than the first value is polarized in a 
predetermined second direction. 
A method for coding a label according to any one of claims 
1-13, characterized in that by means of an alternating magnetic 

field of a first strength, all segments located within the 
alternating magnetic field having a coercivity smaller than a 

specific value are demagnetized, so that, depending on the 
segments that are still polarized, a strip of the first type 

belonging to said segments will resonate at different frequencies 
when it is brought into an electromagnetic interrogation field. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
