<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638146</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF ATTACHING ARTICLES AND A PAIR OF ARTICLES FASTENED BY THE METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A44B1800	A63C5056	A44B1800	F16B500	A63C5044	A63C500	F16B507	A63C700	A63C706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A44B	A63C	A44B	F16B	A63C	A63C	F16B	A63C	A63C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A44B18	A63C5	A44B18	F16B5	A63C5	A63C5	F16B5	A63C7	A63C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERWIN ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROUSER FORREST J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERWIN, ROBERT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROUSER, FORREST, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to fastened articles, and a method 
of attaching articles having a structured surface on one side. The art is replete with fasteners for attaching articles together. 
For example, U.S. Patent Nos. 2,717,437 and 3,009,235 to Mestra teach 
articles having loops and hooks. When the articles are brought into contact 
with each other, the hooks interlock with the loops. U.S. Patent Nos. 
2,499,898 to Anderson, 3,192,589 to Pearson, 3,266,113 to Flanagan, Jr., 
3,408,705 to Kayser et al., and 4,520,943 to Nielson teach a plurality of macro 
asperities or protrusions, that function as an attachment means when brought 
into contact with similarly shaped macro asperities with correspondingly shaped 
recesses. Additionally, fasteners utilizing a plurality of longitudinally extending 
rib and groove elements which deform and mechanically interfere and 
resiliently interlock with each other have been disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 
2,144,755 to Freedman, 2,558,367 to Madsen, 2,780,261 to Svec et al., 
3,054,434 to Ausnit et al., 3,173,184 to Ausnit, 3,198,228 to Naito and 
3,633,642 to Siegel. U.S. Patent No. 4,875,259 to Appeldorn discloses 
intermeshable articles according to the preamble of claim 1. This document does not suggest non-alignment of 
axes before pressing the structured surfaces together. The present invention is directed to a method of fastening articles 
together and the resultant fastened articles. The present invention provides 
fastened articles which (1) may be fastened together in a plurality of positions, 
and (2) include a surprisingly  
 
strong peel strength attachment. According to the present invention, fastened articles are provided 
comprising a first and second articles each having at least one major surface at 
least a portion of that surface being a structured surface. The first and second 
articles' structured surfaces include a plurality of tapered elements. Each of the 
elements have at least one side inclined relative to a common plane at an angle 
sufficient to form a taper. Both the first and the second articles' plurality of tapered 
elements are situated to form a plurality of axes including at least one first 
article and at least one second article longitudinal axis. The first and second articles are fastened together with the first 
longitudinal axis situated at an angle relative to the second longitudinal axis. 
When the articles are fastened together (1) at least one of the tapered elements 
of the first or the second article is axially
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Fastened articles comprising: 

a first article having at least one major surface at least a portion of that 
surface being a structured surface; 
said first article's structured surface including a plurality of tapered 
elements, each element having at least one side inclined relative 

to a common plane at an angle sufficient to form a taper; 
said first article's plurality of tapered elements being situated to form a 
plurality of axes including at least one first article longitudinal 

axis; 
a second article having at least one major surface at least a portion of 
that surface being a structured surface; 
said second article's structured surface including a plurality of tapered 
elements, each element having at least one side inclined relative 

to a common plane at an angle sufficient to form a taper; 
said second article's plurality of tapered elements being situated to form 
a plurality of axes including at least one second article 

longitudinal axis; characterised by 
said first and second articles being fastened together with the first 
longitudinal axis situated at an angle relative to the second 

longitudinal axis such that in the fastened position at least one of said tapered elements of 
said first or said second article is axially bent or torsionally 

flexed relative to its relaxed, unfastened position, and said 
inclined sides of one of said first and second article's tapered 

elements being frictionally adhered to at least some of said 
inclined sides of the other of said first and second article's 

tapered elements. 
Fastened articles according to claim 1 wherein: 

when undeformed, said elements 
comprise solid frusto-pyramidal-shaped elements 

having polygonal-shaped cross-sections. 
Fastened articles according to claim 1 wherein 

when undeformed, 
said elements of said first article comprises solid frusto-pyramidal-shaped 

elements having a polygonal-shaped cross-section 
and projecting from said common plane; and 
said structured surface of said second article comprises surfaces defining 
a cavity having a polygonal-shaped cross-section and recessed 

from said common plane. 
Fastened articles according to claim 3 wherein said polygonal-shaped 
cross-section of said first article comprises a hexagon and said 

polygonal-shaped cross-section of said cavity comprises a triangle. 
Fastened articles according to claim 1 wherein one of said first 
and second article's tapered elements are constructed from a flexible, polymeric 

material. 
Fastened articles according to claim 1 wherein said angle 
between the first an
d second longitudinal axes is between more than zero (0) 
degrees and less than about twenty (20) degrees. 
Fastened articles according to claim 6 wherein said angle is 
preferably seven and one-half (7.5) degrees. 
Fastened articles according to claim 5 wherein  
 


when undeformed, said elements comprise solid 
frusto-pyramidal-shaped elements having a square-shaped cross-section 

defining a diameter and a top surface defining a height 
measured from said common plane, and said elements are spaced 

to define a pitch wherein: 

said height is approximately equal to 2.74 times the diameter; 
said pitch is approximately equal to 1.43 times the diameter; 
the height is measured between the common plane and a top or 
bottom of the element; 
the diameter is measured as the length of the side of square 
shaped cross sections; and 
the pitch is equal to the diameter plus a distance between the 
frusto-pyramidal-shaped elements. 
A method of fastening articles comprising: 

providing a first article having at least one major surface at least a 
portion of that surface being a structured surface, said first 

article's structured surface including a plurality of tapered 
elements, each element having at least one side inclined relative 

to a common plane at an angle sufficient to form a taper, and 
each of said elements having a shape in an unfastened position, 
situating said first article's plurality of tapered elements to form a 
plurality of axes including at least one first article longitudinal 

axis; 
providing a second article having at least one major surface at least a 
portion of that surface being a structured surface, said second 

article's structured surface including a plurality of tapered 
elements, each element having at least one side inclined relative 

to a common plane at an angle sufficient to form a taper, and 
each of said elements having a shape in an unfastened position;  

 
situating said second article's plurality of tapered elements to form a 
plurality of axes including at least one second article longitudinal 

axis; 
disposing said first longitudinal axis at an angle relative to said second 
longitudinal axis; and 
then pressing said structured surfaces of said first and said second article 
together such that after said structured surfaces are pressed 

together, at least one of said tapered elements of said first or said 
second article is axially bent and torsionally flexed relative to its 

relaxed, unfastened position, and such that said inclined sides of 
one of said first and second article's tapered elements are 

frictionally adhered to at least some of said inclined sides of the 
other of said first and second article's tapered elements. 
A method according to claim 9 wherein said step of disposing 
said first longitudinal axis at an angle comprises the step of disposing said first 

longitudinal axis at an angle relative to said second longitudinal axis which is 
between more than zero (0) and less than about twenty (20) degrees. 
A method according to claim 10 wherein said angle is 
approximately 7.5 degrees. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
