<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614487</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DNA ENCODING A GLYCINE TRANSPORTER AND USES THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61K3800	C07K14435	C07K1447	C12N1500	C12N1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61K38	C07K14	C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides isolated nucleic acid molecules encoding a mammalian or human glycine transporter, vectors comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecules, mammalian cells comprising such vectors, nucleic acid probes, antisense oligonucleotides complementary to any sequence of a nucleic acid molecule which encodes a mammalian glycine transporter, and non-human transgenic animals which express DNA encoding a normal or a mutant mammalian glycine transporter. The invention also provides the mammalian or human glycine transporter proteins, antibodies directed to them, and pharmaceutical compounds related to the human glycine transporter. The invention further provides methods for determining ligand binding, detecting expression, drug screening, as well as treatments for alleviating abnormalities associated with mammalian or human glycine transporters.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNAPTIC PHARMA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SYNAPTIC PHARMA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORDEN LAURENCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANCHEK THERESA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTIG PAUL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH KELLI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINSHANK RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORDEN LAURENCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRANCHEK THERESA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARTIG PAUL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH KELLI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINSHANK RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DNA ENCODING A GLYCINE TRANSPORTER AND U8ES THEREOFBackground of the InventionThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Serial No. 791,927, filed November 12, 1991, the contents of which are incorporated by reference into the present disclosure.Throughout this application various publications are referred to by partial citations within parenthesis. Full citations for these publications may be found at the end of the specification immediately preceding the claims. The disclosures of these publications, in their entireties, are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the state of the art to which this invention pertains.An essential property of synaptic transmission is the rapid termination of action following neurotransmitter release. For many neurotransmitters including catecholamines, serotonin, and certain amino acids (e.g., gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) , glutamate, and glycine) , rapid termination of synaptic action is achieved by the uptake of the transmitter into the presynaptic terminal and surrounding glial cells (Bennett et al., 1974; Horn, 1990; Kanner and Schuldiner, 1987) . Inhibition or stimulation of neurotransmitter uptake provides a means for modulating the strength of the synaptic action by regulating the available levels of endogenous transmitters. The development of selective inhibitors may therefore represent a novel therapeutic approach to the 

 treatment of neurological disorders.The amino acid glycine is an important neurotransmitter in the vertebrate central nervous system, where it serves two distinct functions. First, glycine is a classical inhibitory neurotransmitter with a well established role in the spinal cord, brainstem, and retina (Aprison, 1990; Daly, 1990; Cortes and Palacios, 1990). The inhibitory effects of glycine are mediated by the glycine receptor, a ligand-gated chloride channel which is activated by glycine and competitively antagonized by strychnine (Grenningloh et al., 1987). Blockade of glycinergic transmission by strychnine causes seizures in animals and humans. Thus, agents which enhance the inhibitory role of glycine in the CNS may ameliorate the symptoms of epilepsy or other neurological disorders associated with excessive neural and/or musculoskeletal activity. This hypothesis is supported by the finding that defects in the glycine receptor underlie the hereditary yoclonus observed in certain mutant strains of mice (Becker, 1990) and calves (Gundlach, 1990) .In addition to its inhibitory role,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
l. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a mammalian glycine transporter.
2. A nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule encodes a human glycine transporter.
3. An isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is a DNA molecule.
4. An isolated DNA molecule of claim 3, wherein the DNA molecule is a cDNA molecule.
5. A DNA molecule of claim 3 wherein the DNA molecule is derived from genomic DNA.
6. A isolated nucleic acid molecule which has a nucleic acid sequence which differs from the sequence of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a glycine transporter at one or more nucleotides and which does not encode a protein having glycine transporter activity.
7. A nucleic acid molecule of claim 6, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is a DNA molecule.
8. A DNA molecule of claim 7, wherein the DNA molecule is a cDNA molecule.
9. A vector comprising a DNA molecule of claim 3.
10. A plasmid vector of claim 9. 


 11. A vector of claim 9 adapted for expression in a bacterial cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA encoding a glycine transporter in the bacterial cell so located relative to the DNA as to permit expression thereof.
12. A vector of claim 9 adapted for expression in a yeast cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for the expression of the DNA encoding a glycine transporter in the yeast cell so located relative to the DNA as to permit expression thereof.
13. A vector of claim 9 adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA encoding a glycine transporter in the mammalian cell so located relative to the DNA as to permit expression thereof.
14. A plasmid of claim 10 adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which comprises the regulatory elements necessary for expression of the DNA in the mammalian cell so located relative to the DNA encoding a glycine transporter as to permit expression thereof.
15. A plasmid of claim 14 designated pSVL-rB20a (ATCC Accession No.75132) .
16. A plasmid of claim 14 designated pBluescript-hTC27a (ATCC Accession No. ) .
17. A mammalian cell comprising the plasmid of claim 10. 


 18. The mammalian cell of claim 17, wherein the mammalian cell is a Cos7 cell.
19. A Cos7 cell comprising the plasmid of claim 15.
20. A nucleic acid probe comprising a nucleic acid molecule of at least 15 nucleotides capable of specifically hybridizing with a sequence included within the sequence of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a mammalian glycine transporter.
21. A nucleic acid probe comprising a nucleic acid molecule of at least 15 nucleotides capable of specifically hybridizing with a sequence included within the sequence of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a human glycine transporter.
22. The nucleic acid probe of claim 20, wherein the nucleic acid is DNA.
23. A mixture of nucleic acid probes in accordance with claim 20, such probes having sequences which differ from one another at predefined positions.
24. An antisense oligonucleotide having a sequence capable of specifically binding to a mRNA molecule encoding a mammalian glycine transporter so as to prevent translation of the mRNA molecule.
25. An antisense oligonucleotide capable of specifically binding to a mRNA molecule encoding a human glycine transporter so as to prevent translation of the mRNA molecule. 


26. An antisense oligonucleotide of claim 24 comprising chemical analogs of nucleotides.
27. A mixture of antisense oligonucleotides according to claim 24, such oligonucleotides having sequences which differ from one another at predefined positions.
28. A method for detecting expression of a mammalian glycine transporter, which comprises obtaining RNA from cells or tissue, contacting the RNA so obtained with a nucleic acid probe of claim 20 under hybridizing conditions, detecting the presence of any mRNA hybridized to the probe, the presence of mRNA hybridized to the probe indicating expression of the mammalian glycine transporter, and thereby detecting the expression of the mammalian glycine transporter.
29. A method for detecting expression of a human glycine transporter, which comprises obtaining RNA from cells or tissue, contacting the RNA so obtained with a nucleic acid probe of claim 21 under hybridizing conditions, detecting the presence of any mRNA hybridized to the probe, the presence of mRNA hybridized to the probe indicating expression of the human glycine transporter, and thereby detecting the expression of the human glycine transporter.
30. A method of detecting expression of a mammalian glycine transporter in a cell or tissue by in situ hybridization, which comprises contacting the cell or tissue with a nucleic acid probe of claim 20 under hybridizing conditions, detecting the presence of any mRNA hybridized to the probe, the presence of 


 mRNA hybridized to the probe indicating expression of a mammalian glycine transporter, and thereby detecting the expression of a mammalian glycine transporter .
31. A method of detecting expression of a human glycine transporter in a cell or tissue by in situ hybridization, which comprises contacting the cell or tissue with a nucleic acid probe of claim 21 under hybridizing conditions, detecting the presence of any mRNA hybridized to the probe, the presence of mRNA hybridized to the probe indicating expression of a human glycine transporter, and thereby detecting the expression of the human glycine transporter.
32. A method of isolating from a gene library a gene encoding a transporter other than the glycine transporter which comprises contacting the library under hybridizing conditions with a probe of claim 20 and isolating any gene to which the probe hybridizes.
33. A method of claim 31, which additionally comprises simultaneously contacting the DNA comprising the library under hybridizing conditions with a second nucleic acid probe comprising a sequence capable of hybridizing to a DNA sequence of the complementary strand of the DNA of the gene to which the first probe hybridizes, treating any gene sequence to which both probes hybridized so as to produce multiple copies of the gene sequence, isolating the amplified gene sequence and using the isolated gene sequence as a probe to isolate from a gene library the gene to which the amplified DNA sequence 


 hybridizes.
34. The gene isolated by the method of claim 32 or 33.
35. A synthetic gene which comprises the isolated nulceic acid molecule of claim 1 and at least one regulatory element attached thereto so as to increase the number of RNA molecules transcribed from the synthetic gene.
36. A synthetic gene which comprises the isolated nulceic acid molecule of claim 1 and at least one regulatory element attached thereto so as to decrease the number of RNA molecules transcribed from the synthetic gene.
37. An isolated mammalian glycine transporter protein.
38. The transporter protein of claim 37, wherein the mammalian glycine transporter protein is a human glycine transporter.
39. A method of preparing a mammalian glycine transporter of claim 37, which comprises inducing cells to express the mammalian glycine transporter and recovering the mammalian glycine transporter from the resulting cells.
40. A method of preparing a mammalian glycine transporter protein of claim 37, which comprises inserting a nucleic acid molecule encoding the mammalian glycine in a suitable vector, inserting the resulting vector in suitable host cell and recovering the mammalian glycine transporter by the resulting cell. 


 41. A method of preparing a human glycine transporter of claim 38, which comprises inducing cells to express the human glycine transporter and recovering the human glycine transporter from the resulting cells. 42. A method of preparing a human glycine transporter protein of claim 38, which comprises inserting a nucleic acid molecule encoding the human glycine transporter in a suitable vector, inserting the resulting vector in suitable host cell and recovering the human glycine transporter produced by the resulting cell.
43. An antibody directed to a mammalian glycine transporter or to a protein fragment of the mammalian glycine transporter.
44. An antibody directed to a human glycine transporter or to a protein fragment of the human glycine transporter.
45. An antibody of claim 43, wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
46. An antibody of claim 44, wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
47. A monoclonal antibody of claim 45, wherein the antibody is directed to an epitope of a mammalian cell-surface glycine transporter and having an amino acid sequence substantially the same as the amino acid sequence of a cell-surface epitope of the mammalian glycine transporter.
48. A monoclonal antibody of claim 46, wherein the antibody is directed to an epitope of a human cell- 


 surface glycine transporter and having an amino acid sequence substantially the same as the amino acid sequence for a cell-surface epitope of the human glycine transporter.
49. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a substance effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a human glycine transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
50. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a substance effective to alleviate abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a human glycine transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
51. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of an oligonucleotide of claim 25 effective to reduce expression of a human glycine transporter by passing through a cell membrane and specifically binding with mRNA encoding a human glycine transporter in the cell so as to prevent its translation and a pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic carrier capable of passing through a cell membrane.
52. A pharmaceutical composition claim 51, wherein the nucleotide is coupled to a substance which inactivates mRNA.
53. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 52, wherein the substance which inactivates the mRNA is a ribozyme. 


 54. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 52, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic carrier capable of passing through a cell membrane comprises a structure which binds to a transporter specific for a selected cell type and is thereby taken up by the cells of the selected cell type.
55. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises an amount of the antibody of claim 44 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to a human glycine transporter and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
56. A transgenic nonhuman mammal which comprises a nucleic acid molecule of claim 1.
57. A transgenic nonhuman mammal which comprises the nucleic acid molecule of claim 6.
58. A transgenic nonhuman mammal whose genome comprises a nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 so placed as to be transcribed into antisense mRNA complementary to mRNA encoding a human glycine transporter and which hybridizes to mRNA encoding a human glycine transporter thereby reducing its translation.
59. The transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 56, wherein the nucleic acid molecule further comprises an inducible promoter.
60. The transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 56 or 57 wherein the nucleic molecule additionally comprises tissue specific regulatory elements.
61. The transgenic non-human mammal of 56, wherein the 


 transgenic non-human mammal is a mouse.
62. A method for determining the physiological effects of varying the levels of expression of a human glycine transporter which comprises producing a transgenic non-human mammal whose levels of expression of a human glycine transporter can be varied by use of an inducible promoter.
63. A method for determining the physiological effects of expressing varying levels of a human glycine transporter which comprises producing a panel of transgenic non-human mammals each expressing a different amount of a human glycine transporter.
64. A method for determining whether a compound not known to be capable of specifically binding to a human glycine transporter can specifically bind to the human glycine transporter, which comprises contacting a mammalian cell comprising a plasmid adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which plasmid further comprises a DNA which expresses a human glycine transporter on the cell's surface with the compound under conditions permitting binding of ligands known to bind to a human glycine transporter, detecting the presence of any compound bound to the human glycine transporter, the presence of bound compound indicating that the compound is capable of specifically binding to the human glycine transporter.
65. The method of claim 64, wherein the mammalian cell is a non-neuronal cell.
66. The method of claim 65, wherein the non-neuronal 


 cell is a C0S7 cell.
67. A method of screening compounds to identify drugs which interact with, and specifically bind to, a human glycine transporter on the surface of a cell, which comprises contacting a mammalian cell which comprises a plasmid adapted for expression in a mammalian cell which plasmid further comprises DNA which expresses a human glycine transporter on the cell's surface with a plurality of compounds, determining those compounds which bind to the human glycine transporter expressed on the cell surface of the mammalian cell, and thereby identifying compounds which interact with, and specifically bind to, the human glycine transporter.
68. The method of claim 67, wherein the mammalian cell is a non-neuronal cell.
69. The method of claim 68, wherein the non-neuronal cell is a COS7 cell.
70. A method for identifying a compound which is not known to be capable of binding to the human glycine transporter on the surface of a mammalian cell can bind or prevent the binding of a ligand which does so, which comprises contacting the mammalian cell which cell comprises a plasmid adapted for expression in the mammalian cell such plasmid further comprising DNA which expresses the human glycine transporter on the cell surface of the mammalian cell with the compound, determining whether the compound binds to the human glycine transporter or prevents the binding of a ligand which does so, and thereby identifying the compound 


 as a compound which interacts with, and binds to the human glycine transporter or prevents binding to the glycine receptor by a ligand which does so.
71. The method of claim 70, wherein the mammalian cell is a non-neuronal cell.
72. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a drug identified by the method of claim 67 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
73. A method of detecting expression of a cell-surface glycine transporter which comprises obtaining total mRNA from the cell, contacting the mRNA so obtained with the nucleic acid probe of claim 20 under hybridizing conditions, detecting the presence of any mRNA hybridized to the probe, the presence of mRNA hybridized to the probe indicating expression of the cell-surface glycine transporter and thereby detecting the expression of the glycine transporter by the cell.
74. A method of treating abnormalities in a subject, wherein the abnormality is alleviated by the reduced expression of a glycine transporter which comprises administering to a subject an effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 51, effective to reduce expression of the glycine transporter in the subject.
75. A method of treating an abnormal condition related to an excess of glycine transporter activity which comprises administering to a subject an effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 51, effective to reduce expression of the glycine 


 transporter in the subject.
76. The method of claim 75, wherein the abnormal condition is epilepsy.
77. The method of claim 75, wherein the abnormal condition is myoclonus.
78. The method of claim 75, wherein the abnormal condition is spastic paralysis.
79. The method of claim 75, wherein the abnormal condition is muscle spasm.
80. The method of claim 75, wherein the abnormal condition is schizophrenia.
81. The method of claim 75, wherein the abnormal condition is cognitive impairment.
82. A method of treating abnormalities which are alleviated by reduction of expression of a mammalian glycine transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 55 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates to the glycine transporter and thereby alleviate abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter.
83. A method of treating an abnormal condition related to an excess of glycine transporter activity which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 55 effective to block binding of naturally occurring substrates 


 to the glycine transporter and thereby alleviate the abnormal condition.
84. The method of claim 83, wherein the abnormal condition is epilepsy.
85. The method of claim 83, wherein the abnormal condition is myoclonus.
86. The method of claim 83, wherein the abnormal condition is spastic paralysis.
87. The method of claim 83, wherein the abnormal condition is muscle spasm.
88. The method of claim 83, wherein the abnormal condition is schizophrenia.
89. The method of claim 83, wherein the abnormal condition is cognitive impairment.
90. A method of detecting the presence of a mammalian glycine transporter on the surface of a cell which comprises contacting the cell with the antibody of claim 43 under conditions permitting binding of the antibody to the transporter, detecting the presence of any antibody bound to the cell, and thereby detecting the presence of a mammalian glycine transporter on the surface of the cell.
91. A method for identifying a substance capable of alleviating the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter comprising administering a substance to the transgenic nonhuman mammal of claim 56 and 


 determining whether the substance alleviates the physical and behavioral abnormalities displayed by the transgenic nonhuman mammal as a result of overexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter.
92. A method for treating the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 49 effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from overexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter.
93. A method for identifying a substance capable of alleviating the abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter comprising administering the substance to the transgenic nonhuman mammal of either of claims 57 or 58 and determining whether the substance alleviates the physical and behavioral abnormalities displayed by the transgenic nonhuman mammal as a result of underexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter.
94. A method for treating the abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter which comprises administering to a subject an amount of the pharmaceutical composition of claim 50 effective to alleviate the abnormalities resulting from underexpression of a mammalian glycine transporter.
95. A method for diagnosing a predisposition to a disorder associated with the expression of a specific mammalian glycine transporter allele which comprises: 


 a. obtaining DNA of subjects suffering from the disorder;
b. performing a restriction digest of the DNA with a panel of restriction enzymes;
c. electrophoretically separating the resulting DNA fragments on a sizing gel;
d. contacting the resulting gel with a nucleic acid probe capable of specifically hybridizing to DNA encoding a mammalian glycine transporter and labelled with a detectable marker;
e. detecting labelled bands which have hybridized to the DNA encoding a mammalian glycine transporter labelled with a detectable marker to create a unique band pattern specific to the DNA of subjects suffering from the disorder;
f. preparing DNA obtained for diagnosis by steps a-e; and
g. comparing the unique band pattern specific to the DNA of subjects suffering from the disorder from step e and the DNA obtained for diagnosis from step f to determine whether the patterns are the same or different and to diagnose thereby predisposition to the disorder if the patterns are the same.
96. The method of claim 95, wherein a disorder associated with the expression of a specific mammalian glycine transporter allele is diagnosed. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
