<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617847</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COLLAPSING FOAM ANODE BACKING FOR ZINC-AIR BATTERY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M402	H01M402	H01M1004	H01M1004	H01M1200	H01M1206	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M4	H01M4	H01M10	H01M10	H01M12	H01M12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A metal-air cell (70), such as is used in a zinc-air battery, includes a tray (2) having one or more air holes (3) and a hydrophobic membrane (4) covering the air holes (3). A substantially flat air electrode (9) is oriented parallel with the axis of the tray. A sealant is employed to ensure that the contents of the cell do not leak between air electrode and the tray (2). A metal electrode (6) such as a zinc negative electrode and an electrolyte are located within the tray (2) interior and electronically isolated from the air electrode. A collapsible foam support (5) is used to accommodate a change in dimension of the metal electrode. Positive and negative terminals (13, 14) are affixed to the ends of the substantially cylindrical container (40) to create the cell (70).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSI INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSI, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUTT RONALD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOODRUFF GLENN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUTT, RONALD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WOODRUFF, GLENN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "Collapsing Foam Anode Backing for Zinc-Air Battery1'BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to metal-air cells or batteries, such as zinc-air, aluminum-air, magnesium-air, and lithium-air cells. These cells are advantageous because, among other things, they have high specific energies. The zinc-air electrochemical couple has the highest specific energy, up to 450 Wh/kg, of all commercially available battery systems. Furthermore, the zinc-air system is inherently safe. Both of its electrodes are benign; the negative electrode is composed primarily of innocuous zinc metal, and the positive electrode is composed of a carbon-PTFE (polytetra-fluoroethylene) air cathode.Currently the most popular configuration for the zinc-air system is the button cell. Zinc-air button cells dominate the hearing aid market because of their high energy density, which is twice that of the competitive mercuric oxide and silver oxide cells. To date other uses for zinc-air cell have been limited to specialized applications, such as oxygen getters for wine (as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,838,442), and 8.4 volt medical telemetry batteries (which consist of a stack of six button cells in a plastic case) . Taken together these uses represent a small portion of the total world market for primary batteries, which is dominated by the AAA, AA, C and D cell sizes. These cells (AAA, AA, etc.), which are typically cylindrical and commonly employ carbon-zinc and alkaline manganese dioxide chemistries, have widespread applications in the fields of consumer and industrial electrical and electronic products, ranging from toys and flashlights to pocket pagers and medical telemetry equipment.During the past 30 years battery developers have attempted to apply zinc-air cell chemistry to a cylindrical battery configuration which would be interchangeable with the popular consumer batteries discussed above. These attempts 

 have generally employed circular, concentric designs, i.e. those in which the air cathode is cylindrical and located inside an annular zinc anode (see, for example, U.S. Patents 2,938,064; 3,124,487; 3,682,706; 3,881,959; 4,341,847; and 4,491,624) or located outside a central anode cylinder (see, for example, U.S. Patents 3,871,920; 4,009,320; 4,211,830; 4,214,044; and 4,303,743) . None of these approaches has been successfully applied to a commercial zinc-air cylindrical cell product. A common difficulty associated with primary and secondary metal-air cells, such as the zinc-air cell, is expansion of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A metal-air cell comprising: a container including a substantially cylindrical circumferential sidewall with an axis and first and second ends, and end walls at the first and second ends, the circumferential sidewall and end walls having inner surfaces defining an interior, a portion of said sidewall defining an air electrode region; a source of oxygen fluidly coupled to the air electrode region; a generally flat air electrode oriented substantially parallel with the axis, the air electrode being fluidly coupled with the source of oxygen, the air electrode sized to cover the air electrode region; a metal electrode located within the container interior; an electrolyte within the container interior; a separator electronically isolating the metal electrode from the air electrode; and a sealant which sealingly mounts the air electrode to the circumferential sidewall so to cover the air electrode region.
2. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 1 further comprising a collapsible foam support disposed against the metal electrode.
3. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 1 wherein the circumferential sidewall has an average radius of at least 0.25 inches.
4. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 1 wherein the air electrode region comprises an opening into the interior.
5. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 4 wherein the air electrode region further comprises a flat rim surrounding the opening.
6. A metal-air cell comprising: 


 a tray including a circumferential sidewall including a bottom having one or more air holes, an air electrode region, first and second ends, and end walls at the first and second ends, the circumferential sidewall and end walls having inner surfaces defining an interior; a source of oxygen; an air electrode fluidly coupled with the source of oxygen, the air electrode sized to substantially cover the air electrode region; a metal electrode located within the tray interior; a hydrophobic membrane covering the one or more air holes; a separator electronically isolating the metal electrode from the air electrode; and a sealant which sealingly mounts the air electrode to the tray so to cover the opening.
7. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 6 further comprising collapsible foam support disposed against the metal electrode.
8. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 6 additionally comprising an a non-conducting tube surrounding the tray.
9. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 6 wherein the metal electrode comprises zinc metal powder suspended in said electrolyte, said electrolyte being a gelled alkaline electrolyte.
10. A metal-air cell as recited in claim 6 further comprising a shrinkable tube surrounding the cell.
11. An improved metal-air cell of the type typically including a metal electrode, an air electrode, a separator, and an electrolyte within a container, the improvement comprising: the container including a substantially cylindrical circumferential sidewall with an axis and first and second ends, and end walls at the first and second ends, the circumferential sidewall and end walls having inner surfaces 


 17 defining an interior, a portion of said circumferential sidewall defining an air electrode region; a generally flat air electrode oriented substantially parallel with the axis, the air electrode sized to cover the air electrode region; a sealant which sealingly mounts the air electrode to the circumferential sidewall so to cover the air electrode region.
12. A metal-air cell comprising a container including one or more sidewalls of which at least one includes one or more air holes, an air electrode region, first and second ends, and end walls at the first and second ends, the sidewalls and end walls having inner surfaces defining an interior; a generally flat air electrode sized to cover the air electrode region; a metal electrode located within the container interior; an electrolyte within the container interior; means for supplying oxygen to the air electrode; means for electronically isolating the metal electrode from the air electrode; and means for sealingly mounting the air electrode to the container so to cover the air electrode region.
13. An improved cell of the type typically including two electrodes, a separator, and an electrolyte within a container, the improvement comprising a metal electrode having an electrode surface, said metal electrode being of a type which changes a first dimension during charge or discharge; and a collapsible foam support having a support surface disposed between and touching the electrode surface and the container, wherein the resilient foam surface changes a second dimension in response to a change in the first dimension of the metal electrode. 


 14. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the foam support is situated between and touching the electrode surface and the container.
15. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the foam support is an insulator.
16. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the foam support is a closed-cell foam.
17. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the foam support comprises polyethylene.
18. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the metal electrode is a zinc electrode.
19. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the metal electrode comprises a zinc metal powder suspended in a gelled alkaline electrolyte.
20. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the metal electrode is a aluminum electrode.
21. A cell as recited in claim 13 further comprising a current collector disposed between the metal electrode and the foam support.
22. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the cell is button cell.
23. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the cell is a prismatic cell.
24. A cell as recited in claim 13 wherein the container includes a section of said container adjacent to the foam support, said section comprising one or more air holes. 


 19
25. A cell as recited in claim 24 further comprising a hydrophobic membrane situated between and touching the foam support and the one or more holes.
26. A method for accommodating a change in dimension of an electrode including the steps of charging or discharging a cell, the charging or discharging causing a first dimension of the electrode to change; and supporting a surface of the electrode with a collapsible foam support, wherein the collapsible foam support changes a second dimension in response to a change in the first dimension of the electrode.
27. A method as recited in claim 26 wherein the charging or discharging is carried out on a zinc electrode.
28. A method as recited in claim 26 wherein the supporting step carried out using a closed-cell polyethylene foam.
29. A method as recited in claim 26 further comprising a step of allowing gas from the resilient foam support to escape from the cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
