<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625956</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEALLESS DISPENSING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B130	B05B130	B05C500	B05C500	B05C502	B05C502	B05C17005	B05C17005	B05C1701	B65D8300	B65D8300	B67D540	B67D542	F16K2100	F16K2116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	B05C	B05C	B05C	B05C	B05C	B05C	B05C	B65D	B65D	B67D	B67D	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B1	B05B1	B05C5	B05C5	B05C5	B05C5	B05C17	B05C17	B05C17	B65D83	B65D83	B67D5	B67D5	F16K21	F16K21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Dispensing apparatus capable of dispensing a wide variety of fluids, such as adhesives, is provided. The structure of the apparatus allows it to be miniaturized, thereby facilitating its use for many applications. The apparatus includes a cylindrical housing (12) in which a slide (14) is mounted. The housing includes a fluid reservoir (18) which is supplied with pressurized fluid. A longitudinal passage (20) extends through the slide for providing this fluid to the reservoir (18). A bellows seal (42) is employed for sealing off an actuating mechanism from the reservoir. The seal is connected between the slide (14) and a support fixedly mounted to the housing. A valve mechanism (24, 26) is provided at one end of the housing for controlling the flow of fluid from the reservoir. The valve mechanism (24, 26) is directly or indirectly responsive to the slide. Fluid may be caused to flow through the valve mechanism either by fluid pressure or by positive displacement.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCTITE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOCTITE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICKAU EWALD F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMES MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DICKAU, EWALD, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMES, MARK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SEALLESS DISPENSING APPARATUSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe field of the invention relates to fluid dispensing mechanisms and, more particularly, to an improved dispensing apparatus which may be miniaturized and which is capable of delivering precisely controlled quantities of fluid.2. Brief Description of the Prior ArtThere are a number of known designs for dispensing fluids such as adhesives, sealants, and the like at accurately controlled flow rates, in accurate quantities, and for accurate placement on a receiving surface.In certain designs, fluid is introduced under pressure to a reservoir and dispensed upon movement of a valve member off a valve seat. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,930,669 and 4,955,514 disclose two such designs. Each design is sealless, which is highly advantageous for dispensing fluids which tend to leak through and/or destroy conventional seals.Another type of dispensing apparatus is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,858,789. This design allows the positive displacement of precise quantities of fluid from a reservoir. All three patented devices discussed above employ a deformable diaphragm for isolating the reservoir from the mechanism which actuates the valve, thereby preventing the undesirable entry of product into the mechanism.Other types of dispensers are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,066,188, 4,066,845, 4,099,653 and 4,126,321. The first three patented dispensers are designed primarily for dispensing hot, viscous fluids, while the latter is designed for use as a spray gun. Each employs a bellows seal for isolating a fluid reservoir from an actuating mechanism.U.S. Patent No. 3,871,558 discloses an apparatus for 

dispensing viscous products such as liquid soap via positive displacement. The products are confined by a bellows-type membrane.There are many different types of fluids which require the use of a dispensing apparatus. Such fluids have a very broad range of viscosities, curing properties, and other characteristics which may preclude the use of certain types of dispensers. Cyanoacrylates, for example, of relatively low viscosities tend to diffuse with polymers and then cure. These properties make the use of dynamic seals in a dispenser very disadvantageous. If high pressure within the fluid reservoir is required, diaphragm seals become disadvantageous as the pressure against such seals must be overcome in order to move the stem or slide to. which the valve member is secured.Fluid dispensers may also be used in a wide variety of applications, some of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing defining a reservoir and including a discharge port through which fluid within said reservoir may be dispensed; an elongate slide positioned within said housing, said slide including a longitudinal passage extending at least partially therethrough and an opening communicating said passage with said reservoir; a support positioned with said housing, said slide extending through said support; a longitudinally expandable seal positioned within said reservoir, said seal being secured to said slide and to said support, said slide extending through said seal, said seal being capable of preventing fluid within said reservoir from entering said support; valve means secured to said housing and responsive to axial movement of said slide for controlling the dispensing of fluid through said discharge port.
2. An apparatus as described in Claim 1, wherein said valve means include a valve seat having first and second conical end portions.
3. An apparatus as described in Claim 2, wherein said slide includes a conical end surface which is sealingly engageable with said first conical end portion of said valve seat, a valve member secured to said slide, said valve member being sealingly engageable with said second conical end portion of said valve seat.
4. An apparatus as described in Claim 1, wherein said valve means include a valve seat defining said discharge port and a valve member responsive to the axial position of said slide and engageable with said valve seat, said opening within said slide being radially oriented with respect to the 


longitudinal axis of said slide and positioned between an end of said seal and said valve seat.
5. An apparatus as described in Claim 4, wherein said opening within said slide is oriented at least partially towards said valve seat.
6. An apparatus as described in Claim 1, wherein said seal is a bellows seal having a first end directly secured to said slide without the use of a clamp.
7. An apparatus as described in Claim 6, wherein said support slidably supports said slide and includes an axial projection extending into said reservoir, said bellows seal having a second end directly secured to said axial projection without the use of a clamp.
8. An apparatus as described in Claim 7 including a heat-conductive ring secured to said slide, said first end of said bellows seal being secured directly to said ring.
9. An apparatus as described in Claim 8, wherein said support is made from a heat-conductive material.
10. An apparatus as described in Claim 6 wherein said bellows seal is substantially coaxial with said slide.
11. An apparatus as described in Claim 10, wherein said opening within said slide is adjacent to said first end of said bellows seal.
12. An apparatus as described in Claim 11, wherein said slide includes a plurality of openings communicating said passage with said reservoir, each of said openings extending radially with respect to the longitudinal axis of said slide and generally towards said valve means. 


 13. An apparatus as described in Claim 1 including a sealing ring mounted to said slide, means defining a chamber within said housing in fluid communication with said reservoir, said sealing ring being capable of closing an end of said reservoir upon axial movement of said slide and displacing fluid in said chamber towards said valve means.
14. An apparatus as described in Claim 1 including means for reciprocating said slide along its longitudinal axis.
15. A dispensing apparatus comprising: a housing defining a reservoir therein; a slide slidably mounted within said housing, said slide including a longitudinal passage extending at least partially therethrough and a radially extending opening communicating said passage with said reservoir; a support positioned within said housing, said slide extending through said support and into said reservoir; a bellows seal connected between said support and said slide, said slide extending through said bellows seal, and valve means responsive to said slide for controlling the flow of fluid from said reservoir.
16. An apparatus as described in Claim 15, wherein said bellows seal is directly secured to said slide and said support without the use of clamps.
17. An apparatus as described in Claim 15, wherein said valve means include a valve seat having first and second conical end portions, one of said end portions adjoining said reservoir.
18. An apparatus as described in Claim 17, wherein said end portion adjoining said reservoir includes a pair of adjoining, frustoconical surfaces. 


 19. An apparatus as described in Claim 15, wherein said radially extending opening extends towards said valve means.
20. An apparatus as described in Claim 15, wherein said housing is substantially cylindrical, said valve means is positioned near one end of said housing, said slide includes a closed end adjacent to said valve means, said radially extending opening being positioned between said bellows seal and said closed end of said slide. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
