<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655676</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Three input arithmetic logic unit forming mixed arithmetic and boolean combinations.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F700	G06F700	G06F748	G06F757	G06F7575	G06F1208	G06F1208	G06T120	G06T120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F7	G06F7	G06F7	G06F7	G06F7	G06F12	G06F12	G06T1	G06T1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A three input arithmetic logic unit (230) forms a mixed 
arithmetic and Boolean combination of three multibit input 

signals. The arithmetic logic unit (230) first forms a 
Boolean combination and then forms an arithmetic combination. 

The current instruction drives an instruction decoder (250, 
245) that generates the functions signals F0-F7 which control 

the combination formed. The three input arithmetic logic unit 
(230) preferably employs a set of bit circuits (400), each 

forming carry propagate, generate and kill signals. These 
signals may employed with a multilevel logic tree circuit and 

a carry input to produce a bit resultant and a carry output to 
the next bit circuit. This structure permits formation of 

selected arithmetic, Boolean or mixed arithmetic and Boolean 
function of the three input signals based upon the current 

instruction. Selection of the function signals enables the 
combination to be insensitive to one of the input signals, 

thus performs a two input function of remaining input signals. 
The instruction itself may include the function signals and 

function modification bits, or the function signals and 
function modification signals may be stored in a special data 

register. Function modification signals cause modification of 
the function signals prior to use. The three input arithmetic 

logic unit (230) includes a least significant bit carry-in 
generator (246) supplying a carry input to the least 

significant bit. This carry input is determined by the 
combination being formed, and generally is "1" only during 

subtraction. The carry input may be specified in the special 
purpose data register (D0) for certain instructions. The 

combination formed is optionally modified dependent upon the 
sign bit of one of the inputs. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUTTAG KARL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMPSON RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALSH BRENDAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUTTAG, KARL M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIMPSON, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WALSH, BRENDAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates to improvements in the 
inventions disclosed in the following copending U.S. patent 
applications, all of which are assigned to Texas Instruments:
 
   U.S. patent application serial no. 08/263,501 filed June 
21, 1994 entitled "MULTI-PROCESSOR WITH CROSSBAR LINK OF 
PROCESSORS AND MEMORIES AND METHOD OF OPERATION", a 
continuation of U.S. patent application serial no. 08/135,754 
filed October 12, 1993 and now abandoned, a continuation of 
U.S. patent application serial no. 07/933,865 filed August 21, 
1992 and now abandoned, a continuation of U.S. patent 
application serial no. 07/435,591 filed November 17, 1989 and 
now abandoned; (TI-14608)
 
   U.S. Patent No. 5,212,777, issued May 18, 1993, filed 
November 17, 1989 and entitled "SIMD/MIMD RECONFIGURABLE 
MULTI-PROCESSOR AND METHOD OF OPERATION"; (TI-14655)
 
   U.S. patent application serial no. 07/895,565 filed June 
5, 1992 entitled "RECONFIGURABLE COMMUNICATIONS FOR 
MULTI-PROCESSOR AND METHOD OF OPERATION," a continuation of 
U.S. patent application serial no. 07/437,856 filed November 
17, 1989 and now abandoned; (TI-14656)
 
   U.S. patent application serial no. 08/264,582 filed June 
22, 1994 entitled "REDUCED AREA OF CROSSBAR AND METHOD OF 
OPERATION", a continuation of U.S. patent application serial 
no. 07/437,852 filed November 17, 1989 and now abandoned; 
(TI-14657)
 
   U.S. patent application serial no. 08/032,530 filed March 
15, 1993 entitled "SYNCHRONIZED MIMD MULTI-PROCESSING SYSTEM 
AND METHOD OF OPERATION," a continuation of U.S. patent 
application serial no. 07/437,853 filed November 17, 1989 and 
now abandoned; (TI-14658)
 
   U.S. Patent No. 5,197,140 issued March 23, 1993 filed 
November 17, 1989 and entitled "SLICED ADDRESSING  
 
MULTI-PROCESSOR AND METHOD OF OPERATION"; (TI-14659)
 
   U.S. Patent No. Patent No. 5,339,447 issued August 16, 
1994 filed November 17, 1989 entitled "ONES COUNTING CIRCUIT, 
UTILIZING A MATRIX OF INTERCONNECTED HALF-ADDERS, FOR COUNTING 
THE NUMBER OF ONES IN A BINARY STRING OF IMAGE DATA"; 
(TI-14660)
 
   U.S. Patent No. 5,239,654 issued August 24, 1993 filed 
November 17, 1989 and entitled "DUAL MODE SIMD/MIMD PROCESSOR 
PROVIDING REUSE OF MIMD INSTRUCTION MEMORIES AS DATA MEMORIES 
WHEN OPERATING IN SIMD MODE"; (TI-14661)
 
   U.S. patent application serial no. 07/911,562 filed June 
29, 1992 entitled "IMAGING COMPUTER AND METHOD OF OPERATION", 
a continuation of U.S. patent application serial no. 437,854 
filed November 17, 1989 and now abandoned; (TI-14662) and

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A three input arithmetic logic unit comprising: 
a first input receiving a first multibit input signal; 

a second input receiving a second multibit input signal; 
a third input receiving a third multibit input signal; and 

a combinatorial unit connected to said first, second and third inputs, said 
combinatorial unit forming a multibit output signal at an output which is 

a mixed arithmetic and Boolean combination of said first, second and 
third multibit input signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 1, wherein: 
said combinatorial unit responsive to said third input signal for forming 

said multibit output signal which is a combination of said first and second 
multibit input signals, said combination selected by said third input 

signal. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 2, wherein: 
said combinatorial unit being divided into a plurality of sections, each 

section generating said combination of respective subsets of said first and 
second input signals at correspondings subset of said output, said third 

input signal selecting said combination formed by said combinatorial unit 
within respective sections. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 3, further comprising: 
a fourth input receiving a fourth multibit digital signal; and 

an expand circuit connected to said fourth input source and said third 
input of said combinatorial unit, said expand circuit replicating of a 

selected number of bits of said fourth multibit digital signal whereby each 
 

bit of said fourth multibit signal supplies said third multibit input signal 
for a corresponding section of said combinatorial unit. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 1, further comprising: 
a source of instructions; 

an instruction decoder receiving instructions from said source of 
instructions and generating said arithmetic enable signal and a set of 

function signals corresponding to each received instruction; and 
said combinatorial unit is connected to said instruction decoder to receive 

said set of function signals and performs a selected arithmetic, Boolean or 
mixed arithmetic and Boolean function of said first, second and third 

input signals corresponding to said received instruction. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received instruction to 

supply said set of function signals whereby said conbinatorial unit 
performs a mixed arithmetic and Boolean function consisting of 

arithmetic sum of the first input signal with a Boolean function of the 
second and third input signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein; 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received instruction to 

supply said set of function signals whereby said combinatorial unit 
performs a mixed arithmetic and Boolean function consisting of the 

arithmetic subtraction of a Boolean function of the second and third input 
signals from the first input signal. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said instruction decode logic is responsive a received instruction to supply 

said set of function signals whereby said combinatorial unit performs a 
 

mixed arithmetic and Boolean function consisting of a Boolean function of 
the third input signal and at least two arithmetic operations on the first 

and second input signal. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received instruction to 

supply said set of function signals whereby said combinatorial unit 
performs a mixed arithmetic and Boolean function consisting of an 

arithmetic operation on a Boolean function of the first and second input 
signal and a Boolean function of the first and third input signal. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received instruction to 

supply said set of function signals whereby said combinatorial unit is 
insensitive to one of the input signals to thereby perform a two input 

function of remaining input signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said source of instructions supplies at least one arithmetic instruction 

including an arithmetic enable bit; and 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received arithmetic 

instruction to supply an arithmetic enable signal equal to said arithmetic 
enable bit. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said source of instructions supplies at least one function signal instruction 

including a function signal field having individual bits corresponding to 
respective function signals; and

 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received function signal 

instruction to supply function signals equal to said corresponding 
individual bits of said function signal field. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said source of instructions supplies at least one function signal 

modification instruction including a function signal field having 
individual bits corresponding to respective function signals and a 

modification field having a set of modification bits; and 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received function signal 

modification instruction to supply function signals equal to said 
corresponding individual bits of said function signal field as modified 

corresponding to said set of modification bits. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 13, wherein: 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received function signal 

modification instruction to modify at least one of said first, second or third 
input signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, further comprising: 
a special function data register connected to said instruction decode logic 

including a function signal field having individual bits corresponding to 
respective function signals; 

said source of instructions supplies at least one extended arithmetic logic 
unit instruction; and 

said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received extended 
arithmetic logic unit instruction to supply function signals equal to said 

corresponding individual bits of said function signal field of said special 
function register. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 15, wherein: 

said special function data register further includes a modification field 
having a set of modification bits; and 

said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received function signal 
modification instruction to supply function signals equal to said 

corresponding individual bits of said function signal field as modified 
corresponding to said set of modification bits. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 15, wherein: 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received function signal 

modification instruction to modify at least one of said first, second or third 
input signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 15, wherein: 
said source of instructions supplies at least one extended arithmetic logic 

unit false instruction; and 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received extended 

arithmetic logic unit false instruction to supply function signals equal to 
the respective inverses of said corresponding individual bits of said 

function signal field of said special function register. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, further comprising: 
a least significant bit carry-in generator connected to said instruction 

decode logic and to a carry input of a said combinational unit; and 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to said received instruction to 

control said least significant bit carry in generator corresponding to said 
received instruction. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 19, further comprising:
 

a special function data register connected to said instruction decode logic 
including a carry in bit; 

said source of instructions supplies at least one special register carry in 
instruction; and 

said instruction decode logic is responsive to a special function register 
carry in instruction to control said least significant bit carry-in generator 

to generate said carry input to said combinatorial unit equal to said carry 
in bit. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 5, wherein: 
said source of instructions supplies at least one sign dependent 

instruction; and 
said instruction decode logic is responsive to a received sign dependent 

instruction to supply a first set of function signals if a most significant bit 
of a predetermined input signal is in a first state and to supply a second 

set of function signals if said predetermined bit of said predetermined 
input signal is in a second state. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 21, wherein: 
said instruction decode logic supplies said second set of function signals 

by inverting a predetermined subset of said first set of function signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 1, wherein: 
said combinatorial unit forms said multibit output signal by first forming 

at least one Boolean combination of at least two of said first, second and 
third multibit input signals and then forming an arithmetic combination 

including said at least one Boolean combination. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 1, wherein: 
said combinatorial unit forms the combination A
&
F1(B,C) + F2(B,C)  
where: A is said first multibit input signal; B is said second multibit input 

signal; C is said third multibit input signal; F1(B,C) is a selected first 
Boolean combination of said second and third multibit input signals; and 

F2(B,C) is a selected second Boolean combination of said second and third 
multibit input signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 24, wherein: 
said combinatorial unit wherein said first Boolean combination F1(B,C) 

and said second Boolean combination F2(B,C) are independently selected 
from the set of all possible Boolean combinations of the second multibit 

input signal B and the third multibit input signal C. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 25, further comprising: 
a least significant bit carry-in generator connected to said combinatorial 

unit supplying a carry input to a least significant bit of said combinatorial 
unit, said carry input having a first state for a first predetermined subset 

of said second Boolean combination F2(B,C) and a second state opposite to 
said first state for a second predetermined subset of said second Boolean 

combination F2(B,C). 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 26, wherein: 
said second predetermined subset of said second Boolean combination 

F2(B,C) includes: the bit wise inverse of said second multibit input signal 
B; the bit wise inverse of said third multibit input signal C; and the bit 

wise inverse all Boolean combinations of said second multibit input signal 
B and said third multibit input signal C. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 27, wherein: 
said least significant bit carry in generator forms a carry input of "0" for 

said first predetermined subset of said second Boolean combination 
F2(B,C) and a carry input of "1" for said second predetermined subset of 

said second Boolean combination F2(B,C). 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 1, wherein: 
said combinatorial unit forms the combination 

F1(A,B,C) + F2(A,B,C)  
where: A is said first multibit input signal; B is said second multibit input 

signal; C is said third multibit input signal; F1(A,B,C) is a selected first 
Boolean combination of said first, second and third multibit input signals; 

and F2(A,B,C) is a selected second Boolean combination of said first, 
second and third multibit input signals. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 29, wherein: 
said combinatorial unit wherein said first Boolean combination F1(A,B,C) 

and said second Boolean combination F2(A,B,C) are independently 
selected from the set of all possible Boolean combinations of the first 

multibit input signal A, the second multibit input signal B and the third 
multibit input signal C. 
The three input arithmetic logic unit of claim 30, further comprising: 
a least significant bit carry-in generator connected to said combinatorial 

unit supplying a carry input to a least significant bit of said combinatorial 
unit. 
A data processing system comprising:
 

a data system bus transferring data and addresses; 
a system memory connected to said data system bus, said system memory 

storing data and transferring data via said data system bus; 
a data processor circuit connected to said data system bus, said data 

processor circuit having a three input arithmetic logic unit as claimed in 
any preceding claim. 
The data processing system of claim 32, wherein: 
said data processor circuit wherein 

said combinatorial unit forms said multibit output signal by first forming 
at least one Boolean combination of at least two of said first, second and 

third multibit input signals and then forming an arithmetic combination 
including said at least one Boolean combination. 
The data processing system of claim 32, wherein: 
said data processor circuit wherein 

said combinatorial unit forms the combination 
A
&
F1(B,C) + F2(B,C)  
where: A is said first multibit input signal; B is said second multibit input 

signal; C is said third multibit input signal; F1(B,C) is a selected first 
Boolean combination of said second and third multibit input signals; and 

F2(B,C) is a selected second Boolean combination of said second and third 

multibit input signals. 
The data processing system of claim 32, wherein: 
said data processor circuit further includes 

a plurality of data memories connected to said data processor circuit,
 

an instruction memory supplying instructions to said data processor 
circuit, and 

a transfer controller connected to said data system bus, each of said data 
memories and said instruction memory controlling data transfer between 

said system memory and said plurality of data memories and between 
said system memory and said instruction memory. 
The data processing system of claim 35, wherein: 
said data processor circuit further includes 

at least one additional data processor circuit identical to said data 
processor circuit, 

a plurality of additional data memories connected to each additional data 
processor circuit, 

an additional instruction memory supplying instructions to each 
additional data processor circuit, and 

said transfer controller is further connected to each of said additional data 
memories and each said additional instruction memory controlling data 

transfer between said system memory and said each of said additional 
data memories and between said system memory and each said additional 

instruction memory. 
The data processing system of claim 36, wherein: 
said data processor circuit including said data processor circuit, said data 

memories, said instruction memories, each of said additional data 
processor circuits, each of said additional data memories, each additional 

instruction memory and said transfer controller are formed on a single 
integrated circuit. 
The data processing system of claim 37, wherein: 
said data processor circuit further includes

 
a master data processor, 

a plurality of master data memories connected to said master data 
processor, 

at least one master instruction memory supplying instructions to said 
master data processor, and 

said transfer controller is further connected to each of said master data 
memories and each said master instruction memory controlling data 

transfer between said system memory and said each of said master data 
memories and between said system memory and each said master 

instruction memory. 
The data processing system of claim 38, wherein: 
said data processor circuit including said data processor circuit, said data 

memories, said instruction memories, said master data processor, each of 
said master data memories, each master instruction memory and said 

transfer controller are formed on a single integrated circuit. 
The data processor system of claim 39, wherein: 
said system memory consists of an image memory storing image data in a 

plurality of pixels; and 
said data processor system further comprising: 

an image display unit connected to said image memory generating a 
visually perceivable output of an image consisting of a plurality of pixels 

stored in said image memory. 
The data processor system of claim 40, further comprising: 
a palette forming a connection between said image memory and said 

image display unit, said palette transforming pixels recalled from said 
image memory into video signals driving said image display unit; 

and wherein said data processor circuit further includes 
a frame controller connected to said palette controlling said palette 

 
transformation of pixels into video signals. 
The data processor system of claim 32, wherein: 
said system memory consists of an image memory storing image data in a 

plurality of pixels; and 
said data processor system further comprising: 

a printer connected to said image memory generating a printed output of 
an image consisting of a plurality of pixels stored in said image memory. 
The data processor system of claim 42, wherein: 
said printer consists of a color printer. 
The data processor system of claim 43, further comprising: 
a printer controller forming a connection between said image memory and 

said printer, said printer controller transforming pixels recalled from said 
image memory into print signals driving said printer; 

and wherein said data processor circuit further includes 
a frame controller connected to said print controller controlling said print 

controller transformation of pixels into print signals. 
The data processor system of claim 44, wherein: 
said system memory consists of an image memory storing image data in a 

plurality of pixels; and 
said data processor system further comprising: 

an imaging device connected to said image memory generating an image 
signal input. 
The data processor system of claim 45, further comprising:
 

an image capture controller forming a connection between said imaging 
device and said image memory, said image capture controller 

transforming said image signal into pixels supplied for storage in said 
image memory; 

and wherein said data processor circuit further includes 
a frame controller connected to said image capture controller controlling 

said image capture controller transformation of said image signal into 
pixels. 
The data processor system of claim 46, further comprising: 
a modem connected to said data system bus and to a communications line. 
The data processor system of claim 47, further comprising: 
a host processing system connected to said data system bus. 
The data processor system of claim 48, further comprising: 
a host system bus connected to said host processing system transferring 

data and addresses; and 
at least one host peripheral connected to said host system bus. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
