<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626116</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FREQUENCY TUNING FOR SATELLITE GROUND STATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B7204	H04B7208	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A satellite communications network tuning system which consumes very little communications bandwidth. The network has a first terminal (10) for transmitting and receiving signals, a second terminal (20-1, 20-2) in communication with the first (10) for transmitting signals and a satellite (22) for receiving signals from the terminals and retransmitting them. The frequency of the retransmitted signals is offset from the frequency at which the signals were received. A method according to the present invention for compensating the transmit frequency of the second terminal (20-1, 20-2) for the satellite frequency offset comprises transmitting a signal from the first terminal (10) to the satellite (22) at a first frequency, receiving the retransmitted signal from the satellite (22) at the first terminal (10) at a second frequency, the second frequency being offset from the first frequency by the satellite (22), measuring, at the first terminal, the difference between the first frequency and the second frequency to obtain an offset, transmitting the offset from the first terminal (10) to the second terminal (20-1, 20-2), and adjusting the transmit frequency of the second terminal (20-1, 20-2) using the offset.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHARPURY ARCHANA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHARPURY ARCHANA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FREQUENCY TUNING FOR SATELLITE GROUND STATIONSField of the InventionThe present invention pertains to the field of tuning systems for satellite ground stations and in particular for a method for compensating for offsets in transmission frequencies used by ground stations communicating with each other via a satellite.Background of the InventionSatellite communication networks are increasingly being used for communicating a variety of different kinds of signals including voice, data, video and audio between remote locations. Such networks may transmit signals synchronously in order to support conversations or video teleconferences or asynchronously for transmitting data, for example inventory and sales information between sales outlets and a headquarters or warehouse depot. In many applications, the ground stations transmit signals to each other in the form of bursts. Receiving stations must be able to tune to these bursts almost instantly despite offsets and drift introduced by the ground stations, the satellite and the environment. In order to compensate for these offsets and drifts, specific tuning or pilot signals are sometimes used. These signals are transmitted continuously at a known frequency by a control station as a reference allowing each of the ground stations to track transmissions from other stations using the reference. The pilot signal, however, consumes bandwidth that might otherwise be used for communications and requires that ground station resources be dedicated to tuning to the pilot signal. An alternative approach is to ignore the offsets and drifts. The receiving station can simply attempt to lock onto any signals that are close to the assigned receive frequency. However, this technique introduces delays and errors in the reception of the signals. In addition, the transmitted bursts must be long enough to allow time for tuning and the modem at each receiving station must have a great enough frequency range to allow the disparate signals to be captured. This reduces the precision or increases the cost of the modem. 

 Summary of the present inventionThe present invention allows a large number of remote ground stations to compensate for offsets and drift in a bursty satellite communications network without consuming communications bandwidth and without adding to the cost of the remote terminals. It can also be applied to advantage in less bursty networks. In one embodiment, the invention encompasses a method for compensating the transmit frequency of a ground station terminal for the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In a satellite communications network having a first terminal for transmitting and receiving signals, a second terminal in communication with the first for transmitting signals and a satellite for receiving signals from the terminals and retransmitting them, the frequency of the retransmitted signals being offset from the frequency at which the signals were received, a method for compensating the transmit frequency of the second terminal for the satellite frequency offset comprising:
transmitting a signal from the first terminal to the satellite at a first frequency;
receiving the retransmitted signal from the satellite at the first terminal at a second frequency, the second frequency being offset from the first frequency by the satellite;
measuring, at the first terminal, the difference between the first frequency and the second frequency to obtain a first offset;
transmitting the first offset from the first terminal to the second terminal;
adjusting the transmit frequency of the second terminal using the first offset.
2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the step of transmitting the first offset comprises transmitting the first offset via the satellite.
3. The method of Claim 1 wherein the step of transmitting the first offset comprises transmitting the first offset over a wired terrestrial communications bus interconnecting the first and second terminals. 


 4. The method of Claim 1 wherein the step of adjusting comprises:
determining a terminal offset;
adding the difference between the terminal offset and the first offset to the second terminal transmit frequency.
5. The method of Claim 4 wherein the step of determining a terminal offset comprises:
receiving a signal from the first terminal via the satellite for which the transmission frequency from the first terminal is known;
subtracting, at the second terminal, the known first terminal transmission frequency and the first offset from the frequency of the received signal to obtain the terminal offset.
The method of Claim 1 wherein the method further comprises;
periodically repeating the steps of transmitting from the first terminal, receiving the retransmitted signal and measuring the difference in order to redetermine the first offset; and then
periodically receiving the redetermined first offset from the first terminal.
7. The method of Claim 6 wherein the first terminal comprises a control terminal transmitting at a control channel frequency, wherein the second terminal comprises a communications terminal, wherein the network comprises a plurality of other communications terminals, the second terminal communicating with other communications terminals on communications channel frequencies and wherein the step of receiving the redetermined first offset comprises tuning the second terminal to the control channel frequency after the conclusion of a communication with another communications terminal. 


 8. The method of Claim 4 wherein the network comprises a plurality of other terminals, and wherein the step of determining a terminal offset comprises:
receiving a signal from another terminal via the satellite for which the transmission frequency from the other terminal is known;
subtracting, at the second terminal, the known other terminal transmission frequency and the first offset from the frequency of the received signal to obtain the terminal offset.
9. The method of Claim 8 further comprising repeating the steps of receiving a signal from an other terminal and subtracting each known other terminal transmission frequency so that a plurality of terminal offset values are calculated using a plurality of different other terminals, the method further comprising averaging the plurality of terminal offset values to obtain an average terminal offset, and wherein the step of adding the difference comprises adding the difference between the average terminal offset and the first offset to the second terminal transmit frequency. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
