<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640206</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL RECEIVER FOR AREA LOCATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1100	G01B1100	G01C100	G01C100	G01C1500	G01C1500	G01S378	G01S3783	G01S3784	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	G01B11	G01C1	G01C1	G01C15	G01C15	G01S3	G01S3	G01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An optical location system for locating the position of a moving object in a defined area. An optical transmitter is attached to the moving object. A stationary receiver has a number of sensors for receiving a signal from the transmitter. One sensor has a field of view of the entire area. Other sensors have partially blocked fields of view, with the blocking being accomplished with nonopaque strips of decreasing width. These strips are arranged so that the detection or nondetection of light by the sensors can be digitally coded in a manner that corresponds to sections of the area.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION TRACKING FM INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PRECISION TRACKING FM, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOX CHRISTOPHER WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLER ALAN CAMERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVIER PHILIP D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOX, CHRISTOPHER, WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HELLER, ALAN, CAMERIK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLIVIER, PHILIP, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPTICAL RECEIVER FOR AREA LOCATION SYSTEMTECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to position location systems using optical transmitters and receivers, and more particularly to an optical receiving unit for such systems. 
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONOptical location systems are used to locate a mobile object that either receives or transmits optical signals. Typical systems involve at least one object, i.e., the target, that moves within an area whose perimeter is defined by the range of the transmitter and receiver. In some systems, the target carries the transmitter and the receiver is stationary; in others, the target receives a transmitted signal. In a third type of system, the target reflects transmitted light back to a receiver. An advantage of placing the transmitting device on the target is that the transmitted signal may then contain data identifying the target.Many optical location systems are analog in the sense that the receiver is slewed into a position close to alignment with an emitting target. At this position, the sensor operates a servo loop to lock the sensor to the target. However, such systems have narrow fields of view and do not accurately follow a rapidly moving target. U.S. Patent No. 2,855,539 discloses a digital optical location system in which light is passed through a code plate to a number of point sensors. The code plate contains rows and columns of "windows" of varying sizes, which represent bit positions of a digital code. A lens is used to focus a line image from a target onto one row or column at a time. Whether or not the light passes through a window of that row or column is used to determine a code, and hence the position of a target.U.S. Patent No. 3,602,903 discloses a digital optical location system in which a number of sensor units each have two parts. One of the two parts of each sensor unit detects light from the target. The parts are "finger shaped", so as to divide each sensor unit in a binary fashion. As resolution increases, the number of "fingers" for each sensor unit increases.. The detection or non 

detection of light by each part of each sensor unit is used to generate a code representing the position of the target. A third digital optical location system is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,710,028 to Grenier. An image frame surrounding the target is focussed onto a matrix of photosensitive elements. The coordinate position of a sensitized element is used to determine the position of the target.One limitation of existing digital optical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. An optical location system for locating the position of a moving object in a defined area, comprising: an optical transmitter for attachment to the moving object; a number of stationary optical sensors for receiving a signal from said transmitter, wherein at least one of said sensors is a full-view sensor having a field of view of all of a defined area, and wherein each other of said sensors is a partial view sensor having a field of view of said area at least partially blocked; and an aperture template for defining the field of view of said sensors such that each partial view sensor has a field of view of approximately one-half said area, as defined by nonopaque partitions, but in increasingly thinner vertical partitions or increasingly narrower horizontal partitions.
2. The system of Claim 1, wherein said template has an aperture associated with each of said partial view sensors, wherein said partitions are in increasingly smaller halves of halves with alternating blocked and unblocked partitions for defining binary fields of view.
3. The system of Claim 1, wherein said template has an aperture associated with each of said partial view sensors, wherein said partitions are such that for any two vertical or horizontal partitions, the border of a nonopaque border of one sensor overlaps a nonopaque border of another sensor for defining gray code fields of view.
4. The system of Claim 1, wherein said template has both vertical and horizontal apertures having intersecting fields of view. 


 5. The system of Claim 1, wherein said nonopaque partitions are shaped to compensate for a perspective view of said sensors.
6. The system of Claim 5, wherein said nonopaque partitions are truncated to permit the use of smaller sensors.
7. The system of Claim 5, wherein said nonopaque partitions are shaped to compensate for a perspective view except at borders corresponding to the perimeter of said area.
8. The system of Claim l, wherein said sensors are attached to said moving object and said transmitter is stationary. 

9. A method of locating a moving target in a defined area, comprising the steps of: attaching an optical transmitter to a target whose movement is at least within a defined area; receiving optical signals from said transmitter using a number of photosensors; adjusting the field of view of each of said sensors so that each of said sensors has a total field of view of 1/2 of said area but through apertures of varying patterns that permit the detection or nondetection of light by each sensor to be used to generate a digital code.
10. The method of Claim 9, and further comprising the step of using a sensor having a full field of view of said area to determine whether said target is in said area.
11. The method of Claim 9, wherein said step of adjusting said fields of view is accomplished by making said windows in increasingly narrower vertical or horizontal halves of halves such that said code is binary.
12. The method of Claim 9, wherein said step of adjusting said fields of view is accomplished by shifting the windows of pairs of sensors such that for any two sensors, a window of one sensor overlaps a window of the other sensors such that said code is gray code.
13. The method of Claim 9, wherein said step of adjusting said fields of view is accomplished by shaping each of said windows to compensate for a perspective view of said area.
14. The method of Claim 13, wherein said shaping step is accomplished by making said windows narrower at borders corresponding to farther away sections of said area. 


 15. The method of Claim 13, wherein said shaping step is accomplished by making said windows thinner for fields of view of farther away sections of said area.
16. The method of Claim 9, and further comprising the step of locating a number of said targets and indentifying said targets by means of an optical identification code. 

17. An optical location system for locating the position of a moving object in a defined area, comprising: an optical transmitter for attachment to the moving object; a number of stationary optical sensors for receiving a signal from said transmitter, wherein at least one of said sensors is a full-view sensor having a field of view of all of a defined area, and wherein each other of said sensors is a partial view sensor having a field of view of at least one vertical or horizontal row or column of said area; and a field of view window associated with each of said sensors for defining the field of view of said sensors such that each partial view sensor has a field of view of approximately one-half said area, but with different vertical or horizontal nonopaque partitions, such that for pairs of sensors the vertical or horizontal nonopaque partitioning of one sensor is a subdivision of the opaque and nonopaque partitioning of another sensor.
18. The system of Claim 17, wherein said field of view windows are shaped to compensate or a perspective view of said sensors, such that a top and a bottom of a window correspond to a far and a near border of said area, respectively, and each top side of a nonopaque partition corresponding to a farther away part of said area is thinner than a bottom side corresponding to a closer part of said area.
19. The system of Claim 17, wherein said field of view windows are further shaped to compensate for a perspective view of said sensor, such that a left and a right side of said window correspond to a left and a right side of said area, respectively, and each left and right side of a nonopaque partition -is angled in a manner that corresponds to the angle of perspective. 


 20. The system of Claim 17, wherein said field of view windows are further shaped to compensate for perspective, such that horizontal windows for farther away sections are relatively narrower than those for closer sections.
21. The system of Claim 17, wherein said transmitter is stationary and said sensors are attached to said moving object. 

[received by the International Bureau on 25 October 1993 (25.10.93
)
 ; new claims 9, 18 and 24 added ; remaining claims unchanged but renumbered (4 pages) ]
5. The system of Claim 1, wherein said nonopaque partitions are shaped to compensate for a perspective view of said sensors .
6. The system of Claim 5, wherein said nonopaque partitions are truncated to permit the use of smaller sensors .
7. The system of Claim 5, wherein said nonopaque partitions are shaped to compensate for a perspective view except at borders corresponding to the perimeter of said area.
8. The system of Claim 1, wherein said sensors are attached to said moving object and said transmitter is stationary.
9. The system of Claim 1, wherein said defined area comprises 2-
*1
"
1
 sections, wherein n is the number of stationary optical sensors.
10. A method of locating a moving target in a defined area, comprising the steps of: attaching an optical transmitter to a target whose movement is at least within a defined area; receiving optical signals from said transmitter using a number of photosensors; adjusting the field of view of each of said sensors so that each of said sensors has a total field of view of 1/2 of said area but through apertures of varying patterns that permit the detection or nondetection of light by each sensor to be used to generate a digital code.
11. The method of Claim 10, and further comprising the step of using a sensor having a full field of view of said area to determine whether said target is in said area. 


 12. The method of Claim 10, wherein said step of adjusting said fields of view is accomplished by making said windows in increasingly narrower vertical or horizontal halves of halves such that said code is binary.
13. The method of Claim 10, wherein said step of adjusting said fields of view is accomplished by shifting the windows of pairs of sensors such that for any two sensors, a window of one sensor overlaps a window of the other sensors such that said code is gray code.
14. The method of Claim 10, wherein said step of adjusting said fields of view is accomplished by shaping each of said windows to compensate for a perspective view of said area.
15. The method of Claim 14, wherein said shaping step is accomplished by making said windows narrower at borders corresponding to farther away sections of said area.
16. The method of Claim 14, wherein said shaping step is accomplished by making said windows thinner for fields of view of farther away sections of said area.
17. The method of Claim 10, and further comprising the step of locating a number of said targets and identifying said targets by means of an optical identification code.
18. The method of Claim 10, wherein said defined area comprises 2
n
~
***
, wherein n is the number of stationary optical sensors.
19. An optical location system for locating the position of a moving object in a defined area, comprising: an optical transmitter for attachment to the moving object; 


 a number of stationary optical sensors for receiving a signal from said transmitter, wherein at least one of said sensors is a full-view sensor having a field of view of all of a defined area, and wherein each other of said sensors is a partial view sensor having a field of view of at least one vertical or horizontal row or column of said area; and a field of view window associated with each of said sensors for defining the field of view of said sensors such that each partial view sensor has a field of view of approximately one-half said area, but with different vertical or horizontal nonopaque partitions, such that for pairs of sensors the vertical or horizontal nonopaque partitioning of one sensor is a subdivision of the opaque and nonopaque partitioning of another sensor.
20. The system of Claim 19, wherein said field of view windows are shaped to compensate for a perspective view of said sensors, such that a top and a bottom of a window correspond to a far and a near border of said area, respectively, and each top side of a nonopaque partition corresponding to a farther away part of said area is thinner than a bottom side corresponding to a closer part of said area.
21. The system of Claim 19, wherein said field of view windows are further shaped to compensate for a perspective view of said sensor, such that a left and a right side of said window correspond to a left and a right side of said area, respectively, and each left and right side of a nonopaque partition is angled in a manner that corresponds to the angle of perspective.
22. The system of Claim 19, wherein said field of view windows are further shaped to compensate for perspective, such that horizontal windows for farther away 


sections are relatively narrower than those for closer sections.
23. The system of Claim 19, wherein said transmitter is stationary and said sensors are attached to said moving object.
24. The system of Claim 19, wherein said defined area comprises 2
n
~
1
 sections, wherein n is the number of stationary optical sensors. 

STATEMENTUNDER ARTICLE 19
The replacement pages containing new claims 17-20 are intended to replace the originally submitted pages containing 
'
 claims 17-21. The new claims contain modifications intended to clarify and more concisely describe the invention, including differences from references cited.
The three new Claims specifically describe the resolution of the defined area as dependent upon the number of sensors. The defined area is viewed by the sensors as a plurality of sections defining a matrix. Each section is identified by a binary code. The more sections viewed by the sensors, the greater the resolution and ability of the system to precisely locate the moving object. In the Requa Reference, a category "X" reference, the number of matrix sections is equal to Σ
1
*
-"
 =nυmber of sections, wherein n is the number of sensors (see Requa, column 2, lines 45-52). In contrast, applicant's invention has the number of sections equal to 2
n
~
***
, where n is the number of sensors. Thus, applicant's invention achieves greater resolution with less sensors. Contributing to this feature is the applicant's requirement that at least one sensor has a full view of the entire defined area. In Requa, only one half of each sensor views the defined area, and this one half is limited to a "finger pattern" arrangement. Thus, Requa lacks a sensor with a full view of the entire defined area.
The newly presented claims are believed to be within the scope of the invention described in the specification and, in addition to capturing the inventive concept more concisely, enhance the definition over the reference cited in category "X" 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
