<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639287</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SECURE ENTRY SYSTEM WITH RADIO COMMUNICATION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07C900	G07C508	H04Q900	H04M1102	G07C900	H04M1100	E05B4900	H04L932	H04L900	E05B4900	H04L900	H04M1100	G07C500	H04L932	H04M1102	H04Q900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07C	G07C	H04Q	H04M	G07C	H04M	E05B	H04L	H04L	E05B	H04L	H04M	G07C	H04L	H04M	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07C9	G07C5	H04Q9	H04M11	G07C9	H04M11	E05B49	H04L9	H04L9	E05B49	H04L9	H04M11	G07C5	H04L9	H04M11	H04Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A secure entry system (10, 44, 50, 60) makes use of radio transmissions to communicate with locks (12, 12'), keys (46), and related components throughout the system. The radio transmissions can be made using a paging system, a cellular telephone system (52, 54), or any other RF carrier (26). Some embodiments (50) employ a cellular telephone (52) in lieu of an electronic key (46). Others integrate a paging receiver (14) within an electronic key to provide a unit with dual functionality. The system is illustrated with reference to exemplary applications in the industrial site security, real estate lockbox, and transportation fields (60).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUPRA PROD INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUPRA PRODUCTS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNIFFIN JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON WAYNE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCAULEY RON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHERMAN JOHN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELLS RALPH H III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNIFFIN, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LARSON, WAYNE, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCAULEY, RON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHERMAN, JOHN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WELLS, RALPH, H., III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to secure entry 
systems, and more particularly relates to the use of 
radio in such systems. In the century since radio science was 
developed, radio signal transmission has found myriad 
applications. Some have been in the field of electronic 
security systems. A familiar example is a garage door opener. A 
radio transmitter is used to relay instruction signals 
to a receiver unit, causing the receiver unit to 
activate a door opening mechanism. More sophisticated access control devices 
operate in conjunction with a personal access card that 
includes a battery, a microprocessor, a receiver and a 
transmitter. The access control device periodically 
broadcasts an interrogation signal, which the card 
receives when it is brought into close proximity 
thereto. In response, the card transmits an RF reply 
signal to the access control device, authorizing access 
to the secured area. French patent publication 
2,604,808 and European patent publication EP 393,784 are 
illustrative of such systems. Radio data transmission is sometimes used in 
home security systems to relay data from motion, 
continuity, vibration or other detectors to a central 
monitoring unit. Radio frequency energy is sometimes used to 
convey operating power to an otherwise unpowered unit. 
U.S. Patent 4,851,652, for example, illustrates a secure 
entry system in which a passive lock unit is powered 
from RF energy radiated from an associated key card. 
The lock also receives data from the key by modulation 
of the same RF energy. French patent publication 
2,542,792 shows such a system in which a passive key is  
 
powered by an RF signal that is coupled to it by an 
associated lock. Radio is sometimes used outside the secure entry 
field to relay reprogramming instructions to remote units. 
U.S. Patents 4,525,865 and 4,910,510, for example, disclose 
pagers and other radios whose operational characteristics 
can be reprogrammed remotely by radio. U.S. Patent 
5,020,135 discloses such a system that also features remote 
memory dumps and diagnostics from radio transceivers using 
radio signals. U.S. Patents 4,543,955 and 4,958,632 
disclose cardiac pacemakers and other implantable devices 
that can be reprogrammed via use of radio. U.S. Patent 
4,713,661 discloses an annunciator system for buses wherein 
a sequence of bus stop information can be programmed into 
the system via radio. U.S. Patent 5,016,273 discloses a 
videocassette recorder (VCR) that is equipped with a paging 
receiver to provide a number
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating a secure entry system 
(10), the system including a lock (12) that controls access 

to a secure area, the system further including a central 
station (18), the method comprising the steps: establishing 

communication between the central station (18) and a user 
remote from the central station; identifying to the central 

station the lock (12) to which the user seeks access, said 
identifying not requiring the user be in proximity with the 

lock; verifying access qualifications of the user to the 
central station (18); transmitting to the lock (12) a radio 

authorizing signal to authorize the user to access the area 
secured by the lock; identifying the presence of the user 

at the lock; and operating a mechanism (32) associated with 
the lock to aid in entry to the area secured by the lock. 
The method of claim 1 which further includes 
authorizing the user to access the area secured by the lock 

within a time window. 
The method of claim 2 which further includes: 
transmitting a radio data signal to the lock (12), data in 

the signal determining a parameter of the time window; and 
programming a timer (38) in the lock in accordance with 

said data. 
The method of claim 2 or 3 in which said time 
window has a beginning and an end, the end being a 

predetermined time period after the beginning. 
The method of any preceding claim which further 
includes: logging access data relating to operations of the 

lock mechanism (32).  
 
The method of claim 5 which further includes: 
logging said access data in a memory (34) in the lock; and 

relaying said logged access data from the lock to a remote 
location (18) via a radio transmission. 
The method of claim 6 which further includes 
compiling a batch of access data in the memory, and 

relaying said batch of logged access data to the remote 
location via a radio transmission. 
The method of any preceding claim which further 
includes normally powering the lock from an internal 

battery (40), rather than from an external power source. 
The method of any preceding claim in which the 
establishing communication step includes placing a 

telephone call from the user to the central station. 
The method of any preceding claim in which the 
first identifying step includes providing Touch Tone 

signals to the central station, the Touch Tone signals 
identifying the lock to which the user seeks access. 
The method of any preceding claim in which the 
radio authorizing signal transmitted to the lock includes 

data specifying a time window within which the user can 
access the area secured by the lock. 
The method of any preceding claim in which the 
second identifying step includes operating a keypad on a 

handheld access device coupled to but distinct from the 
lock. 
The method of any preceding claim in which the 
first identifying step includes providing tone data to  

 
identify one of several locks, and in which the method 

further includes providing tone data to identify the user. 
A method of operating a secure entry system 
(44), the system including a lock (12') that controls 

access to a secure area, the system further including a key 
(46) and a central station (18'), the method comprising the 

steps: establishing communication between the central 
station (18') and a user remote from the central station; 

identifying to the central station (18') the lock (12') to 
which the user seeks access; verifying access 

qualifications of the user to the central station (18'); 
transmitting to the key (46) a radio enabling signal so as 

to enable the key to access the lock (12'); and using the 
key (46) to operate a mechanism (32) associated with the 

lock (12') to aid in entry to the area secured by the lock. 
The method of claim 14 which further includes 
authorizing the key to access the area secured by the lock 

within a time window. 
The method of claim 15 which further includes: 
transmitting a radio data signal to the key (46), data in 

said signal determining a parameter of the time window; and 
programming a timer in the key in accordance with said 

data. 
The method of claim 15 or 16 in which said 
time window has a beginning and an end, the end being a 

predetermined time period after the beginning. 
The method of any one of claims 14 to 17 which 
further includes:logging access data relating to operations 

of the lock mechanism.  
 
The method of claim 18 which further includes: 
logging said access data in a memory (48) in the key; and 

relaying said logged access data to a remote location (18') 
via a radio transmission. 
The method of claim 19 which further includes 
compiling a batch of access data in the memory, and 

relaying said batch of logged access data to the remote 
location via a radio transmission. 
The method of any one of claims 14 to 20 which 
includes transferring power to operate the mechanism 

associated with the lock from the key to the lock. 
The method of any one of claims 14 to 21 in 
which the establishing communication step includes placing 

a telephone call from the user to the central station. 
The method of claim 22 in which the first 

identifying step includes providing Touch Tone signals to 
the central station, the Touch Tone signals identifying the 

lock to which the user seeks access. 
The method of any one of claims 14 to 23 in 
which the radio enabling signal transmitted to the key 

includes data specifying a time window within which the 
user can access the area secured by the lock. 
The method of any one of claims 14 to 24 which 
further includes identifying the presence of the user at 

the lock. 
The method of any one of claims 14 to 25 in 
which the key is portable, rather than being fixedly 

positioned relative to the lock.  
 
An apparatus for a paging system and 
with a secure entry system (44), the secure entry system 

including a lock mechanism (12'), the apparatus comprising 
a housing that includes therein: a battery (40'); data 

processing circuitry coupled to the battery; a receiver 
adapted to receive messages, including radio frequency 

paging messages, targeted to the apparatus, the receiver 
having a power input coupled to the battery and a data 

output coupled to the data processing circuitry; a 
signalling device (47) to alert a user of a received 

message, the signalling device being coupled to the data 
processing circuitry; memory circuitry (48) having stored 

therein authorization data that is useful in operating the 
secure entry system, said memory circuitry being coupled to 

the data processing circuitry; a communications interface 
adapted to transfer data between the apparatus and the 

secure entry system so that the lock mechanism may be 
activated, the communications interface being coupled to 

the data processing circuitry; and means for rendering the 
apparatus unable to activate the lock mechanism unless the 

apparatus is provided, from time to time, with new 
authorization data, wherein the apparatus can serve both as 

a paging message receiver and as an access device for a 
secure entry system. 
The apparatus of claim 27 in which the 
apparatus further includes first and second external 

contacts through which new authorization data can be 
provided thereto. 
The apparatus of claim 27 or 28 in which the 
apparatus further includes RF receiving means for receiving 

the new authorization data.  
 
The apparatus of any one of claims 27 to 29 
which further includes means for powering the lock 

mechanism from the battery. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 27 to 30 in 
which the access control device is a real estate lockbox. 
A method of operating a secure entry system 
(50), the secure entry system including an access control 

device (56) that has a radio receiver, processing 
circuitry, and a lock mechanism associated therewith, the 

method comprising the steps: operating a cellular telephone 
(52) to make a radio broadcast, the radio broadcast 

including signal tones modulated thereon; receiving said 
broadcast including signal tones; providing data signals 

corresponding to the received signal tones to the 
processing circuitry (30) associated with the access 

control device; operating the lock mechanism (32) in 
response to said provided data signals; and storing data 

relating to the lock operation in a memory (58), the data 
indicating at least the date the lock was operated. 
The method of claim 32 which further includes 
receiving the radio broadcast at a location (54) remote 

from the access control device and, in response thereto, 
transmitting data signals from said remote location to the 

access control device (56). 
The method of claim 33 in which the 
transmitting step includes transmitting by radio. 
The method of any one of claims 32 to 34 which 
further includes receiving the radio broadcast at the 

access control device.  
 
The method of any one of claims 32 to 35 which 
further includes: receiving the radio broadcast at a 

location (54) remote from the access control device and, in 
response thereto, transmitting data signals from said 

remote location back to the cellular telephone (52); 
receiving data signals from the remote location at the 

cellular telephone; and acoustically coupling data signals 
from the cellular telephone to the access control device 

(56). 
The method of any one of claims 32 to 36 which 
further includes establishing the authority of a user prior 

to operating the lock mechanism. 
The method of claim 37 in which the 
establishing the authority step includes providing a 

personal identification code. 
The method of claim 37 or 38 in which the 
establishing the authority step includes signalling from 

the lock to a remote location and receiving an 
authorization signal from the remote location prior to 

operating the lock mechanism. 
The method of any one of claims 32 to 39 which 
further includes making the lock mechanism susceptible to 

opening for a predetermined period upon receipt of the data 
signals, and thereafter rendering the mechanism 

insusceptible to opening. 
The method of any one of claims 32 to 35 in 
which the radio broadcast from the cellular telephone is 

received directly by a receiver in the access control 
device.  

 
The method of claim 37 in which the 
establishing the authority step includes operating a keypad 

on a handheld access device coupled to but distinct from 
the access control device. 
The method of any one of claims 32 to 42 which 
further includes providing reprogramming instructions by 

radio to the processing circuitry, the reprogramming 
instructions changing the operating characteristics of the 

lock. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
