<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624016</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for governing information transfer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1256	H04L1256	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for governing information transfer among a 
plurality of data utilization elements, without rate oscillation, 

which apparatus is operative according to a rate based transport 
protocol having apparatus for determining the rate of information 

transfer between data utilization elements. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUN RAD UNLTD NETWORKING LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RUN RAD UNLIMITED NETWORKING L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINOSSAR DROR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GINOSSAR DROR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to data communication 
generally and more particularly to data networks. There exists a great deal of literature dealing with 
data communication in general and data networks in particular. 
The following publications represent the most relevant literature 
presently available to the inventor:
 
   NETBLT: A High Throughput Transport Protocol, by David 
D. Clark et al, 1988 ACM 089791-245-4;
 
   Computer Networks, 2nd Edition, by Andrew S. 
Tannenbaum, Prentice-Hall International, 1989, pp 309 - 320, 
370 - 436 and 535 - 546;
 
   Goodness Definition and Goodness Measure for High Speed 
Transport Protocols for Lightweight Networking Applications, by 
Sebuktekin, Isil, PhD Thesis Lehigh University, May, 1992;
 
   Design and Analysis of Rate-based Transport Layer Flow 
Control Protocol, by Chang, Yee-Hsiang, PhD Thesis, Illinois 
Institute of Technology, 1990;
 
   A survey of Light-Weight Transport Protocols for High-Speed 
Networks, by Willibald A. Doeringer et al IEEE Transactions 
on Communications, Vol. 38, No. 11, November, 1990;
 
   Congestion Avoidance and Control, by Van Jacobson, 
Proc. ACM SIGCOMM 88, pp 314 - 329, Stanford, California, August,  
 
1988;
 
   Making Transport Protocols Fast, by Alfred C. Weaver, 
Proceedings of 16th Conference on Local Computer Networks, Pages 
295 - 300, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, California 
1991;
 
   Comparison of Error Control Protocols for High 
Bandwidth-Delay Product Networks, by David C. Feldmeier et al, 
Protocols for High Speed Networks II, Marjory J. Johnson, Editor, 
Elsevier Science Publishers, B.V.(North Holland), 1991; and
 
   Dynamical Behavior of Rate-Based Flow Control 
Mechanisms by Jean-Chrysostome Bolot et al, Computer 
Communication Review, Vol 20, No. 2, pp 35 - 49, April, 1990. The above-referenced article by Bolot et al discusses a 
phenomenon of state of the art rate-based flow control mechanisms, 
namely, the occurrence of rate oscillations which result 
in disadvantageous alternating occurrences of over-utilization 
and under-utilization of the path, as illustrated, e.g. in Figs. 
2, 3(a), 3(b), 4(a) and 4(b) of the Bolot et al article.  The present invention seeks to provide an improved data 
network. There is thus provided, in accordance with a preferred 
embodiment of the present invention, apparatus for governing 
information transfer among a plurality of data utilization elements, 
without rate oscillation, which apparatus is operative 
according to a rate based transport
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for governing information transfer among a 
plurality of data utilization elements, without rate oscillation, 

which apparatus is operative according to a rate based transport 
protocol having means for determining the rate of information 

transfer between data utilization elements. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer among a 
plurality of data utilization elements, which apparatus is 

operative according to a rate based transport protocol and 
including means for determining the rate of information transfer 

between data utilization elements based at least in part on 
selecting a number of packets that is transmitted by a 

transmitting data utilization element without feedback from a 
receiving data utilization element and measuring the actual 

rate at which the packets are transmitted. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer between a 
plurality of data utilization elements, which apparatus is 

operative according to a rate based transport protocol and 
includes means for determining an information transfer rate by 

measuring the actual rate of receipt at a receiving data 
utilization element. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer between a 
 

plurality of data utilization elements, which apparatus is 
operative to transmit a first echo request packet and to cause a 

first plurality of packets to be transmitted by a transmitting 
data utilization element without regard to whether an echo return 

responsive to said echo request packet is received from a receiving 
data utilization element, and thereafter, if an echo return 

has not been received, subsequent to said first echo request 
packet, not to transmit any further data packets until receipt of 

an echo return. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer between 
said plurality of data utilization elements, which apparatus is 

operative to govern the rate of data transmission by a transmitting 
data utilization element by non-continuously causing the 

rate of data transmission to increase such that the rate at which 
the data is received by a receiving data utilization element, 

also increases. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer between 
said plurality of data utilization elements, which apparatus is 

operative to govern the rate of data transmission by a data 
utilization element and includes: 

   apparatus operative to transmit a first echo request 
packet and to cause a first plurality of packets to be 

transmitted by a transmitting data utilization element without 
regard to whether an echo return responsive to said echo request 

packet is received from a receiving data utilization element, and 

thereafter, if an echo return has not been received, subsequent 
 

to said first echo request packet, not to transmit any further 
data packets until receipt of an echo return; 

   apparatus responsive to the time duration between 
transmission of an echo request packet and receipt of an echo 

return corresponding thereto for increasing the rate of transmission 
by the transmitting data utilization element above the rate 

at which the receiving data utilization element receives the 
data; and 

   apparatus for comparing the rate at which the receiving 
data utilization element receives transmissions in response to an 

increased rate of transmission of the transmitting data 
utilization element with the rate at which the receiving data 

utilization element received transmissions prior to increasing 
the rate of transmission. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer between a 
plurality of data utilization elements, which apparatus is 

operative to govern the data transmission rate of a transmitting 
data utilization element and includes: 

   apparatus for sensing the time duration between 
transmission of data packets by said transmitting data 

utilization element and receipt of said data packets by a 
receiving data utilization element; and 

   apparatus operative to non-continuously respond to the 
extent of said time duration by increasing said data transmission 

rate above the current rate of reception of the receiving 
data utilization element. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer between a 
plurality of data utilization elements and including means for 

governing a flow of data in accordance with a protocol containing 
separate error control and flow control mechanisms, including the 

transmission of echo request packets for queue control purposes. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer among a 
plurality of data utilization elements connected together by a 

network, which apparatus is operative to cause transmission of a 
selected number of data packets in a generally unarrested sequence 

and wherein the number of packets in said sequence is 
selected based at least in part on the round trip delay in the 

network. 
Apparatus according to claim 9 and wherein the number 
of packets in said chunk is based on the bandwidth of the network. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer comprising: 
   an information transfer governing network interface 

card operative to govern information transfer between a plurality 
of data utilization elements. 
Apparatus according to claim 48 wherein said information 
transfer governing network interface card is operative to 

 
determine a rate at which information is transferred between the 

plurality of data utilization elements. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer between a 
plurality of data utilization elements and including means for 

governing a flow of data by transmitting echo request packets for 
queue control purposes. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer across a 
path comprising a transmitter, a receiver and an interconnecting 

network portion, the apparatus comprising: 
   an instantaneous path throughput monitoring unit; and 

   information transfer rate determining means operative, 
upon detection of a non-instantaneous occurrence of underutilized 

path availability, to determine a new rate of information transfer 
which increases path utilization without overloading the 

path. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer across a 
path comprising a transmitter transmitting information at a first 

rate, a receiver and an interconnecting network portion, the 
apparatus comprising: 

   apparatus for monitoring the instantaneous throughput 
of the path; and 

   information transmission control apparatus operative, 
upon detection of an occurrence of reduced effective path 

 
throughput, to cause information transmission to be terminated 

for a first time period and to subsequently be resumed at the 
first rate. 
Apparatus according to claim 4 which is operative 
according to a rate based transport protocol. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer among a 
plurality of data utilization elements, without rate oscillation, 

which apparatus is operative according to a rate based transport 
protocol. 
Apparatus for governing information transfer among a 
plurality of data utilization elements, which apparatus is 

operative according to a rate based transport protocol having 
means for automatically determining the rate of information 

transfer between data utilization elements. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
