<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650316</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for forming multi-level feature in an object.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21D2200	B21D2204	B21D2810	B21D2810	H05K714	H05K714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21D	B21D	B21D	B21D	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21D22	B21D22	B21D28	B21D28	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An elevated card guide is integrally formed in a card 
cage in a process using a press, a sheet of raw material, and 

a tool for forming a plurality of features having at least 
three levels. In one embodiment, the card guide includes 

several multi-level bridges with at least three levels in each 
bridge. In another embodiment, a lead-in is formed in at 

least one end of at least one horizontal bridge in the multi-level 
bridges. Still another embodiment incorporates at least 

one landing in at least one of the horizontal bridges. Lead-ins 
and landings may also be incorporated into one or more 

multi-level bridges. The tool includes a male portion and a 
female portion which cooperate simultaneously. The tool is 

able to accurately dimension a part in total compliance with 
required specifications and all printed circuit board designs. 

A method of forming a plurality of multi-level features uses 
the press, the sheet, and the tool to form complete features 

in a single stroke step using the single tool. Activating the 
press energizes a ram which presses the tool simultaneously 

into the sheet. After the ram is retracted, the sheet is 
relocated to another pre-established position which allows 

room on the card guide for associated components to be 
connected to the guide. The process is then repeated as 

necessary. The apparatus and method are readily adapted to 
many devices of different designs. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANOGA IND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANOGA INDUSTRIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSS DONALD C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHKAMP CRAIG A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSS, DONALD C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RATHKAMP, CRAIG A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The field of technology of this invention is enclosures 
for retaining integrated circuit cards and related components 
and peripherals and, more specifically, card guides integrally 
incorporated into card cages and a method of manufacturing 
card guides and other multiple level devices in a single step 
operation using a single tool. Card cages may be used to support one or more printed 
circuit boards (PCB's) on elements generally referred to as 
card guides. In addition to supporting the PCB's, these card 
guides provide a path or track which serves to both permit the 
PCB to slide into and out of the card cage and to retain the 
PCB in a selected location in the card cage. Card guides may 
incorporate other features such as clamping mechanisms, 
electrical grounding, electrical isolation, heat sinking and 
shock absorption. Printed circuit boards include electrical components 
attached to one or both sides thereof. Any given PCB can 
differ in thickness, width and length from another PCB, 
depending on its function, and manufacturer, and as defined by 
the components secured upon that board. A PCB can include 
multiple circuit boards which are secured adjacent to or in 
contact with each other. These boards typically have a base, 
main or primary board (lower board) and one or more secondary 
boards. These secondary boards (upper boards) are commonly 
referred to is piggyback or daughter boards. The piggyback 
boards may be wider or narrower than the primary board to 
which they are attached. Card cages, referred to also as card files, are used to 
hold PCBs in an orderly and fixed position. The card guides, 
in turn, establish the distance or spacing between each PCB or 
multiple board configuration. Some industries have 
established standards for the PCB spacing, to tailor the  
 
design to match the specific design requirement for the 
application. In fact, the spacing need not be uniform from 
board to board, nor does a company always use standards, 
feeling that they must customize the design of the board 
spacing. Interconnecting the PCBs is still another design 
requirement. At least two types of interconnection schemes 
are typical in the electronics industry for electrically 
connecting the components on the board to other components. 
One scheme uses a special PCB called variously a backplane 
(active or passive), back panel or motherboard, which connects 
to the PCB installed into a card cage. The backplane may 
function as an electronic bridge. In another scheme, the 
interconnecting
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming multi-level features in a 
device, comprising the steps of: 

   providing a press for forming features in a device; 
   inserting a tool into said press to use in forming 

said features; 
   positioning a blank in said press and adjacent
 said 
tool; and 

   activating said press so as to press said tool 
against said blank, such that in a single compression 

stroke of said tool at least one of said features is 
formed in said blank, and wherein said at least one 

feature comprises at least three levels. 
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said 
features are in devices for use in electrical and electronic 

systems. 
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said blank 
is metal. 
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said tool 
comprises at least a male portion and a female portion, and 

wherein each of said male and female portions comprises at 
least three levels. 
The method as defined in Claim 1, wherein said press 
is a turret press which comprises at least an upper turret and 

a lower turret. 
The method as defined in Claim 5, wherein a further 
step is positioning said upper turret and said lower turret at 

a predetermined distance apart, thereby allowing said tool to 
be inserted into said press. 
The method as defined in Claim 1, further comprising 
the steps of: 

   repositioning said blank in said press, thereby 
providing sufficient distance between at least one of the 

subsequently formed said features for connecting at least 
one related component to said device; and

 
   repeating said single compression stroke of said 

tool, wherein at least another of said features is 
formed. 
An elevated feature of a device formed from a 
process using a press, a blank positioned between a plurality 

of dies within said press, and a tool fitted into said press, 
said tool comprising male and female portions, said feature 

comprising: 
   a first level base portion, comprising a portion of 

said blank, said blank being positioned in said press; 
   a second level elevated portion, comprising a web 

centered along a lengthwise axis of said feature; and 
   a third level elevated portion, comprising a 

plurality of horizontal bridges, said bridges being 
parallel and contiguous to said web, wherein said 

plurality of bridges are elevated to variable heights in 
relation to said web, wherein said elevated feature is 

formed in said blank by a simple compression stroke of 
said tool. 
The feature as defined in Claim 8, wherein a lead-in 
is formed in at least one end of said horizontal bridges, 

thereby facilitating the insertion of a printed circuit board 
into said feature. 
The feature as defined in Claim 8, wherein a landing 
is formed in at least one end of at least one of said 

horizontal bridges, thereby facilitating the insertion of a 
printed circuit board into said feature. 
The feature as defined in Claim 8, wherein at least 
one of a lead-in and a landing is formed in at least one end 

of at least one of said horizontal bridges, thereby 
facilitating the insertion of a printed circuit board into 

said feature. 
The feature as defined in Claim 8, wherein a 
plurality of acute angles are formed in said plurality of 

bridges, and wherein said angles are measured from a top of 
said bridges downwardly through said angle to a diagonally 

slanted surface of said bridges. 
A tool for forming a plurality of multi-level 
features in a blank, said tool inserted into a press, wherein 

said tool comprises: 
   a male portion; and 

   a female portion manufactured to fit into said male 
portion, wherein said male portion and said female 

portion cooperate simultaneously to form a single 
complete feature in said blank inserted therebetween, 

said feature having at least three levels and being 
formed in a single compression stroke of said press, 

wherein said male and female portions are sufficiently 
accurately dimensioned to form a feature in said blank 

which meets pre-determined specifications. 
An apparatus for forming multi-level features in a 
device, comprising: 

   a press for forming features in a device; 
   at least one blank for use in said press for forming 

said features; and 
   a tool fitted into said press for forming said 

features, wherein said features comprise at least three 
levels. 
The apparatus as defined in Claim 14, wherein said 
features are in devices used in electrical and electronic 

systems. 
The apparatus as defined in Claim 14, wherein said 
blank is metal. 
The apparatus as defined in Claim 14, wherein said 
tool comprises at least a male portion and a female portion, 

wherein each of said male and female portions comprises at 
least three levels. 
The apparatus as defined in Claim 14, wherein said 
press is a turret press further comprising at least an upper 

turret and a lower turret. 
The apparatus as defined in Claim 18, wherein said 
upper turret and said lower turret are a predetermined 

distance apart, thereby allowing said tool to be inserted into 
said press. 
The apparatus as defined in Claim 19, wherein said 
apparatus further comprises: 

   means for pressing said tool into said blank in a 
single stroke, wherein said stroke causes at least one 

feature to be formed, said feature comprising at least 
three levels; 

   means for repositioning said blank, said means 
providing sufficient distance between at least one of any 

other such feature to permit connection of at least one 
external component to said device; and 

   means for repeating said single stroke of said tool, 
wherein at least another of said features is formed. 
A card guide and cage system for printed circuit 
boards, comprising: 

   a card cage formed from a blank; 
   an elevated card guide of at least three levels 

integrally formed on said blank; and 
   a printed circuit board whose thickness dimension 

dictates corresponding dimensions of said card guide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
