<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625696</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method and a system for weighing a load attached to a tractor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01G1908	A01B5900	A01B5906	G01G1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01G	A01B	A01B	G01G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01G19	A01B59	A01B59	G01G19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for weighing a device which can be attached to the 
three-point linkage of a tractor. The system is provided 

with means for measuring forces which are exerted on the 
three-point linkage by the device, which means comprise one 

or more sensors, which measure a component in one 
predetermined direction of the force which the device 

exerts on the lower coupling points (lifting arms) or on 
one of said coupling points. The direction in which said 

measuring takes place can be a substantially vertical 
direction. Furthermore a sensor may measure the component 

in substantially the same direction of the force which the 
device exerts on the upper coupling point (top link). Also 

the sensors in the lower suspension points may be designed 
such that the direction of the measured is substantially 

perpendicular to the top link. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIOLIET MULLOS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIOLIET MULLOS B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER PLAS NICOLAAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER PLAS, NICOLAAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method for weighing a device
which is attached to the three-point linkage (or three-point
hitch) of a tractor, whereby forces are measured
which are exerted on the three-point linkage by the device.A variety of devices may be attached to the three-point
linkage of a tractor, which usually consists of two lifting
arms and a top link, whereby it is important to determine
what the weight of said device is. This may concern the
weight of the device itself as well as the weight of any
material present inside said device. Thus it may be
important to determine how much fertilizer is present
inside a fertilizer spreader or how much silage is present
in a silage removing machine. Furthermore it may be
important to determine the force which is exerted on the
ground by a harrow. Such weights and forces may be readily
determined when the weight of the device in the three-point
linkage, both in empty condition and when filled with
material, can be measured, which may or may not be done
while the device is in operation.A device which is attached to the three-point linkage of a
tractor generally exerts a downward force, directed at an
angle towards the tractor, on the two lower coupling
points, that is on the lifting arms. Because the device is
secured to the top link, in such manner as to be fully
pivotable, in the upper coupling point, the force which the
device exerts on the top link is directed coaxially with
the top link, namely in a direction away from the tractor.
In addition to that the direction of the top link is
dependent on the dimensions of the device, the dimensions
of the three-point hitch as well as on the extent to which
the device is raised.Landtechnik, vol. 43, No.5. May, '88, Hannover (DE), pp 218-219 (H. Knechtiges)
provides general information on weighing systems attached to the three point linkage
of a tractor and discloses the existence of built-on and integrated weighing systems.From Landtechnik Vol. 43, no. 10, Oct. '88, Hannover (DE), pp. 414-418 (H.
Auernhammer e.a.) it is known to integrate several types of sensors in various
locations in the lifting arms and/or top link of a three-point linkage. The disadvantage
of using sensors that are integrated in the lifting arms and/or top link in a method for
weighing is that the measurements are either inaccurate due to deformation and play
of the linkage and that the direction of measurement is related to the position of the
lifting arms and/or top link of the linkage.DE-A-3 714 642 discloses an integrated weighing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Method for weighing a device (1, 2) which is attached
to the three-point linkage (4, 7) of a tractor, which

linkage (4, 7) comprises two lower lifting arms (4),
each extending from the rear of the tractor towards a

lower coupling point and a top-link (7) extending
from the tractor towards an upper coupling point, in

which method forces (10, 11) are measured which are
exerted by said device (1, 2) on said three-point

linkage by means of sensors, 
characterized in that
 in
at least one lower coupling point a component (16) of

the force (10) which said device (1, 2) exerts on
said lower coupling point is measured in one

predetermined direction by at least one sensor in
said coupling point.
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized in that

said direction is a substantially vertical direction.
A method according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in
that
 also the component (14) of the force (11) which
said device (1, 2) exerts on said top link (7) is

measured in substantially the same direction by means
of a sensor in said upper coupling point and that, in

order to determine the weight of said device (1, 2),
the value of the measured component in said lower

coupling point is added to the value of the measured
component (14) in said upper coupling point.
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized in that

said direction is at an angle relative to the 
vertical and substantially perpendicular to the top

link (7).
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, 
characterized in that
 the angle between the
plane in which the three coupling points lie and the

vertical plane is measured by means of an angle
gauge, whereby the measured value is used to correct

the measured weight of the device (1, 2), so as to
arrive at the actual weight.
A system for weighing a device (1, 2) which is
attached to the three-point linkage (4, 7) of a

tractor, which linkage comprises two lower lifting
arms (4), each extending from the rear of the tractor

towards a lower coupling point and a top-link (7)
extending towards an upper coupling point, said

system being provided with means for measuring forces
(10, 11) which are exerted on the three-point linkage

(4, 7) by said device (1, 2), 
characterized in that

said means comprise at least one sensor in at least
one of said lower coupling points, said at least one sensor

being arranged to measure a component (16) in one predetermined
direction of the force (10) which said device (1, 2)

exerts on said lower coupling point.
A system according to claim 6, 
characterized in that

said direction is a substantially vertical direction.
A system according to claim 6 or 7, 
characterized in
that
 said means furthermore comprise a sensor in said
upper coupling point which sensor measures the

component (14) of the force (11) which the device (1, 
2) exerts on said upper coupling point in

substantially the same, predetermined direction.
A system according to claim 6, 
characterized in that

said sensor is designed such that the direction of
the measured component (16) is substantially

perpendicular to the top link (7).
A system according to any one of the claims 6 - 9,

characterized in that
 a sensor is provided, which
measures the angle between the plane through the

three coupling points and the vertical plane.
A system according to any one of the claims 6 - 10,

characterized in that
 said sensors are provided on
the pins by which the device (1, 2) is suspended in

the three-point linkage (4, 7), and that said sensors
measure the deflection of said pins in a

predetermined direction.
A system according to any one of the claims 6 - 11,

characterized in that
 means are provided for
calculating the weight of the device (1, 2) on the

basis of the values measured by said sensors. 
An agricultural device (1,2) which can be attached to the three-point
linkage (4,7) of a tractor, which device comprises two lower coupling

points, an upper coupling point and means for measuring forces (10,11)
which are exerted on the coupling points by the three-point linkage (4,7) of

said tractor 
characterized in that
 said means comprise at least one sensor in at
least one of said lower coupling points of said device, for measuring a

component (16) in one predetermined direction of the force (10) which said
three-point linkage (4,7) of said tractor exerts on said lower coupling point of

said device.
A tractor provided with a three-point linkage (4,7) which linkage comprises
two lower lifting arms (4) each extending from the rear of the tractor

towards a lower coupling point and a top-link (7) extending from the tractor
towards an upper coupling point, which three-point linkage is provided with

means for measuring forces (10,11) which are exerted on the three-point
linkage (4,7), 
characterized in that
 said means comprise at least one sensor in
at least one of said lower coupling points of said linkage for measuring a

component (16) in one predetermined direction of the force (10) that is
exerted on said lower coupling point.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
