<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616687</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MICROWAVE-BASED POINT LIQUID LEVEL MONITORING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01F2302	G01F2302	G01F23284	G01F23284	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01F	G01F	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	G01F23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A point liquid level monitoring system includes a sensor removeably mounted to a liquid level device. The sensor is designed to direct a microwave signal from a transmitter through a window in the liquid level device. In one embodiment, the microwave signal is reflected off a surface in the device opposite the window and collected by a receiver. In another embodiment, the microwave signal is collected by a receiver mounted onto a second window opposite the first window through which the microwave signal is transmitted. When liquid is present in the liquid level device at or above the level of the transmitter and receiver, the microwave signal is attenuated as it passes through the liquid. Sensor electronics compare the received signal to a predetermined threshold level and provide an output indicating the presence or absence of liquid at the transmitter/receiver level. The sensor can be easily installed or removed from the liquid level device without draining, depressurizing, or otherwise disturbing the operation of the device or attached fluid systems and, when installed, does not obstruct visually reading liquid levels in the device.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLARK RELIANCE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CLARK-RELIANCE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN DAVID P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEBEISEN STEPHEN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KETT MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN, DAVID, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEBEISEN, STEPHEN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KETT, MICHAEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MICROWAVE-BASED POINT LIQUID LEVEL MONITORING SYSTEMFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a system for monitoring at least one point level of liquid in a liquid level gauge or other liquid level device.BACKGROUND In certain areas in a fluid system, it can be necessary to provide an indication of the level of liquid within the system. More particularly, it can sometimes be necessary to provide an indication of the level of liquid within a tank, vessel, pipe, or conduit within the fluid system. By knowing the liquid level, it can be determined whether remote apparatus (alarms, pumps, valves, etc.) should be activated, e.g., to increase or decrease the level of liquid within the fluid system.A conventional liquid level device, also known as a "sight gauge", "sight glass", or "armored liquid level gauge", includes a cover clamped to a chamber. A window interposed between the cover and chamber allows visual inspection of the level of liquid in the chamber. The gauge can be fastened, e.g., bolted or welded, directly to the wall of a tank or vessel, or connected in parallel piping to a pipe or conduit. Graduations on the outer surface of the liquid level gauge around the window provide for visual measurement of the level of liquid within the device, and hence within the tank, vessel, pipe, or conduit.However, conventional liquid level devices can have certain limitations under corrosive, hazardous, or other harsh environmental conditions. In particular, the window in the device can become corroded, rusted, or otherwise obscured, which decreases visibility through the window and thereby increases the difficulty in accurately measuring the level of liquid. Accordingly, certain liquid level systems have been developed which are not dependent on the visual inspection of the liquid within a liquid level device.For example, one type of liquid level system is shown inHolroyd, U.S. Patent No. 5,015,995. Holroyd discloses a first pair of transducers mounted on opposite sides of a tank in a vertically upper horizontal plane, and a second pair of transducers mounted on opposite sides of the tank in a vertically lower horizontal plane. Pulse generators send electrical pulses to transmitter transducers which transmit stress waves into the wall of the tank. The stress 

 waves propagate peripherally through the walls of the tank and are detected by receiver transducers. The receiver transducers are connected to processors to analyze the amplitude of the detected stress waves and to determine if liquid is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is:
1. A system for monitoring a point liquid level in a liquid level device, comprising: a microwave transmitter mounted to the liquid level device at a predetermined level to direct a microwave signal through a window substantially transparent to microwaves in the device and into a cavity in the device, and a receiver mounted to the liquid level device at the predetermined level to receive the microwave signal, the microwave signal being attenuated between said transmitter and said receiver when liquid is present in the cavity at or above the predetermined level and not attenuated between said transmitter and receiver when liquid is absent in the cavity at the predetermined level.
2. A system as in claim 1, wherein the microwave signal from the transmitter is reflected off a surface on the liquid level device opposite from the window and directed back through the window to be received by the receiver.
3. A system as in claim 1, wherein said transmitter and receiver are included within a sensor, said sensor being removeably mounted to the liquid level device and having a configuration to allow simultaneous visual inspection of the liquid level through said window at any level of the window within the liquid level device.
4. A system as in claim 3, wherein said sensor has a base with at least one adjustment screw and a neck portion, said neck portion being located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device and adapted to direct the microwave signal through the substantially microwave transparent window, and said at least one adjustment screw being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and being adjustable to removeably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
5. A system as in claim 4, wherein said sensor has the configuration of a C-shaped clamp, the C-shaped clamp configuration enabling the sensor to be removeably mounted to the liquid level device. 


 6. A system as in claim 5, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removeably mounting the sensor to the liquid level device.
7. A system as in claim 6, wherein said sensor includes a housing enclosing said transmitter and receiver, said housing including waveguide channels having a configuration to direct the microwave signal from the transmitter through the substantially microwave transparent window in the device and into the cavity in the device, and to direct the reflected microwave energy received through the window to the receiver.
8. A system as in claim 7, wherein the liquid level device comprises a liquid level gauge.
9. A system as in claim 7, wherein the liquid level device comprises a sight window or a sight flow indicator.
10. A system as in claim 3, wherein said sensor includes a clamp assembly having a pivotable clamp plate and a neck portion, said neck portion being located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device, and said pivotable clamp plate being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and being pivotably adjustable to removeably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
11. A system as in claim 10, wherein said pivotable clamp plate includes an adjustment screw and a contact portion, said adjustment screw being selectively adjustable to pivotably force said contact portion of said clamp plate into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removeably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
12. A system as in claim 11, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removeably mounting said sensor to the liquid level device.
13. A system as in claim 1, further including a second transmitter and receiver pair mounted to the liquid level device at 


 a second predetermined level to direct a second microwave signal through said window and receive the second microwave signal, the second microwave signal being attenuated between said second transmitter and receiver pair when liquid is present in the liquid level device at or above said second predetermined level, and not attenuated between said second transmitter and receiver pair when liquid is absent in the cavity at said second predetermined level.
14. A system as in claim 1, wherein said system further includes sensor electronics to compare the received signal with a predetermined threshold value, said sensor electronics providing a first output signal to control electronics when liquid is present at or above the predetermined level, and a second output signal to the control electronics when liquid is absent at the predetermined level, said control electronics being designed to selectively actuate remote apparatus depending on whether the first or second output signal is received from the sensor electronics.
15. A sensor designed to be mounted at a preselected level to a liquid level device, said sensor comprising: a first waveguide having a configuration to direct a microwave signal through a window substantially transparent to microwaves and into a cavity in the liquid level device, the microwave signal from the transmitter being reflected off an internal surface in the liquid level device and directed back through the window, and a second waveguide having a configuration to collect the reflected microwave signal received through the window in the liquid level device, the microwave signal being attenuated between said first and second waveguides if liquid is present in the liquid level device at or above the preselected level, and not attenuated if liquid is absent at the preselected level, a microwave transmitter to transmit the microwave signal through said first waveguide, and a microwave receiver to receive the reflected microwave signal through said second waveguide.
16. A system as in claim 15, wherein said sensor has a base with adjustment screws and a neck portion, said adjustment screws being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and said neck portion being located within an aperture formed 


 in the liquid level device and adapted to direct the microwave signal through the substantially microwave-transparent window, said screws being adjustable to removeably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
17. A system as in claim 16, wherein said sensor has the configuration of a C-shaped clamp, the C-shaped clamp configuration enabling the sensor to be removeably mounted to the liquid level device.
18. A system as in claim 17, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removeably mounting the sensor to the liquid level device.
19. A system as in claim 18, wherein said sensor includes a housing enclosing said transmitter and receiver, said housing including waveguide channels having a configuration to direct the microwave signal from the transmitter through the substantially microwave-transparent window in the device and into the cavity in the device, and to direct the reflected microwave energy received through the window to the receiver.
20. A system as in claim 15, wherein said sensor includes a clamp assembly having a pivotable clamp plate and a neck portion, said neck portion being located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device, and said clamp plate being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and being pivotably adjustable to removeably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
21. A system as in claim 20, wherein said clamp plate includes an adjustment screw and a contact portion, said adjustment screw being selectively adjustable to pivotably force said contact portion of said clamp plate into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removeably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
22. A system as in claim 21, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket 


 in the liquid level device to assist in removeably mounting the sensor to the liquid level device.
23. A mounting assembly for mounting a monitoring device to a liquid level device, comprising: a clamp plate pivotably attached to the monitoring device, and a neck portion extending outwardly from the monitoring device and being configured to be located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device when said clamp plate is located proximate to an outer surface of the liquid level device, said clamp plate being pivotably adjustable into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removeably mount the monitoring device to the liquid level device.
24. A mounting assembly as in claim 23, wherein said clamp plate includes an adjustment screw and a contact portion, said adjustment screw being selectively adjustable to pivotably force said contact portion of said clamp plate into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removeably mount the device to the liquid level device.
25. A mounting assembly as in claim 24, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removeably mounting the device to the liquid level device.
26. A system for monitoring a point liquid level in a liquid level device, comprising: a sensor enclosing a microwave transmitter to direct a microwave signal through a window in the liquid level device substantially transparent to microwaves and into a cavity in the device, and a microwave receiver to receive the microwave signal, and a mounting assembly for mounting the sensor at a predetermined level on the liquid level device, said mounting assembly having a clamp plate pivotably attached to the sensor, and a neck portion extending outwardly from the sensor and being configured to be located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device when said clamp plate is located proximate to an outer surface of the liquid level device, said clamp plate being pivotably adjustable into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the 


liquid level device to removeably mount the sensor to the liquid level device at the predetermined level, the microwave signal being attenuated between said transmitter and said receiver when liquid is present in the cavity at or above the predetermined level and not attenuated between said transmitter and receiver when liquid is absent in the cavity at the predetermined level. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 26 April 1993 (26.04.93) ; original claims 1,3 and.13-22 amended; other claims unchanged
(6 pages) ]
1. A system for monitoring a point liquid level in a liquid level device, comprising: a liquid level device having a window which is transparent to microwaves and normally allows visual observation of the liquid in the liquid level device, a microwave transmitter mounted to the liquid level device at a predetermined level to direct a microwave signal through the window and into a cavity in the device, and a receiver mounted to the liquid level device at the predetermined level to receive the microwave signal, the microwave signal being attenuated between said transmitter and said receiver when liquid is present in the cavity at or above the predetermined level and not attenuated between said transmitter and receiver when liquid is absent in the cavity at the predetermined level.
2. A system as in claim 1, wherein the microwave signal from the transmitter is reflected off a surface on the liquid level device opposite from the window and directed back through the window to be received by the receiver, and said transmitter and receiver are both mounted to the liquid level device at a location which is opposite from the reflective surface.
3. A system for monitoring a point liquid level in a liquid level device, comprising: a microwave transmitter mounted to the liquid level device at a predetermined level to direct a microwave signal through a window substantially transparent to microwaves in the device and into a cavity in the device, and a receiver mounted to the liquid level device at the predetermined level to receive the microwave signal, the microwave signal being attenuated between said transmitter and said receiver when liquid is present in the cavity at or above the predetermined level and not attenuated between said transmitter and receiver when liquid is absent in the cavity at the predetermined level, the microwave transmitter and receiving being included within a sensor, said sensor being removably mounted to the liquid level device and having a configuration to allow simultaneous visual inspection of the liquid level through said window at any level of the window within the liquid level device.
4. A system as in claim 3, wherein said sensor has a base with at least one adjustment screw and a neck portion, said neck portion being c e ed in e i uid level device and ada 


 direct the microwave signal through the substantially microwave transparent window, and said at least one adjustment screw being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and being adjustable to removably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
5. A system as in claim 4, wherein said sensor has the configuration of a C-shaped clamp, the C-shaped clamp configuration enabling the sensor to be removably mounted to the liquid level device.
6. A system as in claim 5, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removably mounting the sensor to the liquid level device.
7. A system as in claim 6, wherein said sensor includes a housing enclosing said transmitter and receiver, said housing including waveguide channels having a configuration to direct the microwave signal from the transmitter through the substantially microwave transparent window in the device and into the cavity in the device, and to direct the reflected microwave energy received through the window to the receiver.
8. A system as in claim 7, wherein the liquid level device comprises a liquid level gauge.
9. A system as in claim 7, wherein the liquid level device comprises a sight window or a sight flow indicator.
10. A system as in claim 3, wherein said sensor includes a clamp assembly having a pivotable clamp plate and a neck portion, said neck portion being located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device, and said pivotable clamp plate being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and being pivotably adjustable to removably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
11. A system as in claim 10, wherein said pivotable clamp plate includes an adjustment screw and a contact portion, said adjustment screw being selectively adjustable to pivotably force said contact portion of said clamp plate into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
12. A system as in claim 11, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid 


 level device to assist in removably mounting said sensor to the liquid level device.
13. A system as in claim 3, further including a second transmitter and receiver pair mounted to the liquid level device at a second predetermined level to direct a second microwave signal through said window and receive the second microwave signal, the second microwave signal being attenuated between said second transmitter and receiver pair when liquid is present in the liquid level device at or above said second predetermined level, and not attenuated between said second transmitter and receiver pair when liquid is absent in the cavity at said second predetermined level.
14. A system as in claim 3, wherein said system further includes sensor electronics to compare the received signal with a predetermined threshold value, said sensor electronics providing a first output signal to control electronics when liquid is present at or above the predetermined level, and a second output signal to the control electronics when liquid is absent at the predetermined level, said control electronics being designed to selectively actuate remote apparatus depending on whether the first or second output signal is received from the sensor electronics.
15. A sensor designed to be mounted at a preselected level to a liquid level device, said liquid level device having a window which is substantiallytransparent to microwaves and normally allows visual observation of the liquid in the liquid level device, said sensor comprising: a first waveguide having a configuration to direct a microwave signal through the window and into a cavity in the liquid level device, the microwave signal from the transmitter being reflected off an internal surface in the liquid level device and directed back through the window, and a second waveguide having a configuration to collect the reflected microwave signal received through the window in the liquid level device, the microwave signal being attenuated between said first and second waveguides if liquid is present in the liquid level device at or above the preselected level, and not attenuated if liquid is absent at the preselected level, a microwave transmitter to transmit the microwave signal through said first waveguide, a microwave receiver to receive the reflected microwave signal through said second waveguide, and a housing having a configuration which can be mounted to the liquid level device and which allows simultaneous visual inspection of the 


 liquid level through the window at any level of the window in the liquid level device.
16. A sensor designed to be mounted at a preselected level to a liquid level device, said sensor comprising: a first waveguide having a configuration to direct a microwave signal through a window substantially transparent to microwaves and into a cavity in the liquid level device, the microwave signal from the transmitter being reflected off an internal surface in the liquid level device and directed back through the window, and a second waveguide having a configuration to collect the reflected microwave signal received through the window in the liquid level device, the microwave signal being attenuated between said first and second waveguides if liquid is present in the liquid level device at or above the preselected level, and not attenuated if liquid is absent at the preselected level, a microwave transmitter to transmit the microwave signal through said first waveguide, and a microwave receiver to receive the reflected microwave signal through said second waveguide, said sensor having a base with adjustment screws and a neck portion, said adjustment screws being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and said neck portion being located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device and adapted to direct the microwave signal through the substantially microwave-transparent window, said screws being adjustable to removably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
17. A sensor as in claim 16, wherein said sensor has the configuration of a C-shaped clamp, the C-shaped clamp configuration enabling the sensor to be removably mounted to the liquid level device.
18. A sensor as in claim 17, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removably mounting the sensor to the liquid level device.
19. A sensor as in claim 18, wherein said sensor includes a housing enclosing said transmitter and receiver, said housing including waveguide channels having a configuration to direct the microwave signal from the transmitter through the substantially microwave-transparent window in the device and into the cavity in the device, and to direct the reflected microwave energy received through the window to the receiver. 


 20. A sensor designed to be mounted at a preselected level to a liquid level device, said sensor comprising: a first waveguide having a configuration to direct a microwave signal through a window substantially transparent to microwaves and into a cavity in the liquid level device, the microwave signal from the transmitter being reflected off an internal surface in the liquid level device and directed back through the window, and a second waveguide having a configuration to collect the reflected microwave signal received through the window in the liquid level device, the microwave signal being attenuated between said first and second waveguides if liquid is present in the liquid level device at or above the preselected level, and not attenuated if liquid is absent at the preselected level, a microwave transmitter to transmit the microwave signal through said first waveguide, and a microwave receiver to receive the reflected microwave signal through said second waveguide, said sensor including a clamp assembly having a pivotable clamp plate and a neck portion, said neck portion being located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device, and said clamp plate being located adjacent an outer surface of the liquid level device and being pivotably adjustable to removably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
21. A sensor as in claim 20, wherein said clamp plate includes an adjustment screw and a contact portion, said adjustment screw being selectively adjustable to pivotably force said contact portion of said clamp plate into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removably mount said sensor to the liquid level device.
22. A sensor as in claim 21, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removably mounting the sensor to the liquid level device.
23. A mounting assembly for mounting a monitoring device to a liquid level device, comprising: a clamp plate pivotably attached to the monitoring device, and a neck portion extending outwardly from the monitoring device and being configured to be located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device when said clamp plate is located proximate to an outer surface of the liquid level device, said clamp plate being pivotably adjustable into an engaging 



 relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removably mount the monitoring device to the liquid level device.
24. A mounting assembly as in claim 23, wherein said clamp plate includes an adjustment screw and a contact portion, said adjustment screw being selectively adjustable to pivotably force said contact portion of said clamp plate into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removably mount the device to the liquid level device.
25. A mounting assembly as in claim 24, wherein said neck portion includes a lip at the distal end thereof designed to engage a gasket in the liquid level device to assist in removably mounting the device to the liquid level device.
26. A system for monitoring a point liquid level in a liquid level device, comprising: a sensor enclosing a microwave transmitter to direct a microwave signal through a window in the liquid level device substantially transparent to microwaves and into a cavity in the device, and a microwave receiver to receive the microwave signal, and a mounting assembly for mounting the sensor at a predetermined level on the liquid level device, said mounting assembly having a clamp plate pivotably attached to the sensor, and a neck portion extending outwardly from the sensor and being configured to be located within an aperture formed in the liquid level device when said clamp plate is located proximate to an outer surface of the liquid level device, said clamp plate being pivotably adjustable into an engaging relation with the outer surface of the liquid level device to removably mount the sensor to the liquid level device at the predetermined level, the microwave signal being attenuated between said transmitter and said receiver when liquid is present in the cavity at or above the predetermined level and not attenuated between said transmitter and receiver when liquid is absent in the cavity at the predetermined level. 


 STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE19
The proposed Amendment provides claims which distinctly define over the relevant references. Claims l and 15 recite that the system for monitoring a point liquid level includes a liquid level device having a window which is transparent to microwaves and normally allows visual observation of the liquid in the liquid level device. Claims 3, 16 and 20 have been rewritten in independent form, while claims 13 and 14 have been amended so as to depend from claim 3.
Certain changes have been made to the preamble of claims 17-19 and 21, 22, such that the preamble of these claims is consistent with the preamble of claims 15 and 20, from which these claims either directly or indirectly depend.
None of the art cited in the International Search Report discloses the subject matter of these claims. It is therefore respectfully submitted that all the claims in this application are patentably distinguishable over 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
