<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651307</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Resistive heating control system and method that is functional over a wide supply voltage range
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05B300	G05F110	G05D2319	H05B300	G05F145	G05F500	G05D2319	G05F502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05B	G05F	G05D	H05B	G05F	G05F	G05D	G05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05B3	G05F1	G05D23	H05B3	G05F1	G05F5	G05D23	G05F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This present invention takes advantage of the understanding that 
the voltage rating associated with resistive heating element (13) can be ignored 

over the common line voltage range, provided the power dissipation is 
controlled. This is accomplished by applying a fractional amount of power to a 

heating element (13) from the power source. The method consists basically of 
determining (31, 32), or estimating, a ratio of the amount to be applied to the 

amount of power available. A control signal is generated (33) with a duty cycle 
approximately equal to that ratio. A zero crossing switch (12), under control of 

the control signal switches half cycles to the heating element (13). Thus, by 
applying a portion of the available half cycles to the heating element (13), the 

average power dissipation by the heating element (13) can be controlled. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARRETT TONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARRETT, TONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to power control systems and more
particular to a method and apparatus to control the amount of power dissipation
in a resistive heating element.Many applications require that the equipment work over a wide range
of alternating voltages. Within the United States, the common power line
voltage can range from 110 to 240 VAC. If a particular piece of equipment is
to function in the US and other markets, the equipment must allow for the
different operating voltages. Most equipment has solved this problem by
providing a user activated switch from which the user selects the proper input
voltage. Outside of the obvious problem of selecting the wrong setting and
possible damaging the equipment, a switch arrangement presents other
problems. Generally a switch arrangement implies that a transformer is used.
The switch selects the appropriate primary windings on the transformer. By
requiring a transformer, weight and bulk are increased and efficiency is
decreased. The transformer, because of its plurality of windings, also adds
additional cost.Some modern equipment uses universal power supplies. These
universal power supplies automatically output the proper internal voltages used
by the equipment independent to the input voltage. Of course, even the
universal power supplies have a fixed range of input voltage they can accept.
The primary disadvantage with the universal power supplies is their cost and 
reduced efficiency. Efficiency becomes a problem when trying to convert a
significant amount of power.In the art of electrophotographic printing, for example, the print media
must pass through a fusing system. In the fuser, the print media is pressed
between a pressure roller and a heated roller. By applying heat and pressure,
the image on the print media is melted and thereby fused to the print media.
While the fuser roller may be heated in any manner, a lamp placed inside the
fuser roller is the most common method. While the printer electronics and paper
handling components can be powered by a universal power supply, the bulb is
generally selected for the appropriate line voltage. Therefore, either a
transformer is used to switch select the proper voltage for the bulb or two
separate fuser systems are used, each with a relatively tight voltage range.
Thus, the printer could not be made truly universal in power requirements. EP-A-496529 relates to a power control system for a cook top
which is adaptable to a plurality of supply voltages. The
control, in response to an input signal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for regulating an amount of power an electrical
heating element (13) consumes, said electrical heating element

(13) being designed to operate at a rated voltage with a
nominal operating resistance, said apparatus comprising of:


a main power supply generating a periodically varying output
voltage, said rated voltage being less than said output

voltage;
a zero crossing detector (12) for detecting zero crossings
of said output voltage where said zero crossings occur between

positive and negative half cycles of said output voltage;
signal generator means (10,11) for generating a control
signal (21) having a nominal operating duty cycle, said control

signal having a first state (t
2
) and a second state (t
1
), a
ratio of the duration of said first state and the duration of

said second state being a function of said rated voltage and

said output voltage, said nominal operating duty cycle being a
function of said ratio, said signal generator means changing

said control signal between said first state (t
2
) and said
second state (t
1
) only when said zero crossing detector (12)
detects a zero crossing,
wherein during a predetermined time after the operating
resistance of the electrical heating element (13) is reached

the signal generator means (10,11) increases the duty cycle
above the nominal operation duty cycle until the operating

temperature of the electrical heating element (13) is reached,
and
wherein the signal generator means (10,11) generates the
control signal having the nominal operating duty cycle when the

operating temperature of the electrical heating element (13) is
reached; and 
a switch (12) arranged to receive said control signal from
said signal generator means (10,11), said switch connecting

said output voltage from said main power supply to said
electrical heating element (13) when said control signal (21)

is in said first state (t
2
);

characterized in that

during an initial heating phase of the electrical heating
element (13) said signal generator means (10,11) slowly

increases the duty cycle until the nominal operating resistance
of the electrical heating element (13) is reached.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said signal
generator means (10,11) further comprises voltage sensing means

(14) for sensing said output voltage and generating a voltage
level signal that is proportional to said output voltage, said

signal generator means (10,11) using said voltage level signal
to determine said ratio.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said signal
generator means (10,11) is a microcomputer means (10) arranged

to receive said voltage level signal generated by said sensing
means (14), said microcomputer means (10) determines said ratio

and based on said ratio generates said control signal.
A method for regulating an amount of power an electrical
heating element (13) consumes, said electrical heating element

(13) being designed to operate at a rated voltage with a
nominal operating resistance, said method comprising the steps

of:

receiving (31) a periodically varying output voltage from a
main power supply, said rated voltage being less than said

output voltage;
generating (33) a control signal (21) having a nominal
operating duty cycle, said control signal having a first state 

(t
2
) and a second state (t
1
), a ratio of the duration of said
first state and the duration of said second state being a

function of said rated voltage and said output voltage, said
nominal operating duty cycle of said control signal being a

function of said ratio;
during a predetermined time after the operating resistance
of the electrical heating element (13) is reached increasing

the duty cycle above the nominal operating duty cycle until the
operating temperature of the electrical heating element (13) is

reached;
detecting zero crossings of said output voltage where said
zero crossings occur between positive and negative half cycles

of said output voltages; and
connecting said main power supply to said electrical heating
element (13) when said control signal is in said first state

(t
2
) and said step of detecting detects a zero crossing, said
step of connecting disconnects said main power supply from said

electrical heating element (13) when said control signal is in
said second state (t
1
) and said step of detecting detects a
zero crossing;

characterized by the following step:

   during an initial heating phase of the electrical heating
element (13) slowly increasing the nominal duty cycle until the

operating resistance of the electrical heating element (13) is
reached.
A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said duty cycle is
less than or equal to one.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
