<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640467</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for compression moulding of a melt impregnated multilayer article having a metal surface.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1510	B29B1512	B29C4322	B29C4328	B29C4330	B29C4352	B29C4352	B29C7004	B29C7008	B29C7008	B29C7050	B29K6900	B29K10508	B29K70500	B29L900	B32B1508	B32B1508	B32B1520	B32B1520	B62D2500	B62D2502	E04C210	E04C224	E04D128	E04D128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29K	B29K	B29L	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	B62D	B62D	E04C	E04C	E04D	E04D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B15	B29B15	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29K69	B29K105	B29K705	B29L9	B32B15	B32B15	B32B15	B32B15	B62D25	B62D25	E04C2	E04C2	E04D1	E04D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is directed to a process for 
preparing a molded thermoplastic fiber reinforced 

article having on at least one surface thereof a 
metal film and to a mold article prepared therefrom. 

The process comprises applying a first 
thermoplastic resin to at least one surface of a 

fiber mat core, then applying a metal film to at 
least one surface of the substrate of fiber mat 

core and thermoplastic resin and then molding the 
combination thereof under heat and pressure, preferably 

compression molding to form the finished 
article. A second thermoplastic resin may be 

applied to at least one surface of the combination 
of fiber mat core and first thermoplastic resin. 

Either the first and/or the second thermoplastic 
resin may be in film or molten form. If either or 

both are in film form, then it is preferable that 
the fiber mat core be heated prior to applying the 

film form of thermoplastic resin or at least the 
combination to preferably heated prior to molding 

thereof. The metal employed may be preferably 
copper or aluminum. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNTON THOMAS PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALL WALTER LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUTSCH ERICH OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNTON, THOMAS PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALL, WALTER LAWRENCE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUTSCH, ERICH OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a continuous 
process for producing a fiber reinforced thermoplastic 
resin article having a metal surface on at 
least one side thereof and the finished article 
produced therefrom. The metal surface of the 
finished article may be any metal surface that can 
be applied as a film or thin layer and is, preferably, 
copper or aluminum. Briefly, the continuous process of this invention 
comprises continuously applying a thermoplastic 
resin on at least one surface of a fiber mat 
core, applying a metal film or layer on at least 
one surface of the combination of fiber mat core 
and first thermoplastic resin, passing the combination 
to a molding zone, and then molding the 
combination thereof under heat and pressure into a 
finished article. The finished article has a 
metal surface on at least one side of the molded 
article but can be applied to both surfaces. The 
surprising feature is that the metal film or layer 
adheres to the substrate of fiber mat core and 
thermoplastic resin producing a molded article 
having a metal surface on at least one side 
thereof. The final shaped article has many applications, 
such as roofing tile providing a copper  
 
clad roof for example, aluminum clad siding, 
exterior parts of automobiles, and many other 
applications. Metal clad plastics are known in the art and 
have been applied by hot metal deposition, metal 
vaporization, etc. However, the problem of 
laminating metal film or a metal layer on a 
plastic substrate has always been a problem, and 
effective and economical ways of applying metal to 
plastic substrates has always been difficult. The 
present invention accomplishes this, as well as 
being somewhat economical, since the process can 
be continuous. In accordance with the present invention, there 
is provided a process for producing fiber reinforced 
thermoplastic resin articles by molding 
thereof, which articles comprise a fiber mat core, 
thermoplastic resin and a metal surface on at least 
one side thereof. These articles are the finished 
product and are not generally further converted 
into other products. In other words, the final 
article would be the roof tile, the siding, the 
automobile door panel, the automobile bumper, etc. In its broadest scope, the process of this 
invention comprises applying a thermoplastic resin 
onto at least one surface of a fiber mat core, 
followed by applying a metal film or metal layer 
onto at least one surface of the combination of 
the fiber mat core and thermoplastic resin,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A continuous process for producing a molded 
thermoplastic resin fiber reinforced article comprising 

a fiber mat core, a thermoplastic resin 
and a metal surface on at least one side thereof, 

which process comprises continuously applying a 
thermoplastic resin on at least one surface of a 

fiber mat core, applying a metal film onto at 
least one surface of the fiber mat core, passing 

the combination of fiber mat core, thermoplastic 
resin and metal film to a molding zone and then 

molding the combination thereof under pressure and 
heat into a molded thermoplastic resin fiber reinforced 

article having a metal surface on at least 
one side thereof. 
The process of claim 1 comprising continuously 
applying a second thermoplastic resin on at 

least one surface of the combination of fiber mat 
core and first thermoplastic resin, then applying 

the metal film, and then molding the combination 
of fiber mat core, first and second thermoplastic 

resin and metal film into the fiber reinforced 
article. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin is applied in melted form. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the second 
thermoplastic resin is applied in the melted form. 
The process of claim 1 wherein, the 
thermoplastic resin is applied in film form and 

then heated to a temperature sufficient to melt 
the thermoplastic resin film and to heat the fiber 

mat core to processing temperature, which processing 
temperature is above the melting temperature 

of the thermoplastic resin. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin is applied in film form and 

then heated to a temperature sufficient to melt 
the first thermoplastic resin film and to heat the 

fiber mat core to processing temperature, which 
processing temperature is above the melting 

temperature of the thermoplastic resin. 
The process of claim 1 wherein after applying 
the thermoplastic resin to at least one side of 

the fiber mat core but prior to applying the metal 
film, an adhesive layer is applied to the side of 

the combination of fiber mat core and thermoplastic 
resin to which the metal film is to be applied. 
The process of claim 7 wherein the adhesive 
layer is polybutylene terephthalate in melted form. 
The process of claim 2 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin is a film of an aromatic polycarbonate 

resin having an intrinsic viscosity of 
less than about 0.5 dl/gram and the second thermoplastic 

resin is a melted aromatic polycarbonate 
resin having an intrinsic viscosity greater than 

about 0.5 dl/gram. 
The process of claim 9 wherein the heated 
fiber mat core and melted aromatic polycarbonate 

film are passed through the nip of at least one 
pair of opposing heated wet-out rolls under 

sufficient pressure to impregnate the fiber mat 
core with the melted aromatic polycarbonate resin 

film. 
A continuous process for producing a 
molded thermoplastic fiber reinforced article 

comprising a fiber mat, a thermoplastic resin and 
a metal surface on at least one side thereof, 

which process consists essentially of: 
   applying a first thermoplastic resin film onto 

at least one surface of a fiber mat core, 
   heating the fiber mat core and thermoplastic 

resin film to a temperature sufficient to 
melt the thermoplastic resin film and to 

heat the fiber mat core to processing 
temperature, which processing temperature 

is above the melting temperature of the 
thermoplastic resin, 

   passing the heated fiber mat core and melted 
thermoplastic resin film to a zone wherein 

a second thermoplastic resin film is 
applied to at least one surface of the 

fiber mat core and melted first thermoplastic 
resin film, 

   passing the combination thereof to a molding 
zone wherein a metal film is applied to at 

least one side of the combination of fiber 
mat core and thermoplastic resins, and 

molding the combination thereof under heat 
and pressure to form the thermoplastic 

resin fiber reinforced article having a 
metal surface at least one side thereof. 
The process of claim 11 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin film is applied to both the 

top and bottom surface of the fiber mat core. 
The process of claim 11 wherein the fiber 
mat core having the first thermoplastic resin film 

applied onto at least one surface of the fiber mat 
core is passed after heating between at least two 

opposing heated wet-out rolls, wherein the temperature 
of the surface of the rolls are such as to 

avoid sticking of the melted first thermoplastic 
resin to the surface of the rolls and wherein the 

pressure of the rolls on the fiber mat core and 
melted first thermoplastic resin is sufficient to 

force said thermoplastic resin into the fiber mat 
core in order to coat the fiber surfaces thereof. 
The process of claim 13 wherein the fiber 
core consists of chopped glass fibers of about 

1/8'' to about 2'' in length. 
A fiber reinforced molded thermoplastic 
article comprising a metal surface on at least one 

side thereof and a fiber mat substrate impregnated 
with a thermoplastic resin. 
The molded article of claim 15 having 
interdisposed between the metal surface layer and 

the resin impregnated fiber mat core a layer of a 
second thermoplastic resin and wherein the fiber 

mat substrate as impregnated with a first thermoplastic 
resin. 
The molded article of claim 16 having 
interdisposed between the metal surface layer and 

the second thermoplastic resin layer an adhesive 
layer. 
The molded article of claim 15 wherein the 
article is compression molded. 
The molded article of claim 15 wherein the 
metal surface is copper. 
The molded article of claim 15 wherein the 
fiber mat substrate consists of chopped glass 

fiber. 
The molded article of claim 15 wherein the 
fiber mat consists of a combination of chopped 

glass fibers and continuous random glass fibers. 
A fiber reinforced molded thermoplastic 
article consisting essentially of a metal surface 

on at least one side thereof and a fiber mat 
substrate impregnated with a thermoplastic resin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
