<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626247</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Internally stacked blown film die.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4706	B29C4706	B29C4720	B29C4726	B29C4726	B29C4728	B29C5528	B29C5528	B29L900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C47	B29C55	B29C55	B29L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-layer annular die (40) is disclosed that permits the simple 
interchange of layer structure 

and change in layer numbers. The die (40) is equipped with a series of 
essentially identical feed 

modules (60) in which all axial passages of similar function are located 
at the same distance from the 

arial centerline and are also separated by a common angular spacing. 
Changes in the number of 

layers is accomplished by altering the number of feed modules (60), 
while alteration of layer structure 

brought about by rotation of the feed modules. Unlike prior stackable 
dies, resin flow is 

essentially radially outward from the die centerline to the discharge 
plenum, and all resin inlets are 

at a common height in the die base (41). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTENFELD GLOUCESTER ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTENFELD GLOUCESTER ENGINEERING CO., INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH DAVID J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, DAVID J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The blown film process for producing thin plastic film utilizes extrusion of molten plastic 
through an annular die and the closing of the extruded tube by a set of nip rollers to define a 
plastic bubble which is subsequently inflated by a volume of air. The air introduced into the 
bubble is used to produce an increase in the diameter of the bubble over that of the discharge 
orifice of the annular die. For a given die diameter, the extent of increase in bubble diameter, 
commonly known as the blow up ratio, and the linear speed of the nip rollers in comparison to the 
linear rate of extrusion at the die, set the desired circumference of the film, the film thickness, and 
the balance of the mechanical properties of the finished film. Variations on the blown film process 
are also known which include the introduction of chilled air into the bubble above the die to 
hasten cooling of the extrudate in addition to producing the desired blow up ratio, hereinafter 
referred to as internal bubble cooling (IBC); and the use of multiple extruders delivering a number 
of different materials to the annular die provided, at least in part, with separate flow passages for 
each material, to produce a layered film. These layered films are commonly referred to as 
coextruded films, which reflects the manufacturing process, i.e. coextrusion. The present 
invention deals with the mechanical structure of a multi-layer blown film die which allows simple  
 
exchange of the layer structure in the final film and for variation in the number of layers in the die. Multi-layer blown film dies typically take one of two general mechanical configurations. 
For dedicated layer orientation and high production rates, including dies intended for IBC 
applications, the preferred configuration is a multiple spiral mandrel die in which the feed paths 
for the individual resin layers are arranged concentrically. A representative die of this type is 
shown in U.S. Patent no. 3,966,861. A second category of die is the so-called stackable or pancake die. Representative 
examples of this die type are shown in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,337,914 and 4,798,526. As shown in 
these patents, resin is introduced to each layer at the periphery of the die, and is subsequently 
distributed circumferentially via a series of distribution channels, and then flows radially inwardly 
until it is finally discharged against a central mandrel. Each layer of the die is essentially identical 
to the other, so that layers can be added or subtracted from the die simply
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An annular die for extrusion of resin tubes, comprising: 

a hollow die body (45) having an internal surface, said internal 
surface comprising a cylindrical top portion (49) and an inverted 

frustro-conical bottom portion (50), 
at least one feed module (60) mounted within said hollow die 
body and having an external surface (66) defining together with said internal 

surface of said die body a resin flow passage, said feed module 
further having an internal inverted frustro-conical surface (89) of a 

shape identical to that of said bottom portion of said die body so as to 
receive either a second feed module (60') of identical outer shape or a 

filler piece (980), 
resin feed channels (42, 70, 68) connecting an external 
source of molten resin to said resin flow passage. 
The die of claim 1, comprising: 

a. a die base (41), said base containing resin inlet ports 
(42), 
b. a hollow die body (45) mounted on said die base, the inner 
surface of said die body having a cylindrical portion (49) and having an 

inverted frustro-conical portion (50) adjacent to the die base, 
c. a feed module (60) mounted on said die base and within said 
die body, said module having both external and internal inverted frustro-conical 

surfaces, said external inverted frustro-conical surface 
having a multiple spiral thread (65) thereon, said feed module having a 

layer feed passage (70, 72, 76) originating at the centerline of said 
feed module and ending at the point of origin of a spiral thread, said 

module having a vertically oriented resin passage not intersecting the 

centerline for the passage of resin through the feed module, said feed 
module further having an inclined resin passage intersecting the centerline 

of this module and said layer feed passages, 
d. a sizing ring (983) mounted on said die body, and 
e. a die pin (982) mounted on a feed module, said sizing ring 
 

and said die pin defining therebetween the annular discharge orifice 
(99). 
A die according to claim 2 further comprising a minimum of 
three feed modules, said second feed module mounted on said first feed 

module, the exterior inverted frustro-conical surface of said second 
feed module and the interior frustro-conical surface of said first feed 

module defining therebetween a second resin distribution passage and 
said third feed module mounted upon said second feed passage. 
A die according to claim 3, whereas the minimum number of 
feed modules is five. 
A die according to claim 3, further comprising at least 
six layer feed passages in each feed module. 
The die of claim 1 which is a stackable multi-layer internal 
bubble cooling annular die comprising: 


a. a die base, said base containing resin inlet ports and 
further having an internal inverted frustro-conical surface, 
b. a hollow die body mounted on said die base, the inner surface 
of said die body having a cylindrical portion and having an inverted 

frustro-conical portion adjacent to the die base, 
c. a feed module mounted on said die base and within said die 
body, said module having both external and internal inverted frustro-conical 

surfaces, said external inverted frustro-conical surface having a 
multiple spiral thread thereon, said feed module having a layer feed 

passage originating at the centerline of said feed module and ending at 
the point of origin of a spiral thread, said module having a vertically 

oriented resin passage not intersecting the center-line for the passage 
of resin through the feed module, said feed module further having an 

inclined resin passage intersecting the centerline of this module and 
said layer feed passages, 
d. a sizing ring mounted on said die body, and 
e. a die pin mounted on a feed module, said sizing ring and 
said die pin defining therebetween the annular discharge orifice. 
A die according to claim 6, further comprising a minimum 
of three feed modules. 
A die according to claim 7, wherein the minimum number of 
feed modules is five. 
A die according to claim 7, further comprising at least 
six layer feed passages in a feed module. 
The die of claim 1, in which the number and location of 
layers can be changed comprising: 


a. a die base having resin inlet passages, 
b. a hollow die body matched to the axial length of the selected 
number of feed modules mounted on said die base and surrounding said 

layer feed modules, said die body and said layer feed modules defining 
therebetween an annular resin passage, 
c. a layer feed module having an internal frustro-conical surface 
and external inverted frustro-conical surface adapted to mate with 

the internal frustro-conical surface of the die base or that of another 
layer feed module to define therebetween a resin distribution channel, 

the layer feed module also having a resin through passage and a resin 
transition passage, said through passages adapted to pass resin from the 

die base to a module away from the die base, said transition passage 
adapted to take a selected resin from the die base to the centerline of 

the layer feed module, a resin feed passage originating at the centerline 
of said feed module and in operative connection to said transition 

passage, said resin feed passage ending at said external inverted frustro-conical 
surface thereby providing a continuous resin passage from 

the die base to the flow distribution channel, 
d. a sizing ring mounted on said die body, and 
e. a die pin mounted on the feed module farthest from the die 
base, said die pin and said sizing ring defining therebetween the annular 

die discharge orifice, whereby the number of die layers can be altered 
by changing the number of feed modules and the die body, and in 

which the layer locations can be altered by rotating the feed module to 
match the appropriate through passage in the previous layers. 
The die of claim 10 in which the through passages are arranged 
in a periodic manner with respect to the layer feed passages. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
