<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622506</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Suction cleaner for submerged surfaces.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04H400	E04H416	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04H	E04H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04H4	E04H4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A turbine driven underwater pool cleaner (10) has a 
housing (16,18) to which is attached a hose (92) providing a 

source of suction. The suction functions to draw debris into and 
through the housing (16,18) via an opening (38) at the bottom 

surface (39) of the housing (16,18). A rotatable turbine (50) 
is provided in the flow path of the fluid being drawn through the 

housing. A pair of wheels (14) are provided which are mounted 
both for rotation and translation with respect to the housing 

(16,18). A pair of shafts (52) extend from and are driven by the 
turbine (50). A radial projection (54) is provided at the end of 

each shaft (52). During each revolution of the shaft (52), the 
radial projection (54) is provided at the end of each shaft (52). 

During each revolution of the shaft (52), the radial projection 
(54) provides both a rotational and a translation force on the 

wheel (14) for driving the cleaner in a sure manner about the 
surface (30) to be cleaned. Two alternative approaches are 

disclosed for steering the cleaner. In one approach, the drive 
to one of the wheels (14) is selectively disengaged. In another 

embodiment, the device is steered by placing a torque on the 
suction hose (92). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAUBENHEIMER DENNIS ANDREW
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RAUBENHEIMER, DENNIS ANDREW
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAUBENHEIMER DENNIS ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAUBENHEIMER, DENNIS ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a suction cleaner for submerged surfaces. Broadly speaking there are two main types of suction powered cleaners for 
submerged surfaces, otherwise termed pool cleaners. The first type derives motive 
power from periodic interruptions, either partial or complete, of the suction flow applied 
to the cleaner. The second type derives motive power from a turbine caused to rotate 
by the suction flow. The turbine type of cleaner has a number of advantages over the interrupted flow 
type of cleaner. For example, turbine powered cleaners move continuously and 
smoothly rather than in a jerky fashion. In addition, turbine powered cleaners are much 
quieter in operation. Another problem with the known interrupted flow types of cleaner 
is that they have the tendency to miss out certain areas of a swimming pool, with the 
result that leaves and other debris accumulate in those areas, requiring manual cleaning. 
In contrast, at least one known type of turbine powered cleaner steers itself in 
accordance with a set program which provides better coverage over the pool bottom. The only drawback to existing turbine powered cleaners is that they tend to have 
relatively complicated drive and steering mechanisms. Therefore, it would be desirable 
to develop a pool cleaner which retains all the advantages of a turbine powered device 
yet had less complex drive and steering mechanisms. Descriptions of known turbine 
driven cleaners can in the following U.S. Patents: No. 4,536,908; No. 4,521,933; and 
No. 4,560,418. In accordance with the subject invention, a pool cleaner is provided for cleaning 
submerged surfaces that is powered from the vacuum of a suction hose. The cleaner 
includes a housing having a suction flow passage to which the suction hose is 
connected. A rotatable turbine is located within the suction flow. At least one wheel, 
and preferably two wheels, are mounted to the housing in a manner which allows the 
wheels to be rotated and translated downwardly against a biasing force. A drive means, 
powered by the turbine, periodically rotates and translates the wheel. In the preferred 
embodiment, the drive means includes a shaft, carrying an eccentric formation. The 
periodic drive increases traction, improving the ability of the cleaner to travel over the  
 
submerged pool surface. The periodic drive also acts as a simplified differential 
allowing the device to be more readily steered. In one embodiment of the subject invention, steering is achieved by selectively 
disengaging the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An underwater pool cleaner comprising: 
   a housing; 

   wheel means rotatably mounted to and supporting said housing, said 
mounting further allowing said wheel means to be translated downwardly against a 

biasing force; and 
   drive means affixed to said housing and coupled to said wheel means, said 

drive means for intermittently imparting a force to said wheel means in a manner 
to cause said wheel means to rotate and be translated against said biasing force. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 1 wherein said drive means includes a rotatable 
drive shaft, with said drive shaft being frictionally engaged with said wheel means, said 

drive shaft including a radial projection for intermittently imparting a force to said 
wheel means in a manner to cause said wheel means to rotate and be translated against 

said biasing force. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 2 wherein said wheel means includes a wheel 
shaft, said wheel shaft being journaled in an elongated channel formed in said housing, 

said cleaner further including a spring mounted in said channel and providing said 
biasing force against said wheel shaft. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 3 wherein said wheel means includes a pair of 
opposed wheels. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 4 further including separate drive means for each 
wheel. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 5 further including a means for selectively 
disengaging one the of the drive means from the associated wheel to steer the cleaner. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 6 further comprising: 

   a rotatably mounted ring gear, 
   means for rotating the ring gear; and 

   cam means formed on said ring gear for selectively disengaging one of the 
drive means from the associated wheel to steer the cleaner. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 2 wherein said drive means further includes a 
rotatably mounted turbine, said turbine being driven by fluid flow through the housing 

created by a source of suction, and wherein said drive shaft is driven by said turbine. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 8 wherein said source of suction is supplied to 
said cleaner via a flexible hose attached to said housing and wherein said cleaner 

includes a steering means for generating a rotational torque on said hose. 
An underwater suction pool cleaner for cleaning a pool surface comprising: 
   a housing having an opening on the bottom thereof, said housing being 

connectable to a source of suction for vacuuming debris through said opening; 
   a pair of wheels rotatably mounted to and supporting said housing, said 

mounting further allowing said wheels to be translated toward the bottom of said 
housing against a biasing force; 

   steering means coupled to said housing; 
   a turbine rotatably mounted in said housing and being driven by fluid flow 

through the housing created by said source of suction; and 
   drive means coupled between said turbine and said wheels, said drive means 

for intermittently imparting a force to said wheels in a manner to cause said 
wheels to rotate and be translated against said biasing force thereby intermittently 

increasing the traction between the wheels and the pool surface and alternately 
reducing traction thereby facilitating steering. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 10 wherein said drive means includes a pair of 
rotatable drive shafts powered by said turbine, with said drive shafts being frictionally 

engaged with said wheels, each said drive shaft including a radial projection for 
intermittently imparting a force to the associated wheel in a manner to cause said wheels 

to rotate and be translated against said biasing force. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 11 wherein each said wheel includes a wheel 
shaft, said wheel shaft being journaled in an elongated channel formed in said housing, 

said cleaner further including a spring mounted in said channel and providing said 
biasing force against said wheel shaft. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 10 further including a means for selectively 
disengaging one the of the drive means from the associated wheel to steer the cleaner. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 13 further comprising: 
   a rotatably mounted ring gear; 

   means for rotating the ring gear; and 
   cam means formed on said ring gear for selectively disengaging one of the 

drive means from the associated wheel to steer the cleaner. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 10 wherein said source of suction is supplied to 
said cleaner via a flexible hose attached to said housing and wherein said steering means 

includes a means for generating a rotational torque on said hose. 
An underwater pool cleaner connectable to a flexible hose providing a source 
of suction, said cleaner comprising: 

   a housing; 
   means for moving the cleaner in a forward direction; 

   a support member rotatably mounted to said housing and including a spigot 
connectable to said suction hose, said suction hose creating a flow of fluid into and 

through said housing; 
   a turbine mounted to be rotatably driven by said flow of fluid; 

   a rotatably mounted ring gear; 
   means for selectively coupling the ring gear to the support member; and 

   drive means powered by said turbine for selectively rotating said ring gear in 
either a clockwise or counterclockwise direction, said ring gear rotatably driving 

the support member and generating torque on said hose to steer the cleaner. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 16 wherein when the direction of rotation of the 
ring gear is reversed, the coupling means will become disengaged for a period of time 

allowing the cleaner to move without a steering force. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 16 wherein said drive means includes first and 
second pawls alternately driving the ring gear, wherein said first pawl drives the ring 

gear in a clockwise direction and the second pawl drives the ring gear in a 
counterclockwise direction. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 17 further including a drive shaft mounted on 
said turbine and with said first and second pawls being eccentrically mounted to the 

opposed ends of the drive shaft. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 17 further including a control means for 
selectively disengaging one of the pawls from the ring gear. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 20 wherein control means includes a control ring 
rotatably mounted to said housing, said control ring including a pair of opposed cam 

means for selectively biasing one of the pawls into disengagement with the ring gear. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 21 further including a means for selectively 
rotating the control ring to selectively position one of the opposed cam means adjacent 

the associated pawl to disengage the pawl. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 22 wherein means for rotating the control ring 
includes a member projecting from said ring gear and wherein said control ring further 

includes a secondary turbine driven by said fluid flow, said secondary turbine being 
configured to periodically engage with the member of the ring gear causing said control 

ring to be partially rotated. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 23 wherein said means for rotating the control 
ring further includes a pair of opposed angled projections on said control ring and 

further including a pair of shafts rotatably driven by said turbine, with the ends of each 
shaft carrying an axial projection which engages with one of the angled projections on 

the control ring after it has been partially rotated, said engagement functioning to 
complete the rotation of the control ring disengaging associated pawl. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 21 further including a stop member associated 
with each pawl, said stop members including a stop formation engageable with the ring 

gear and acting as a ratchet, said stop member further including a tail portion which 
engages with the cam means on the control ring to disengage the pawl. 
A cleaner as recited in claim 16 wherein said means for moving the cleaner in 
a forward direction is driven by the turbine. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
