<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0965656</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for selective activation and metallisation of materials
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1816	C23C1816	C23C1820	C23C1830	H05K318	H05K318	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C18	C23C18	C23C18	C23C18	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of producing a surface activation of a substrate for receiving a layer
of conducting material in a subsequent electroless plating step for electronics and

microsystems, comprising:

a) forming a deposit or coating of a surface activation compound on the
substrate, the surface activation compound being a compound of a metal

which has the property of activating a surface for electroless plating of
the desired conducting material; and
b) irradiating the surface activation compound with ultraviolet radiation to
produce a surface activation;

wherein

   the surface activation compound is a compound which contains a

photolabile group as a ligand to the metal, the metal being bonded to one
or more carbon atoms of the ligand, and wherein the compound has the

property of being photochemically active such that it decomposes to the
metal when exposed to ultraviolet radiatio
n of an appropriate wavelength
and when at a certain temperature, but does not decompose at that

temperature in the absence of ultraviolet radiation.
As described, the radiation is transmitted through a gas and through a
mask which is patterned such as to mask the surface activation compound from

exposure to the ultraviolet radiation at the sites which are not to be activated.
Suitably, the compound has the property of absorbing ultraviolet
radiation in the wavelength range 210 - 260 nm, or in the wavelength range 290

- 330 nm, in the solid state if the compound exists as a solid at 25°C or in the
liquid state if the compound exists as a liquid at 25°C.
The surface activation compound is suitably an organometallic based on
palladium, platinum, rhodium or iridium.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV COLLEGE CORK NATIONAL UNI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE CORK-NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF IRELAND, CORK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CREAN GABRIEL MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY PATRICK VINCENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACAULEY DANIEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CREAN, GABRIEL MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLY, PATRICK VINCENT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACAULEY, DANIEL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to metallisation of materials, which may be
electrically insulating, electrically semiconducting, or electrically conducting and relates
in particular to electroless plating, and more particularly to a method for producing a
patterned surface activation film on a substrate for receiving a layer of conducting
material in a subsequent electroless plating step, and the use of organometallic
compounds for surface activation in the metallisation of materials.High specification metallisation of materials, especially electrically insulating
and semiconductor materials, is increasingly required in modem electronics and
microsystems. A variety of techniques are used in industrial processes, but all have
limitations. Electroplating cannot be used on an insulating substrate unless an
electrically conducting coating is applied to it. Evaporation techniques require a high
vacuum and high temperature and give poor resolution and waste a lot of metal, and are
characterised by low volumes. Radio frequency (RF) sputtering requires a high vacuum,
gives poor resolution, wastes a lot of metal and requires specialised equipment.
Chemical vapour deposition employs toxic and flammable gases. Thick film screen
printing is typically restricted to a minimum of 80 µm line and space widths. Laser or
ion beam lithography is expensive, requires scanning to cover large areas, substrate and
coating damage can result from localised heating, and in the case of ion beam
lithography, a high vacuum is required.Electroless plating has yielded good quality results, and has the advantage that it
can be used to plate electrical insulators and electrical semiconductors as well as
electrical conductors, but is expensive because it involves a large number of steps. In
particular, electroless plating selectively on some parts of a substrate only involves 
preparing a patterned surface activation film on the substrate to initiate the subsequent
electroless reaction. The current technique for producing a patterned surface activation
film on an substrate for receiving a layer of conducting material in a subsequent
electroless plating step comprises the steps of:
a) preparing a solution of the film compound;b) forming a coating of the solution on the insulating substrate and allowing the
solvent to evaporate so as to leave a film of the compound;c) covering the film with a patterned mask;d) irradiating the film through the patterned mask under vacuum conditions;e) rinsing the film whereby the non-irradiated parts are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing a surface activation of a substrate for receiving a layer of
conducting material in a subsequent electroless plating step comprising:


a) forming a deposit or coating of a surface activation compound on the
substrate, the surface activation compound being a compound of a metal

which has the property of activating a surface for electroless plating of
the desired conducting material; and
b) irradiating the surface activation compound with ultraviolet radiation to
produce a surface activation;

wherein

the surface activation compound is a compound which contains a
photolabile group as a ligand to the metal, the metal being bonded to one

or more carbon atoms of the ligand, and wherein the compound has the
property of being photochemically active such that it decomposes to the

metal when exposed to ultraviolet radiation of an appropriate wavelength
and when at a certain temperature, but does not decompose at that

temperature in the absence of ultraviolet radiation.
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the radiation is transmitted through a
gas and through a mask which is patterned such as to mask the surface activation

compound from exposure to the ultraviolet radiation at the sites which are not to
be activated, and wherein the mask preferably further has an opaque coating,

which is preferably on the side which is in contact with the substrate.
A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the surface activation
compound is applied to the substrate in the form of a liquid, a solution of the

solid surface activation compound being prepared if required.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the compound has the
property of absorbing ultraviolet radiation in the wavelength range 210 - 260 nm,

preferably 210-235 nm, or in the wavelength range 290 - 330 nm, in the solid
state if the compound exists as a solid at 25°C or in the liquid state if the

compound exists as a liquid at 25°C.
A method as claimed in any of claims 2 to 4 wherein the gas is selected from air,
nitrogen or an inert gas such as helium, argon, krypton or xenon.
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the mask is quartz, silica or other plate
which is transparent to ultraviolet radiation in the wavelength range used for

irradiating the surface active compound.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the surface activation
compound is an organometallic compound wherein the metal is in the +2

oxidation state.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the surface activation
compound is a compound in which the metal is π-bonded to the ligand.
A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the metal is π-bonded to an optionally
substituted lower alkenyl group in the ligand, the lower alkenyl group preferably

having one or more olefinic double bonds and having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms
in a straight or branched chain or a carbocycle, particularly an allyl group.
A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the lower alkenyl group is substituted
by an alkyl group having 1 to 10 carbon atoms and itself being optionally

substituted by hydroxyl, C1-C6 alkoxy or di-(C1-C6 alkyl) amino group,
particularly wherein the lower alkenyl group is a methallyl group.
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the metal is selected from
palladium and platinum.
A method as claimed in claim 9, 10 or 11 wherein the metal compound is
selected from a π-lower alkenyl-acetylacetonato metal (II) compound, a π-lower

alkenyl dibenzoylmethyl-metal (II) compound, a bis (π-lower alkenyl-halo-metal
(II)) compound, in which "halo" represents bromo, chloro, iodo or fluoro, or

cyclooctadiene metal (II) dihalide where "halide" represents chloride, bromide,
iodide or fluoride.
A method as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the surface
activation compound is selected from:


π methallyl-acetylacetonato-palladium (II);
π-methallyl-dibenzoylmethyl-palladium (II);
bis (π methallyl-chloro-palladium (II));
π methallyl-acetylacetonato-platinum (II);
π methallyl-dibenzoylmethyl-platinum (II);
bis (π-methallyl-chloro-platinum (II)).
A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein the surface
activation compound possesses an optical absorption band arising due to ligand-to-metal

charge transfer, such that said optical absorption band overlaps closely
to the optical emission band of the ultraviolet lamp used for irradiating the

surface active compound.
A method according to any of claims 1 to 10 in which the metal compound is an
organometallic based on rhodium or iridium.
A method according to claim 2 or 6 wherein the mask is at least 2 millimetres
thickness.
A method according to any preceding claim carried out at about atmospheric
pressure.
A substrate whenever activated by a method as claimed in any preceding claim.
A substrate whenever coated by a method as claimed in any preceding claim.
A method for the deposition of discrete pads of metal onto a substrate, in which
the activation of the substrate is carried out by a method as claimed in any of

claims 1 to 17.
A method for producing metallised substrates by activating the substrate surface,
coating with a metal by electroless plating and, as required, thickening the metal

layer, in which the activation of the substrate is carried out by a method as
claimed in any of claims 1 to 17.
Metallised articles whenever produced by a method as claimed in claim 20 or 21.
Use of an organometallic compound having at least one photolabile group as a
ligand to the metal, the metal and the ligand being bonded by a metal-carbon

bond, to activate a substrate for subsequent deposition of metal comprising the
steps of:


a) depositing the organometallic compound on the substrate to be activated;
and
b) exposing the organometallic compound to ultraviolet radiation of suitable
wavelength to weaken the metal-carbon bond between the metal and the

ligand, initiating the decomposition of the organometallic compound to
the metal.
Use according to claim 23 where the substrate is heated.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
