<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653126</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR LOADING A SOFTWARE PROGRAM FROM A RADIO MODEM INTO AN EXTERNAL COMPUTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F906	G06F906	G06F9445	G06F9445	G06F1310	G06F1310	G06F1314	G06F1314	G06F1516	G06F1516	G06F15177	G06K1700	G06K1700	G06K1907	G06K1907	G08B522	G08B522	H04B726	H04B726	H04L2910	H04L2910	H04W8800	H04W8802	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06K	G06K	G06K	G06K	G08B	G08B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F9	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	G06F13	G06F15	G06F15	G06F15	G06K17	G06K17	G06K19	G06K19	G08B5	G08B5	H04B7	H04B7	H04L29	H04L29	H04W88	H04W88	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus in a selective call receiver (100) to choose and load a software driver program (124) into an external computer (302). A data interface (118) couples with the computer (302) and memory (122) containing preprogrammed data comprising a plurality of executable software driver programs (124). A processor (108) coupled to memory (122) and to the interface (118) controlls interactions between the memory (122) and data interface (118). The method comprises the steps of: coupling (402) the data interface (118) to the computer (302); receiving (404) an identifier signal (302); accessing (406) the memory (122) to locate a compatible driver program (124); and transmitting (412) to the external computer (302) the driver program (124) in response to locating the program (124).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR LOADING A SOFTWARE PROGRAM FROM A RADIO MODEM INTO AN EXTERNAL COMPUTERField of the InventionThis invention relates in general to selective call receivers, and more specifically to selective call receivers having a data interface for communicating with an external computer.Background of the InventionThe "radio modem," i.e., a selective call receiver having a data interface for communicating with an external computer, is well known in the art . An example is the NewsStrea ™ Advanced Data Receiver manufactured by Motorola, Inc. of Schaumburg, Illinois. This radio modem is intended for use with computers having an RS-232 port and a telecommunications program that supports a popular file transfer protocol called "XMODEM." Coupling the data interface of the conventional radio modem with such a computer allows the computer to receive information transmitted by radio and addressed to the radio modem and to store the received information in a file. Additional file access or other software is required when a user then wishes to examine or work with the information in the file.While the conventional radio modem provides an excellent method of receiving information in a portable computer, the application software available for most portable computers does little beyond displaying information received and perhaps doing a name or telephone number look-up based on information received through the radio modem. Application software for providing vertical services that are custom tailored to the needs of various users is becoming available, but at a relatively slow pace. 

 An obstacle to development of vertical application software for the conventional radio modem is the lack of a consistent, high-level application interface that will remain unchanged from one brand of external computer to the next and from one model of radio modem to the next. This lack of consistency occurs because the conventional radio modem requires the application program to provide low-level drivers that are unique to each type of external computer. The low-level drivers also necessarily must be changed in response to subsequent changes in the design of the radio modem, e.g., changing from a serial data link to a parallel link between the radio modem and the external computer, or modifying low-level proprietary commands in the radio modem to add new features . Thus, what is needed is a way of providing a consistent interface between the application software and the radio modem to facilitate the development of new and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A method in a selective call receiver of choosing and loading a software driver program into an external computer, the selective call receiver comprising a data interface for coupling with the external computer and a memory containing pre-programmed data comprising a plurality of executable software driver programs, the selective call receiver further comprising a processor coupled to the memory and to the data interface for controlling interactions between the memory and the data interface, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) coupling the data interface to the external computer; (b) receiving in response to step (a) a signal comprising an identifier from the external computer;
(c) accessing the memory to locate a software driver program compatible with the external computer identified by the identifier received in step (b) ; and (d) transmitting to the external computer the software driver program in response to locating the software driver program in step (c) .
2. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising the step of:
(e) generating an alarm in response to failing to locate a compatible software driver program in step (c) .
3. A method in a selective call receiver of loading an application program into an external computer and of obtaining compatibility between the external computer and the application program, the selective call receiver comprising a data interface for coupling with the external computer and a memory containing pre-programmed data comprising the application program and a plurality of executable software driver programs, the selective call receiver further comprising a processor coupled to the 


memory and to the data interface for controlling interactions between the memory and the data interface, the method comprising the steps of:
(a) coupling the data interface to the external computer;
(b) receiving in response to step (a) a signal comprising an identifier from the external computer;
(c) accessing the memory to locate a software driver program compatible with the external computer identified by the identifier received in step (b) ;
(d) transmitting to the external computer the software driver program in response to locating the software driver program in step (c) ; and
(e) providing to the external computer the application program, the application program being compatible with the external computer through the software driver program transmitted in step (d) .
4. The method in accordance with claim 3, further comprising the step of:
(f) generating an alarm in response to failing to locate a compatible software driver program in step (c) .
5. Selective call receiver means for receiving and decoding selective call radio signals comprising information, the selective call receiver means comprising: data interface means for coupling with an external computer means for transmitting information to the external computer means; memory means coupled to the data interface means for allowing access to the memory means by the external computer means; pre-programmed data stored within the memory means, the pre-programmed data comprising a plurality of executable software driver programs, each of the plurality of executable software driver programs for programming at 


least one specific type of external computer to communicate with the data interface means; computer recognition means coupled to the data interface means for recognizing one of a plurality of specific types of external computer in response to signals provided to the data interface means by the external computer; and driver selection means coupled to the computer recognition means for selecting one of the plurality of executable software driver programs compatible with a recognized one of the plurality of specific types of external computer.
6. The selective call receiver means in accordance with claim 5, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises a single, invariant, high-level application programming interface compatible with all the specific types of external computer that have a corresponding software driver program in the plurality of software driver programs .
7. The selective call receiver means in accordance with claim 5, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations in response to receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver means.
8. The selective call receiver means in accordance with claim 5, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations that are performed in response to stimuli other than receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver means. 


 9. The selective call receiver means in accordance with claim 5, wherein the data interface means comprises a PCMCIA-type interface.
10. The selective call receiver means in accordance with claim 5, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations that are customized to specific requirements of at least one category of users that have similar information processing requirements .
11. The selective call receiver means in accordance with claim 5, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises: a single, invariant, high-level application programming interface compatible with all the specific types of external computer that have a corresponding software driver program in the plurality of software driver programs; at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations in response to receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver means; and at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations that are performed in response to stimuli other than receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver means.
12. A selective call receiver comprising: a receiver for receiving radio frequency (RF) signals comprising information and for demodulating the RF signals to derive the information; a decoder coupled to the receiver for decoding the received information and obtaining messages therefrom; a processor coupled to the decoder for accepting the messages and for generating an alert signal in response thereto; 


 an alert device coupled to the processor for generating an audible or tactile alert in response to the alert signal; a data interface for coupling with an external computer for transmitting received messages to the external computer; a memory coupled to the data interface for allowing access to the memory by the external computer; pre-programmed data stored within the memory, the pre-programmed data comprising a plurality of executable software driver programs, each of the plurality of executable software driver programs for programming at least one specific type of external computer to communicate with the data interface; a computer recognition element coupled to the data interface for recognizing one of a plurality of specific types of external computer in response to signals provided to the data interface by the external computer; and a driver selection element coupled to the computer recognition element for selecting one of the plurality of executable software driver programs compatible with a recognized one of the plurality of specific types of external computer.
13. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 12, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises a single, invariant, high-level application programming interface compatible with all the specific types of external computer that have a corresponding software driver program in the plurality of software driver programs.
14. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 12, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations in response to receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver. 


 15. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 12, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations that are performed in response to stimuli other than receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver means.
16. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 12, wherein the data interface comprises a PCMCIA-type interface .
17. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 12, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations that are customized to specific requirements of at least one category of users that have similar information processing requirements .
18. The selective call receiver in accordance with claim 12, wherein the pre-programmed data further comprises: a single, invariant, high-level application programming interface compatible with all the specific types of external computer that have a corresponding software driver program in the plurality of software driver programs; at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations in response to receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver means; and at least one application program comprising executable code for programming the external computer to perform operations that are performed in response to stimuli other than receiving decoded information from the selective call receiver means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
