<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642956</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Filtration in hybrid inflators
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C06D500	B60R2126	B01D3912	B60R2126	B01D3920	B01D3910	B01D4624	B01D4600	B60R21272	B01D4624	B01D4600	C06D506	B01D3920	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C06D	B60R	B01D	B60R	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B60R	B01D	B01D	C06D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C06D5	B60R21	B01D39	B60R21	B01D39	B01D39	B01D46	B01D46	B60R21	B01D46	B01D46	C06D5	B01D39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method suitable for inflating a 
vehicle occupant restraint. The apparatus stores a gas 

generating material in a first chamber (40) and stores a 
supply of gas under pressure in a second chamber (14). 

When ignited, the gas generating material produces a hot 
gas which contains particulate material. To effect 

particulate removal, housed within the container and 
extending about a gas
 exit nozzle (44) of the first chamber 
is a filter structure (51). The filter structure forms 

inner and outer mixing zones (54, 56) within the second 
chamber wherein portions of the stored gas mix with the 

appropriately generated and/or treated gas, forming 
inflation gas. The inflation gas in turn is passed through 

a diffuser and into the vehicle occupant restraint. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOLIV ASP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AUTOLIV ASP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOWE WILLIAM G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE WALTER A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINK LINDA M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOWE, WILLIAM G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE, WALTER A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RINK, LINDA M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to inflatable restraint
systems and, more particularly, to the type of inflator known as a
hybrid inflator and the treatment of gases therein.Many types of inflators have been disclosed in the art for
inflating an air bag for use in an inflatable restraint system.
One type involves the utilization of a quantity of stored
compressed gas which is selectively released to inflate the air
bag. Another type derives a gas source from a combustible gas
generating material which, upon ignition, generates a quantity of
gas sufficient to inflate the air bag. In a third type, the air
bag inflating gas results from the combination of a stored
compressed gas and the combustion products of a gas generating
material. The last mentioned type is commonly referred to as an
augmented gas or hybrid inflator.Hybrid inflators that have been proposed heretofore have, in
general, been subject to certain disadvantages. For example, the
burning of the pyrotechnic (gas generating) and initiation
materials in such inflators invariably results in the production of
particulate material. The use of such a particulate-containing
inflator emission to inflate an air bag can in turn result in the
particulate material being vented out from the air bag and into the
vehicle.Typically, the particulate material is variously sized and
includes a large amount of particulate within the respirable range
for humans. Thus, the passage of the gas borne particulate
material into the passenger compartment of the vehicle, such as via
conventional air bag venting, can result in the undesired
respiration of such particulate material by the driver and/or other 
passengers which in turn can cause consequent respiratory problems.
Also, such particulate can easily become dispersed and airborne so
as to appear to be smoke and thereby result in the false impression
that there is a fire in or about the vehicle.It has also been proposed to screen the gaseous emission
coming from the pyrotechnic portion of such hybrid inflators. For
example, the above-identified U.S. Patent No. 5,131,680,
which discloses an apparatus according to the preamble of
claim 1,
discloses
the inclusion of a circular screen "128" between the body of
pyrotechnic material and the orifice through which the
pyrotechnically produced emission is passed to the pressurized
gas-containing chamber of the hybrid inflator.Also, U.S. Patent No. 5,016,914 discloses the inclusion of a
metal disk having a plurality of suitably sized openings therein.
The disk is disclosed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for inflating a vehicle occupant
restraint, comprising:


a container (12) having a first chamber (40) storing a
gas generating material and a second chamber (14) storing a

supply of gas under pressure, the gas generating material
when ignited generating a hot gas, the generated hot gas

containing particulate of the gas generating material and
byproducts thereof and being releasable from said first

chamber into said second chamber by means of at least one
gas exit nozzle (44);
a filter structure (50) comprising at least one filter
material (51) housed in said container (12) to reduce the

particulate content of generated gas entering the second
chamber;
and a diffuser (80) having at least one controlling
orifice (90) for providing passage therein of the inflation

gas from said container and at least one exit port (92) for
dispensing the inflation gas into the vehicle occupant

restraint,

   characterised in that said filter structure (50)
extends into said second chamber (14) about the gas exit

nozzle of said first chamber (40), said filter structure
defining an inner mixing zone (54) in said second chamber

for mixing at least a portion of the particulate-containing
generated hot gas with at least a portion of the stored gas

to form a gas mix, said filter structure being contacted by
a gas comprising at least a portion of the particulate-containing

generated hot gas and effecting reduction in the
particulate content of the contacting gas, said filter

structure further defining an outer mixing zone (56) in said
second chamber wherein an inflation gas for use in inflating

the vehicle occupant restraint and comprising a mix of gas of
reduced particulate content and stored gas is formed.
Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said filter
structure (50) comprises an inner surface (52) and an outer 

surface (53) and said reduction in particulate content
comprises particulate condensation on said inner surface

and particulate entrapment in said filter material as at
least a portion of the particulate-containing generated hot

gas passes therethrough upon contact therewith.
Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein
there is at least an approximately 180° cumulative change

in gas direction between the release of the particulate-containing
generated hot gas from said first chamber (40)

and the passage of the inflation gas into said diffuser
(80).
Apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein
said filter structure (50) comprises at least one support

layer (70, 72) of a woven stainless steel screen having an
open area in the range of 20 to 60 percent.
Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said filter
structure comprises both an outer support layer (70) and an

inner support layer (72) with at least one layer of filter
element (74) between them.
Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said filter
element (74) comprises ceramic paper or ceramic textile.
Apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein:

a) said gas exit nozzle (44) is at a first end (42)
of said first chamber (40) and is opposite a

first inner end (61) of said second chamber
(14),
b) a distance D separates the first end (42) of
said first chamber (40) from the first inner end

(61) of said second chamber (14),
c) said filter structure (50) comprises an
elongated cylindrical shape with said filter 

structure extending a distance L from the first
end (42) of said first chamber toward the first

inner end (61) of said second chamber, and
d) distance L is less that or substantially the
same as distance D.
Apparatus according to claim 7 wherein a first end
(60) of the filter structure is secured about a first end

portion (41) of said first chamber (40) and an opposite
second end (62) of the filter structure is free standing

within said second chamber (14).
Apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein
the container (12) and the filter structure (50) are of

elongated cylindrical shape. 
A method for producing inflation gas in an
apparatus (10) suitable for use in inflating a vehicle

occupant restraint and comprising a container (12) having a
first chamber (40) containing a gas 
generating material and
a second chamber (14) in which a supply of gas under

pressure is stored, said method comprising the steps of:

igniting the gas generating material stored in the
first chamber (40) to generate a hot gas, the generated hot

gas containing particulate of the gas generating material
and byproducts thereof,
releasing the particulate-containing generated hot
gas from the first chamber (40) into the second chamber

(14) by means of at least one gas exit nozzle (44), 
contacting at least a portion of the particulate-containing
generated hot gas with a filter structure (50)

housed in the container to effect significant reduction in
the particulate content of the contacting gas, and
passing the inflation gas by means of a diffuser (80)
having at least one controlling orifice (90) for providing

passage therein of at least a portion of the inflation gas
and at least one exit port (92) for dispensing at least a

portion of the inflation gas passing therein into the
vehicle occupant restraint,

   characterised in that the filter structure (50)
comprises at least one filter material (51) extending into

the second chamber about said gas exit nozzle, the filter
structure defining an inner mixing zone (54) and an outer

mixing zone (56) in the second chamber,

   in that at least a portion of the particulate-containing
generated hot gas is mixed with at least a

portion of the stored gas in the inner mixing zone to form a
gas mix,

   and in that gas of reduced particulate content, after
contact with the filter material (50), is mixed with stored

gas in the outer mixing zone (56) to form an inflation gas
for use in inflating the vehicle occupant restraint.
A method according to claim 10 wherein the filter
structure has an inner surface (52) and an outer surface

(53) and said contacting step comprises contacting the inner
surface with at least a portion of the gas comprising the

particulate-containing generated hot gas to effect
particulate condensation on the inner surface of the filter

structure and particulate entrapment in said filter material
as at least a portion of the particulate-containing

generated hot gas passes therethrough upon contact
therewith.
A method according to claim 11 wherein said
contacting step additionally comprises contacting the outer 

surface (53) of the filter structure (50) with at least a
portion of the gas comprising the particulate-containing

generated hot gas to effect particulate condensation on the
outer surface of the filter structure.
A method according to claim 11 or claim 12 wherein
direction of gas flow is substantially reversed between the

releasing of the particulate-containing generated hot gas
from said first chamber (40) and the passing of the

inflation gas into said diffuser (80).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
