<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process of preparing etoposide phosphate and etoposide
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61P3500	C07F96561	C07H1704	A61K317048	C12N916	A61K3170	C12P1960	C07H1700	A61K317042	A61K3170	A61P3500	C07H1518	C12N916	C07H1524	C07H1500	C12P1900	A61K317042	C07F900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61P	C07F	C07H	A61K	C12N	A61K	C12P	C07H	A61K	A61K	A61P	C07H	C12N	C07H	C07H	C12P	A61K	C07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61P35	C07F9	C07H17	A61K31	C12N9	A61K31	C12P19	C07H17	A61K31	A61K31	A61P35	C07H15	C12N9	C07H15	C07H15	C12P19	A61K31	C07F9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Etoposide phosphate is prepared by coupling dibenzyl 
4'-demethyl-4-epipodophyllotoxin-4'-phosphate with 2,3-di-O-benzyl-4,6-O-ethylene-α,β-D-glucopyranose 

in a 
solvent and subsequently removing the 

protecting groups. The tetra-benzyl protected etoposide 

phosphate is recrystallized from methanol or directly 
crystallized from acetonitrile by adding methanol to 

yield substantially the pure C-1''-β form. The benzyl 
protecting groups are simultaneously removed by 

hydrogenation to produce etoposide phosphate in high 
yields. In a further embodiment, etoposide phosphate is 

treated with a phosphatase enzyme to yield etoposide. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SQUIBB BRISTOL MYERS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILLON JOHN L JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SILVERBERG LEE J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
USHER JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VEMISHETTI PURUSHOTHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DILLON, JOHN L., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SILVERBERG, LEE J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
USHER, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VEMISHETTI, PURUSHOTHAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a novel process for
the preparation of antitumor compounds, and to the novel
intermediates for preparing the antitumor compounds.
More particularly, the invention is directed to a process
for preparing 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin glucoside 4'-phosphates
and the intermediate compounds for preparing
the phosphates. The invention is particularly directed
to a process for preparing etoposide phosphate and for
preparing etoposide from etoposide phosphate.Etoposide and teniposide are 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin
glucoside derivatives which are widely used
in clinical therapy for treating cancer. In particular,
etoposide is approved in the United States for treating
small cell lung cancer and testicular cancer. However,
etoposide exhibits limited solubility in water which
makes it difficult to formulate into suitable
pharmaceutical compositions.To increase the water solubility of etoposide and
its ability to be administered, etoposide phosphate is
prepared as a prodrug. Etoposide phosphate metabolizes
within the body to etoposide which can then be utilized
by the body. One example of a water soluble prodrug is
described in U.S. Patent 4,904,768 which discloses water
soluble prodrugs of 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin
glucoside derivatives bearing a 4'-phosphate group. One
example disclosed therein is etoposide 4'-phosphate.
Etoposide 4'-phosphate is prepared by reacting etoposide
with phosphorous oxychloride followed by hydrolysis, or
by reacting etoposide with diphenyl chlorophosphate
followed by hydrogenation to remove the phenyl groups.The preparation of epipodophyllotoxin glycosides are
also disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,997,931. The 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin 
glycosides are prepared by
condensing 4'-protected 4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin
with a protected sugar. The resulting compound is then
derivatized to produce the corresponding 4'-phosphate.The previous processes for preparing etoposide and
etoposide phosphate typically require the protection of
the phenol, coupling with a protected sugar and then the
removal of the protecting groups. In addition, most of
these methods require different protecting groups for the
hydroxy and phosphate groups. The different protecting
groups require multiple steps to remove respective
protecting groups. The deprotection steps often require
acid or alkaline conditions, which can degrade the final
product, resulting in low yields.Etoposide phosphate is usually prepared from
etoposide by the additional steps of phosphorylation and
dep
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for preparing a compound of Formula
VI



comprising phosphorylating a compound of Formula I


with a phosphorylation agent to produce a protected 4'-demethyl-4-epipodophyllotoxin-4'-phosphate
of Formula II


 
where R
3
 is an arylmethyl phosphate protecting group,
reacting said compound of Formula II with a protected

sugar of Formula III in the presence of a Lewis acid


to produce a compound of Formula IV, where R
1
 is an
arylmethyl hydroxy protecting group;



isolating by crystallizing the C-1''-β form of Formula IV; removing the
hydroxy and phosphate protecting groups to produce a

compound of Formula V;

 
and

treating said compound of Formula V with a phosphatase
enzyme to produce the compound of Formula VI.
The process of claim 1, wherein
said phenol of Formula I is reacted in a solvent with a

di[arylmethyl)phosphite, a tetrahalomethane, a tertiary
amine and an acylation catalyst to form the protected

phosphate of Formula II.
The process of claim 2, wherein said
di(arylmethyl)phosphite is dibenzylphosphite.
The process of claim 2 or claim 3, wherein said
tetrahalomethane is CCl
4
, said tertiary amine is N,N'-diisopropylethylamine
and said acylation catalyst is N,N-dimethylaminopyridine.
The process of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein R
1
 and R
3
 are
the same or different and are a substituted benzyl

substituted with one or more of the group consisting of
C
1-4
 alkyl, hydroxy, phenyl, benzyl,
halogen, alkoxy, nitro and carboxylic acids and esters thereof.
The process of any one of claims 1 to 5, comprising reacting the
compound of Formula II with Compound III in a halogenated

or non-halogenated solvent.
The process of claim 6, wherein said non-halogenated
solvent is acetonitrile.
The process of any one of claims 1 to 7, said step of isolating
the C-1''-β anomer of Formula IV comprising dissolving

said compound of Formula IV in an alcohol,
recrystallizing said compound of Formula IV to form a 

precipitate being substantially the pure C-1''-β form of
Formula IV, and recovering said precipitate.
The process of any one of claims 1 to 7, said step of isolating
said C-1''-β anomer of Compound IV comprising reacting

Compound II with Compound III in a reaction medium,
adding an alcohol directly to said reaction medium and

allowing said C-1''-β anomer of Compound IV to
crystallize, and separating crystals of substantially

anomerically pure C-1''-β anomer of Compound IV.
A process for preparing a compound having the
Formula V



which comprises reacting a compound of Formula IIIb


wherein R
1
 is an arylmethyl hydroxy protecting group and
R
2
 is arylmethyl or the two R
2
 groups together are C
1-5

alkylidene with a compound of Formula II in a reaction
medium and in the presence of a Lewis acid 



where R
3
 is arylmethyl and where R
1
, R
2
 and R
3
 are the
same or different to form the compound of Formula IVb



and crystallizing the C-1''-β form of Compound IVb, and
subsequently removing the hydroxy and phosphate

protecting groups and in cases where R
2
 is arylmethyl,
reacting Compound IVb with a carbonyl having one to five

carbon atoms or an acetal equivalent thereof.
The process of claim 10, wherein R
1
 and R
3
 are
benzyl or a benzyl substituted with one or 

more selected from the group consisting of C
1-4
 alkyl,
hydroxy, phenyl, benzyl, halogen, alkoxy,

nitro and carboxylic acids and esters thereof.
The process of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein said hydroxy
and phosphate protecting groups are removed

simultaneously.
The process of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein said hydroxy
and phosphate protecting groups are simultaneously

removed by hydrogenating at ambient temperature in the
presence of a noble metal catalyst.
The process of claim 13, wherein said noble
metal catalyst is palladium.
The process of any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the two R
2

groups are ethylidene and prior to removing said
protecting groups, said crystallizing step comprises

recovering said compound of Formula IVb, dissolving said
compound of Formula IVb in a solvent, adding an effective

amount of an alcohol to precipitate the C-1''-β form of
Compound IVb, and recovering said C-1''-β anomer.
The process of claim 15, wherein said alcohol
is methanol.
The process of any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the two R
2

groups are ethylidene and where said crystallizing step
comprises adding an alcohol directly to said reaction

medium to crystallize said C-1''-β anomer of Compound IVb
and separating crystals of substantially anomerically

pure C-1''-β anomer of Compound IVb. 
The process of claim 17, wherein said alcohol
is methanol.
The process of any one of claims 10 to 18, wherein said Lewis
acid is boron trifluoride etherate.
The process of any one of claims 10 to 19, comprising reacting
Compound II with Compound IIIb in a halogenated or non-halogenated

solvent.
The process of claim 20, wherein said solvent
is acetonitrile.
The process of claim 20 or claim 21, wherein said solvent
contains a metal perchlorate in an effective amount to

increase the ionic strength of the solvent.
The process of any one of claims 10 to 22, further comprising
preparing said compound of Formula II by reacting a

phenol of Formula I


with a di(arylmethyl)phosphite, tetrahalomethane, a tertiaryamine e.g.
trialkylamine and an acylation catalyst to form the

protected phosphate of Formula II.
The process of any one of claims 10 to 23, wherein said reaction
is carried out at about room temperature to -40°C. 
The process of any one claims 10 to 24, wherein the two R
2

groups are ethylidene and where, prior to reacting
Compound IIIb with Compound II,
 further comprising
crystallizing said Compound IIIb from a solvent at room

temperature, recovering substantially pure C-1-β form of
Compound IIIb, and subsequently reacting said C-1-β form

of Compound IIIb with Compound II.
The process of claim 25, comprising
recrystallizing Compound IIIb from hexane.
The process of claim 10, where the two R
2

groups are ethylidene and where, prior to reacting
Compound IIIb with Compound II, said process comprises

allowing sufficient time for IIIb to anomerize to
the C-1-β anomer.
A compound having the Formula IIIb


wherein R
1
 is arylmethyl and the two
R
2
 groups together are C
1-5
 alkylidene.
The compound of claim 28, wherein the two R
2

groups together are ethylidene, whereby said compound has
the Formula III


 
wherein R
1
 is a benzyl or substituted benzyl.
The compound of claim 29, wherein R
1
 is benzyl
substituted with one or more selected from the group

consisting of C
1-4
 alkyl, hydroxy, phenyl, benzyl,
halogen, alkoxy nitro and carboxylic acids and esters thereof.
A compound having the Formula IV


wherein R
1
 is a benzyl or substituted benzyl hydroxy
protecting group, and R
3
 is a benzyl or substituted benzyl
phosphate protecting group.
The compound of claim 31, wherein R
1
 and R
3
 are
a benzyl substituted with one or more selected from the

group consisting of C
1-4
 alkyl, hydroxy, phenyl, benzyl,
halogen, alkoxy, nitro and carboxylic acids and esters thereof.
A process of obtaining the C-1''-β anomer of
Formula IVa 



said process comprising forming a solution of an anomeric
mixture of a compound of Formula IV in a solvent



where R
1
 and R
3
 are arylmethyl and are the same or
different, crystallizing said C-1''-β anomer in said

solution and recovering crystals of the substantially
pure C-1''-β anomer of Formula IVa.
The process of claim 33, wherein said solvent is
acetonitrile. 
The process of claim 33, wherein said solvent
is an alcohol and said process comprises heating said

alcohol to dissolve said anomeric mixture, and cooling
said solution to crystallize said C-1''-β anomer of

Formula IVa.
The process of claim 33, comprising adding an
alcohol directly to said solution in an amount to

crystallize said C-1''-β anomer of Formula IVa.
The process of claim 36, wherein said alcohol is
methanol.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
