<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628227</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANALOG-TO-DIGITAL CONVERTER WITH CONVERSION RATE INVERSE TO THE INTEGRATION PERIOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03M150	H03M150	H03M152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03M	H03M	H03M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03M1	H03M1	H03M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides an analog-to-digital converter including an integrator (22) for charging and discharging a capacitor (24) according to two currents (IN, IP) of opposite direction containing a component of the analog input signal (VIN) which is continuously connected. Also, a control circuit (28) periodically switches on one current which remains until the integrator output reaches a reference level at which time the opposite direction current is switched on. A number of such cycles forms an integration period closely approximating a predetermined period. The control circuit measures the total amount of time of the integration period and also the accumulative amount of time that current flow is in a predetermined direction. From these two times, a digital representation of the analog input signal is calculated. The next integration period begins at the end of the previous to achieve a maximum conversion rate for a given integration period.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAUREL ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAUREL ELECTRONICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY NORMAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAY, NORMAN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONAnalog-to-Digital Converter With Conversion Rate Inverse to the Integration PeriodBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates generally to analog-to-digital converters and, in particular, to such converters that utilize bi-directional integration to form a charge bal¬ ance basis for voltage-to-time conversion.2. Description of the Related ArtVarious methods and systems have been devised to perform analog-to-digital conversion. There are feedback methods such as successive approximation and up-down counter tracking that use a digital-to-analog converter whose analog output is compared to the unknown analog signal and the digital input adjusted for minimum dif¬ ference. When this is achieved the digital value repre- sents the value of the analog input. These converters have short conversion times but quantization is unequal and cost increases rapidly with higher accuracy. There are direct conversion types such as flash or parallel converters that implement the analog-to-digital conversion by using a large number of comparators to achieve very high speed, however with the penalty of very high cost. There are Delta-Sigma types that use a 1-bit DAC in a high-speed charge balance loop whose quantized output is followed by an elaborate low pass digital filter to reduce the quantizing noise.There are integration type analog-to-digital conver¬ ters capable of high performance at low cost that operate at slower conversion rates suitable for use in digital multimeters, digital panel meters and other measurement instruments. These converters usually take advantage of their ability to integrate the input signal over one or 

more exact periods of the power line frequency to gain immunity to power line noise that is present with the input signal. Examples of integration-type converters are. single slope, dual slope and multi-slope methods which are based on a voltage-to-time (V/T) conversion where the unknown input voltage is converted to a time period that is measured by counting a clock frequency. Another type is the voltage-to-frequency (V/F) converter that uses quantized charge feedback to balance the charge from the input signal in the integrator and create a frequency proportional to the input value. This frequency is then counted using a fixed timebase.Ideal performance for the integration type converter could be achieved if it could continuously integrate the input signal over complete periods of the line frequency for power line noise rejection, convert each of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. An analog to digital converter comprising integrator means for producing an output signal and having a summing input and a voltage input, input network means for applying a first current flow in a first direction to the integrator means summing input and a voltage to the integrator means voltage input, and having an input network means switch control input for switching to a second current flow in a second direction opposite to said first direction, said input network means having an analog signal input permanently connected to said integration means, control means for periodically applying a logic level to the input network means switch control input, detection means for signalling when said output signal reaches a reference level, and for applying an opposite logic level to the input network means switch control input when said output signal reaches said reference level, timing means for measuring a first amount of time from an initial occurrence of said output signal reaching said reference level until a subsequent occurrence of said output signal reaching said refer¬ ence level, said timing means being capable of mea¬ suring said time in an integration period closely approximating a predetermined time period, means for measuring a second amount of time said first current flow is in said first direction during said integration period, and electronic means for calculating a digital rep¬ resentation of the analog input signal based upon the measured first amount of time and second amount of time. 


 2. The analog to digital converter of claim 1, wherein the means for applying a first and second direc¬ tion of current flow includes means for coupling and uncoupling a reference signal to the integrator summing input.
3. The analog to digital converter of claim 2, wherein the means for periodically applying a logic level includes means for producing an integral number of fixed time intervals in said predetermined period, and causing a bistable element to assume said logic level at the beginning of each fixed interval.
4. The analog to digital converter of claim 3, wherein the means for detection includes a comparator with one input coupled to receive the integrator means output signal and the other input of the comparator coupled to receive said reference level and having an output.
5. The analog to digital converter of claim 4, wherein the control means for applying a logic level includes means responsive to the comparator output causing said bistable element to assume an opposite logic level.
6. The analog to digital converter of claim 5, wherein the timing means for measuring said second amount of time includes a counter having a clock input, said counter enabled for accumulation of clock pulses only during a predetermined state of said bistable element of each fixed time interval.
7. The analog to digital converter of claim 6, wherein the timing means for measuring said first amount of time includes means for using said counter to determine an increment of time from the end of said predetermined period to the end of said integration period, said incre¬ ment compared to its saved value from the previous said 


integration period and the arithmetic difference added to the predetermined period.
8. The analog-to-digital converter of claim 1, wherein the control means for applying a first current flow in a first direction and a second current flow in a second direction opposite to said first direction includes means for either coupling a first reference signal to, and uncoupling a second referenced signal from, or uncoupling a first reference signal from, and coupling a second reference signal to, the integrator summing input.
9. The analog to digital converter of claim 1, wherein the means for applying a first current flow in a first direction and a second current flow in a second direction opposite said first direction includes means either coupling a first reference signal to, and uncoup¬ ling a second reference signal from, or uncoupling a first reference signal from, and coupling a second reference signal to, the integrator voltage input.
10. The analog to digital converter of claim 1, wherein said input network means further comprises an offset current for ensuring said first and second current flows consist of values providing system stability over the analog input signal range.
11. An analog to digital converter, comprising integrator means for producing an output signal and having a summing input and a voltage input, input network means for applying a first current flow in a first direction to the integrator means, said input network means having an analog signal input permanently connected to said integrator means and including reference voltages and a switch control input for switching to a second current flow in a second direction opposite to said first direction, 


 bistable element means for controlling said switch control input, said bistable element means having a first state and a second state, external counter means for accumulating time during said second state, said external counter means including a clock input and having an output, comparator means for sensing a relative polarity between the integrator means output and a reference value and causing the bistable element means to switch to said first state for a predetermined sense, computer control means for causing the bistable element means to switch to said second state and for counting the external counter output, said computer control means further including, means for causing the bistable element means to switch periodically to said second state at the end of each of a predetermined number of fixed time intervals, means for measuring an integration period co - prising the total amount of time occurring when the bistable element means switches from its second to first states in a first fixed time interval until said bistable element means switches from the second state to the first state following the last of said predetermined number of fixed time intervals, means for accumulating the total amount of time the bistable element means is in said second state during the integration period, and means for calculating a digital representation of the analog input from the total amounts of time measured by the integration period measuring means and the total time accumulation means.
12. The analog to digital converter of claim 11, wherein the first instruction means includes means for causing the bistable element means to switch to said second state at other than the end of the last of the 


predetermined number of fixed time intervals by the amount of a correction time, first instruction means further including a fifth instruction means for calculating said correction time based on the time of said second state of an intermediate fixed time interval.
13. The analog to digital converter of claim 12, wherein the first instruction means includes means for causing the bistable element means to switch to said second state at other than the end of an intermediate fixed time interval by the amount of a time correction, first instruction means further including a sixth instruc¬ tion means for calculating said time correction based on the times of said second state of intermediate fixed time intervals.
14. The analog to digital converter of claim 13, further comprising select circuit means for uncoupling an analog input signal and coupling alternate input signals, wherein the computer control means includes means for con¬ trolling the select circuit means.
15. The analog to digital converter of claim 11, wherein third instruction means accumulates the total amount of time the bistable element means is in said first state during the integration period.
16. An analog to digital converter, comprising integrator means for producing an output signal and having a summing input and voltage input, input network means for applying a first current flow in a first direction to the integrator, summing input means having a switch control input for switch- ing the direction of said first current flow, control means for applying a logic level to the switch control input, 


 means for signaling when said output signal reaches a reference level, and for applying an oppo¬ site logic level to the switch control input, timing means for measuring a first amount of time represented as an integration period occurring between said output signal leaving and returning to a predetermined reference level, means for measuring a second amount of time said first current flow is in said first direction during said period, and electronic means for calculating a digital representation of an analog input signal based upon the measured said first amount of time and said second amount of time.
17. The analog to digital converter of claim 16, wherein the means for applying a first and second direc¬ tion of current flow includes means for coupling and uncoupling a reference signal to the integrator summing input.
18. The analog to digital converter of claim 17 wherein the means for applying a logic level includes means for producing an integral number of fixed time intervals in said predetermined period.
19. The analog to digital converter of claim 18 wherein the means for detection include a comparator with one input coupled to receive the integrator means output signal and the other input of the comparator coupled to receive a reference level.
20. The analog to digital convertor of claim 19, wherein the control means for applying a logic level includes means responsive to the comparator output causing said bistable element to assume an opposite logic level. 


 21. The analog to digital converter of claim 20, wherein the timing means for measuring said second amount of time includes a counter having a clock input, said counter enabled for counting of clock pulses during a predetermined state of said bistable element of each time period.
22. The analog to digital converter of claim 21 wherein the timing means for measuring said first amount of time includes means for using said counter to determine an increment of time in each period said increment being compared to a saved value from the previous period and the arithmetic difference added to the previous period.
23. The analog to digital converter of claim 16, wherein said input network means further comprises elec- tronic means for ensuring said first and second current flows consist of values providing system stability over the analog input signal range.
24. An analog to digital converter comprising an integrator circuit for producing an output signal and having a summing input and a voltage input, input network for applying a first current flow in a first direction to the integrator circuit sum¬ ming input and a voltage to the integrator circuit voltage input, and having an input network switch control input for switching to a second current flow in a second direction opposite to said first direc¬ tion, said input network having an analog signal input permanently connected to said integrator circuit, a control circuit for periodically applying a logic level to the input network switch control input, 


 a detection circuit for signalling when said output signal reaches a reference level, and for applying an opposite logic level to the input network switch control input when said output signal reaches said reference level, a first timing circuit for measuring a first amount of time from an initial occurrence of said output signal reaching said reference level until a subsequent occurrence of said output signal reaching said reference level, said timing circuit being capa¬ ble of measuring said time in an integration period closely approximating a predetermined time period, a second timing circuit for measuring a second amount of time said first current flow is in said first direction during said integration period, and a circuit for calculating a digital representa¬ tion of the analog input signal based upon the mea¬ sured first amount of time and second amount of time.
25. An analog to digital converter comprising integrator means for producing an output signal and having a summing input and a voltage input, input network means for applying a first current flow to the integrator means summing input and a vol¬ tage to the integrator means voltage input, and hav- ing an input network means switch control input for switching to a second current flow, said input net¬ work means having an analog signal input permanently connected to said integration means, control means for periodically applying a logic level to the input network means switch control input, detection means for signalling when said output signal reaches a reference level, and for applying an opposite logic level to the input network means switch control input when said output signal reaches said reference level, 


 timing means for measuring a first amount of time from an initial occurrence of said output signal reaching said reference level until a subsequent occurrence of said output signal reaching said refer- ence level, said timing means being capable of mea¬ suring said time in an integration period closely approximating a predetermined time period, means for measuring a second amount of time cor¬ responding to the time said first current flow is in a predetermined direction during said integration period, and electronic means for calculating a digital representation of the analog input signal based upon the measured first amount of time and second amount of time. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
