<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631636</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EXCHANGEABLE TEMPLATE REACTION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07K14005	C07K1402	C07K1418	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1510	C12N1510	C12N1534	C12N1536	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07K14	C07K14	C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a method for the synthesis of DNA based on a cyclic mechanism of combining deoxyoligonucleotides comprising combining: (a) a series of unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides, each having a 5' sequence which, when in double-stranded form, can be enzymatically treated to form a unique 3' single-stranded protrusion for selective cyclic hybridization with another unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotide of the series; (b) a unique deoxypolynucleotide having a 3' sequence which can selectively hybridize with one of the unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides of (a); (c) a polymerase which can direct the formation of double-stranded deoxypolynucleotides from the single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides; and (d) an enzyme which can form a unique single-stranded 3' protrusion from the double-stranded deoxypolynucleotides; under conditions which hybridize the unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides in a cyclic manner to form the DNA. Also provided is a kit comprising a series of unique synthesized single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides, each having a 5' sequence which, when in double-stranded form, can be enzymatically treated to form a unique 3' single-stranded protrusion for selective cyclic hybridization with another unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotide of the series.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
US HEALTH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELDS HOWARD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHUDYAKOV YURY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FIELDS, HOWARD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KHUDYAKOV, YURY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EXCHANGEABLE TEMPLATE REACTIONVarious references are cited herein. These references are hereby incorporated by reference into the application to more fully describe the state of the art to which the invention pertains.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe technology for the functional expression ofDNA fragments in heterologic genetic systems depends to a great extent on an accessible source of DNA. There are two ways to obtain genetic material for genetic engineering manipulations: (1) isolation and purification of DNA in an appropriate form from natural sources (this technique is well-elaborated and constitutes the backbone of genetic engineering and molecular biology) , or (2) the synthesis of DNA using various chemical-enzymatic approaches, a discipline that has been intensively researched over the last 15 years. The former approach is limited to naturally-occurring sequences which do not easily lend themselves to specific modification. The latter approach is much more complicated and labor- intensive. However, the chemical-enzymatic approach has many attractive features including the possibility of preparing, without any significant limitations, any desirable DNA sequence.Two general methods currently exist for the synthetic assembly of oligonucleotides into long DNA fragments. First, oligonucleotides covering the entire sequence to be synthesized are first allowed to anneal, and then the nicks are repaired with DNA ligase. The fragment is then cloned directly, or cloned after amplification by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) . The DNA is subsequently used for in vitro assembly into longer sequences. This approach is very sensitive to the 

secondary structure of oligonucleotides, which interferes with the synthesis. Therefore, the approach has low efficiency and is not reliable for assembly of long DNA fragments.The second general method for gene synthesis utilizes polymerase to fill in single-stranded gaps in the annealed pairs of oligonucleotides. After the polymerase reaction, single-stranded regions of oligonucleotides become double-stranded, and after digestion with restriction endonuclease, can be cloned directly or used for further assembly of longer sequences by ligating different double-stranded fragments. This approach is relatively independent of the secondary structure of oligonucleotides; however, after the polymerase reaction, each segment must be cloned. The cloning step significantly delays the synthesis of long DNA fragments and greatly decreases the efficiency of the approach.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for the synthesis of DNA based on a cyclic mechanism of combining deoxyoligonucleotides comprising combining:
(a) a series of unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides, each having a 5' sequence which, when polymerized to double-stranded form, can be enzymatically treated to form a unique 3' single-stranded protrusion for selective cyclic hybridization with another unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotide of the series;
(b) a unique deoxypolynucleotide having a 3' sequence which can selectively hybridize with one of the unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides of (a) ;
(c) a polymerase which can direct the formation of double-stranded deoxypolynucleotides from the single- stranded deoxypolynucleotides; and
(d) an enzyme which can form a unique single- stranded 3' protrusion from the double-stranded deoxypolynucleotides;
under conditions which hybridize the unique deoxypolynucleotides in a cyclic manner and polymerize the hybridized deoxypolynucleotides to form the DNA.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising combining the synthesized DNA with a second series of unique synthesized single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides, each having a 5' sequence which, when in double-stranded form, can be enzymatically treated to form a unique 3 ' single- stranded protrusion for selective cyclic hybridization with another unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotide of the series; under conditions which hybridize the unique 


single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides in a cyclic manner to the DNA.
3. The method of claim 2, repeated a plurality of time
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the series of unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides is synthesized.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the series of unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides each encode a unique portion of a gene.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the series of unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides comprises at least three deoxypolynucleotides.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the 5' sequence, when in double-stranded form, can be enzymatically cleaved with a restriction endonuclease to form a 3' protrusion.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the 5' sequence comprises (SEQ ID NO:l)
5'CCANNNNNNTGG 3 ' 3'GGTNNNNNNACC 5' wherein N is any nucleic acid.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the 5
r
 sequence, when in double-stranded form, can be enzymatically cleaved by a 5' exonuclease specific for double-stranded deoxypolynucleotides to form a 3' protrusion.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the deoxypolynucleotide of (b) is bound to a solid support prior to combining with the deoxypolynucleotides of (a) . 


11. The method of claim 10, wherein solid support is comprised of beads.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the beads are solid phase controlled pore glass.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the beads are coated with glycerol.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the beads are coated with avidin.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the avidin beads are bound to biotin.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the combining is performed substantially simultaneously.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymerase is Taq polymerase.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the enzyme is a restriction endonuclease.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the restriction endonuclease is Bstxl.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the enzyme is a 5 ' exonuclease specific for double-stranded deoxypolynucleotides.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the exonuclease is selected from the group consisting of the exonuclease of T7 and lambda phage.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein the enzyme is an enzyme of DNA recombination. 


23. The method of claim 22, wherein the enzyme of DNA recombination is recA.
24. A kit comprising a series of unique synthesized single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides, each having a 5' sequence which, when polymerized to double-stranded form, can be enzymatically treated to form a unique 3 ' single- stranded protrusion for selective cyclic hybridization with another unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotide of the series.
25. The kit of claim 24, further comprising a unique deoxypolynucleotide having a 3' sequence which can selectively hybridize with one of the series of unique single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides.
26. The kit of claim 24, further comprising a polymerase which can direct the formation of double- stranded polynucleotides from the single-stranded deoxypolynucleotides.
27. The kit of claim 24, further comprising an enzyme which can form a unique single-stranded protrusion from the double-stranded deoxypolynucleotides.
28. An automated synthesizer programmed to perform the method of claim 1 and remove undesired components.
29. The synthesizer of claim 28, further programmed to perform repeat cycles of the synthesis. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
