<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645057</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VARIABLE FREQUENCY ULTRASONIC GENERATOR WITH CONSTANT POWER OUTPUT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B06B102	B06B102	H03L500	H03L502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B06B	B06B	H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B06B1	B06B1	H03L5	H03L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ULTRASONIC POWER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ULTRASONIC POWER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUSKAS PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PUSKAS, PETER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 VARIABLE FREQUENCY ULTRASONIC GENERATOR WITH CONSTANT POWER OUTPUTFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to ultrasonic cleaning, and more particularly to an improved generator for driving ultrasonic transducers used in cleaning.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In ultrasonic cleaning, a transducer, usually piezoelectric but sometimes magnetostrictive, is secured to a cleaning tank to controllably impart ultrasonic vibrations to the tank. The tank is filled with a cleaning liquid and parts are immersed into the liquid to be cleaned by ultrasonic agitation and cavitation. Interaction between the ultrasonically agitated liquid and the contaminants carried by parts immersed in the liquid causes the contaminants to be dislodged.Various circuits have been configured for driving the ultrasonic transducer and have provided a variety of features. Parameters which are available for adjustment or control are the ultrasonic frequency, the power level, amplitude or frequency modulation, and duty cycle control of power bursts, among others. In ultrasonic cleaning, it is known that the output circuit, which usually includes a driver, the ultrasonic transducer, and the mechanical system which it drives have a resonant frequency. The mechanical system, of course, includes the liquid in the tank and the parts immersed in the liquid. Quite clearly, the mass and shape of the parts, the temperature of the liquid, and other factors, all influence the resonant frequency of the output circuit. In some cases, the driver circuit is tuned to the approximate resonant frequency of the load by selection of inductance and capacitance values, and in other cases, the driver can drive the load either on or off resonance.SUBSTITUTESHEET 

 The art has developed to allow users various controls over the frequency of the ultrasonic generator in an effort to match the resonant frequency of the generator to that of the mechanical system. Indeed, it has been proposed to allow the system to automatically tune to the resonant frequency of the system, but such automatic resonance tuning has not been entirely satisfactory, particularly when combined with other forms of ultrasonic generator control. In Ratcliff U.S. patent 4,554,477, for example, the output circuit which includes the driver and the load is tuned for automatic resonance tracking, but the power output is intentionally varied or modulated to produce peak power which is substantially higher than the average power output. It has been proposed to allow the user to adjust a sweep
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 5 October 1993 (05.10.93); original claims 10, 11 and 18 amended; new claim 19 added; other claims unchanged (5 pages)]
7. The combination as set forth in claim 2 wherein the resonance follower is provided with a time constant which prevents the resonance follower from tuning the voltage controlled oscillator to cancel modulation introduced by the modulating means.
8. The combination as set forth in claim 1 wherein the power control circuit includes a thyristor connected to modulate the voltage level of the DC power supplied to the output circuit, and means responsive to the power demand signal and the actual power signal for modulating the phase of the triac thereby to match the actual power level to the demanded level.
9. The combination as set forth in claim 8 in which the wattmeter include an analog multiplier having a voltage input and a current input, the respective inputs being transformer coupled in the output circuit for providing isolated signals related to the voltage and current levels in the output circuit.
10. A generator for driving an ultrasonic transducer comprising, in combination: an output stage connected to the transducer and forming an output circuit therewith, a controlled oscillator coupled to the output stage for establishing the operating frequency thereof, a variable DC supply connected to the output stage for supplying power thereto, first control means coupled to the controlled oscillator for automatically seeking the resonant frequency of the output circuit, second control means coupled to the variable DC supply for adjusting the output power to a desired level, the second control means including a power setting control 


for setting the desired power level, a wattmeter connected to the output circuit for measuring the actual output power, and means responsive to the power setting control and the wattmeter for adjusting the variable DC supply to match the actual power to the desired power, frequency modulation means coupled to the controlled oscillator for modulating the operating frequency about the resonant frequency, the respective control means being sufficiently independent to allow the user to independently adjust power level and frequency modulation at the automatically tuned resonant frequency.
11. A generator for driving an ultrasonic transducer comprising, in combination: an output circuit including an output stage for driving a load including the ultrasonic transducer, a wattmeter connected in the output circuit for determining the actual output power delivered to the load, a voltage controlled oscillator having an output frequency variable over a predetermined limited range and connected to the output stage for establishing the output frequency at which the load is driven, means for establishing a control voltage for the voltage controlled oscillator and comprising: a resonance follower having an input coupled to the driver circuit for sensing conditions in the load and adapted to produce an output signal which tunes the voltage controlled oscillator to the resonant frequency of the load, frequency modulation means having a user settable control for establishing a modulating frequency, and being coupled to the control circuit for causing the voltage controlled 


 oscillator to produce an output frequency which is modulated about the automatically tuned resonant frequency, and a second control loop including a user adjustable power setting and means responsive to the power setting and the wattmeter for modulating the level of the voltage supply for the output stage to cause the power delivered to the load to be at the user adjusted level as the frequency of the ultrasonic load is modulated about the automatically tuned resonance frequency.
12. The combination as set forth in claim 11 further including a duty cycle control for switching the characteristics of the output signal driving the ultrasonic transducer.
13. The combination as set forth in claim 12 in which the duty cycle control is coupled to the amplitude modulated power circuit for switching the output stage on and off at a rate selected by the duty cycle control.
14. The combination as set forth in claim 12 in which the duty cycle control includes means coupled to the frequency modulation means for switching the frequency modulation on and off at a rate determined by the duty cycle control.
15. The combination as set forth in claim 11 wherein the resonance follower is coupled to the wattmeter for detecting the load current or voltage in the load as a measure of the operating characteristics of the output circuit. 


 16. The combination as set forth in claim 11 in which the second control loop includes a thyristor connected to modulate the voltage supply for the output stage, and an error amplifier connected to compare a signal relating to the user adjustable power setting and a signal relating to the power delivered to the load, and having an output for phase modulating the thyristor to produce an output voltage level which establishes the actual power level at the demanded level.
17. The combination as set forth in claim 11 in which the voltage controlled oscillator has an operating frequency range, and the resonance follower includes means for sweeping the output frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator from one end of the range toward the other until the resonant frequency is attained.
18. A generator for driving an ultrasonic transducer coupled to a cleaning tank, the tank being adapted to hold a volume of cleaning liquid for ultrasonic cleaning of parts immersed in the liquid, the generator comprising, in combination: an output circuit including the ultrasonic transducer and a coupled load, the output circuit having a resonant frequency which is affected by the magnitude of the load presented to the ultrasonic transducer, a voltage controlled oscillator for driving the output circuit, the voltage controlled oscillator having a frequency variable within a predetermined range, a resonance follower coupled to the voltage controlled oscillator for tuning the voltage controlled oscillator to the resonant frequency of the output circuit, a power control circuit including a user settable power level control for setting a power demand signal, 


means for determining the actual power delivered to the output circuit, and means for matching the actual power to the demanded power, and means for operating the generator in a degas mode, such means including means for frequency modulating the output frequency of the voltage controlled oscillator at a rate and to a depth capable of eliminating bubbles from the liquid in the ultrasonic cleaning tank.
19. A method for driving an ultrasonic transducer coupled to a load including a cleaning tank, the tank being adapted to hold a volume of cleaning liquid for ultrasonic cleaning of parts immersed in the liquid, the method being adapted to de-gas the liquid in the tank by eliminating bubbles from said liquid, the method comprising the steps of: driving the transducer at a frequency determined by a controlled oscillator, tuning the controlled oscillator to a resonant frequency of the transducer and coupled load, controlling the power delivered to the transducer to a level determined by a power setting control so as to operate the transducer at the set power level, and frequency modulating the output frequency of the oscillator about the automatically tuned frequency at a rate and to a depth capable of eliminating bubbles from the liquid in the ultrasonic cleaning tank, thereby to de-gas the liquid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
