<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641487</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MONOLITHIC, PARALLEL CONNECTED PHOTOVOLTAIC ARRAY AND METHOD FOR ITS MANUFACTURE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L27142	H01L27142	H01L31036	H01L310392	H01L31052	H01L31052	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L27	H01L27	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	H01L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED SOLAR SYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNITED SOLAR SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLATFELTER TROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLATFELTER, TROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MONOLITHIC, PARALLEL CONNECTED PHOTOVOLTAIC ARRAY AND METHOD FOR ITS MANUFACTUREField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to semiconductor devices and more particularly to photovoltaic devices.Most specifically, the invention relates to an array of photovoltaic devices disposed upon a common, electrically conductive substrate in a parallel relationship.Background of the Invention Photovoltaic devices provide a non-polluting, silent and reliable source of electrical power. Originally, photovoltaic devices were fabricated from crystalline material and, as a consequence, were expensive and restricted in size. Techniques have now been developed for the preparation of large area thin film semiconductor materials which may be advantageously fabricated into low cost, large area photovoltaic devices.It is frequently desirable to subdivide large area devices into a plurality of small area devices disposed upon a common substrate. Such arrays are generally referred to as monolithic modules. The structure of these modules makes them more tolerant of defects in the photovoltaic material and allows for the selection of desired voltage and/or current outputs. In some instances the small area devices of a monolithic array are interconnected in a series arrangement so as to provide for an increased voltage. In other instances it is desirable 

to provide an array of devices disposed in parallel.' A parallel connected array provides a constant voltage which is independent of area. Furthermore, the presence of a large number of small area devices in the array allows for localization of defective regions and such defects may be readily removed without effect upon the remainder of the device.In any type of photovoltaic device it is desirable to minimize areas which are not photovoltaically active. Such dead areas include portions of the device covered by grid lines, bus bars, electrical interconnects or other such current-carrying members. In the fabrication of monolithic arrays it is necessary to scribe away portions of the photovoltaically active material to provide the plurality of isolated subcells and such scribed areas are also photovoltaically inactive.Laser scribing techniques are often employed in the fabrication of monolithic photovoltaic arrays since a laser can scribe precise, fine lines in the photovoltaic device for a fairly low cost, thereby minimizing the expense of device fabrication and maximizing active area. Problems encountered in connection with prior art laser scribing techniques are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims 1. A monolithic photovoltaic array comprised of a plurality of sub-cells electrically interconnected in a parallel relationship, said array comprising: an electrically conductive substrate; a plurality of insulating regions disposed on said substrate so that adjoining regions are separated by a distance of ,; a plurality of electrode bodies, each disposed on a corresponding one of said insulating regions, each electrode body having a width which is less than a width of the insulating region upon which it is disposed, said electrode bodies being disposed so that edges of electrode bodies on adjoining insulating regions are separated by a distance W
2
 which is greater than the distance W-,; a plurality of photovoltaic semi-conductor bodies, each disposed atop a corresponding one of said electrode bodies so as to cover substantially all of the width and edges of said electrode body; a layer of top electrode material disposed so as to establish a continuous electrical connection between said plurality of semi-conductor bodies and the substrate, so that the substrate provides a first electrical terminal of said array; and means for electrically interconnecting said electrode bodies, said means operative to provide a second terminal of said array. 


 2. An array as in claim 1, wherein said insulating regions are comprised of an organic polymeric material.
3. An array as in claim 1, wherein said insulating regions are comprised of an inorganic material.
4. An array as in claim 1, wherein said substrate is metal.
5. An array as in claim 4, wherein said insulating regions are comprised of an electrically insulating component derived from the metal comprising the substrate.
6. An array as in claim 1, wherein said plurality of insulating regions comprises a plurality of spaced-apart strips of insulating material disposed in a parallel relationship.
7. An array as in claim 1, wherein said plurality of electrode bodies comprise a plurality of metallic bodies.
8. An array as in claim 7, wherein said metallic bodies each include a highly reflective surface.
9. An array as in claim 7, wherein said metallic bodies each include a textured surface. 


 10. An array as in claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of semi-conductor bodies includes a layer of a silicon alloy semi-conductor material.
11. An array as in claim 1, wherein said each of said plurality of semi-conductor bodies comprises a layer of substantially intrinsic semi-conductor alloy material sandwiched between oppositely doped semi-conductor layers so as to define a P-I-N-type photovoltaic structure.
12. An array as in claim 11, wherein each of said plurality of semi-conductor bodies comprises a stacked, tandem P-I-N-type photovoltaic device.
13. An array as in claim 1, wherein said layer of top electrode material comprises a transparent conductive oxide material.
14. An array as in claim 1, wherein said layer of top electrode material comprises a single homogeneous layer of material.
15. An array as-in claim 1, wherein said layer of top electrode material comprises a composite layer having a bead of electrically conductive material disposed between adjoining insulating regions and in contact with the substrate and a body of electrode material disposed in contact with the semi-conductor body and the bead. 


 16. A method of fabricating a monolithic photovoltaic array comprised of a plurality of sub-cells electrically interconnected in a parallel relationship, said method including the steps of: providing an electrically conductive substrate; providing an electrically insulating coating on said substrate; depositing a layer of electrically conductive material atop the insulating material; scribing through portions of the layer of electrically conductive material so as to expose selected first portions of the insulating coating and to create a plurality of spaced apart, electrically conductive, electrode bodies which are disposed in a side-by-side relationship with an edge of each body separated from an edge of adjoining bodies by a distance W
2
; depositing a photovoltaic, semi-conductor material atop the substrate so as to form a continuous layer having a first surface covering the electrode bodies, the edges thereof and the first exposed portions of insulating material therebetween; scribing the semi-conductor body and the insulating material in the region between the electrode bodies by forming a scribe line therethrough having a width of W-, which is less than W
2
, so as to expose second portions of the substrate material and to keep the edges of the electrode bodies covered; depositing a continuous layer of electrically conductive material so as to cover substantially all of a 


second surface of each of the photovoltaic bodies and the exposed second portions of substrate material so that electrical communication between the substrate and the second surface of the photovoltaic bodies is established whereby said substrate provides a first electrical terminal of said array; and electrically interconnecting the electrode bodies with interconnect means, said means operative to provide a second electrical terminal of said array.
17. A method as in claim 16, wherein the step of scribing the layer of electrically conductive material comprises laser scribing the layer of electrically conductive material.
18. A method as in claim 16, wherein the step of scribing the semiconductor body and insulating material comprises laser scribing the semiconductor body and insulating material.
19. A method as in claim 16, wherein the step of depositing an layer of electrically conductive material atop the insulating material comprises the step of depositing a layer of metal atop the insulating material.
20. A method as in claim 19, wherein the step of depositing a layer of metal comprises depositing a layer of metal having a highly reflective surface. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
