<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BICMOS ECL-TO-CMOS LEVEL TRANSLATOR AND BUFFER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K19003	H03K19003	H03K1901	H03K19013	H03K190175	H03K190175	H03K190185	H03K190185	H03K1908	H03K1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ECL-to-CMOS level translator and BiCMOS buffer are described. The current supplied from the first input PMOS transistor (P1) is the input current to a current mirror comprising the first and second NMOS transistors (N1 and N2). The current mirror controls the current sourcing and sinking capability of the translator. Third and fourth NMOS transistors (N3 and N4) are coupled to the first and second NMOS transistors in the current mirror and function to vary the source-to-body voltage of the first and second NMOS transistors and consequently their gain which results in increased current drive and sinking capability. The BiCMOS differential buffer of the present invention provides a differential output signal on first and second output nodes (115 and 215). It is comprised of first and second cross-coupled buffers (100B and 200B). Cross-coupling the buffers results in improved high-to-low transition times.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROUNITY SYSTEMS ENGINEERING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG BAN PAK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG, BAN, PAK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BICMOS ECL-TO-CMOS LEVEL TRANSLATOR AND BUFFERFIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to the field of bipolar complementary metal oxide silicon (BiCMOS) circuits, and particularly to level translator circuits and associated buffer circuitry.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONBipolar/complementary metal oxide semiconductor (BiCMOS) processing and design techniques have been developed to create circuits which comprise both bipolar and complementary metal oxide silicon (CMOS) discrete devices. BiCMOS circuit designs take advantage of the speed of bipolar devices while and the relatively low power/space characteristics of CMOS devices. Commonly, bipolar emitter- coupled logic (ECL) circuits and CMOS devices are utilized in many BiCMOS memory designs.One problem that exists in this merged technology is that ECL and CMOS devices often have different input/output (I/O) characteristics. As a result, ECL I/O characteristics are not usually compatible with most CMOS circuits. This means, for example, that an ECL output signal cannot be directly coupled into a CMOS input stage without first undergoing some sort of logic level adjustment. That is, an interface circuit is needed to adjust the output characteristics of one device type to the input characteristics of the other device type. Such an interface circuit between ECL and CMOS logic stages is frequently referred to as an ECL to CMOS level translator.By way of example, a common prior art BiCMOS translator design utilizes two p-channel metal-oxide-silicon (PMOS) current switching transistors, and two n- channel metal-oxide-silicon (NMOS) transistors, as input devices. The NMOS 

transistors are configured as a current mirror. The ECL input signal to be converted and its inverse are coupled to the two input current switches. As a result, one of the input PMOS transistors is on and the other is off. The state of one of the PMOS transistors determines the input current to the first NMOS transistor of the current mirror. The current in the first NMOS transistor of the current mirror is reflected to the output of the second NMOS transistor of the current mirror, thus setting the output CMOS voltage level.Another type of level translator that is typically utilized comprises a comparator and a reference voltage generator. The reference voltage generator supplies a reference voltage to the comparator. The reference voltage is equal to the midpoint between high and low voltage levels corresponding to an input logic signal. The output of the comparator is coupled to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
We Claim:
1. A voltage level translator for converting an input signal compatible with a first logic level to an output signal compatible with a second logic level comprising: first and second input nodes, said first input node for receiving said input signal and said second input node for receiving the inverse of said input signal; first and second transistors coupled in series to a first operating potential, said first transistor having its gate coupled to said first input node, said second transistor having its gate coupled to its drain and its body coupled to a second operating potential; third and fourth transistors coupled in series to a common output node, said third transistor also being coupled to said first operating potential and having its gate coupled to said second input node, said fourth transistor having its body coupled to said second operating potential; said second and fourth transistors having their gates coupled to a third node; a variable voltage means for varying the source-to-body voltage of said second transistor coupled between the source of said second transistor and said second operating potential. a variable resistance means for varying the resistance coupled to the source of said fourth transistor, said variable resistance means being coupled between the source of said fourth transistor and said second operating potential; wherein when said input signal is at a high potential compatible with said first logic level, said third transistor drives said output node to a high potential compatible with said second logic level, and when said input signal is at a low potential compatible with said first logic level, said fourth transistor and said variable resistance 


means drive said output node to a low potential compatible with said second logic level.
2. The translator as described in claim 1 wherein the voltage gain of said second transistor varies correspondingly with its source-to-body voltage, said voltage gain determining the voltage potential on the gates of said second and fourth transistors.
3. The translator as described in claim 2 wherein said variable voltage means comprises a fifth transistor having its drain coupled to said source of said second transistor, its gate being coupled to said first input node and its source being coupled to said second operating potential.
4. The translator as described in claim 3 wherein said variable resistance means comprises a sixth transistor having its drain coupled to said source of said fourth transistor, its gate being coupled to said second input node and its source being coupled to said second operating potential.
5. The translator as described in claim 4 wherein said first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth transistors comprise metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) devices and said second logic signal is compatible with complementary MOS logic.
6. The translator as described in claim 5 wherein said first logic signal is compatible with emitter coupled logic.
7. An improved BiCMOS voltage level translator having first and second MOS devices coupled to function as a current mirror, the input of said current mirror 


being the drain of said first MOS device and the output of said current mirror being the drain of said second MOS device, the gates of said first and second MOS devices being coupled together and said first MOS device having its drain coupled to its gate, said first and second MOS devices having their body coupled to a first operating potential, said improvement comprising: a variable voltage means for varying the source-to-body potential of said first MOS device, said variable voltage means being coupled between the source of said first MOS device and said first operating potential, said first variable voltage means being responsive to a first input signal; a variable resistance means for varying the resistance at the source of said second MOS device, said variable resistance means being coupled between the source of said second MOS device and said first operating potential, said variable resistance means being responsive to the inverse of said first input signal.
8. The translator as described in claim 7 wherein the voltage gain of said first MOS device varies correspondingly with its source-to-body voltage.
9. The translator as described in claim 8 wherein said variable voltage means comprises a third MOS device having its drain coupled to said source of said first MOS device, its gate being coupled to said first input signal and its source being coupled to said first operating potential.
10. The translator as described in claim 9 wherein said variable resistance means comprises a fourth MOS device having its drain coupled to said source of said second MOS device, its gate being coupled to said second input signal and its source being coupled to said first operating potential. 


 11. A differential bipolar complimentary metal oxide semiconductor (BiCMOS) circuit comprised of first and second identical cross-coupled buffers, for providing buffered first and second output logic signals from first and second input logic signals, each of said first and second buffers comprising: a first input node for receiving said first input logic signal; a second input node for receiving said second input logic signal; an output node; an input device coupled to said first input node, a first operating potential and a cross-coupling node; a pull-down circuit coupled between said output node and a second operating potential, and coupled to said second input node, said pull-down circuit for driving said output node to a low voltage level corresponding to said first and second input logic signal ; an output device coupled to a first operating potential, said second input node and said output node, said output device for driving said output node to a high voltage level corresponding to said first and second input logic signal; a voltage means for providing an activation voltage to said pull-down circuit, said diode means being coupled to said cross-coupling node and said second input node; said cross-coupling node of said first buffering circuit being coupled to said pull-down circuit of said second buffering circuit and said cross-coupling node of said second buffering circuit being coupled to said pull-down circuit of said first buffering circuit; wherein, when said first input logic signal is at a voltage corresponding to a high logic level, said first buffers output node is at a voltage corresponding to a low logic level and said second buffers output node is at a voltage corresponding to a high logic level; 


 and wherein, when said first input logic signal is at a voltage corresponding to a low logic level, said first buffers output node is at a voltage corresponding to a low high level and said second buffers output node is at a voltage corresponding to a low logic level.
12. The differential BiCMOS circuit as described in claim 11 wherein said pull-down circuit comprises first and second metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) devices coupled in series between said output node and said second operating potential and coupled in parallel to a first bipolar transistor, said first MOS device having its drain coupled to said output node, its gate being coupled to said cross- coupling node and its source being coupled to the base of said first bipolar transistor, said second MOS device having its gate coupled to said second input node, wherein said pull-down circuit is driving said output node to a low potential corresponding to said first and second input logic signals when the gate voltage of said first MOS device is greater than the threshold voltage of said first MOS device plus the forward bias base-to-emitter voltage of said first bipolar transistor.
13. The differential BiCMOS circuit as described in claim 12 wherein said voltage means is a second bipolar transistor having its collector and base coupled together and its emitter coupled to said second input node, wherein said activation voltage is approximately equal to the forward biased base-to-emitter voltage of said second bipolar transistor.
14. The differential BiCMOS circuit as described in claim 13 wherein said input device comprises an third MOS device and said output device comprises a third bipolar transistor. 


 15. The differential BiCMOS circuit as described in claim 14 wherein said first and second input and output logic signals are compatible with CMOS circuitry. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
