<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625916</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EYE SURGERY METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F9007	A61F9007	A61M100	A61M100	A61M3900	A61M3922	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F9	A61F9	A61M1	A61M1	A61M39	A61M39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Collapse of the cornea into the cavity formed when material such as the lens is removed from an eye in the irrigation-aspiration method is minimized by incorporating a pressure responsive, variable flow resistance element (40, 300) in the aspiration line (16) of the irrigation-aspiration apparatus. A preferred pressure responsive, variable resistance element is a length of thin walled tubing which is easily collapsed to smaller flow path area in response to increasing negative pressure in the aspiration line.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
URECHE ALEXANDER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
URECHE ALEXANDER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GASPAR STEPHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
URECHE ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GASPAR STEPHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
URECHE ALEXANDER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EYE SURGERY METHOD AND APPARATUSThis invention relates to methods and means for accomplishing surgical removal of material from the eye with increased safety .BackgroundA variety of procedures are currently being employed to accomplish removal of cataracts and other material from within the eye. One of those procedures is often referred to as an irrigation-aspiration method. It involves breaking, tearing or otherwise dividing the material to be removed into small fragments and aspirating those fragments from the eye into a fluid flow line by which they are carried away. Fluid pressure levels in the apparatus by which that procedure is practiced are dictated by the need to preserve pressure balance within the eye. More particularly, in the case of cataract removal, it is important to prevent or minimize collapse of the cornea into the cavity formed by removal of lens material. Difficulty in preventing such collapse has tended to discourage some surgeons form the use of the irrigation-aspiration method notwithstanding that it's successful use can result in substantially less discomfort to patients in the post-operative period.In the method, an incision is made on or about the corneal margin to gain access to the lens . A tool in the form of a probe which houses the outlet end of a fluid supply line and the 

inlet end of an aspiration line is inserted into the opening under the cornea. Some means is provided for dividing the lens material into small fragments. The means for dividing eye material may comprise no more than a cutting edge at or near the flow tube openings . More commonly an ultrasonically driven tool is included to aid in division of the material to be removed. The task is to separate that material and divide it into small pieces, aspirate that material from the eye and to replace the material so removed with water, actually a balanced, salt in water solution. The opening in which the probe is inserted is small, 6 millimeters or less and the opening tends to close so that a substantially closed cavity is formed as lens material is removed. The water is disposed under the cornea and serves to prevent corneal collapse into the cavity. It is the water in that cavity that is used to aspirate and carry away lens material. Accordingly the flow of water to the lens cavity must equal the flow of water being removed by aspiration augmented by enough water to account for increases in lens cavity size. The flow ratio must be maintained while maintaining enough water in the lens cavity to prevent the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The Claims
We Claim:
1. The method of minimizing corneal collapse during material removal from an eye by the irrigation-aspiration procedure using irrigation-aspiration apparatus which method comprises the steps of: sensing an increase in negative pressure in the aspiration line of said apparatus; and increasing flow resistance in said aspiration line as an incident to having sensed said increase.
2. The method defined in Claim 1 which further comprises the subsequent step of decreasing resistance in at least a portion of said aspiration line in response to increasing pressure at the upstream side of the portion.
3. The method defined in Claim 1 in which said increase in negative pressure is made to reduce the cross-sectional area of said aspiration line.
4. The method defined in Claim 3 in which the cross- sectional area of the aspiration line is reduced but is not reduced to zero. 


 5. The method defined in Claim 1 in which the step of increasing flow resistance is sufficient to result in overdamping of pressure change in the eye cavity formed by removal of material therefrom.
6. The method defined in Claim 5 in which said increase in negative pressure is made to reduce the cross-sectional area of said aspiration line, the reduction resulting in a cross- sectional area greater than zero while the pressure in the
'
 cavity formed by removal of eye material is less than negative 500 millimeters of mercury below atmospheric pressure.
7. The method defined in Claim 5 which further comprises the subsequent step of decreasing resistance in at least a portion of said aspiration line in response to increasing pressure at the upstream side of the portion.
8. The method of minimizing possible damage to an eye during surgical removal of material from a point within the eye with the aid of a tool which supplies irrigation fluid under positive pressure and which delivers quantities of said irrigation fluid and of removed material to an aspiration line which is under negative pressure, which method comprises the steps of: sensing release of an occlusion of the aspirating line at 


the tool, and causing momentary reduction of the cross-sectional area of a portion of the aspirating line from normal area immediately following such release.
9. The invention defined in Claim 8 in which negative pressure in said aspirating line is utilized to effect said reduction and in which renitence is utilized to overcome said reduction.
10. An article of manufacture for inclusion in the aspiration line of an irrigation-aspiration apparatus for conducting eye surgery by the irrigation-aspiration method the article comprising a flow tube the walls of which have sufficient renitence to maintain the flow path open at negative internal pressure values corresponding to the positive internal pressure values of the irrigation line of said apparatus, said walls being responsive to more negative internal pressures to deform to reduce the cross-sectional area of said flow path.
11. The article defined in Claim 10 in which said tube has a cross-sectional area between 0.0005 and 0.05 square inches and wall thickness over a length exceeding one quarter inch which is between 0.02 and 0.001 inches and is made of an elastomeric material . 


 12. In combination: a tool comprising dividing means for dividing material found in the interior of an eye and two flow paths having openings proximate to one another and to said dividing means; and a variable flow resisting element responsive to increasing negative pressure to increase it's resistance to flow connected in series with one of said flow paths .
13. The invention defined in Claim 12 in which said variable flow resisting element forms a part of said tool.
14. The invention defined in claim 12 in which said variable flow resisting element comprises a flow tube the walls of which have sufficient renitence to maintain the flow path open at relatively low negative internal pressure values corresponding to positive pressure in the other flow path of said tool, said walls being responsive to more negative internal pressures to deform to reduce the cross-sectional area of said flow path.
15. The invention defined in Claim 14 in which said variable flow resisting device comprises at least two parallel flowpaths whose walls tend to collapse in response .to increasingly negative internal pressure and which tend to return 


to relaxed condition on a reduction of such negative pressure.
16. The variable flow resistor define in Claim 10 which is formed by a tube having a cross-sectional area between 0.0005 and 0.05 square inches and wall thickness over a length exceeding one quarter inch which is between 0.02 and 0.001 inches and is made of an elastomeric material.
17. The invention defined in Claim 12 in which said variable flow resisting element exhibits renitence tending to oppose the effect of said negative pressure.
18. The method of minimizing corneal collapse during material removal from an eye by the irrigation-aspiration procedure using irrigation-aspiration apparatus in which pressure change in the cavity formed by material removal prior to clearance of an occlusion of the aspiration line inlet is characterized by underdamping and which method comprises the steps of: sensing an increase in negative pressure in the aspiration line of said apparatus; and altering flow resistance in said aspiration line as an incident to having senses said increase such that the pressure change in said cavity is overdamped. 


 19. The method defined in Claim 18 which further comprises the subsequent step of decreasing resistance in at least a portion of said aspiration line in response to increasing pressure at the upstream side of the portion.
20. The invention defined in Claim 5 in which the degree in which flow resistance is increased is a joint function of the negative pressure in the aspiration line and the positive pressure in the supply line . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
