<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611076</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for producing mesh representations of objects.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1750	G06F1750	G06F1900	G06F1900	G06T1500	G06T1500	G06T1720	G06T1720	G06T1740	G06T1740	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06F19	G06F19	G06T15	G06T15	G06T17	G06T17	G06T17	G06T17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for producing a mesh representation of an 
arbitrarily shaped object, for applications such as finite element 

analysis. The method includes the steps of identifying elements of a 
mesh, such as a tetrahedral mesh, which are suitable, based on 

predetermined criteria, for merging into one of a predetermined set of 
target elements. For instance, if the predetermined set of target 

elements includes pentahedra and hexahedra, and the method operates on a 
tetrahedral mesh, then tetrahedra of the mesh are identified based on 

known ways of decomposing the target elements into tetrahedra. In a 
preferred embodiment, the groups of tetrahedra are identified based on 

whether they share faces in common, and whether they have faces which 
share a common edge and which are either coplanar or have an angle 

between the faces which satisfies a predetermined condition. The latter 
faces are referred to as quadrilateral pairs. A graph representation of 

the mesh is used, preferably including nodes representing regions of the 
mesh (i.e., tetrahedra) and edges between the nodes representing faces 

shared in common and quadrilateral pairs of faces. Using a search tree 
representation of a graph of a target element, the graph of the mesh is 

searched to identify subsets of the graph of the mesh, which represent 
groups of the tetrahedra of the mesh which are suitable for merging into 

the target element. By merging the tetrahedra this way, the total number 
of elements of the mesh is reduced, compared with the original 

tetrahedral mesh. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MESHKAT SIAVASH NAVADEH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MESHKAT SIAVASH NAVADEH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to the field of computer 
modelling and graphical display. More specifically, the invention 
relates to the field of determining a physical attribute of an object by 
producing a mesh representation of the object. Various computer graphics applications call for modelling objects. 
This modelling may be done for purposes such as computation and 
rendering, and numerical analysis using the finite element analysis 
method. A solid object is conveniently modeled by creating a mesh of 
points having a geometry corresponding with that of the object being 
modeled. Many applications require that an object being modeled, having 
an arbitrary shape, be modeled by decomposing the object into a set of 
simple elements such as tetrahedra. For each tetrahedron, a calculation 
is made to determine a physical attribute of the object, under a 
predetermined condition. The physical attribute could be shading, 
vibrational displacement responsive to a predetermined forcing function, 
a temperature gradient, etc. Then, the graphic representation of the 
object as a whole is shaded or deformed, using the calculated values for 
the tetrahedra. Each element is made up of vertices (nodes), edges, and faces, and 
each element defines a region enclosed within its faces. In a mesh, 
there are predefined rules about how two elements may be geometrically 
connected. For instance it might be required that any two elements be 
either disjoint, or share one or more vertices. Alternatively, it might 
be required that any two elements share a whole face, edge, vertex, or 
nothing. Such rules have been referred to as a "geometric complex" in 
Hocking et al., "Topology", Mineola, N.Y.: Dover Publications, Inc. 
(1988), pp. 199-206. Hocking et al. defined a geometric complex as a 
collection of properly joined geometric simplices, wherein, for each 
geometric simplex which belongs to the geometric complex, every face of 
that geometric simplex also belongs to the geometric complex. Simplices 
are "properly joined" if their intersection is either the empty set or a 
subsimplex of each of the simplices. Geometric simplices are defined for various numbers of dimensions. 
A geometric 0-simplex is a single point, a geometric 1-simplex is a 
closed line segment, a geometric 2-simplex is a closed triangular plane  
 
region, a geometric 3-simplex is a solid tetrahedron, and so on. The 
present invention is primarily concerned with three-dimensional modelling 
of arbitrarily shaped objects as a geometric
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining a physical attribute of an object using a 
mesh representation of the object, the mesh including elements from a 

predetermined set of polyhedral elements, the method comprising the steps 
of: 

   identifying a group of first elements of the mesh as being suitable 
for merging into an element from the predetermined set; and 

   merging the identified group of first elements into the element 
from the predetermined set. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein: 
   the step of identifying includes identifying (i) a first element of 

the mesh, having first and second faces, and (ii) a second element of the 
mesh, having third and fourth faces, the first and third faces being 

shared in common by the first and second elements, the second and fourth 
faces having a common edge and an angle therebetween which satisfies a 

predetermined condition; and 
   the step of merging includes merging the first and second elements 

into an element of the predetermined set, and merging the second and 
fourth faces into a face of the element from the predetermined set. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein: 
   the step of identifying includes identifying a plurality of 

elements of the first set, each of the plurality of elements having a 
face in common with a face of another of the plurality of elements, first 

and second ones of the plurality of elements having respective faces 
which share a common edge and have an angle therebetween which satisfies 

a predetermined condition; and 
   the step of merging includes merging the plurality of elements into 

an element of the predetermined set, and merging the faces which share 
the common edge and have the angle therebetween into a face of the 

element of the predetermined set. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 or claim 3, wherein, in the step of 
identifying, the predetermined condition is that the angle falls within a 

threshold representing a predetermined maximum deviation from 
coplanarity. 
A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein: 
   the step of identifying includes determining whether a greatest one 

of angles between adjacent edges of the face to be produced from the 
merger of the second and fourth faces falls within a predetermined range 

of acceptable face angles; and 
   the step of merging is executed responsive to a determination that 

the maximum angle falls within the predetermined range. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising the 
step of representing the elements of the mesh in the form of a graph. 
A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the step of representing 
includes representing the elements of the mesh in the form of a graph 

which shows (i) nodes representing the elements, (ii) first node 
connectors representing faces shared in common between pairs of the 

elements, and (iii) second node connectors representing faces of 
different ones of the elements which have an edge in common and have an 

angle therebetween which satisfies a predetermined condition. 
A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein: 
   the elements of the predetermined set are represented as a set of 

respective subgraphs representing groups of the first elements which may 
be merged into respective ones of the elements of the predetermined set; 

   the step of identifying includes finding a portion of the graph, 
the portion matching one of the respective subgraphs, and representing a 

group of the elements of the mesh; and 
   the step of merging includes merging the elements of the mesh 

represented by the portion into the respective element of the 
predetermined set. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein: 
   the elements of the predetermined set are additionally represented 

as a set of respective search trees representing arrangements of the 
nodes of the respective subgraphs into (i) a root node corresponding with 

a first node of the subgraph representation of the element, and (ii) 
other nodes corresponding with other nodes of the subgraph and having 

node connectors which correspond with the first and second node 
connectors of the respective subgraphs; and 

   the step of identifying includes finding a portion of the graph, 
the portion matching one of the set of search trees. 
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the step of identifying 
includes: 

   selecting an initial node of the graph as corresponding to a root 
node of the search tree; 

   searching for other nodes of the graph which have connectors to at 
least one of the initial node and each other which correspond with 

connectors between nodes of the search tree; and 
   determining that a group of nodes of the graph which, together, 

correspond with the nodes of the search tree and have corresponding 
connectors correspond with a group of elements of the mesh which are 

suitable for merging into one of the predetermined set of elements. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein: 
   the first elements of the mesh include tetrahedra; and 

   the step of identifying includes identifying a group of tetrahedra 
as being suitable for merging into an element from the predetermined set. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein: 
   the predetermined set of elements Includes pentahedra and 

hexahedra; and
 

   the step of identifying includes identifying a group of the first 
elements of the mesh as being suitable for merging into one of (i) a 

pentahedron and (ii) a hexahedron. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising the 
step of initially decomposing the object into a mesh including a set of 

tetrahedra. 
A processing system for determining a physical attribute of an 
object using a mesh representation of the object, the mesh including 

elements from a predetermined set of polyhedral elements, the system 
comprising: 

   means for identifying a group of first elements of the mesh as 
being suitable for merging into an element from the predetermined set; 

and 
   means for merging the identified group of first elements into the 

element from the predetermined set. 
A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein: 
   the means for identifying includes means for identifying (i) a 

first element of the mesh, having first and second faces, and (ii) a 
second element of the mesh, having third and fourth faces, the first and 

third faces being shared in common by the first and second elements, the 
second and fourth faces having a common edge and an angle therebetween 

which satisfies a predetermined condition; and 
   the means for merging includes means for merging th
e first and 
second elements into an element of the predetermined set, and means for 

merging the second and fourth faces into a face of the element from the 
predetermined set. 
A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein, in the means for 
identifying, the predetermined condition is that the angle falls within a 

threshold representing a predetermined maximum deviation from 
coplanarity. 
A system as claimed in claim 16 wherein:
 

   the means for identifying includes means for determining whether a 
greatest one of angles between adjacent edges of the quadrilateral face 

to be produced from the merger of the second and fourth faces falls 
within a predetermined range of acceptable face angles; and 

   the means for merging is operable responsive to a determination 
that the maximum angle falls within the predetermined range. 
A system as claimed in any of claims 15 to 17, wherein: 
   the first elements of the mesh include tetrahedra; and 

   the means for identifying includes means for identifying a group of 
tetrahedra as being suitable for merging into an element from the 

predetermined set. 
A system as claimed in any of claims 15 to 18, wherein: 
   the predetermined set of elements includes pentahedra and 

hexahedra; and 
   the means for identifying includes means for identifying a group of 

the first elements of the mesh as being suitable for merging into one of 
(i) a pentahedron and (ii) a hexahedron. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
