<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631266</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Remote data acquisition and communication system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B724	H04Q900	G08B2510	G08C1500	G08B2510	H04B724	G08C1500	H04Q900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04Q	G08B	G08C	G08B	H04B	G08C	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04Q9	G08B25	G08C15	G08B25	H04B7	G08C15	H04Q9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A remote data acquisition and communication system 
includes a plurality of collector devices including a 

radio transmitter, optionally a plurality of concentrator 
devices including a radio transmitter, a radio receiver 

and a memory, a plurality of controller devices including 
a radio transmitter, a radio receiver and a memory, 

optionally a plurality of data communications nodes 
coupled to corresponding concentrator devices via a first 

communications link, and a data management platform 
computer coupled to the data communications nodes or the 

next lower level of devices via a second communications 
link. The collector devices, concentrator devices and 

controller devices communicate with one another via RF 
communications, preferably a single communication channel 

at a single carrier frequency. The collector devices 
preferably transmit data to the concentrator devices at 

intervals of between 4 to 6 hours and in preferred 
transmission bursts of less than 200 milliseconds, to 

minimize collisions between transmissions from different 
collector devices, and the transmitted data is sorted and 

redundancies discarded for each desired period of data 
keeping, i.e., typically daily. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITRON METSCAN CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ITRON/METSCAN CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLANDS DANIEL H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHANKER JACOB Z
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLANDS, DANIEL H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHANKER, JACOB Z.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates in general to remote data
acquisition and communication systems. More
specifically, the invention relates to a remote data
acquisition and communication system for monitoring
gathering and communicating data acquired or generated by
a plurality of remote data collecting or monitoring
devices. Utility meters are one example of such remote
devices.Utilities and other industries face a common problem
of acquiring data from numerous remote points and
communicating the data to a data processing center for
analysis, billing, and other purposes. A typical example
is a natural gas utility company that provides natural
gas for a variety of domestic, commercial and industrial
purposes. The natural gas utility company may have
thousands or even millions of customer gas meters that
must be regularly read to gather data for billing and
other purposes. The data has traditionally been gathered
by means of a human meter reader who goes from meter to
meter and records each meter's reading. The recorded
data is then returned to a central office and transferred
to a computerized billing system. Other examples of 
utilities having similar problems are electric and water utilities.Improvements in consumption data gathering procedures have been made over
the years, but most systems still rely on human meter readers. Changes in lifestyles and
societal conditions, however, have made it increasingly difficult for meter readers to gain
access to domestic premises for meter reading. It is therefore an object of the invention to
eliminate the need for human meter readers by automating the meter reading process.Among these improvements, it has been disclosed, for example, in document
US-A-5 056 107, a radio communication network for remote data generating stations such
as remote devices associated with residential electric meters. This system operates in a
manner which is strictly coordinated with real time. Every remote device of this sytem
necessarily has to include a real time clock and be affirmatively coordinated with real
time, involving a tremendous source of costs in devices and in control and maintenance. Transmission intervals vary greatly in a pseudo-random manner between successive transmissions.The invention comprises a remote date acquisition and communication system
that includes a plurality of data collector devices located at a number of distant, remote
geographic locations, each including a radio transmitter, microcontroller and a memory;
optionally one or more data concentrator devices each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A remote data acquisition and communication system, comprising :

a large number of data collector devices each comprising a radio
transmitter, with all of said radio transmitters designed to transmit at the same

carrier frequency and each of said collector devices designed to transmit a data
transmission at said frequency at each of a plurality of specified intervals of

substantially identical duration wherein for each collector device the duration of the intervals vary only by
a slight pseudo-randomly selected time variation and wherein each collector

device is designed to pseudo-randomly select the time of its first data transmission
after it is at a random time first supplied with electrical power;
and a plurality of controller devices, each including a radio transmitter also
designed to operate at said carrier frequency, a radio receiver for receiving data

transmissions at said carrier frequency, and a memory for storing received data ;
and a data management platform computer for receiving data
transmissions, controlling the system and processing the received data.
The system of claim 1, characterized in that it further comprises a plurality
of concentrator devices, each including a radio transmitter for communicating

with said controller devices, a radio receiver for receiving data collector
transmissions from said collector devices and a memory for storing data received

from said collector devices. 
The system of claim 1, wherein said data management platform
computer is coupled to each controller device via a two-way

communications link.
The system of claim 1, characterized in that it further comprises a
plurality of data communications nodes each including a radio receiver

for receiving data transmissions from said controller devices, a radio
transmitter for transmitting polling signals to said controller devices, and

a memory, and each of said data communications nodes is coupled to a
plurality of controller devices via first communications links, and each of

said communications nodes is coupled to said data management platform
by a second communications link.
The system of claim 1, wherein the radio transmitter transmits
collected data at specified time intervals of about 4 to 6 hours.
The system of claim 1, wherein the radio transmitter transmits
collected data at specified time intervals of about 6 hours.
The systems of claim 2, wherein each concentrator is at a fixed,
non-mobile geographic location.
The system of claim 2, wherein each of said concentrator devices
is capable of associating with each packet of data received from each

collector additional data indicating the time and date of each data packet
and the identity of the collector from which it was received.
The system of claim 2, wherein the data management platform
computer is capable of directing the controllers to poll the concentrators at

least one time within a determined period of time to ensure accurate data
acquisition. 
The system of claim 9, wherein the data management platform
computer directs the controllers to poll the concentrators at least once

within each 24-hour day.
The system of claim 8, wherein any of the concentrators,
controllers and the data management computer are capable of identifying

and discarding redundant data acquired for any determined period of
time.
The system of claim 4, wherein each of said concentrator devices
is capable of associating with each packet of data received from each

collector additional data indicating the time and date of each packet and
the identity of the collector from which it was received, and at least one

among the concentrators, controllers, data communications nodes and
the data management platform computer is capable of identifying and

discarding redundant data acquired for any determined period of time.
The system of claim 1, wherein the carrier frequency is within
the VHF range.
The system of claim 1, wherein the carrier frequency is within
the UHF range.
The system of claim 1, wherein the carrier frequency is within
the 183.5 to 184.5 MHz band.
The system of claim 1, wherein the carrier frequency is within
the 216 to 220 MHz band. 
The system of claim 1, wherein the carrier frequency is about a frequency or
paired frequencies selected from the group consisting of: 928/952 MHz, 956 MHz and

932/941 MHz.
The system of claim 1, wherein the radio transmitter in each collector device
transmits in short bursts each of duration of no more than about 200 milliseconds.
The system of claim 1, wherein the radio transmitter in each collector device
transmits in short bursts each of duration of no more than about 180 milliseconds.
The system of claim 1, wherein the radio transmitter in each collector device
transmits in short bursts each of duration in the range of about 180 to 200 milliseconds.
The system of claim 4, wherein said communication links are via a system
selected from the group consisting of telephone lines, T1 carriers, fiber optic networks,

integrated systems digital networks, surface microwave links, satellite communications
links, and meteor burst communications links.
The system of claim 1, wherein the power output of the radio transmitter in
each collector device is about 10 milliwatts.
The system of claim 1 wherein each collector device is capable of
transmitting an alarm signal up the system immediately upon detection of an alarm

condition.
The system of claim 1, wherein the number of collectors exceeds 1,000,000.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
