<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640306</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Swing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47D1310	A47D1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47D	A47D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47D13	A47D13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
2.1 In the swings used hitherto, there is the danger of physiological postural damage due to the substantially sitting position of the small child. 2.2 According to the invention, there is provided a see-saw or swing (1) for small children, in particular for small children aged from about one month to about twelve months, which has a support (2) for receiving the small child (3), on the upper side of which the small child lies face down, and a supporting device (4) for suspending the support (2) at such a height (h) above the floor that the feet (14) of the small child reach the floor. The support (2) is formed from a shell ergonomically adapted to the physical shape of the small child lying face down, of which shell the bearing surface (17) for the hands and head in the front region follows the contours of an oval and tapers rearwardly to the abdominal part and approximately continuously into a rear extension (18). The transition region is designed such that it descends slightly rearwardly and serves as a supporting surface (19) for the abdominal and thoracic part of the small child (3). 2.3 Used for infants to prevent postural damage. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEUBL RAINER H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEUBL, RAINER H.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEUBL RAINER H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEUBL, RAINER H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Teetering or rocking device for small children of an age
between approximately one month to approximately twelve

months, having a support (2) for receiving the small child
(3) on the surface of which the small child rests prone in

such a way, that the stomach area still fully rests on the
support (2), while the chest can be slightly raised and the

upper thighs are slightly spread apart in the pelvic area,
and having a support device (4), which permits the pendulum-like

suspension or support of the support (2) at such a
height (h) from the floor that the feet (14) of the small

child can reach the floor.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with claim l,
characterized in that the height of the support (2) above the

floor can be variably adjusted as a function of the age of
the small child.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with claim 1 or
2, characterized in that said support device (4) has a frame

(5) which can be set at a fixed height above the floor by
means of support legs (6), wherein the support (2) is suspended

on the frame (5) in at least two points via a rope (10)
in such a way that the height of the support (2) above the

floor can be set by the angle between the rope (10) and the
floor.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with claim 3,
characterized in that the frame (5) has the shape of the two

legs of an isosceles triangle, on the corners of which the
support legs (6) are fastened, wherein for suspending the

support (2) the ends of the rope (10) are respectively fastened
at front (7, 8) and rear (9) points of the support (2)

and the rope (10) is symmetrically suspended from a displaceable
suspension point (11, 12) of each leg of the frame (5)

in such a way that a rocking motion in a direction parallel
to the center axis of the isosceles triangle is made possible. 
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with claim 4,
characterized in that the front end of the support (2) points

to the base of the isosceles triangle.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with claim 4 or
5, characterized in that the frame (5) of the support is open

at the base of the isosceles triangle.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with one of
claims 3 to 6, characterized in that the section of each rope

(10) which can be reached by the small child has a thickening
(22, 23).
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with claim 1 or
2, characterized in that the support device (4) has at least

one elastic element fastened on the underside of the support,
which will be fixedly connected with the floor.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with claim 1 or
2, characterized in that the support device (4) has at least

one curved element fastened on the underside of the support,
by means which the teetering or rocking device can be caused

to make teetering or rocking motions.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the front end of the

support surface (17) terminates in a rising edge (21), which
prevents the dropping off of an object lying on the support

surface (17).
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that an elastic damping

element (26) is provided which makes it possible to limit or
damp the teetering or rocking motion of the support.
Teetering or rocking device in accordance with one of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the support (2) is

embodied in the shape of a shell, the rear end of which tapers 
toward the back and forms a centered extension (18) past

the sides of which the feet (14) of the small child extend,
wherein the front part of the shell (2) follows the shape of

an oval and is embodied as an essentially horizontal, wide
support surface (17) for the hands and the head of the small

child, and wherein the extension (18) and the support surface
(17) are connected with each other by means of a support surface

(19) which, starting at the extension, continuously widens
and makes a fluid transition into the shape of an oval of

the support surface (17).
Support shell, in particular for use in a teetering or
rocking device for small children at an age of approximately

one month to approximately twelve months with a shell (2) on
the surface of which the small child lies prone, the rear

part of which tapers toward the back and forms an extension
(18) past the sides of which the feet of the small child extend,

wherein the front part of the shell (2) follows the
shape of an oval and is embodied as wide support surface (17)

for the hands and the head of the small child, and wherein
the extension (18) and the support surface (17) are connected

with each other by means of a support surface (19) which,
starting at the extension, continuously widens and makes a

fluid transition into the shape of an oval of the support
surface (17).
Teetering or rocking device or support shell in accordance
with one of the preceding claims, characterized in that

the rear extension (18) has a surface which is also essentially
horizontal but is located lower than that of the support

surface (17) for the hands of the small child.
Teetering or rocking device or support shell in accordance
with one of the preceding claims, characterized in that

the support surface (19) steadily rises between the rear extension
(18) and the support surface (17), preferably at an

angle of inclination of 23° in respect to the horizontal
line. 
Teetering or rocking device or support shell in accordance
with one of the preceding claims, characterized in that

the shell has a lateral, upward directed border roll (21) in
the area of the support surface.
Teetering or rocking device or support shell in accordance
with one of the preceding claims, characterized in that

a raised spot (20) is provided at the rear end of the rear
extension (18).
Teetering or rocking device or support shell in accordance
with one of the preceding claime, characterized in that

the underside of the support shell (2) is shaped in such a
way that when the support shell (2) is turned over, it can be

used as a seating or resting surface for the small child.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
