<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639826</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Magnetic recording device with automatic media-test function
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2736	G11B502	G11B2736	H04N1706	G11B5027	G11B15087	G11B502	H04N1706	G11B5027	G11B15087	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	G11B	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B27	G11B5	G11B27	H04N17	G11B5	G11B15	G11B5	H04N17	G11B5	G11B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A magnetic recording device records an input signal on 
a magnetic medium. Either when the magnetic medium is first 

inserted in the device, or just before recording of the 
input signal is to begin, the device determines whether a 

previously-recorded signal is present on the medium. If no 
previously-recorde
d signal is present, a test signal is 
recorded and reproduced, and the reproduced level of at 

least one test frequency is measured. Thereafter, during 
recording of the input signal, the input signal is processed 

according to the measured level so as to produce a record 
signal optimally matched to the characteristics of the 

medium. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI ELECTRIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MITSUBISHI DENKI KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAZAWA YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAZAWA, YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of magnetic
recording using a magnetic recording medium, such as a
magnetic tape, including a step of testing characteristics
of the magnetic medium by recording a test signal, and
featured by a step of determining whether such a test signal
can be recorded without erasing a previously recorded
signal. The invention also relates to a magnetic recording
and reproducing device, such as a video tape recorder, e.g.,
a video cassette recorder, that is used for implementing
such a method.Video tape cassettes of various grades used for video
recording by a video cassette recorder are available. To
ensure successful recording on all grades of tape,
conventional video cassette recorders have often been
designed to match the frequency characteristics of the
lowest-grade tape. This is to prevent inverted white peaks
with whatever type of tape is used and ensure a sufficient
signal-to-noise ratio. Such video cassette recorders,
however, fail to take full advantage of the superior
characteristics of higher-grade tape.This will be explained with reference to Fig. 15 and
Fig. 16. Fig. 15 shows the frequency characteristics of two 
tapes, a high-grade tape A and a lower-grade tape B. The
horizontal axis indicates frequency. The vertical axis
indicates power received from the magnetic heads, before
demodulation. Both tapes show a diminishing response at
higher frequencies, but tape A provides a higher playback
level at all frequencies, and particularly at high
frequencies. If the record circuit is adjusted to match the
characteristics of the tape B, the frequency characteristics
of the video signal reproduced from the tape A and tape B
are as shown in Fig. 16.Despite the fact that the tape A has superior frequency
characteristics, the signal reproduced from the tape A shows
characteristics inferior to those of the signal reproduced
from the tape B if the signals are recorded under condition
matching the tape B. It does not necessarily mean that tape
B gives a better reproduced picture than tape A, because
tape A has a higher signal-to-noise ratio. It is however
obvious that the superior frequency characteristics of tape
A shown in Fig. 15 are not being properly utilized.One scheme that addresses this problem equips a video
cassette recorder to record and reproduce a test signal,
thereby sense tape characteristics, and adjust its own
recording characteristics to take optimum advantage of the
characteristics of the tape. For instance, prior to
recording, a test signal is recorded and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of recording a signal on a magnetic medium,
comprising the steps of:


automatically determining whether a previously-recorded
signal is present on said magnetic medium;
assessing characteristics of said magnetic medium by:

recording a test signal on said magnetic medium,
if no previously-recorded signal is present; and
reproducing said test signal and measuring a
reproduced level of at least one frequency component

thereof;
receiving an input signal;
processing said input signal responsive to said
reproduced level, thereby producing a record signal matched

to the characteristics of said magnetic medium; and
recording said record signal on said magnetic medium.
The method of claim 1, comprising the further step of
advancing said magnetic medium to a place where no

previously-recorded signal is present, if a previously-recorded
signal is found in the step of automatically

determining whether or not a previously-recorded signal is
present. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of assessing
the characteristics is carried out automatically whenever a

new magnetic medium is inserted.
The method of claim 1, wherein said magnetic medium is
a magnetic tape.
The method of claim 4, wherein said magnetic medium is
a video cassette tape.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining
whether a previously-recorded signal is present comprises

the steps of:

reproducing a signal from a control track on said
magnetic medium; and
determining whether control pulses are present in the
signal thus reproduced.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining
whether a previously-recorded signal is present comprises

the steps of:

reproducing a signal from an audio track on said
magnetic medium;
detecting an envelope of the signal thus reproduced;
and 
determining, from said envelope, whether an audio
signal is present.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining
whether a previously-recorded signal is present comprises

the steps of:

reproducing a signal from a video track on said
magnetic medium;
detecting an envelope of the signal thus reproduced;
and
determining, from said envelope signal, whether a video
signal is present.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining
whether a previously-recorded signal is present comprises

the steps of:

reproducing a signal from a video track on said
magnetic medium; and
determining whether synchronization pulses are present
in the signal thus reproduced.
The method of claim 1, wherein said test signal
comprises at least two signals with different frequencies.
The method of claim 10, wherein said test signal 
comprises:


a controller clock signal having a certain frequency;
and
a signal with twice the frequency of said controller
clock signal.
The method of claim 10, wherein said test signal
comprises:


a controller clock signal having a certain frequency;
and
a signal with half the frequency of said controller
clock signal.
The method of claim 10, wherein said test signal
comprises:


a color subcarrier signal having a certain frequency;
and
a signal with twice the frequency of said color
subcarrier signal.
The method of claim 10, wherein said test signal
comprises:


a color subcarrier signal having a certain frequency;
and
a signal with half the frequency of said color 
subcarrier signal.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processing
said input signal comprises a frequency-modulation step

carried out by a frequency modulator, said method further
comprises the step of supplying at least one fixed voltage

to said frequency modulator, to generate as said test signal
a signal having a frequency corresponding to said fixed

voltage.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processing

said input signal comprises the steps of:

   equalizing said input signal, responsive to said
reproduced level of said test signal.
The method of claim 16, wherein the step of processing
said input signal further comprises the steps of:


preemphasizing said input signal to generate a
preemphasized signal; and
frequency-modulating a carrier signal by said
preemphasized signal to generate a frequency-modulated

signal; and
wherein said step of equalizing said input signal is
performed on the frequency-modulated signal.
The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processing
said input signal comprises the step of enhancing detail in

said input signal, responsive to the results of said
assessment of the characteristics.
A magnetic recording and reproducing apparatus for
recording and reproducing a signal on a magnetic medium

(64), comprising:

a test signal generator (4) for generating a test
signal comprising at least one test frequency;
a record circuit (2) for producing a record signal by
processing an input signal responsive to a control signal,

or on the basis of said test signal;
a record/playback mechanism (6) coupled to said record
circuit (2), for recording said record signal on said

magnetic medium (64), and for picking up a signal recorded
on said magnetic medium (64), thereby generating a playback

signal;
a playback circuit (8) coupled to said record/playback
mechanism (6), for processing said playback signal, thereby

producing an output signal;
a test signal level detector (12) coupled to said
playback circuit (8), for measuring a reproduced level of

said test frequency, thereby assessing characteristics of
said magnetic medium (64); 
a record controller (14) coupled to said record circuit
(2) and said test signal level detector (12), for

determining optimal control conditions from the reproduced
level of said test frequency and producing said control

signal according to said optimal control conditions;
said record circuit (2) optimizing said record signal
according to said characteristics of said magnetic medium

(64) on the basis of said control signal;
signal detecting means (70; 92, 94; 96; 98) for
determining whether a previously-recorded signal is present

on said magnetic medium (64);
a system controller (10) for causing, if no previously-recorded
signal is present, said test signal generator (4),

said record circuit (2) and said record/playback mechanism
(6) to record said test signal, said record/playback

mechanism (6) and said playback circuit (8) to reproduce
said test signal, said test signal level detector (12) to

measure said the reproduced level of said test frequency,
and said record controller (14) to determine said optimum

control conditions therefrom.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein, if said system
controller (10) determines that a previously-recorded signal

is present, it causes said record/playback mechanism (6) to
move said magnetic medium (64) to a point where no 

previously-recorded signal is present.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said system
controller (10) causes the assessment of the characteristics

to be conducted when said magnetic medium (64) is inserted
in said record/playback mechanism (6).
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said system
controller (10) causes the assessment of the characteristics

to be conducted prior to recording of said input signal when
it is commanded to record the input signal.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said magnetic medium
(64) is a magnetic tape.
The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said magnetic medium
(64) is a video cassette tape (16).
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said record/playback
mechanism (6) has a control head (68) that records and

reproduces control pulses on said magnetic medium (64), and
said system controller (10) determines whether a previously-recorded

signal is present by detecting said control pulses.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said playback signal 
comprises an audio signal, said playback circuit (8) detects

an envelope of said audio signal, and said system controller
(10) determines from said envelope whether a previously-recorded

signal is present.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said playback signal
comprises a frequency-modulated video signal, said playback

circuit (8) detects an envelope of said frequency-modulated
video signal, and said system controller (10) determines

from said envelope whether a previously-recorded signal is
present.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said playback signal
comprises a video signal with synchronization pulses, said

playback circuit (8) separates said synchronization pulses
from said video signal, and said system controller (10)

determines from said synchronization pulses whether a
previously-recorded signal is present.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said test signal has
at least two test frequencies.
The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said test signal
generator (4) comprises:


an oscillator (102) for generating a first signal 
having a first frequency;
a frequency doubler (104) for doubling said first
frequency, thereby producing a second signal; and
a multiplexer (106) for combining said first signal and
said second signal to produce said test signal.
The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said oscillator
(102) is a system controller clock oscillator.
The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said oscillator
(102) is a color subcarrier oscillator.
The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said test signal
generator (4) comprises:


an oscillator (102) for generating a first signal
having a first frequency;
a frequency divider (108) for dividing said first
frequency in half, thereby producing a second signal; and
a multiplexer (106) for combining said first signal and
said second signal to produce said test signal.
The apparatus of claim 33, wherein said oscillator
(102) is a system controller clock oscillator.
The apparatus of claim 33, wherein said oscillator 
(102) is a color subcarrier oscillator.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said record circuit
(2) comprises a frequency modulator (54), and said test

signal generator (4) comprises a voltage source for
producing at least one fixed voltage, said frequency

modulator (54) receiving said fixed voltage in substitution
for said input signal.
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said record circuit
(2) comprises an equalizer (56) controlled by said control

signal from said said record controller (14).
The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said record circuit
(2) comprises a detail-enhancement circuit (100) controlled

by said control signal from said said record controller
(14). 
Apparatus for automatically adjusting the recording
characteristics of a magnetic medium recorder by recording a test signal

on a magnetic medium, wherein the apparatus performs an automatic
check as to whether the recording medium carries an existing recording.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
