<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611116</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Spinal column retaining apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1770	A61B1758	A61B1770	A61B1758	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for percutaneous fixation of a pair of vertebrae of a 
patient, which comprises posterolaterally entering the back of a patient 

percutaneously with a plurality of offset bone bolts (90), screwing each 
bone bolt into the medullary canal of the pedicles of adjacent thoracic 

and/or lumbar vertebrae or the pedicles of the L5 and S1 vertebrae, to 
a position where the proximal end thereof lies adjacent the fascia of 

the patient; inserting bone bolt linkages (82) under the skin of the back 
of 

the patient and detachably securing the linkage means (82) to the 
proximal 

ends of the bolts (90) on the same side of the spinous processes of the 
vertebrae to restrict relative movement between the vertebrae. A kit is 

provided for percutaneous fixation of vertebrae of a patient, comprising 
a plurality of offset bone bolts of different sizes, yet of a size to 

enable 
the distal end of each bolt to be screwed into the medullary canal of a 

pedicle of a vertebra with the proximal end thereof lying adjacent the 
fascia of a patient. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW RICHARDS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SMITH 
&
 NEPHEW RICHARDS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMBIN PARVIZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAMBIN, PARVIZ
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to percutaneous interbody fusion 
with subcutaneous internal fixators. More particularly, the present 
invention relates to a fixator that allows for percutaneous fixation of 
vertebrae by means of a minimally invasive technique. The use of internal fixators for fixation of unstable fractures of the 
vertebrae is known. Also known is a system for internal fixation of 
vertebrae after the removal of one or more intervertebral discs. 
External fixation systems for the stabilization of thoracic and lumbar 
fractures have also been proposed. The use of existing internal fixators requires a large incision in 
the back and dissection of the paraspinal muscles, which is a highly 
invasive procedure. If the internal fixators must be removed, a second 
major invasive procedure is required. Moreover, patients undergoing 
an internal fixation procedure require a lengthy rehabilitation, including 
reconditioning of the muscles. The use of external fixators requires the patient to carry a fixation 
assembly on the surface of the back, which is difficult from a physical 
and psychological point of view for a majority of patients. Moreover, 
the rehabilitation of paraplegic patients with external fixators has 
proven to be difficult. In addition, external fixators have portals in the skin which 
become sites for infection. There is thus a need in the art for skeletal fixation that can be 
performed with minimal injury to the muscular ligamentous structures, and 
whereby the extraction of the fixators is accomplished with minimal 
surgical intervention.  
 Such a skeletal 
fixation is acceptable both psychologically and cosmetically, 
and minimizes infection. A spinal fixation system according to the pre-characterising portion of claim 1 is 
described in EP-A-0468264. That 
system uses a plurality of fasteners and connector members to 
connect the fasteners to a rod or rods. The fasteners are fixed into 
a bone and the connector members secured to the upper end of the 
fasteners. The connector members include an aperture which is 
directed perpendicularly to the fastener into which a rod or rods may 
be threaded. A method and an apparatus for percutaneous fixation of a pair 
of vertebrae of a patient has been described in WO 94/09726, corresponding to EP-A-665731, and 
which belongs to the state of the art only by virtue of Article 54 (3) EPC. The 
method comprises the steps of: 
a) posterolaterally entering the back of a patient 
percutaneously and forming an opening in the cortical bone
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An offset bone bolt (90;99) for the internal fixation of bones 
comprising; 


a) a distal end (96) having bone screw threads (95) configured to be 
surgically implanted into a patient's bone, and 
b) a proximal end (92) axially offset from the distal end (96), having 
cooperating means (93) configured to cooperate with a locking means, 

and 
c) a middle portion (94) having a load transfer surface (91), said 
middle portion (94) being also axially offset from said dista
l end (96), 
characterised in that said proximal end (92) has means (98) for 

engagement with a driver means and said middle portion (94) forms a 
single piece with said distal end (96) and said proximal end (92) of said 

offset bone bolt (90;99). 
The bone bolt according to claim 1, wherein the cooperating means 
comprises threads (93) for threadably receiving a nut. 
The bone bolt according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the means for 
engagement comprises a hexagonal opening (98) for cooperating with an 

allen wrench. 
The bone bolt according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the bone 
bolt (99) has an aperture (97) which extends along the longitudinal axis of 

the distal end for cooperating with a guide wire. 
A bone fixation apparatus for use with a spinal fixation system for 
providing rigid support to the system comprising: 


a) one or more bone bolts (90;99) according to any of claims 1 to 4; 
b) a plate member (82) having upper and lower surfaces and parallel 
opposed outer edges with an elongated slot (80) having a slot central 

longitudinal axis and surrounded by a peripheral portion having said 
parallel opposed outer edges; 
c) the plate (82) having fine adjustment means for defining fine 
adjustment positions of the bone bolt with respect to the plate; 
d) engagement means (84) interfacing the plate member and the 
bone bolt having side portions for engaging the fine adjustment 

means and affixing the position of the bone bolt (90;99) with respect  
 

to the plate, and an opening (83) for placement of a portion of the 
bone bolt, said opening having a countersunk portion for receiving a 

nut (86); and 
e) locking means (86) for cooperating with the proximal end 
portion and locking the engagement means and plate member on 

the bolt. 
The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the fine adjustment means 
comprises grooves extending between the upper and lower surfaces 

of the plate. 
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the engagement means 
comprises a washer (84) engaging at least a number of the grooves 

in the plate. 
The apparatus of claim 5, wherein an adaptor means (70) is 
positioned between the bone bolt and the plate member having a 

distal end and a proximal end, said distal end portion shaped to 
cooperate and engage with the offset proximal end portion of the 

bone bolt, and said proximal end portion shaped to engage the 
lower surface of the plate member (82) and extend through the slot 

in the plate. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said distal end portion of 
said adaptor means (70) is internally threaded and the offset, 

proximal end of the bone bolt means has cooperating threads on its 
outer surface. 
The apparatus of claim 8 or claim 9, wherein said proximal end 
portion of said adaptor means (70) is externally threaded. 
A kit for percutaneous fixation of vertebrae of a patient, 
comprising: 


a) a plurality of offset bone bolts (90;99) according to any of 
claims 1 to 4 of different sizes, being of sizes to enable the distal 

end (96) of each bolt to be screwed into the medullary canal of a 
pedicle of a vertebra with the proximal end (92) thereof lying 

adjacent the fascia of a patient;  
 
b) a plurality of linkage means (82) and a plurality of adaptor 
means (70) for detachably securing said linkage means thereto, 

said adaptor means being detachably fastenable to said proximal 
ends (92) of said offset bone bolts; 
c) said adaptor means (70) having an internally threaded 
tubular body with a threaded upper end member; 
d) said linkage means and said adaptor means proportioned to 
lie under the skin of the patient and operable to detachably link 

together the proximal ends of said offset bone bolts inserted into the 
pedicles of said vertebrae. 
The kit according to claim 11, wherein said offset bone bolts 
are of different diameters and/or have distal portions carrying bone 

screw threads of different lengths. 
The kit according to claim 11 or 12, wherein said linkage 
means is a beam member, such as a plate or rod. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
