<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654196</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NETWORK LINK CONTROLLER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1224	H04L1224	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A link controller for use in a node of a network includes a digital controller (102) that employs a knowledge-based control program (103). The device and method provide flexible master node designation, automatic installation, configuration and reconfiguration, and recognition and correction of network communication problems resulting from interference and other adverse conditions. The knowledge-based control program (103) employs an inference engine and a set of rules to dynamically optimize network configuration. Multipath is managed by locking on to reflected signals when a direct signal is unavailable. Operation is transparent to network users.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RADIO LOCAL AREA NETWORKS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RADIO LOCAL AREA NETWORKS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CABLE JESSE F III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSKINEN JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILLMAN ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAY JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CABLE, JESSE, F., III
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COOPER, DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSKINEN, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STILLMAN, ROBERT, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAY, JAMES, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 NETWORK LINK CONTROLLERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to computer networks and, more particularly, to a link controller device and method permitting improved implementation, control, and regulation of a computer network.2. Description of Related ArtComputer networks are known in the art. However, conventional networks suffer from several disadvantages. One disadvantage is that such networks typically require permanent designation of a particular node to act as a master control unit. This node typically must be centrally located, and controls the entire network. The requirement of a permanently-designated master node limits the flexibility of the network.Another disadvantage is that conventional networking systems are expensive to install and maintain. They typically use analog control of transmit and receiver frequencies, and require expert personnel to initially tune and install, as well as to subsequently maintain, the transmitters and receivers. If the network's band of operation becomes noisy or contains interference from other sources, manual reconfiguration by trained personnel is required. Such problems are particularly evident in wireless networking systems, although they may exist in wired and other hard- connected systems as well.Additionally, any movement, addition, or removal of a node may require realignment and/or reconfiguration of the network to take into account new power and 

frequency requirements caused by the changes to the network. Such realignment and reconfiguration is typically performed by specialized personnel, and may be expensive.Many conventional networks, particularly those using infrared or RF wireless technology, require a line of sight between the master node and the other nodes. Finally, conventional networks are relatively slow.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn accordance with the present invention, there is provided a link controller for use in a node of a network. The device addresses the above-described problems, permits designation of a new master when appropriate, permits peer-to-peer communication, is easy to install, is self -configuring, and yields very high data transmission rates across the network.The link controller device is used in each node of the network. The device includes a radio transceiver (101), a digital controller (102) for the transceiver, and a knowledge-based control program (103) that uses a set of rules to maintain the link to the network. The rules have been specially developed to handle complex
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A network link controller for configuring, regulating, and controlling a node in a computer network, wherein the network includes a dynamically designated master node, comprising: a radiator for transmitting and receiving modulated signals; a radio transceiver coupled to the radiator for processing received and transmitted modulated signals; and a digital controller coupled to the radio transceiver for providing a control signal to control a selected parameter of the radio transceiver.
2. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the modulated signals comprise phase modulated signals.
3. The network link controller of claim 1, further comprising a control program coupled to the digital controller for controlling the digital controller.
4. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the signals are transmitted using multiple carriers.
5. The network link controller of claim 4, wherein each carrier operates at a different frequency.
6. The network link controller of claim 4, wherein: the modulated signals comprise phase modulated signals; and each carrier operates at a different phase.
7. The network link controller of claim 4, wherein the modulated signals are transmitted using multiple polarization modes. 


 8. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the radio transceiver modulates the transmitted signals and demodulates the received signals using direct conversion.
9. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the received signals are modulated by a phase shift keyed modulation technique.
10. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein: the radio transceiver operates at a selectable power level; and the radio transceiver adjusts the selectable power level according to control signals from the digital controller.
11. The network link controller of claim 10, wherein the digital controller sends the control signals to the radio transceiver specifying adjustments to the selectable power level in response to network conditions.
12. The network link controller of claim 1, further comprising a control program coupled to the digital controller for monitoring network conditions and selectively specifying control signals to the digital controller in response to the network conditions.
13. The network link controller of claim 12, wherein the control program comprises: computer-implemented means for providing a set of rules defining particular actions coπesponding to particular network conditions; means for accepting input describing network conditions; and a computer-implemented inference engine for applying the set of rules to the monitored network conditions and for generating commands coπesponding to the particular actions coπesponding to the monitored network conditions. 


 14. The network link controller of claim 13, wherein the control program further comprises means for learning new rules and adding the new rules to the set of rules.
15. The network link controller of claim 13, wherein the input describing network conditions comprises: object descriptions; event descriptions; performance data; and meta-knowledge.
16. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the radio transceiver sends and receives the phase modulated signals using microwave transmission.
17. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the radio transceiver selectively employs multipath to avoid obstacles in data transmission.
18. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the radio transceiver comprises a phase locked loop to maintain a frequency lock with the received phase modulated signals.
19. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the control signals comprise: a first signal for commanding the radio transceiver to increase transmitted power; and a second signal for commanding the radio transceiver to decrease transmitted power.
20. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the control signals comprise: 


 a first signal for commanding the radio transceiver to increase received power; and a second signal for commanding the radio transceiver to decrease received power.
21. The network link controller of claim 20, wherein the control signals further comprise: a third signal for commanding the radio transceiver to increase transmitted power; and a fourth signal for commanding the radio transceiver to decrease transmitted power.
22. The network link controller of claim 1, wherein the control signals include a signal for commanding the radio transceiver to change frequency.
23. A method of designating a master node in a network containing a plurality of nodes, each node having a frequency range and a transmission frequency, comprising the steps of: designating one of the nodes as an initial master node; transmitting a packet header to other nodes in the network at a first frequency, the packet header including a status indicator indicating master node status; scanning the frequency range of each other node to lock onto the first frequency; and setting the frequency range of each other node to match the first frequency.
24. A method of designating a master node in a network containing a plurality of nodes, each node having a frequency range and a transmission frequency, comprising the steps of, for each node: 


 scanning the frequency range of the node to determine whether a master packet has been transmitted by another node; responsive to a determination that a master packet has been transmitted by another node, matching the frequency of the other node; and responsive to a determination that no master packet has been transmitted by another node: selecting a frequency; and transmitting a master packet at the selected frequency.
25. A method of changing network frequency in a network containing a plurality of nodes, each node having a transmission frequency, comprising the steps of: determining a new frequency; transmitting a packet announcing the new frequency; and for each node, changing the transmission frequency of the node to match the an¬ nounced new frequency in response to the packet being received at the node.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising the step of, before the determining step, monitoring conditions of the network, and wherein the determining step comprises the step of determining a new frequency based on the monitored conditions.
27. A method of selecting an optimal transmit power level for a first node in a network containing a plurality of nodes, comprising the steps of:
(a) transmitting a first packet from a second node to the first node to indicate a change in power;
(b) changing the transmit power level of the first node in response to the first packet being received at the first node; 


 (c) transmitting a second packet from the first node to the second node to indicate acknowledgment of the first packet;
(d) measuring the strength of the received second packet at the second node;
(e) determining whether the strength of the received second packet at the second node is optimal; and
(f) responsive to a determination that the strength is not optimal, repeating steps
(a) through (e).
28. A method of selecting an optimal transmit power level for a first node in a network containing a plurality of nodes, comprising the steps of: (a) transmitting a first packet from a second node to the first node to indicate a change in power;
(b) changing the transmit power level of the first node in response to the first packet being received at the first node;
(c) transmitting a second packet from the first node to the second node to indicate acknowledgment of the first packet;
(d) measuring the strength of the received second packet at the second node;
(e) adjusting the received signal strength;
(f) determining whether the adjusted received signal strength at the second node is optimal; and (g) responsive to a determination that the adjusted received signal strength is not optimal, repeating steps (a) through (f).
29. The method of claim 28, wherein step (e) comprises the substeps of: (e.l) determining values of a plurality of variables describing characteristics of the network; and (e.2) applying a simplex optimization algorithm to the determined values.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the plurality of variables comprises: 


 previous signal strength among nodes; cuπent signal strength among nodes; channels being used; previous channel interferences found; previous master history; previous node traffic history; eπor rate; previous spatial relationships among nodes; and cuπent spatial relationships among nodes.
31. A method of transmitting a plurality of data packets from a transmitting node to a receiving node in a wireless network, comprising the steps of, for each data packet:
(a) the transmitting node transmitting the data packet;
(b) the receiving node attempting to lock onto a received signal containing the data packet;
(c) responsive to the receiving node being unable in step (b) to lock onto the received signal:
(c.l) the transmitting node re- transmitting the data packet; and (c.2) the receiving node attempting to lock onto a received reflected signal containing the data packet; and
(d) responsive to the receiving node being unable in step (c) to lock onto the received signal:
(d.l) the transmitting node re- transmitting the data packet; and (d.2) the receiving node attempting to lock onto a received direct signal containing the data packet. 


 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of repeatedly performing steps (c) and (d) until the receiving node successfully receives the data packet. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
