<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626017</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HEAT-RELEASABLE REAGENTS FOR -i(IN VITRO) CHEMICAL REACTIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Heat-releasable reagent compositions are disclosed comprising a dispensable body formed from a coating material (D) which entraps a reagent material (B). The entrapped reagent material does not react until the dispensable body is heated to a minimal temperature. When heated to the predetermined temperature, the reagent is released into the surrounding medium and becomes available for reaction with other substances in the medium. The heat-releasable reagent compositions are particularly useful in various types of nucleic acid hybridizations, polymerase chain reactions (PCR), reverse transcriptase reactions (RTR), nucleic acid sequencing and product generating reactions such as colorimetric, fluorometric and chemiluminescent enzyme labeled immunoassays.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOSAK KENNETH M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOSAK MATTHEW K
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOSAK, KENNETH M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KOSAK, MATTHEW, K.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSAK KENNETH M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSAK MATTHEW K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSAK, KENNETH M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOSAK, MATTHEW, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HEAT-RELEASABLE REAGENTS FOR IN VITRO CHEMICAL REACTIONSFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to the preparation and use of reagents that are entrapped in various particulate composi¬ tions, especially wax beads, and subsequently released by heating for use in various in vitro chemical, biochemical and immunological reactions.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ARTA variety of chemical reactions are improved through the addition of heat. Increased temperature is of particular importance in certain biochemical reactions such as nucleic acid hybridizations where heat is frequently used to increase the specificity of the binding reaction. Elevated temperatures (i.e., 70°C) , are also useful in overcoming problems of secondary RNA structures in the reverse transcriptase reaction (RTR) , used to produce complementary DNA (cDNA) from RNA (Biochemistry 30, 7661-7666, 1991) . Elevated temperatures are also useful in DNA sequencing procedures.Heat is important in nucleic acid amplification such as the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The PCR (U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,683,202 and 4,683,195) employs a heating and cooling cycle to drive the reaction. First, the reaction mixture is heated to, or above, the nucleic acid melting temperature (denaturization) , then cooled to allow specific oligonucleotide primers to bind to the sample (annealing) , and then heated to optimize the addition of complementary bases to the amplified nucleic acid (extension) . Using heat stable, Taq DNA polymer- ase (U.S. Pat. No. 4,889,818), this cycle of denaturing, annealing and extension is repeated as many times as needed to generate the desired product.The PCR is quickly becoming a major tool in molecular biology, and the need for high specificity during amplification is an increasing problem.One method suggested for increasing the PCR specificity is called "booster" PCR (see application section below) , where 

initial amplification is done with diluted amounts of primer, that are subsequently increased or "boosted" for later cycles. Another method for increasing specificity is pre-amplifi- cation heating. This method has been described by H.A. Erlich, et al., Science 252, 1643-1651 (1991), and R.T. D'Aquila, et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 19, 3749 (1991). It requires exclusion of at least one essential reagent (dNTP's, Mg2+, DNA polymerase or primers) , from the reaction until it has been heated to the desired annealing temperature. However, the procedure requires the sample tubes to be closed while heating, and reopened for addition of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A method for producing a heat-releasable in vitro reagent comprising the steps of:
(a) entrapping a reagent within a heat-releasable material which is substantially water insoluble and which has a melting temperature greater than 30°C; and
(b) forming said material with entrapped reagent into a dispensable body.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reagent is dispersed throughout the heat-releasable material. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the reagent is an enzyme substrate.
4. The method of claim 1 , wherein the reagent is an enzyme.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of labeled or unlabeled nucleotides, NTP's, dNTP's, ddNTP's, including derivatives, analogs and labeled forms of NTP's, dNTP's and ddNTP's.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the reagent is a labeled or unlabeled oligonucleotide. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the reagent is a metal salt selected from the group of metals consisting of Mg, Mn, Fe, Co, Cu and Zn.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of nucleic acids, DNA and RNA.
9. The method of claims 1-8, wherein the reagent is heat resistant.
10. The method of claims 1-8, wherein the material is a waxy polymer. 11. The method of claims 1-8, wherein the material is a heat-releasable gel.
12. A method for producing a heat-releasable in vitro reagent composition comprising the steps of:
(a) injecting a solution containing a reagent into a bead of molten coating material having a melting tempera¬ ture greater than 30°C; and 


 (b) forming said coating material with entrapped reagent into a dispensable body, such that said dispens¬ able body is substantially water insoluble.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the reagent is an enzyme substrate.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the reagent is an enzyme.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of labeled or unlabeled nucleotides, NTP's, dNTP's, ddNTP's, including derivatives, analogs and labeled forms of NTP's, dNTP's and ddNTP's.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the reagent is a labeled or unlabeled oligonucleotide.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the reagent is a metal salt selected from the group of metals consisting of Mg,
Mn, Fe, Co, Cu and Zn.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of nucleic acids, DNA and RNA. 19. The method of claims 12-18, wherein the reagent is heat resistant.
20. The method of claims 12-18, wherein the coating material is a waxy polymer.
21. The method of claims 20, wherein the dispensable body is formed in a mold.
22. The method of claims 12-18, wherein the coating material is a liposome.
23. The method of claims 12-18, wherein the coating material is a heat-releasable gel. 24. A method for producing a heat-releasable in vitro reagent composition comprising the steps of:
(a) dropping a solution containing a reagent through a molten layer of waxy polymer having a melting tempera¬ ture greater than 30°C; and (b) forming a bead of waxy polymer with said reagent entrapped within said bead, such that said bead is substantially water insoluble. 


 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the reagent is an enzyme substrate.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the reagent is an enzyme. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of labeled or unlabeled nucleotides, NTP's, dNTP's, ddNTP's, including derivatives, analogs and labeled forms of NTP's, dNTP's and ddNTP's.
28. The method of claim 24, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of labeled and unlabeled oligonucleotides.
29. The method of claim 24, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of nucleic acids, DNA and RNA. 30. A method for initiating an in vitro reaction with a heat-releasable reagent comprising the steps of:
(a) adding a dispensable body containing a heat- releasable reagent to a medium capable of reaction with said reagent, said dispensable body being substantially water insoluble; and
(b) heating said medium and said dispensable body up to or above the melting point of said dispensable body, such that said reagent is released into said medium.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the reagent is an enzyme substrate.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein the reagent is an enzyme.
33. The method of claim 30, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of labeled or unlabeled nucleotides, NTP's, dNTP's, ddNTP's, including derivatives, analogs and labeled forms of NTP's, dNTP's and ddNTP's.
34. The method of claim 30, wherein the reagent is a labeled or unlabeled oligonucleotide.
35. The method of claim 30, wherein the reagent is a metal salt selected from the group of metals consisting of Mg,
Mn, Fe, Co, Cu and Zn. 


 36. The method of claim 30, wherein the reagent is selected from the group consisting of nucleic acids, DNA and RNA.
37. The method of claim 30, wherein the reagent is heat resistant.
38. The method of claims 30-37, wherein the dispensable body includes the reagent evenly dispersed within a meltable, substantially water insoluble material having a melting temperature greater than 30°C. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the material is a waxy polymer.
40. The method of claims 38, wherein the material is a heat-releasable gel.
41. The method of claims 30-37, wherein the dispensable body includes the reagent entrapped within a meltable, substan¬ tially water insoluble coating material having a melting temperature greater than 30°C.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the coating material is a waxy polymer. 43. The method of claim 41, wherein the coating material is a liposome.
44. The method of claim 41, wherein the coating material is a heat-releasable gel. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
