<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656686</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital filter with low quantization effects and method therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H1702	H03H1702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H17	H03H17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A biquad filter (104) includes a summing device (113), four 
multipliers (111, 112, 116, 117), and three delay elements (110, 

114, 115) to implement a biquad transfer function. A first 
multiplier (111) multiplies an input signal by a first coefficient. 

The input signal is delayed in a first delay element (110) and 
multiplied by a second coefficient in a second multiplier (112). 

An output of the biquad filter (104) is delayed in a second delay 
element (114) and multiplied by a third coefficient in a third 

multiplier (116). An output of the second delay element (114) is 
further delayed in a third delay element (115) and multiplied by a 

fourth coefficient in a fourth multiplier (117). The summing 
device (113) sums outputs of each multiplier (111, 112, 116, 

117) to provide the output of the biquad filter (104). In one 
embodiment, outputs of an arbitrary number of such biquad filters 

are summed together with a product of the input signal and a 
constant to form a parallel infinite impulse response (IIR) filter 

(100). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN WEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARK SANGIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, WEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARK, SANGIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to electrical filters, and 
more particularly, to digital filters. Infinite impulse response (IIR) digital filter structures have 
been studied for more than thirty years. IIR filters generally fall 
into two types, cascade and parallel. The parallel IIR filter 
theoretically provides less noise, i.e., provides a higher signal-to-noise 
ratio. However, for two major reasons most IIR filters 
are nonetheless implemented using the cascade form. First, the 
parallel form is considered to be computationally expensive. See, 
for example, L. Jackson, Digital Filters and Signal Processing, 
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1986, at page 202. The cascade IIR 
filter requires 25-50 percent fewer multiply operations than 
required for the parallel IIR filter, thus saving processing 
hardware and instruction cycles. For these practical reasons, the 
cascade form is often preferred. Second, known parallel IIR filters suffer from reduced 
performance due to quantization errors. These quantization 
errors reduce signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and can arise from two 
sources. First, commercially-available digital signal processors 
(DSPs) can create quantization errors when implementing the 
biquad filters of the IIR filter. The microelectronics revolution 
has provided DSPs with sophisticated data addressing modes and 
high arithmetic precision. Nonetheless, commercially available 
DSPs do not provide the precision required to avoid creating 
quantization errors. While these DSPs perform the repetitive 
arithmetic operations required for IIR filters in a high-precision 
arithmetic logic unit (ALU), sometimes the precision is lost. For 
example, the high operand precision is lost when an operand must 
be stored in memory to implement a time delay. This lost 
precision results in quantization error.  Second, quantization errors occur when the IIR filter 
polynomial is decomposed to determine the parallel form 
coefficients. The desired transfer function of the filter is easily 
expressed in cascade form, that is, as a product of some number 
of biquad terms. Determination of cascade-form coefficients is 
easy because only second-order decomposition of each biquad 
term is involved. In theory, the parallel form of the transfer 
function can be obtained directly from the cascade form. 
However, in practice it is very difficult to generate parallel-form 
filter coefficients directly from the cascade form transfer 
function. Conversion from the given cascade filter coefficients 
to the parallel
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital filter with low quantization effects (100), 
comprising: 

   a first multiplier (103) having a first coefficient 
associated therewith, having an input terminal 

for receiving a digital signal, and an output 
terminal for providing a first intermediate 

signal; 
   at least one digital biquad filter (104, 105), each 

digital biquad filter having an input terminal for 
receiving said digital signal, and an output 

terminal for providing a corresponding 
intermediate biquad signal; and 

   an output summing device (107), having a first input 
terminal coupled to said output terminal of said 

first multiplier (103), a plurality of second 
input terminals for receiving said corresponding 

intermediate biquad signal from each of said at 
least one digital biquad filter (104, 105), and an 

output terminal for providing an output signal of 
the digital filter (100); 

each biquad filter (104) comprising: 
   a summing device (113) having first, second, third, 

and fourth input terminals, and an output 
terminal for providing said corresponding 

intermediate biquad signal; 
   a second multiplier (111) having an input terminal for 

receiving said digital signal, and an output 
terminal coupled to said first input terminal of 

said summing device (113); 
   a first delay element (110) having an input terminal 

for receiving said digital signal, and an output 
terminal; 

   a third multiplier (112) having an input terminal 
coupled to said output terminal of said first 

 
delay element (110), and an output terminal 

coupled to said second input terminal of said 
summing device (113); 

   a second delay element (114) having an input terminal 
coupled to said output terminal of said summing 

device (113), and an output terminal; 
   a fourth multiplier (116) having an input terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said second 
delay element (114), and an output terminal 

coupled to said third input terminal of said 
summing device (113); 

   a third delay element (115) having an input terminal 
coupled to said output terminal of said second 

delay element (114), and an output terminal; and 
   a fifth multiplier (117) having an input terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said third 
delay element (115), and an output terminal 

coupled to said fourth input terminal of said 
summing device (113). 
The digital filter (100) of claim 1, further comprising 
scaling means (102) for scaling a digital input signal to 

provide said digital signal. 
The digital filter (100) of claim 2, wherein said scaling 
means (102) comprises a sixth multiplier (102) having an 

input terminal for receiving said digital input signal, and an 
output terminal for providing said digital signal. 
A digital filter (104), comprising: 
   a summing device (113) having first, second, third, 

and fourth input terminals, and an output 
terminal for providing an output signal of the 

digital filter (104); 
   a first multiplier (111) having an input terminal for 

receiving a digital input signal, and an output 
terminal coupled to said first input terminal of 

said summing device (113); 
   a first delay element (110) having an input terminal 

for receiving said digital signal, and an output 
terminal; 

   a second multiplier (112) having an input terminal 
coupled to said output terminal of said first 

delay element (110), and an output terminal 
coupled to said second input terminal of said 

summing device (113); 
   a second delay element (114) having an input terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said summing 
device (113), and an output terminal; 

   a third multiplier (116) having an input terminal 
coupled to said output terminal of said second 

delay element (114), and an output terminal 
coupled to said third input terminal of said 

summing device (113); 
   a third delay element (115) having an input terminal 

coupled to said output terminal of said second 
delay element (114), and an output terminal; and 

   a fourth multiplier (117) having an input terminal 
coupled to said output terminal of said third 

delay element (115), and an output terminal 
coupled to said fourth input terminal of said 

summing device (113). 
The digital filter (100) of claim 4 further comprising 
constant means (103, 106) for multiplying said digital 

input signal by a constant to provide a constant term, and 
for adding said constant term to said output signal of the 

digital filter (100) to provide a second output signal of the 
digital filter (100). 
The digital filter (100) of claim 4 wherein said first (111), 
second (112), third (116), and fourth (117) multipliers have 

first, second, third, and fourth coefficients, respectively, 
associated therewith. 
The digital filter (100) of claim 6 wherein said first and 
second coefficients are derived from a numerator of a 

transfer function of the digital filter (100), and wherein 
said third and fourth coefficients are derived from a 

denominator of said transfer function. 
A method for processing a digital signal, comprising the 
steps of: 

   multiplying the digital signal by a first coefficient to 
provide a first intermediate signal; 

   delaying the digital signal to provide a first delayed 
signal; 

   multiplying said first delayed signal by a second 
coefficient to provide a second intermediate 

signal; 
   delaying an output signal to provide a second delayed 

signal; 
   multiplying said second delayed signal by a third 

coefficient to provide a third intermediate 
signal; 

   delaying said second delayed signal to provide a third 
delayed signal; 

   multiplying said third delayed signal by a fourth 
coefficient to provide a fourth intermediate 

signal; and 
   summing said first, second, third, and fourth 

intermediate signals to provide said output 
signal. 
The method of claim 8 comprising the step of performing 
each previous step using a digital signal processor (DSP) 

(60). 
The method of claim 9 further comprising the steps of: 
   performing said steps of multiplyin
g using a 
multiplier (85) which provides a product of two 

numbers each having a first predetermined 
number of bits; 

   performing said steps of summing using an 
accumulation means (86, 87, 88, 89) providing a 

sum having a second predetermined number of 
bits greater than said first predetermined 

number of bits; and 
   performing said steps of delaying by storing a value 

having said first predetermined number of bits. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
