<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636867</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A thermocouple testing method and apparatus for detecting an open circuit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01P1500	G01R3102	G01R3100	G08C2500	G01D2100	G01R3100	G01K702	G01K702	G01R3102	G01D2100	G01P1500	G08C2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01P	G01R	G01R	G08C	G01D	G01R	G01K	G01K	G01R	G01D	G01P	G08C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01P15	G01R31	G01R31	G08C25	G01D21	G01R31	G01K7	G01K7	G01R31	G01D21	G01P15	G08C25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved open circuit detector for testing 
a thermocouple for an open circuit condition. The 

detector includes a generator for providing and 
sourcing a tone signal to the thermocouple, wherein 

the tone signal has a known frequency and amplitude. 
A monitor analyzes the amplitude of a particular 

frequency component of a tone signal across the 
thermocouple. If the amplitude of the particular 

frequency component exceeds a predetermined 
threshold, an output is provided for indicating an 

open circuit condition for the thermocouple. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLUKE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLUKE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWIFT STEVEN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWIFT, STEVEN D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and
apparatus for detecting an open circuit condition
of a thermocouple.A thermocouple is a bi-metallic junction
device for electrically measuring temperature. The
bi-metallic junction of the thermocouple produces a
voltage across the junction in accordance with the
temperature of the thermocouple, wherein a voltmeter
may be used to read and record the voltage so as to
monitor temperature. In normal operation, the
thermocouple resistance is quite low. However,
if the two metals associated with the bi-metallic
junction lose contact with one another, then an
open circuit failure condition results and the
thermocouple will no longer produce the desired
voltage.In measurement applications, a thermocouple
may be inserted into a system for monitoring the
temperature of a given element for assisting the
system in regulating the temperature. The voltage
produced by the thermocouple is read by an
instrument for detecting when the temperature of
the element exceeds a predetermined threshold, and
corrective action may follow. However, if the
thermocouple fails, the system may also fail. It
is therefore desirable to periodically check the
thermocouple for an open circuit condition in order
to verify whether the device is functional.One known method for detecting a failed open
circuit thermocouple is illustrated in FIG. 1.
A square wave signal received at input 1 is applied 
to thermocouple 5 via coupling capacitor 2. The
source of the square wave signal has a source
impedance Zs. The source impedance and the
resistance of thermocouple 5 provide a resistor
network for dividing the available magnitude of
the input signal and producing a signal at input 1.
When thermocouple 5 is operating normally and its
resistance is accordingly low, the associated
divider network produces a low magnitude for the
divided signal. In contrast, when the thermocouple
fails and becomes an open circuit, the magnitude of
the divided signal increases. Diode 3 is disposed
in series between input 1 and comparator 6, its
anode being connected to input 1 and its cathode
being connected to the positive input of
comparator 6. Shunting capacitor 4 is also
connected to the plus input of comparator 6 and
provides a shunt filtering capacitor for filtering
the signal as rectified by diode 3. The negative
input of comparator 6 is connected to reference
voltage Vr. When the thermocouple is operating
normally with low resistance, the peak detecting
circuit comprising rectifying diode 3 and
capacitor 4 generates a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An open circuit detector for testing a thermocouple, said circuit
comprising:


generator means for providing a test signal used for determining the
state of the thermocouple;
node means for receiving the test signal and for interfacing the
thermocouple to receive the test signal; and
means for supplying an output indicative of the thermocouple state in
dependence on an amplitude of a resultant signal produced as a result of

supplying the test signal to the thermocouple;

characterised in that the test signal is a tone signal having a known
frequency and a known amplitude; and
said output supplying means comprises:
conversion means for digitally sampling the resultant signal so as to
convert the resultant signal into a digital signal;
transform means for transforming the digital signal with a discrete
Fourier transformation to provide a frequency spectrum thereof; and
detector means for analyzing a span of the frequency spectrum
encompassing the known frequency and detecting when the power within the

span exceeds a predetermined threshold.
An open circuit detector according to claim 1 further
comprising switching means in series between said generator means and said

node means, the switching means being coupled for receiving the tone signal
and a control signal for selectively applying the tone signal to said node

means.
An open circuit detector according to claim 1 or claim 2
wherein said generator means comprises: 


divider means receiving and dividing a clock signal for providing a
divided signal having a fundamental frequency corresponding to the known

frequency;
processing means for supplying the tone signal by filtering and
amplifying the divided signal so as to select the fundamental frequency

component and establish a given amplitude thereof; and
output means for providing said known source impedance by which to
source the tone signal as produced by the processing means to said node

means.
An open circuit detector according to any preceding claim
wherein said generator means produces the tone signal with a frequency

which changes with respect to time and said output supplying means tracks
the frequency changes.
A method of testing a thermocouple, said method comprising
the steps of:


applying a test signal to the thermocouple;
obtaining the resultant signal produced across the thermocouple; and
producing an output according to an amplitude of the resultant signal;

characterised in that:
the test signal is a tone signal having a known frequency and a known
amplitude;
the resultant signal is digitally sampled for converting the resultant
signal into a digital signal; and
the digital signal is processed with a discrete Fourier transformation
for providing a frequency spectrum of the resultant signal;
the method including the step of detecting when the power level
within a span of the frequency spectrum encompassing the known frequency

exceeds a predetermined threshold, in order to detect an open circuit condition
of the thermocouple.
A method according to claim 5 including generating the tone
signal by:


dividing a clock signal for providing a divided signal having a
fundamental frequency corresponding to said known frequency;
filtering and amplifying the divided signal for providing the tone
signal by selecting the fundamental frequency component and establishing a

given amplitude thereof; and
providing said known source impedance by which to source the tone
signal.
A method according to claim 5 or 6 wherein the applying step
selectively applies, according to a control signal, the tone signal across the

thermocouple.
A method according to any one of claims 5 to 7 including
generating said tone signal having a frequency which changes with respect to

time and wherein the frequency spectrum thereof is examined in frequency
tracking relation to the frequency of said tone signal.
A method according to any one of claims 5 to 8 further
comprising the preliminary step of:


determining said known frequency for the tone signal according to
frequency spans of said resultant signal which are free of interference noise.
A method according to claim 9 wherein said determining step
comprises:


(a) applying a test signal of a first frequency across the
thermocouple;
(b) receiving the resultant signal available across said
thermocouple;
(c) modulating said test signal;
(d) changing the frequency of said test signal if the modulation is
not discernible on the resultant signal; 
(e) repeating step (d) until the modulation is discernible on the
resultant signal; and
(f) using the frequency of said test signal at which the modulation
is discernible as said known frequency for the tone signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
