<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639967</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SUPPORT BED WITH DROP-OUT SECTIONS FOR MEDICAL ANALYSIS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B522	A61B522	A61B604	A61B604	A61B700	A61B700	A61B800	A61B800	A61G1300	A61G1310	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61G	A61G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B6	A61B6	A61B7	A61B7	A61B8	A61B8	A61G13	A61G13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN ECHO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN ECHO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FALBO MICHAEL G SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FALBO MICHAEL G SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SUPPORT BED WITH DROP-OUT SECTIONS FOR MEDICAL ANALYSISBackground of the invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention is broadly concerned with an improved patient-supporting bed that facilitates various diagnoses, and particularly echo cardiography scans, upon a person lying upon the bed. More particular¬ ly, it is concerned with such a diagnostic bed that includes a hingedly mounted, selectively disengageable, drop-out bed section strategically located for permitting easy sonographic diagnosis of a patient. In particularly preferred forms, an anti-pinching flexible cover is disposed over the juncture between the drop-out section and bed proper, and a second, laterally spaced and axially offset drop-out section is optionally provided that can be lowered to present an opening accommodating the legs of a person performing the diagnosis, thereby facilitating the sonographic examination.2. Description of the Prior ArtDiagnosis of cardiac irregularities often involves a treadmill test, wherein a patient exercises on a treadmill in order to increase his or her heartbeat to an elevated rate where an abnormality may be detected. Experience has proved that treadmill (exercise EKG) testing alone will not give an accurate diagnosis for a relatively large number of patients, i.e., even though the heart rate is elevated, an extant problem will not be detected. This is particularly the case with women patients.As a consequence, it has become a common prac- tice to perform cardiac sonography (also known as an echo cardiography scan) on a patient immediately after a treadmill test is completed and while the patient's heart rate is still elevated. This combined diagnostic tech¬ nique has proven to be very successful in correctly ascertaining the true condition of the patient's heart. However, in order to be optimum, it is very necessary that 

two conditions be met. First the cardiac sonography be completed in as short a period of time as possible after the treadmill test is concluded. Second, the patient should be examined while lying on the left side (left lat- teral) . Otherwise, the sonography will yield less ac¬ curate or erroneous results. Every second is important because the heart fully recovers from the effects of exercise in about two minutes.In general, cardiac sonography is accomplished by placing a person on a diagnostic bed, lying on his or her left side. A drop-out access door or section is provided in the bed adjacent the heart region, and can be lowered to provide an access opening allowing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims ;
1. A diagnostic patient support bed, compris¬ ing: an elongated, generally horizontally disposed bed presenting an uppermost bed surface, a pair of elongated, laterally spaced apart first and second side margins, and a pair of axially spaced, transversely extending end margins; structure defining opposed, first and second openings in said bed surface and respectively adjacent a corresponding side margin, said first opening being located and sized for per¬ mitting sonographic diagnosis of a patient lying on said bed surface, said second opening being located and sized for accommodating the legs of a person performing said sonographic diagnosis; a first bed filler section sized to substantially fill said first opening; and means mounting said first bed filler section to said bed for movement of the first bed filler section between an upper position where the first bed filler section presents, with said bed surface, a substantiallyuninterrupted patient-supporting area along the length of the bed surface adja¬ cent said first side margin, and a lowered position wherein the first bed filler section is 


 disposed at least partially below said bed surface in order to create an access opening facilitating sonographic diagnosis of a patient lying on said area.
2. The diagnostic patient support bed of claim 1, said first and second openings respectively communicat¬ ing with a corresponding side margin.
3. The diagnostic patient support bed of claim
1, including a second bed filler section sized to fit within said second opening, there being means mounting said second bed filler section for selective lowering thereof below the bed surface in order to create a region for accommodating the legs of a person performing the sonographic diagnosis.
4. The diagnostic patient support bed of claim 1, said mounting means including structure for pivotally supporting said first bed section for movement thereof between said upper and lower positions.
5. The diagnostic patient support bed of claim 4, including selectively disengageable latch means for normally maintaining said first bed filler section in said upper position thereof. 


 6. The diagnostic patient support bed of claim 5, including operating means coupled with said latch means for permitting disengagement of the latch means from a position adjacent said second side margin of said bed.
7. The diagnostic patient support bed of claim 4, said first bed filler section being recessed adjacent the point of pivotal connection thereof to said bed, there being a flexible cover extending between said uppermost bed surface and the first bed filler section for bridging the juncture between the uppermost bed surface and first bed filler section when the first bed filler section is in the lower position thereof, in order to prevent pinching of a patient when the first bed filler section is returned to the upper position thereof. 

8. A diagnostic patient support bed, compris¬ ing: an elongated, generally horizontally disposed bed presenting an uppermost bed surface, a pair of
5 elongated, laterally spaced apart first and second side margins, and a pair of axially spaced, transversely extending end margins; structure defining a first opening in said bed sur¬ face and respectively adjacent said first side 10 margin, said first opening being located and sized for per¬ mitting sonographic diagnosis of a patient lying on said bed surface; a first bed filler section sized to substantially 15 fill said first opening; and means mounting said first bed filler section to said bed for pivotal movement of the first bed filler section between an upper position where the first bed filler section presents, with said bed 20 surface, a substantially uninterrupted patient- supporting area along the length of the bed surface adjacent said first side margin, and a lowered position wherein the first bed filler section is disposed at least partially below 25 said bed surface in order to create an access
\ opening facilitating sonographic diagnosis of a patient lying on said area, 


 said first bed filler section being recessed adjacent the point of pivotal connection thereof to said bed, there being a flexible cover extending between said uppermost bed surface and the first bed filler section for bridging the juncture between the uppermost bed surface and first bed filler section when the first bed filler section is in the lower position thereof, in order to prevent pinching of a patient when the first bed filler section is returned to the upper position thereof.
9. The diagnostic patient support bed of claim
8, said mounting means including hinge structure located at the joint between said opening-defining structure and said first bed filler section, at a point beneath said flexible cover when the latter is bridging said juncture. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
