<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657957</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Hybrid packaging of intergrated i/o interface device and connector module.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R424	H01R424	H01R900	H01R900	H01R1322	H01R1324	H01R1366	H01R1366	H01R2900	H01R2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R4	H01R4	H01R9	H01R9	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R13	H01R29	H01R29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A connector module for connecting at least one of an input 
device and an output device to a multi-wire bus including a first stage 

supporting the multi-wire bus, a second stage having an IC chip mounted 
on a lead frame, the lead frame including first electrical connections for 

connecting the input and output devices to the IC chip and second electrical 
connections including a plurality of stamped metal contacts that are bent 

with one end formed for an insulation displacement contact with multi-signals 
between the multi-wire bus and the input and output devices, and a 

stage fastener for interlocking the first stage to the second stage. Also 
disclosed are a first plurality of conductive patterns for connecting the 

input and output devices to the IC chip, and a second plurality of 
conductive patterns for connecting the multi-wire bus to the IC chip the 

second plurality of conductive patterns including button contacts for 
conveying signals between the multi-wire bus and the input and output 

devices. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHROLL ROSS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHROLL, ROSS E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an integrated input/output interface 
device and connector module, and more particularly, to a connector 
module readily adapted for interconnection to a variety of buses and 
conductors. Various connector modules are well known in the prior art. For 
example, U.S. Patent No. 4,420,794 discloses key device carrying an 
integrated circuit chip for dual in-line package that permits connecting the 
chip into a circuit board such as drum and exterior openings of the housing 
or cabinet carrying the circuit board. U.S. Patent No. 5,044,964 discloses a 
connector module having a molded plastic base supporting an IC chip and 
having punch holes to disconnect an input circuit for programming the 
module to various configurations. U.S. Patent No. 5,076,801 discloses a connector module with 
insulation displacement interconnect means for connection to a common 
bus and U.S. Patent No. 5,037,308 relates to a connector module having a 
spring clip mechanism for interconnecting the module to a bus system. A difficulty with the prior art devices is the lack of the flexibility 
of the configuration for interconnecting to buses and conductive frames, as 
well as connection to other connector modules. Another difficulty is the 
complexity of fabrication and configuration of connector devices, in 
particular, the complexity of fabricating and forming external contacts with 
other devices. It is an object of the present invention, therefore, to provide a 
new and improved integrated input/output connector module that is 
adapted for interconnecting to buses and conductive frames, printed 
wiring boards as well as connecting to other connector modules. It is 
another object of the present invention to provide a connector assembly 
having a single stamped lead frame providing all the external connections.  
 
Another object of the present invention is to be able to provide standard 
and custom formed contacts for interconnection to conductor frames and 
standard connectors. Further advantages of the present invention will 
become apparent as the following description proceeds and the features 
characterizing the invention will be pointed out with particularity in the 
claims annexed to and forming a part of this specification. Briefly, the present invention is a connector module for 
connecting at least one of an input device and an output device to a multi-wire 
bus including a first stage supporting the multi-wire bus, a second 
stage having an IC chip mounted on a lead frame, the lead frame
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A connector module for connecting at least one of an input 
device and an output device to a multi-wire bus, the module comprising: 

   a first stage supporting the multi-wire bus, said bus carrying 
signals for controlling input and output devices, 

   a second stage having an IC chip mounted on a lead frame, the 
lead frame including first electrical connections for connecting the input 

and output devices to the IC chip and second electrical connections for 
connecting said multi-wire bus to the IC chip for conveying said signals 

between said multi-wire bus and the input and output devices, and 
   a stage fastener for interlocking the first stage to the second 

stage. 
The module of claim 1 wherein the second electrical 
connections for connecting said multi-wire bus to the IC chip include a 

plurality of stamped metal contacts, the stamped metal contacts being bent 
with an end formed for an insulation displacement connection with the 

multi-wire bus. 
The module of claim 2 wherein the insulation displacement 
contact is essentially a V-shaped element. 
The module of claim 1 including separate contact bars with 
insulation displacement means for contacting the multi-wire bus and 

wherein the second electrical connections for connecting said multi-wire 
bus to the IC chip include stamped metal contacts, the stamped metal 

contacts being secured to the separate contact bars. 
A connector module for transmitting data between a plurality 
of loads and a multi-wire bus comprising: 

   an IC chip, 
   a chip carrier having stamped first electrical connections for 

connecting the input and output devices to the IC chip, second electrical 
connections for connecting said multi-wire bus to the IC chip for conveying 

said signals between said multi-wire bus and the input and output devices, 
and third electrical connections for programming the IC chip in order that 

the first electrical connections and the second electrical connections are 
selectively interconnected through the IC chip, and 

   means for interlocking the first stage to the second stage. 
A metal stamped, lead frame connector module for 
connecting at least one of an input device and an output device to a multi-wire 

bus, the module comprising: 
   an IC chip, 

   a support for the IC chip, 
   a first plurality of conductive patterns for connecting the input 

and output devices to the IC chip, and 
   a second plurality of conductive patterns for connecting said 

multi-wire bus to the IC chip, the second plurality of conductive patterns 
including button contacts for conveying said signals between said multi-wire 

bus and the input and output devices. 
A connector module for transmitting data between a plurality 
of loads and a multi-wire bus comprising: 

   an IC chip, 
   a metal stamped, lead frame having first and second oppositely 

facing surfaces, said first surface having contacts attachable to the IC chip, 
   first connecting means located on one of the first and second 

surfaces for electrically connecting to the plurality of loads, and 
   second connecting means located on said second surface for 

electrically connecting to the multi-wire bus for conveying said signals 
between said multi-wire bus and the input and output devices. 
The module of clam 7 wherein the second connecting means 
is a button contact. 
The module of claim 7 wherein the second connecting means 
is an insulation displacement contact. 
A connector module for connecting at least one of an input 
device and an output device to a multi-wire bus including a first stage 

supporting the multi-wire bus, a second stage having an IC chip mounted 
on a lead frame, the lead frame including first electrical connections for 

connecting the input and output devices to the IC chip and second electrical 
connections including a plurality of stamped metal contacts bent with on 

end formed for an insulation displacement contact with the multi-wire bus 
for connecting the multi-wire bus to the IC chip for conveying signals 

between the multi-wire bus and the input and output devices, a stage 
fastener for interlocking the first stage to the second stage, a first plurality 

of conductive patterns for connecting the input and output devices to the 
IC chip, and a second plurality of conductive patterns for connecting the 

multi-wire bus to the IC chip, the second plurality of conductive patterns 
including button contacts for conveying signals between the multi-wire bus 

and the input and output devices. 
The module of claim 10 wherein the insulation displacement 
contact penetrates the multi-wire bus insulation. 
A connector module for connecting at least one of an input 
device and an output device to a multi-wire bus including a first stage 

supporting the multi-wire bus, a second stage having an IC chip mounted 
on a lead frame, the lead frame including first electrical connections for 

connecting the input and output devices to the IC chip and second electrical 
connections including a plurality of stamped metal contacts that are bent 

with one end formed for an insulation displacement contact with multi-signals 
between the multi-wire bus and the input and output devices, and a 

stage fastener for interlocking the first stage to the second stage. 
The connector module of claim 12 including a first plurality 
of conductive patterns for connecting the input and output devices to the 

IC chip, and a second plurality of conductive patterns for connecting the 
multi-wire bus to the IC chip. 
The connector module of claim 13 wherein the second 
plurality of conductive patterns includes button contacts for conveying 

signals between the multi-wire bus and the input and output devices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
