<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626067</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR ACCURATELY ENUMERATING AND SENSITIVELY QUALIFYING HETEROGENEOUS CELL POPULATIONS IN CYTOLYTIC PROCESSING CONDITIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12M134	C12M134	G01N1514	G01N1514	G01N3349	G01N3349	G01N3350	G01N3350	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12M	C12M	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12M1	C12M1	G01N15	G01N15	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for identifying, characterizing, categorizing and enumerating cells. The method is based on the survival of different cell populations in the sample when the sample condition is being changed to elicit a response. The cells are being monitored either by direct disappearance of intact cells or by the appearance of cell structures, carcasses, ghosts or residuum. In one embodiment, a leukocyte cell decay rate in the presence of an erythrolytic agent is determined by monitoring leukocyte counts at several time intervals. The decay rate is used to determine the presence of fragile leukocyte and the number of leukocytes in the sample. The method corrects errors in leukocyte counts which enables the use of strong erythrolytic agents in presence of lyse-resistant erythrocytes. The leukocyte decay rate can be back extrapolated to time zero to provide an accurate estimate of the leukocyte count initially present in the sample.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIRECTOR BRUCE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLAZIER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAIFLICH SHERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROCHE JOHN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VON BEHRENS WIELAND E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIRECTOR, BRUCE, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLAZIER, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAIFLICH, SHERRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROCHE, JOHN, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VON BEHRENS, WIELAND, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR ACCURATELY ENUMERATING AND SENSITIVELY QUALIFYING HETEROGENEOUS CELLXfi POPULATIONS IN CYTOLYTIC PROCESSING CONDITIONSTechnical Field% 5 The present invention relates generally to cytology and to the use of automated instruments to enable accurate categorization and enumeration of specific cell types present in cell suspensions. The invention also enables the refined functional10 identification and characterization of cell types present in cell suspensions. More specifically, this invention relates to methods which enable the accurate categorization, characterization, identification and enumeration of cell populations15 which may be unstable in a saltatory manner under otherwise desirable sample processing conditions. Such cell populations include fragile and lyse- sensitive blood cells which undergo sudden large changes as a result of an abnormal cell condition or20 as a result of the use of strongly cytolytic processing agents and conditions (or through interaction of such factors) .Background of the InventionPrior investigators recognized that mixed cell 25 suspensions can be analyzed for the presence or absence of cell populations and for quantitative information concerning the number of specific types of cells present in the sample. This information is fk useful in the diagnosis of disease and in the r* 30 monitoring of the effectiveness of therapy for certain disease conditions. Prior investigators further recognized that detectable differences in cell population responses to conditions imposed upon the mixed cell suspension can be advantageously 

exploited to signal the presence or absence of specific cell populations. These detectable differential responses can also be used to generate signals which are unique to a single cell population, enabling enumeration of that cell population. The mixed cell systems in which differential response techniques have been studied include physiological fluids such as blood, blood plasma, bone marrow, semen and organ cell suspensions as well as cell culture media, including plant cell suspensions.Such response techniques range from differential cell staining in the presence of an added dye to failure of one or more cell populations to survive an imposed stress such as brief or prolonged exposure to an extreme in temperature, pH, tonicity or chemical microenvironment.The selection of an imposed condition by which to generate a differential response from a mixed cell suspension is typically a compromise. The inherent similarities between cell
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
[CELL SAMPLES WHERE ONE POPULATION LYSES COMPLETELY]
1. A method for accurately estimating the number of cells initially present per unit volume in a first cell population in a sample solution having at least two cell populations said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a sample solution having a first cell population and a second cell population; b) adjusting the physico-chemical conditions of said sample solution to completely rapidly lyse all of the cells in said second cell population and to commence the continuous kinetic lysis of cells in the first cell population at time zero; c) counting the number of cells in said first cell population per unit volume of sample solution at a time interval A after time zero; d) counting the number of cells in said first cell population per unit volume of sample solution at a time interval after time zero; e) calculating a first cell population cell decay rate as a function of time using the cell counts from steps (c) and (d) and time intervals A and B; and, f) estimating the number of cells initially present in said first cell population per unit volume of sample solution by back extrapolating the calculated first cell population cell decay rate function to time zero.
2. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said sample solution is a member of the group consisting of physiologic fluids, organ cell suspensions, plant 


cell suspensions, animal cell suspensions, cell culture in media and mixtures thereof.
3. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said first cell population is leukocytes and said second cell population is erythrocytes.
4. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said adjustment step (b) includes contacting said sample solution with a lysing agent.
5. A method as recited in claim l wherein said cell counting step is accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
6. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said cell counting step is accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
7. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques.
8. A method for accurately estimating the number of cells initially present per unit volume in a first cell population in the presence of a second cell population in a sample solution having at least two cell populations, wherein said first cell population exhibits a continuous kinetic rate of 


cytolysis as a function of time and wherein said second cell population undergoes rapid and total cytolysis when said sample solution physico-chemical conditions are adjusted to exceed the cytolytic threshold for said second cell population, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a sample solution having a first cell population and a second cell population; b) providing means for identifying, categorizing and enumerating the cells in said first cell population per unit volume of sample solution; c) adjusting the physico-chemical conditions of said sample solution such that the cytolytic threshold for said second cell population is exceeded to thereby completely rapidly lyse all of the cells in said second cell population at time zero; d) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the first cell population cells per unit volume present in a first discrete volume of said adjusted sample solution at time interval A after time zero using said means provided in step (b) ; e) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the first cell population cells per unit volume present in a second discrete volume of said adjusted sample solution at time interval B after time zero using said means provided in step (b) ; f) calculating a first cell population cell decay rate as a function of time using the cell enumeration data obtained in steps (d) and e) and the time intervals A and B; and, 


 g) estimating the number of cells initially present in said first cell population per unit volume of sample solution by back extrapolating said calculated first cell population cell decay rate function to time zero.
9. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said sample solution is a member of the group consisting of physiologic fluids, organ cell suspensions, plant cell suspensions, animal cell suspensions, cell culture in media and mixtures thereof.
10. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said first cell population is leukocytes and said second cell population is erythrocytes.
11. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said adjustment step (c) includes contacting said sample solution with a lysing agent.
12. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
13. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data. 


 14. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 

[CELL SAMPLES WHERE TWO POPULATION LYSE KINETICALLY]
15. A method for accurately estimating the number of cells initially present per unit volume of sample solution in a first cell population and in a second cell population in the sample solution in which said first cell population and second cell population continuously kinetically decay in a diluted sample solution at different decay rates resulting from the physico-chemical conditions caused by dilution of the sample solution, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a sample solution having a first cell population and a second cell population; b) diluting said sample solution at time zero, said dilution step causing cells in both said first and second cell populations to commence continuous kinetic lysing because of changed physico-chemical conditions in the sample solution; c) counting the number of cells in each of said populations per unit volume of sample solution present in a first discrete volume of diluted sample solution at time interval A after time zero; d) counting the number of cells in each of said populations per unit volume of sample solution present in a second discrete volume of diluted sample solution at time interval B after time zero; e) calculating for each of said cell populations a cell decay rate as a function of time using said cell counts from steps (c) and (d) and time intervals A and B; and, 



 f) estimating the number of cells initially present in each of said cell populations per unit volume of sample solution by back extrapolating the respective cell decay
&
. 5 rate functions to time zero.
16. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said sample solution is a member of the group consisting of physiologic fluids, organ cell suspensions, plant cell suspensions, animal cell
10 suspensions, cell culture in media and mixtures thereof.
17. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said first cell population is leukocytes and said second cell population is erythrocytes.
15 18. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said dilution step (b) includes contacting said sample solution with a lysing agent.
19. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said cell counting step is accomplished by measuring
20 the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
20. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein 25 said cell counting step is accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data. 


 21. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques.
22. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said sample solution is obtained from a human fetal patient or a neonatal patient, and said sample solution exhibits erythrolytic-resistant behavior.
23. A method for accurately estimating the number of cells initially present per unit volume of a sample solution in a first cell population and in a second cell population in which said first cell population and said second cell population exhibit different continuous kinetic rates of cytolysis as a function of time and wherein cells in said first cell population and in said second cell population undergo cytolysis when said sample solution physico-chemical conditions are adjusted to exceed the cytolytic threshold for cells in said second cell population, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a sample solution having a first cell population and a second cell population; b) providing means for identifying, categorizing and enumerating the cells in said first cell population and in said second cell population per unit volume of sample solution; c) adjusting the physico-chemical conditions of said sample solution such that the cytolytic threshold for cells in said second cell population is exceeded to thereby commence lysing of the cells in said second cell population at time zero; 


 d) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the first cell population cells per unit volume of sample solution and the second cell population cells per unit volume of sample
5 solution present in a first discrete volume of said adjusted sample solution at time interval A using said means provided in step (b) ; e) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the first cell population cells per
10 unit volume of sample solution and the second cell population cells per unit volume of sample solution present in a second discrete volume of said adjusted sample solution at time interval B using said means provided in step (b) ;
'
-,3 f) calculating for each of said cell populations a cell population cell decay rate as a function of time using the cell enumeration data obtained in steps (d) and (e) and the time intervals A and B; and,
20 g) estimating the number of cells initially present in each of said cell populations per unit volume of sample solution by back extrapolating the respective cell decay rate functions to time zero.
25 24. A method as recited in claim 23 wherein said sample solution is a member of the group consisting of physiologic fluids, organ cell suspensions, plant cell suspensions, animal cell suspensions, cell culture in media and mixtures
30 thereof.
*
25. A method as recited in claim 23 wherein said first cell population is leukocytes and said second cell population is erythrocytes. 


 26. A method as recited in claim 23 wherein said adjustment step (c) includes contacting said sample solution with a lysing agent.
27. A method as recited in claim 23 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
28. A method as recited in claim 23 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
29. A method as recited in claim 23 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 

[SAMPLES WITH LYSE-RESISTANT ERYTHROCYTES]
30. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating cells in a sample solution also containing lyse-resistant erythrocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing a sample solution containing cells, erythrocytes and lyse-resistant erythrocytes; b) contacting said sample solution with a strongly erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse all erythrocytes including said lyse-resistant erythrocytes; c) providing means for identifying, categorizing and enumerating the lyse-surviving cells present per unit volume of said sample solution; d) identifying, categorizing and enumerating lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample solution present in a first discrete volume of said sample solution at time interval
A using said means provided in step (c) ; e) identifying, categorizing and enumerating lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample solution present in a second discrete volume of said sample solution at time interval
B using said means provided in step (c) ; f) calculating a lyse-surviving cell decay rate as a function of time using the cell enumeration data obtained in steps (d) and (e) and the time intervals from erythrolytic agent addition in step (b) to said respective counts; and, g) estimating the number of lyse- surviving cells initially present per unit volume of sample solution by back extrapolating 


 said calculated cell decay rate function to time zero.
31. A method as recited in claim 30 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5, serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
32. A method as recited in claim 30 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
33. A method as recited in claim 30 wherein said sample solution is a member of the group consisting of physiologic fluids, organ cell suspensions, plant cell suspensions, animal cell suspensions, cell culture in media and mixtures thereof.
34. A method as recited in claim 30 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
35. A method as recited in claim 30 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a 


laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
36. A method as recited in claim 30 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 

tSAMPLES WITH LYSE-RESISTANT ERYTHROCYTES]
37. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocytes present in a whole blood sample also containing lyse-resistant erythrocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing a whole blood sample containing erythrocytes, lyse-resistant erythrocytes and leukocytes; b) contacting said whole blood sample with a strongly erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse all erythrocytes including said lyse-resistant erythrocytes and to obtain a sample solution; c) providing leukocyte cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating means; d) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the lyse-surviving leukocytes per unit volume of sample present in a first portion of said sample solution at time interval A using said identifying, categorizing and enumerating means provided in step (c) ; e) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the lyse-surviving leukocytes per unit volume of sample present in a second portion of said sample solution at time interval
B using said identifying categorizing and enumerating means provided in step (c) ; f) calculating a leukocyte decay rate as a function of time using the cell enumeration data obtained in steps (d) and (e) and the time intervals A and B; and, g) estimating the number of leukocytes initially present per unit volume of sample by back extrapolating said leukocyte decay rate function to time zero. 


 38. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein
<
~
~
*
 said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; ^ (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5,
5 serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
39. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially
10 of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
40. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by measuring the electrical
15 impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
41. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein 20 said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide
25 enumeration data.
42. A method as recited in claim 37 wherein ^ said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 


 [SAMPLES WITH LYSE-RESISTANT ERYTHROCYTES]
43. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocyte subpopulations present in a whole blood sample also containing lyse-resistant erythrocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing means for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocyte subpopulations; b) providing a whole blood sample containing erythrocytes, lyse-resistant erythrocytes and leukocytes; c) contacting said whole blood sample with a strongly erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse all erythrocytes including said lyse-resistant erythrocytes and to obtain a sample solution; d) passing a first discrete volume of said sample solution through said identifying, categorizing and enumerating means to obtain an enumeration of the lyse-surviving cells present in each leukocyte subpopulation per unit volume of sample at time interval A; e) passing a second discrete volume of said sample solution through said identifying, categorizing and enumerating means to obtain an enumeration of the lyse-surviving cells present in each leukocyte subpopulation per unit volume of sample at time interval B; f) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps
(d) and (e) , calculating a cell decay rate as a function of time using said cell subpopulation enumeration data and the time intervals A and B; and, 


 g) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps
(d) and (e) , estimating the number of cells initially present in each subpopulation per unit " 5 volume of sample by back extrapolating said respective calculated specific cell population cell decay rate function to time zero.
44. A method as recited in claim 43 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially 10 of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5, serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
15 45. A method as recited in claim 43 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
46. A method as recited in claim 43 wherein 20 said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration 25 data.
'
" 47. A method as recited in claim 43 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating
Φ steps are accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a 30 laser beam and by collecting and processing light 


scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
48. A method as recited in claim 43 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 

[SAMPLES WITH FRAGILE LEUKOCYTES]
49. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocytes present in a whole blood sample which contains fragile leukocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing a whole blood sample containing erythrocytes and fragile leukocytes; b) contacting said whole blood sample with an erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse said erythrocytes and to obtain a sample solution; c) providing leukocyte identifying, categorizing and enumerating means; d) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the lyse-surviving leukocytes per unit volume of sample present in a first portion of said sample solution at time interval A using said identifying, categorizing and enumerating means provided in step (c) ; e) identifying, categorizing and enumerating the lyse-surviving leukocytes per unit volume of sample present in a second portion of said sample solution at time interval B using said identifying, categorizing and enumerating means provided in step (c) ; f) calculating a leukocyte decay rate as a function of time using the leukocyte enumeration data obtained in steps (d) and (e) and the time intervals A and B; and, g) estimating the number of leukocytes initially present per unit volume of sample by back extrapolating said leukocyte decay rate function to time zero. 



 50. A method as recited in claim 49 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5, serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
51. A method as recited in claim 49 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
52. A method as recited in claim 49 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
53. A method as recited in claim 49 wherein said cell identifying, categorizing and enumerating step is accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
54. A method as recited in claim 49 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 


 [SAMPLES WITH FRAGILE LEUKOCYTES]
55. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocyte subpopulations present in a whole blood sample containing erythrocytes and 5 fragile leukocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing means for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocyte subpopulations; b) providing a whole blood sample
10 containing erythrocytes and fragile leukocytes; c) contacting said whole blood sample with an erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse said erythrocytes and to obtain a sample solution;
15 d) passing a first discrete volume of said sample solution through said identifying, categorizing and enumerating means to obtain an enumeration of lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample present in each leukocyte
20 subpopulation at time interval A; e) passing a second discrete volume of said sample solution through said identifying, categorizing and enumerating means to obtain an enumeration of lyse-surviving cells per unit
25 volume of sample present in each leukocyte subpopulation at time interval B; f) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps (d) and (e) , calculating a cell decay rate as a
30 function of time using said cell enumeration data and time intervals A and B; and,
% g) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps (d) and (e) , estimating the number of leukocytes
35 initially present per unit volume of sample by 


 back extrapolating said respective calculated cell decay rate function to time zero.
56. A method as recited in claim 55 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5, serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
57. A method as recited in claim 55 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
58. A method as recited in claim 55 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
59. A method as recited in claim 55 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
60. A method as recited in claim 55 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 


 [SAMPLES WITH FRAGILE LEUKOCYTES PASSING THROUGH FLOW SYSTEM, EITHER IMPEDANCE OR PHOTOMETRIC]
61. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocyte subpopulations present in a whole blood sample also containing erythrocytes and fragile leukocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing a flow system having a detector region through which a sample solution can flow substantially cell by cell, a detector which detects a signal generated by the cells flowing through the detector region and a processor which processes said detected signal to identify, to categorize and to enumerate leukocyte subpopulations in said whole blood sample; b) providing a whole blood sample containing erythrocytes and leukocytes; c) contacting said whole blood sample with an erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse said erythrocytes and to obtain a sample solution; d) passing a first discrete volume of said sample solution through said flow system to obtain an enumeration of the lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample present in each leukocyte subpopulation at time interval A; e) passing a second discrete volume of said sample solution through said flow system to obtain an enumeration of the lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample present in each leukocyte subpopulation at time interval B; f) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps (d) and (e) , calculating a cell decay rate as a 


 function of time using said cell enumeration data and the time intervals A and B; and, g) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps (d) and (e) , estimating the number of leukocytes initially present per unit volume of sample by back extrapolating said respective cell decay rate function to time zero.
62. A method as recited in claim 60 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5, serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
63. A method as recited in claim 60 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
64. A method as recited in claim 60 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
65. A method as recited in claim 60 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light 


scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
66. A method as recited in claim 60 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 

[SAMPLES WITH FRAGILE LEUKOCYTES PASSING THROUGH IMPEDANCE DETECTOR]
67. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocyte subpopulations present in a whole blood sample also containing erythrocytes and fragile leukocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing a flow system having a detector region through which a sample solution can flow substantially cell by cell, an impedance detector which detects a signal generated by the cells flowing through the detector region, and a processor which processes said detected signal to identify, to categorize and to enumerate leukocyte subpopulations in said whole blood sample; b) providing a whole blood sample containing erythrocytes and leukocytes; c) contacting said whole blood sample with an erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse said erythrocytes and to obtain a diluted sample; d) passing a first discrete volume of said sample solution through said flow system to obtain an enumeration of the lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample present in each leukocyte subpopulation at time interval A; e) passing a second discrete volume of said sample solution through said flow system to obtain an enumeration of the lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample present in each leukocyte subpopulation at time interval B; f) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps (d) and (e) , calculating a specific cell population cell decay rate as a function of time 


 using said cell enumeration data and the time intervals A and B; and, g) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps
® 5 (d) and (e) , estimating the number of cells initially present in each subpopulation per unit volume by back extrapolating said respective calculated specific cell population cell decay rate function to time zero.
10 68. A method as recited in claim 66 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5, serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to
15 increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
69. A method as recited in claim 66 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1
20 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
70. A method as recited in claim 66 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample
25 solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration * data.
~
b 71. A method as recited in claim 66 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating 30 steps are accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a 


laser beam and by collecting and processing light scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
72. A method as recited in claim 66 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 

[SAMPLES WITH FRAGILE CELLS, CYTOMETRIC]
73. A method for identifying, categorizing and enumerating leukocyte subpopulations present in a whole blood sample also containing erythrocytes and 
■
t 5 fragile leukocytes which comprises the steps of: a) providing a flow system having a flow cell through which a sample solution can flow substantially cell by cell, a light source, a photometric unit for detecting light signals
10 issuing from cells and an analyzer for analyzing and processing the light signals to obtain an identification, categorization and enumeration of leukocyte subpopulations in said sample; b) providing a whole blood sample 15 containing erythrocytes and leukocytes; c) contacting said whole blood sample with an erythrolytic agent at time zero to completely rapidly lyse said erythrocytes and to obtain a diluted sample solution;
20 d) passing a first discrete volume of said sample solution through said flow system to obtain an enumeration of lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample present in each leukocyte subpopulation at time interval A;
25 e) passing a second discrete volume of said sample solution through said flow system to obtain an enumeration of lyse-surviving cells per unit volume of sample present in each leukocyte subpopulation at time interval B; * 30 f) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps •Λ (d) and (e) , calculating a specific cell population cell decay rate as a function of time using said cell enumeration data and the time
35 intervals A and B; and, 


 g) for each leukocyte subpopulation identified, categorized and enumerated in steps (d) and (e) , estimating the number of cells initially present in each subpopulation per unit volume of sample by back extrapolating said respective calculated specific cell population cell decay rate function to time zero.
74. A method as recited in claim 72 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of (i) an aromatic oxyethanol; (ii) an organic buffer with pK at or near 8.5, serving to provide pH buffering capacity and to increase the electrical conductivity of the lytic agent; and, (iii) a non-ionic detergent compound.
75. A method as recited in claim 72 wherein said strongly erythrolytic agent consists essentially of an aqueous solution of 2-phenoxyethanol, TRIS/HC1 buffer and Triton X-100 detergent compound.
76. A method as recited in claim 72 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by measuring the electrical impedance across an orifice through which the sample solution is caused to flow, and processing the number and intensity of the pulses to provide enumeration data.
77. A method as recited in claim 72 wherein said passing and leukocyte subpopulation enumerating steps are accomplished by passing the sample solution through a flow cell where it is intersected with a laser beam and by collecting and processing light 


scattering data from said flow cell to provide enumeration data.
78. A method as recited in claim 72 wherein said cell decay rate calculation utilizes linear curve fitting techniques. 

tQUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE MEASUREMENT OF ERYTHROCYTE FRAGILITY USING CELL DISAPPEARANCE RATE INFORMATION]
79. A method for characterizing the lytic behavior of an erythrocyte population present in a blood sample which comprises the steps of: a) providing a sample solution having an erythrocyte population; b) providing means for identifying and enumerating the erythrocytes per unit volume of sample solution; c) adjusting the physico-chemical conditions of said sample solution such that the cytolytic threshold for said erythrocytes is exceeded to thereby commence erythrolysis at time zero; d) identifying and enumerating the erythrocytes per unit volume present in a first discrete volume of said adjusted sample solution at time interval A after time zero using said means provided in step (b) ; e) identifying and enumerating the erythrocytes per unit volume present in a second discrete volume of said adjusted sample solution at time interval B after time zero using said means provided in step (b) ; and, f) calculating an erythrocyte decay rate as a function of time using the erythrocyte enumeration data obtained in steps (d) and (e) and the time intervals A and B. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
