<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615497</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BACKING FOR WINDSCREEN WIPER BLADES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60S138	B60S138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60S	B60S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60S1	B60S1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A backing (3) for a windscreen wiper blade has a groove (5) for receiving a blade element or insert and comprises mounting means in the form of pairs of flanges (19, 21) which permit the backing (3) to be held by a blade frame. The mounting means has a first pair of flanges (19) over which claws from a blade frame can be received. Spaced from the first pair of flanges (19) is a second pair of flanges (21) over which claws from a smaller width blade frame can be received. The first pair of flanges (19) is spaced near the bottom of the groove (5) and the second pair of flanges (21) is spaced below the first pair of flanges (19). This permits a blade element received in the groove (5) to be held by the backing for two different size width blade frames.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAN PTY LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAN PTY LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSICH MARINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUSSICH, MARINO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BACKING FOR WINDSCREEN WIPER BLADESFIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a backing for windscreen wiper blades and relates particularly, but not exclusively, to such for motor vehicles.DESCRIPTION OF PRIOR ARTHitherto it has been common in the motor vehicle arts to provide for windscreen wiper blade inserts to be held by a backing and wherein the backing is, in turn, held by a blade frame. The blade frame locates about a pair of flanges which extend along the side edges of the backing. There are two distinct widths of the blade frames which have been adopted. A first width is 6mm and the other width is 8mm.As the blade inserts are identical in size regardless of whether they are for the 6mm wide or 8mm wide blade frame, it has been necessary to provide the backings themselves of appropriate width to suit the two sizes of the blade frames which have been adopted. This, in turn, requires for unnecessary stock to be handled and processed by the manufacturers, suppliers and/or retail outlets. The above problem has been recognised in Australian Patent Application No. 78133/75 to TricoProducts Corp., and a backing has been proposed which incorporates two pairs of appropriate width flanges, which can be used to attach the backing to a wiper arm if it is of one of two width types . This backing has an open channel at a bottom of the backing into which a blade insert can be received. A first pair of the flanges is on the sides of the backing and situated directly adjacent the channel. These flanges are for a first width wiper arm. The backing then has a second open channel at the top into which a . 

 blade insert can be received. The second pair of flanges is also on the side of the backing and situated directly adjacent the second channel. The second flanges are for a second width wiper arm. In use, the blade insert is inserted into the appropriate open channel adjacent the required sized width pair of flanges. A wiper arm has claws into which the backing can be inserted and the head space above and between the claws is not sufficient to simply have a single channel for the blade insert and have the backing fitted directly with the claws for either a first width or second width wiper arm as the body of the backing cannot be received in that head space. Thus, the backing must be inverted if it is to be associated with the other width wiper arm, and the blade insert fitted in the other open channel. A backing of the above type is extremely troublesome and fiddly to fit. Moreover, it uses excessive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A backing for a windscreen wiper blade, said backing having a groove for receiving a blade insert and mounting means for permitting the backing to be held by a blade frame, said mounting means comprising a first pair of flanges over which claws from a blade frame can be received, and spaced from said first pair of flanges, a second pair of flanges over which claws from a smaller width blade frame can be received, the first pair of flanges being spaced near the bottom of the groove, and the second pair of flanges being spaced below the first pair of flanges, whereby a blade element received in said groove can be held by said backing for two different sized width blade frames .
2. A backing as claimed in claim 1 wherein said backing has a second groove, similar to said groove displaced across said backing from said groove, whereby said backing can receive two blade inserts for a double blade element, one blade insert being in said groove and another blade insert being in the second groove.
3. A backing as claimed in claim 1 wherein said mounting means comprises said first pair of flanges being on a body part of said backing, and said second pair of flanges being on a separate piece of material retractable fitted to said backing.
4. A backing as claimed in claim 3 wherein said separate piece is of generally "I" shape in transverse cross-section and fittable within a further groove means in said backing.
5. A backing as claimed in claim 3 wherein said backing has a second groove, similar to said groove displaced across said backing from said groove, whereby 


 said backing can receive two blade inserts for a double blade element, one blade insert being in said groove and another blade insert being in the second groove.
6. A backing as claimed in claim 4 wherein said separate piece of material has a recess therein to assist flexibility.
7. A backing as claimed in claim 4 wherein said separate piece of material has a generally "T" shaped recess therein with the leg of the "T" extending centrally of the leg of the "I" thereof and the head of the "T" extending into said second pair of flanges, said recess acting to assist flexibility of said separate piece.
8. A backing as claimed in claim 6 wherein said backing has a second groove, similar to said groove displaced across said backing from said groove, whereby said backing can receive two blade inserts for a double blade element, one blade insert being in said groove and another blade insert being in the second groove.

 AM--NDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 16 April 1993 (16.04.93); original claims 5 and 8 cancelled; other claims amended and renumbered as cl
1-5 (2 pages)]
1. A backing for a windscreen wiper blade, said backing having a groove for receiving a blade insert and mounting means for permitting the backing to be held by a blade frame, said mounting means comprising a first pair of flanges over which claws from a blade frame can be received, and spaced from said first pair of flanges, a second pair of flanges over which claws from a smaller width blade frame can be received, the first pair of flanges being spaced near the bottom of the groove, and the second pair of flanges being spaced below the first pair of flanges, whereby a blade element received in said groove can be held by said backing for two different sized width blade frames and wherein said mounting means comprises said first pair of flanges being on a body part of said backing, and said second pair of flanges being on a separate piece of material retractably fitted to said backing.
2. A backing as claimed in claim 1 wherein said backing has a second groove, similar to said groove displaced across said backing from said groove, whereby said backing can receive two blade inserts for a double blade element, one blade insert being in said groove and another blade insert being in the second groove.
3. A backing as claimed in claim 1 wherein said separate piece is of generally "I" shape in transverse cross-section and fittable within a further groove means in said backing.
4. A backing as claimed in claim 2 wherein said separate piece of material has a recess therein to assist 


flexibility.
5, A backing as claimed in claim 2 wherein said separate piece of material has a generally "T" shaped recess therein with the leg of the "T" extending centrally of the leg of the "I" thereof and the head of the "T" extending into said second pair of flanges, said recess acting to assist flexibility of said separate piece. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
New Claim 1 contains the feature that the mounting means comprises said first pair of flanges being on a body part of said backing, and said second pair of flanges being on a separate piece of material retractably fitted to said backing. This feature 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
