<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635376</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Information processing apparatus and sheet conveying device therefore
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J1310	B41J1310	B41J201	B41J1120	B41J201	B65H506	B65H506	B41J1120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B65H	B65H	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J13	B41J13	B41J2	B41J11	B41J2	B65H5	B65H5	B41J11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to an information 
processing apparatus having an information processing 

section for recording information on a sheet member (P) or 
reading information therefrom. The information processing 

apparatus further has a platen (19) disposed in the information 
processing section, a head member (5a) disposed opposite to the 

platen (19) in the information processing section so as to record 
information on the sheet member (P) or reading information 

therefrom, a conveyance mechanism for conveying the sheet 
member while passing it through the information processing 

section, and a conveyance passage displacement mechanism for 
displacing a conveyance passage for the sheet member by 

reciprocating between the platen side of the conveyance 
passage and the head member side thereof, the moving amount 

of the conveyance passage displacement mechanism being 
variable. The present invention thus can provides an 

information processing apparatus which can maintain a 
predetermined distance between the sheet member (P) and the head 

member (5a). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAI HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAKAI, HIROSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an information
processing apparatus
according to the preamble of claim 1,
and particularly to an information
processing apparats in which a sheet member is conveyed at a
suitable distance between the sheet member and a head
member.In recent years, a note-type personal computer which is
convenient for carrying and storage has widely been
popularized with miniaturization of personal computers.
This is accompanied by increase in the demand for
miniaturization of a recording apparatus connected to a
personal computer.In a small recording apparatus, since each of parts is
disposed in a limited space, parts having a low degree of
importance are omitted as much as possible, leaving a
minimum number of necessary parts alone. For example, a
mechanism for conveying paper is constructed in a simple
form comprising several rollers, gears and paper guides, and
is operated in the state most parts other than the printing 
portion is outside the device. In such an apparatus, since
printing is hardly performed in a large amount at a time, a
feed tray and a delivery tray are omitted or provided in an
insufficient size from the viewpoint of the space.A conventional known recording apparatus has the
configuration shown in Fig. 1. In Fig. 1, reference
numeral 1 denotes a frame body of the recording apparatus,
which is divided into two parts, i.e., a first housing 2 and
a second housing 3. Both housings 2 and 3 are rotatably
connected to each other by a hinge 4. Fig. 1 shows the
working state wherein the first housing 2 is raised at 90°
with respect to the second housing 3. In the first housing
2 are disposed an ink jet cartridge (IJC) 5 as recording
means, and a conveyance roller 9 for conveying recording
paper to the cartridge 5. The IJC 5 roughly comprises an
ink jet recording head 5a and an ink tank 5b for supplying
necessary ink to the head 5a, and is mounted on a carriage 8
which is slidably provided on a pair of parallel rails 7.
The parallel rails 7 are disposed in the direction at right
angles to a paper conveyance passage which will be described
below. The conveyance roller 9 which forms a main passage
of the paper conveyance passage is arranged near the IJC 5.
In the vicinity of the periphery of the conveyance roller 9,
a first pinch roller 10 is arranged near the IJC 5, and a
second pinch roller 11 is arranged near the second housing 3 
at a distance from the IJC 5. A conveyance guide 12 is
arranged between both pinch rollers 10 and 11 along the
periphery of the conveyance roller
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information processing apparatus having an information
processing section for recording information on a sheet member

(P) or reading information therefrom, comprising:

a platen (19) disposed in said information processing section
and defining a virtual conveyance plane (C);
a supporting member (8) disposed opposite to said platen (19) in
said information processing section so as to support a head

member (5) for recording information on said sheet member (P) or
reading information therefrom;
a conveyance mechanism (9, 10, 17, 18) for conveying said sheet
member (P) while passing it through said information processing

section; and
a conveyance path displacement mechanism (20) for displacing a
conveyance path of said sheet member (P) by reciprocating

between the supporting member side and the platen side of said
virtual conveyance plane (C), the moving amount of said

conveyance path displacement mechanism (20) being changed in
accordance with the rigidity of said sheet member (P) such that

the moving amount to said supporting member side of said virtual
conveyance plane (C) by said displacement mechanism (20) is

decreased with an increase in the rigidity of said sheet member
(P),
characterized in that

during use said displacement mechanism (20) is retracted at most
such that it lies in said virtual conveyance plane (C) or

projects toward the supporting member side.
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 1,
characterized by

an elastic member (24, 28) for urging said conveyance path
displacement mechanism (20) toward the supporting member

side of said virtual conveyance plane (C) which is located
near said supporting member (8) such that the urging force

is applied from the platen side. 
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 1,
characterized in that

said conveyance path displacement mechanism (20) comprises a
member (26, 27) containing an elastic material.
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 1 or 3,
characterized in that

said conveyance path displacement mechanism (20) is formed
integrally with said platen (19). 
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 1,
characterized in that

said head member (5) is an ink jet recording head which
discharges ink from an ink discharge opening to record on

said sheet member (P).
An information processing apparatus according to claim 1,
characterized in that

said head member (5) is an ink jet recording head provided
with an electrothermal converter for generating thermal

energy utilized for discharging ink.
An information processing apparatus according to claim 1,
characterized in that

said head member (5) is a read head for reading information
possessed by said sheet member (P). 
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 1,
characterized in that

said conveyance path displacement mechanism (20) consists of
a movable member (23; 35, 37) slidably fixed to a fixed

member (21) and biased by an urging member (24, 28) which
acts between both the movable member (23; 35, 37) and the

fixed member (21).
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 8,
characterized in that

said movable member (23) is rotatably fixed through a hinge
(22) to said fixed member (21).
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 8,
characterized in that

a boss (25) of said movable member (23) is guided in a guide
groove (25a) of said fixed member (21) to be slidable in a

direction substantially perpendicular to the virtual conveyance plane
(C).
An information processing apparatus according to
any of claims 8 to 10,
characterized in that

said fixed member (21) is formed integrally with said platen
(19).
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 3,
characterized in that

said member (26, 27) comprises an elastic portion (27)
extending substantially in parallel to the virtual conveyance plane

(C).
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 8,
characterized in that

said urging member (24, 28) comprises two elastic springs
(24, 28) arranged in parallel to each other. 
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 8,
characterized in that

said movable member (35, 37) comprises a lower movable
member (35) and an upper movable member (37), wherein said

lower movable member (35) is hinged to said fixed member
(21) and said upper movable member (37) is oscillatably

fixed to the upper end of said lower movable member (35).
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 8,
characterized in that

a roller (38) is fixed to the free end of said movable
member (23; 35, 37).
An information processing apparatus according to
claim 1,
characterized in that

said conveyance path displacement mechanism (20) comprises a
movable delivery guide member (20
) provided within only the
conveyance region of a sheet having a predetermined rigidity

and a further delivery guide member (201) provided in the
remaining conveyance region, said further delivery guide

member (201) being fixed.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
