<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System for adaptively reducing noise in speech signals
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G10L2100	G10L1100	G10L1102	G10L2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G10L	G10L	G10L	G10L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G10L21	G10L11	G10L11	G10L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system are provided for adaptively reducing noise in 
frames of digitized audio signals that may include both speech and background 

noise. Frames of digitized audio signals are processed to determine what 
attenuation (if any) should be applied to the current frame of digitized audio 

signals. Initially it is determined whether the current frame of digitized audio 
signals includes speech information, this determination being based upon an 

estimate of noise and on a speech threshold value. An attenuation value 
determined for the previous audio frame is modified based on this 

determination and applied to the current frame in order to minimize the 
background noise which thereby improves the quality of received speech. The 

attenuation applied to the audio frames is modified gradually on a frame-by-frame 
basis, each sample in a specific frame is attenuated using the value 

calculated for that frame. The adaptive noise reduction system (100) may be 
advantageously applied to telecommunication systems in which portable radio 

transceivers communicate over RF channels because the adaptive noise 
reduction technique does not significantly increase data processing overhead. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON GE MOBILE COMMUNICAT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERICSSON GE MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOELVE TORBJOEN W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAK ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOELVE, TORBJOEN W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAK,ROBERT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to noise reduction systems, and in
particular, to an adaptive noise reduction system for use in portable digital
radio telephones.The cellular telephone industry has made phenomenal strides in
commercial operations in the United States as well as the rest of the world.
Demand for cellular services in major metropolitan areas is outstripping
current system capacity. Assuming this trend continues, cellular
telecommunications will reach even the smallest rural markets. Consequently,
cellular capacity must be increased while maintaining high quality service at a
reasonable cost. One important step towards increasing capacity is the
conversion of cellular systems from analog to digital transmission. This
conversion is also important because the first generation of personal
communication networks (PCNs), employing low cost, pocket-size, cordless
telephones that can be easily carried and used to make or receive calls in the
home, office, street, car, etc., will likely be provided by cellular carriers using
the next generation digital cellular infrastructure. Digital communication systems take advantage of powerful digital signal
processing (DSP) techniques. Digital signal processing refers generally to
mathematical and other manipulation of digitized signals. For example, after
converting (digitizing) an analog signal into digital form, that digital signal
may be filtered, amplified, and attenuated using simple mathematical routines
in the DSP. Typically, DSPs are manufactured as high speed integrated
circuits so that data processing operations can be performed essentially in real
time. DSPs may also be used to reduce the bit transmission rate of digitized
speech which translates into reduced spectral occupancy of the transmitted
radio signals and increased system capacity. For example, if speech signals
are digitized using 14-bit linear Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) and sampled at
an 8 KHz rate, a serial bit rate of 112 Kbits/sec is produced. Moreover, by
taking mathematical advantage of redundancies and other predicable
characteristics of human speech, voice coding techniques can be used to
compress the serial bit rate from 112 Kbits/sec to 7.95 Kbits/sec to achieve a
14:1 reduction in bit transmission rate. Reduced transmission rates translate
into more available bandwidth.One popular speech compression technique adopted in the United States
by the TIA for use as the digital standard for the second generation of cellular
telephone systems (i.e., IS-54), is vector sourcebook
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of reducing noise in audio signals, comprising:

receiving frames of digitized audio signals which include speech and
background noise;
detecting whether the current frame includes speech information (110);
dynamically determining an attenuation (130) to be applied to the digitized
audio signals in accordance with the detection of speech that minimizes the

background noise; and
applying the determined attenuation to the digitized audio signals,
and wherein the dynamically determining step includes: 
calculating a first attenuation (260) when no speech is detected in the
detecting step and applying the first attenuation to the digitized audio signals,

and
calculating and applying a second attenuation (270) to the digitized audio
signals.
The method according to claim 1, further comprising:

determining the energy of a current frame of digitized audio signals,
wherein the detecting step detects whether the current frame includes speech

information based on an estimate of background noise and a speech threshold
value.
The method according to claim 2, wherein the digitized audio
signals include plural samples for each frame and the determining step includes

summing the square of the amplitude of each sample in the current frame (505), the
sum representing the energy of the current frame.
The method according to claim 2, further comprising:

comparing the determined frame energy with the sum of the noise
estimate and the speech threshold value, wherein speech is detected when the

determined frame energy exceeds the sum of the noise estimate and the speech
threshold value.
The method according to claim 2, further comprising:

if no speech is detected (540), updating the noise estimate by determining a
difference between the current frame energy and a current noise estimate (545) and

adjusting the noise estimate to minimize the difference.
The method according to claim 5, further comprising:

comparing the difference to zero (550),
if the difference is negative, subtracting a significant proportion of the
difference from the current noise estimate (560), and
if the difference is positive, adding a small proportion of the
difference, relative to the significant proportion, to the current noise estimate.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the determined
attenuation is modified based on a logarithmic function of the background

noise.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the determined
attenuation is limited between maximum and minimum attenuation values, and

between those maximum and minimum values, the attenuation is modified
based on a logarithmic function of the background noise.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the determined
attenuation is gradually modified from a previously applied attenuation. 
The method according to claim 1, wherein the determined
attenuation is gradually and nonlinearly modified from the previously applied

attenuation value.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the determined
attenuation is determined based on a logarithmic ratio of the noise estimate and

a minimum attenuation threshold multiplied by a scaling factor.
The method according to claim 11, wherein the scaling factor is
varied to change the rate at which the determined attenuation is changed.
The method according to claim 1, wherein the determined
attenuation is modified incrementally frame-by-frame by a first attenuation

factor (590) if speech information is not detected in the detecting step.
The method according to claim 13, wherein the determined
attenuation is incrementally adjusted by a second attenuation factor (610) which is

based on the noise estimate.
The method according to claim 2, wherein when no speech is
detected, the noise estimate is a running average of the frame energy.
An apparatus for reducing noise in received frames of digitized
audio signals which include speech and background noise, comprising:


a speech detector (110) for detecting whether a current frame of digitized
audio signals includes speech information, and
an attenuator (130) for determining an attenuation to be applied to the
digitized audio signals, based on the detection of speech and a function of

background noise, that minimizes the background noise and for applying the
determined attenuation to the digitized audio signals,
the attenuator including: 
a no speech attenuator (260) for determining and applying a first attenuation

to the digitized audio signals when no speech is detected by the speech
detector, and
a variable attenuator (270) for determining and applying a second attenuation
to the digitized audio signals.
The apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising:

a frame energy estimator (210) for determining the energy of a current frame
of digitized audio signals, and
a noise estimator (230) for determining an estimate of the background noise,

wherein the speech detector (110) detects whether the current frame includes
speech information based on an noise estimate and a speech threshold value.
The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the digitized audio
signals include plural samples for each frame and the frame energy estimator

sums the square of the amplitude of each sample in the current frame, the sum
representing the energy of the current frame.
The apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising:

a comparator (535) for comparing the determined frame energy with the sum
of the noise estimate and the speech threshold value, wherein the speech

detector detects speech when the determined frame energy exceeds the sum of
the noise estimate and the speech threshold value.
The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the first attenuation
is only applied to the audio signals when speech is not detected by the

speech detector. 
The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the noise estimator (230)
updates the background noise estimate in the absence of speech by determining

a difference between the frame energy and a current background noise estimate
and adjusting the background noise estimate to minimize the difference.
The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the attenuation for
minimizing the background noise is limited between maximum and minimum

attenuation values.
The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the determined
attenuation is gradually and nonlinearly modified from the previously applied

attenuation value.
The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the function is a
logarithmic function of the background noise.
The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein the logarithmic
function is determined based on a logarithmic ratio of the noise estimate and a

minimum attenuation threshold multiplied by a scaling factor.
A telecommunications system in which portable radio transceivers
communicate over rf channels, each transceiver comprising:


an antenna (422);
a receiver (420, 424, 426, 434, 436, 402) for converting radio signals received over an rf channel via
the antenna into analog audio signals; and
a transmitter including:

a codec (402) for digitizing analog audio signals into frames of
digitized speech information, the digitized speech information including speech

and background noise; 
a digital signal processor (200) for processing the digitized speech
information based on an estimate of the background noise and a detection of

speech in the current frame to minimize the background noise, which includes:
a speech detector (240);
a no speech attenuator (260) which applies a no speech attenuation to the
digitized speech information signals; and
a variable attenuator (270) which applies a variable attenuation to the digitized
speech information; and
a modulator (410) for modulating an rf carrier with the processed
frame of digitized speech information for transmission via the antenna.
The system according to claim 26, wherein the digital signal
processor includes:


a frame energy estimator (210) for determining the energy of a current frame
of digitized audio signals, and
a noise estimator (230) for determining an estimate of the background noise
by taking a difference between the frame energy and a current background

noise estimate and adjusting the background noise estimate in the absence of
speech to minimize the difference.
The system according to claim 26, wherein the variable attenuation
is determined based on a logarithmic function of the background noise

estimate. 
The system according to claim 26, wherein the no speech
attenuation is limited between maximum and minimum attenuation values.
The system according to claim 26, wherein the digital signal
processor minimizes background noise by attenuating the digitized speech

information gradually and nonlinearly using a nonlinear attenuation function.
The system according to claim 30, wherein the nonlinear
attenuation function is based on a logarithmic ratio of the noise estimate and a

minimum attenuation threshold.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
