<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621997</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INCREASED SPEECH INTERLEAVE WITH REDUCED DELAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W8800	H04W8818	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W88	H04W88	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPEAR STEPHEN LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPEAR STEPHEN LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INCREASED SPEECH INTERLEAVE WITH REDUCED DELAY* Field of the Invention-f~ 5 This invention is concerned with radio transmission of digitized speech.More particularly, this invention concerns interleaving, with reduced delay, half-rate coded speech for radiotelephony 1 0 transmission.Background of the InventionToday's digital radiotelephone systems are designed for 1 5 full-rate coded speech while envisioning half-rate coded speech as advances are made in speech coding technology. Three such systems are the GSM, Pan-European Digital Cellular system, the US Digital Cellular system (IS- 54) and the Japan Digital Cellular system, all Time Division Multiple Access 20 (TDMA) radiotelephone systems.The GSM system, for example, was designed around a full- rate speech coding technique where each (20ms) block of (continuous) speech is digitized and error encoded for radio25 transmission in a repeating TDM time slot over eight frames - a so-called interleave depth of eight. In other words, it takes eight frames to recover all segment of the original 20ms block of speech. The transmission bit rate and frame length is such that the delay between the speech being spoken and being30 received and reconstructed (actually, the complete round-trip delay) is virtually imperceptible. If the interleave depth were much greater, the delay would become annoying and the conversation would not be perceived to be taking place in "real time." If the interleave depth were much shorter, the delay 

 would become inconsequential, but more than 12.5% (one- eighth) would be lost every time that one frame of information was corrupted. This would be perceived as poor audio quality.To increase the capacity of these TDMA systems, technologists continue to pursue ways to encode speech at lower and lower bit rates. If the speech could be encoded into half the number of bits, twice as many users could be accommodated in the same radio spectrum. These systems traditionally envision such half-rate encoded speech and anticipate the availability of this half-rate speech coding in their system designs. Typically, as in the GSM system, it is envisioned that while the full-rate user will use every frame for speech transmission, the half-rate user will use every other, alternate frame for its transmissions. This permits another half-rate user to use the intervening, alternate frames, thereby doubling the system capacity. Unfortunately, the use of every other frame has the interrelated effects of either lengthening the delay or reducing the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
INCREASED SPEECH INTERLEAVE WITH REDUCED DELAY
Claims
1. A radio transceiver having interleave apparatus comprising:
a receive portion having, operatively coupled in series:
means for receiving for a recipient from a communications channel frames of encoded speech that have been information bandwidth multiplexed with frames of others logically sharing the communication channel, means for demultiplexing from the frames of others logically sharing the communication channel, that information bandwidth allocated to the recipient, and means for decoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so demultiplexed from that of others,
and a transmit portion having, operatively coupled in series:
means for encoding speech, means for interleaving with those of others logically sharing the communication channel speech so encoded into successive frames logically concatenated in time, and means for transmitting to a communications channel successive frames of encoded speech so interleaved. 


 2. Interleave apparatus comprising, operatively coupled in series: means for receiving for a recipient from a communications channel frames of encoded speech that have been information bandwidth multiplexed with that of others logically sharing the same communication channel, means for demultiplexing from that of others logically sharing the same channel, that information bandwidth allocated to the recipient, and means for decoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so demultiplexed from that of others.
3. Interleave apparatus comprising, operatively coupled in series: means for receiving for a recipient from a communications channel frames of encoded speech that have been information bandwidth multiplexed with that of others logicaly sharing the communication channel, that information bandwidth allocated to the recipient, and means for decoding for audio reproduction that encoded speeck so demultiplexed from that of others.
4. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 above, wherein the information bandwidth of a single TDMA slot in a single TDM frame that is the logical shared channel is apportioned among multiple users.
5. interleave apparatus comprising, operatively coupled in series: means for receiving from a communications channel successive frames of interleaved, encoded speech, 


 means for deinterleaving from those of others logically sharing the same channel, successive encoded speech frames logically concatenated in time, and means for decoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so deinterieaved from that of others.
6. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 5 above, wherein successive encoded speech frames logically concatenated in time comprise successively paired frames of encoded speech allocated to the same recipient.
7. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 5 above, wherein the means for receiving comprises a radio receiver.
8. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 5 above, wherein speech encoding encompasses both speech waveform encoding and transmission error protection.
9. Interleave apparatus comprising, operatively coupled in series: means for transmitting from a user on a communications channel frames of encoded speech that have been information bandwidth multiplexed with that of others logically sharing the communication channel, means for multiplexing with that of others logically sharing the communication channel, that information bandwidth allocated to the user, and means for encoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so multiplexed with that of others. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 2 June 1993 (02.06.93); original claims 1-3,5 and 9 amended; other claims unchanged(3 pages)]
1. A radio transceiver having interleave apparatus, providing an interleave depth of at least two, comprising:
a receive portion having, operatively coupled in series: means for receiving for a recipient from a communications channel frames of encoded speech that have been information bandwidth multiplexed with frames of others logically sharing the communications channel, means for demultiplexing from that of others logically sharing the communications channel, that information bandwidth allocated to the recipient, and means for decoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so demultiplexed from that of others,
and a transmit portion having, operatively coupled in series: means for encoding speech, means for interleaving with those of others logically sharing the communications channel speech so encoded into successive frames logically concatenated in time, and means for transmitting to a communications channel successive frames of encoded speech so interleaved. 


2. Interleave apparatus, providing an interleave depth of at least two,
"
 comprising, operatively coupled in series: means for receiving for a recipient from a communications channel frames of encoded speech that have been information bandwidth multiplexed with that of others logically sharing the communication channel, means for demultiplexing from that of others logically sharing the communication channel, that information bandwidth allocated to the recipient, and means for decoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so demultiplexed from that of others.
3. Interleave apparatus, providing an interleave depth of at least two, comprising, operatively coupled in series: means for transmitting from a user on a communications channel frames of encoded speech that have been information bandwidth multiplexed with that of others logically sharing the communication channel, means for multiplexing with that of others logically sharing the communication channel, that information bandwidth allocated to the user, and means for encoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so multiplexed with that of others.
4. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 above, wherein the information bandwidth of a single TDMA slot in a single TDM frame that is the logical shared channel is apportioned among multiple users.
5. Interleave apparatus, providing an interleave depth of at least two, comprising, operatively coupled in series: 


 1 k
means for receiving from a communications channel successive frames of interleaved encoded speech, means for deinterleaving from those of others logically sharing the same channel, successive encoded 5 speech frames logically concatenated in time, and means for decoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so deinterleaved from that of others.
1 0 6. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 5 above, wherein successive encoded speech frames logically concatenated in time comprise successively paired frames of encoded speech allocated to the same recipient.
1 5 7. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 5 above, wherein the means for receiving comprises a radio receiver.
σ 8. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 5 above, wherein speech encoding emcompasses both speech waveform encoding and 20 transmission error protection.
9. Interleave apparatus, providing an interleave depth of at least two, comprising, operatively coupled in series: means for
25 transmitting on a communications channel successive frames of interleaved, encoded speech, means for interleaving with those of others logically sharing the same channel, successive encoded speech frames logically concatenated in time, and means for encoding for audio reproduction that encoded speech so interleaved from that of
30 others. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
