<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640297</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical smoking article having continuous tobacco flavour web
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A24F4700	A24F4700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A24F	A24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A24F47	A24F47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical smoking article (10) is provided in which tobacco 
flavor medium is carried past a heater by a continuous web. The 

web, which preferably is substantially non-combustible, may bear 
continuous tobacco flavor medium or spaced-apart portions of 

tobacco flavor medium. A flavor cassette (12) for such an 
electrical smoking article is also provided. The cassette 

resembles a conventional recording tape microcassette, having the 
web in place of magnetic tape. The cassette may also include the 

heater past which the tape is indexed to heat individual portions 
of tobacco flavor medium. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PROD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIP MORRIS PRODUCTS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUNTS MARY ELLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOUCK WILLIE G JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOUGHTON KENNETH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LILLY A CLIFTON JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPOWICZ PETER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MYRACLE JAMES L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRINKEL F MURPHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASHINGTON JAMES M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRENN SUSAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COUNTS, MARY ELLEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOUCK, WILLIE G., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOUGHTON, KENNETH S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LILLY, A. CLIFTON, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIPOWICZ, PETER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MYRACLE, JAMES L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPRINKEL, F. MURPHY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASHINGTON, JAMES M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WRENN, SUSAN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electrical smoking articles,
and in particular to electrical smoking articles and tobacco
flavor mediums for electrical smoking articles.One type of electrical smoking article is disclosed in
commonly-assigned U.S. Patent Nos. 5,060,671 and 5,095,921.
In such
an electrical smoking article, a flavor portion of a tobacco
flavor medium, such as tobacco or tobacco-derived substances, is
heated electrically to release a tobacco flavor substance. As the
substance is heated, a smoker at the mouth or downstream end of
the device draws air in and around the heating element by
inhaling, and thereby receives the tobacco flavor substance.The above-identified patents disclose a number of
possible heater configurations, many of which are made from a
carbon composite material formed into a desired shape. For
example, one configuration involves a radial array of blades
connected in common at the center and separately connectable at
their outer edges to a source of electrical power. By depositing
tobacco flavor medium on each blade and heating the blades
individually, one could provide a predetermined number of discrete
portions of tobacco flavor substance to the smoker. Other
configurations included various linear and tubular shapes,
subdivided to provide a number of discrete heating areas.
Alternatively, semiconductor heaters, such as those described in
copending, commonly-assigned United States patent application
Serial No. 07/943,505, filed September 11, 1992,
can be used.
Additional heater configurations are also disclosed in application 
Serial No. 07/943,505, as well as in copending, commonly-assigned
United States patent application Serial No. 07/943,504, filed
September 11, 1992.Other configurations have been proposed. For example,
various arrays of discrete fingers or blades of heater material
can be provided, each blade providing one puff. However, suitable
heater materials, such as those described in said
Patent No. 5,060,671, are generally not strong enough
to be arranged in such a blade configuration without threat of
blade breakage.As disclosed in said Patent No.
5,060,671, such heating elements are preferably disposable and
replaceable. Therefore, they should be relatively inexpensive to
produce. Further, there should be a way of easily applying
tobacco flavor medium to the heating elements so that each
activation of a heating element delivers one portion or "puff" of
tobacco flavor substance to the smoker, while preventing reheating
of any one portion of tobacco flavor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical smoking article for generating a
tobacco flavour substance, comprising:


a source of electrical energy (20); electrical
heating means;
a web with a tobacco flavour medium therealong;
means for supporting (401) a section of said
web in thermal proximity to said electrical heating means;
means for advancing said web (40, 41, 42) past
said supporting means for presenting said tobacco flavour

medium to said electrical heating means; and
control means (21) for applying electrical
energy from said source of electrical energy to said

electrical heating means to generate a tobacco flavour
substance from said tobacco flavour medium for delivery to

a smoker.
An article according to claim 1, wherein said
advancing means comprises;


means for holding (40) a supply of said web
before presentation to said electrical heating means; and
means for holding (41) spent portions of said
web after presentation to and heating by said electrical

heating means.
An article according to claim 2, wherein the
web supply holding means (40) comprises a supply reel, the

spent portion holding means (41) comprises a take-up reel,
and advancing means further comprises advancing means

interface means (49) for interfacing with the control
means in the article for causing at least one of the take-up

reel and supply reel to rotate.
An article according to claim 3, further
comprising means for maintaining tension on said web by

retarding rotation of said supply reel as said take-up
reel is caused to be rotated by said causing means and

said web is advanced. 
An article according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the
advancing means interface means comprises a hub (42) on the take-up

reel for accepting a spindle from the article.
An article according to claim 3, 4 or 5, wherein the
advancing means comprises means for rotating (42) the take-up

reel, and the advancing means interface means comprises means (25)
for causing the rotating means to rotate.
An article according to claim 6, wherein the rotating
means is electrically operated, and the means for causing the

rotating means to rotate comprises rotating means contact means
for applying electrical energy to the rotating means.
An article according to claim 2, wherein the web supply
holding means comprises a supply reel (40), the spent portion

holding means comprises a take-up reel (42), the advancing means
comprises means for rotating the take-up reel, the rotating means

being mechanically actuated and comprising:

a lever (153) movable between first and second
positions, and
a ratchet wheel (173) operatively connected to the
take-up reel; and
the lever causes the ratchet wheel to rotate as the
level is moved from the first position to the second position, the

ratchet wheel remaining stationary as the lever returns from the
second position to the first position.
An article according to claim 8, wherein the advancing
means also rotates the supply reel.
An article according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the
advancing means moves the web away from the heater as it advances

the web. 
An article according to claim 10, wherein the advancing
means moves the web back towards the heater on completion of

advancing the web.
An article according to claim 11, wherein the advancing
means comprises a pair of substantially square advancing members

(162,163) operatively connected to the ratchet wheel and rotating

together when the lever is moved from the first position to the
second position, wherein when the lever is in the first position,

the square advancing means rest in a position in which a side of
one square advancing means defines a first line with the heater

and a respective side of the other of the square advancing means,
the web resting along the sides and adjacent the heater; and

wherein when the lever is being moved from the first to the second
position, respective corners of the square advancing members

define a second line that moves away from and then towards the
first line, the web rests along the second line and being kept

away from the heater while advancing.
An article according to claim 1, further comprising a
removable cassette (12) for housing said web.
An article according to claim 13, wherein the
electrical heating means is in the cassette and the cassette

further comprises electrical heater contact means for connecting
the electrical heating means to the source of electrical energy.
An article according to claim 13, further comprising
means for receiving (13) the removable cassette.
An article according to claim 15, wherein the means for
receiving the removable cassette (13) comprises a receptacle in

the article corresponding in size and shape to the removable
cassette, and means in the receptacle for interfacing between the 

web advancing means and the control means.
An article according to claim 16, wherein the web
advance interface means is electrical.
An article according to claim 16, wherein the web
advance interface means is mechanical.
An article according to claim 17, wherein the
electrical heating means is in the cassette, and the cassette

further comprises electrical heater contact means for connecting
the electrical heating means to the source of electrical energy;

the article further comprising:

means in the receptacle for applying electrical energy
from said source of electrical energy to said electrical heater

contact means.
An article according to claim 1, further comprising
airflow passage means (47) through which air drawn by the smoker

can flow over the web adjacent the electrical heating means for
delivering the tobacco flavour substance to said smoker.
An article according to claim 20, further comprising
mouthpiece means (31) in fluid communication with the airflow

passage means (400) through which the smoker draws air carrying
the tobacco flavor substance.
An article according to claim 21, wherein the
mouthpiece means comprises filter means (32) for filtering said

air carrying said tobacco flavor substance.
An article according to claim 22, wherein the filter
means (32) comprises a cellulose acetate filter plug. 
An article according to claim 22, wherein the filter
means is replaceable.
An article according to claim 22, wherein the
mouthpiece means is retractable.
An article according to any of claims 20 to 25, the
airflow passage comprises means for maintaining resistance-to-draw.
An article according to claim 26, wherein the means for
maintaining resistance-to-draw is downstream of the heater.
An article according to claim 26, wherein said means
for maintaining resistance-to-draw comprises a constriction of the

airflow passage.
An article according to claim 26, wherein the means for
maintaining resistance-to-draw maintains resistance-to-draw

between about 0.4 inches (about 10 mm) of water and about 10
inches (about 254 mm) of water.
An article according to claim 29, wherein the means for
maintaining resistance-to-draw maintains resistance-to-draw

between about 4 inches (about 100 mm) of water and about 6 inches
(about 153 mm) of water.
An article according to any preceding claim, wherein
said electrical heating means comprises a carbonaceous resistive

material.
An article according to any of claims 1 to 30, wherein
the electrical heating means comprises a semiconductor material. 
An article according to claim 32, wherein the
semiconductor material comprises silicon.
An article according to any of claims 1 to 30, wherein
the electrical heater means comprises a ceramic substrate.
An article according to claim 34, wherein the ceramic
substrate comprises zirconia.
An article according to claim 34, wherein the ceramic
substrate comprises alumina.
An article according to claim 36, wherein said web
further comprises a support layer (231) for said tobacco flavor

medium.
An article according to claim 37, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium is distributed substantially continuously along said

web.
An article according to claim 37, wherein the tobacco
flavor medium is distributed in spaced-apart individual portions

along said web.
An article according to claim 39, wherein the advancing
means (40,41,42) advances the web such that said individual

portions are in the registry with the electrical heating means
(45).
An article according to claim 37, wherein the support
layer (231) is substantially non-combustible. 
An article according to claim 41, wherein the support
layer (231) comprises a carbon fiber mat.
An article according to claim 42, wherein the carbon
fiber mat comprises nonwoven carbon fibers.
An article according to claim 42, wherein the carbon
fiber mat comprises woven carbon fibers.
An article according to any preceding claim, wherein
the web comprises a reinforcing layer (241).
An article according to claim 45, wherein the
reinforcing layer (241) comprises a strip having a width less than

the width of the web.
An article according to claim 46, wherein the strip is
affixed along an edge of said web.
An article according to claim 46, wherein the
reinforcing layer (241) comprises two said strips (241,251).
An article according to claim 48, wherein each strip is
affixed along an edge of the web.
An article according to any of claims 45 to 49, wherein
the reinforcing layer comprises paper.
An article according to any of claims 45 to 49, wherein
the reinforcing layer comprises a metallic foil.
An article according to any of claims 43 to 49, wherein
the reinforcing layer comprises a laminate of paper and a metallic

foil. 
An article according to claim 1, wherein the means for
ad
vancing (40,41,42) comprises means for exiting spent portions of
said web after presentation to and heating by the electrical

heating means.
An article according to claim 1, further comprising a
receptacle for receiving spent portions of the web after

presentation to and heating by the electrical heating means.
An article according to claim 54, further comprising
means for removing the receptacle from the article.
An article according to claim 2, wherein the web supply
holding means comprises a supply belt (141) and the spent portion

holding means comprises a take-up belt (142), and the advancing
means further comprises means (133) for causing the supply belt to

rotate.
An article according to claim 1, further comprising a
housing (11;130) for the source of electrical energy, the

supporting means, the advancing means and the control means.
An article according to claim 57, wherein the housing
is cylindrical (130).
An article according to any preceding claim, further
comprising puff sensor means (22;100) for determining when the

smoker puffs on the article, the control means being responsive to
the puff sensor means.
An article according to claim 1, wherein the electrical
heating means comprises a heating element having a serpentine-shaped

conductor (91) electrically connected to at least one of
the control means (21) and the source of electrical energy (20), 

whereby the control means switches electrical energy from the
source to the serpentine conductor for heating the serpentine

conductor, the article further comprising means for positioning
(92,104,105) the serpentine conductor in thermal proximity to the

tobacco flavour medium for generating a tobacco flavor substance
from the tobacco flavor medium when the serpentine conductor is

heated.
An article according to claim 60, wherein said
serpentine conductor (91) comprises a metal alloy.
An article according to claim 61, wherein said metal
alloy comprises nickel and chromium.
An article according to claim 62, wherein the metal
alloy comprises about 80% nickel and about 20% chromium.
An article according to claim 62, wherein said metal
alloy further comprises aluminium, iron and yttrium.
An article according to claim 64, wherein said metal
alloy comprises about 75% nickel, about 16% chromium, about 4.5%

aluminium, about 3% iron, and trace of yttrium.
An article according to claim 62, wherein said metal
alloy further comprising tungsten, cobalt, iron and molybdenum.
An article according to claim 66, wherein said metal
alloy comprises about 51% nickel, about 34% chromium, about 14%

tungsten, about 5% cobalt, about 3% iron and about 2% molybdenum.
An article according to claim 60, wherein said means
for positioning further comprises an insulating substrate (104)

substantially perpendicular to said serpentine conductor, said 
serpentine conductor having ends (102,103) extending substantially

perpendicularly through said insulating substrate.
An article according to claim 68, wherein said
insulating substrate (104) comprises a polymer.
An article according to claim 71, wherein said polymer
is a polyetheretherketone.
An article according to claim 68, wherein said means
for positioning further comprises a ceramic support (105) adjacent

to and substantially parallel to said insulating substrate, said
ends (102,103) of said serpentine conductor extending also through

said ceramic support.
An article according to claim 71, wherein said ceramic
support (105) comprises a ceramic material selected from the group

consisting of:

zirconia,
alumina,
titanium dioxide, and
combinations thereof.
An article according to claim 71, wherein said means
for positioning further comprises a ceramic clamping block (92)

extending substantially perpendicularly from said insulating
substrate, adjacent to and substantially parallel to said

serpentine conductor, for supporting said serpentine conductor. 
An article according to claim 74, wherein said ceramic
clamping block comprises a ceramic material selected from the

group consisting of:

zirconia,
alumina,
titanium dioxide, and
combinations thereof.
An article according to claim 74, wherein said clamping
block has a first edge adjacent said insulating substrate, a

second edge remote from said insulating substrate, and a depressed
region between the first and second edges, and said serpentine

conductor is supported by said first and second edges
and is out of contact with said clamping block in said depressed

region, whereby conduction of heat from said serpentine conductor
to said clamping block is minimized.
An article according to claim 76, wherein a surface of
said clamping block in said depressed region is reflectorized to

reflect heat produced by said serpentine conductor.
An article according to claim 77, wherein said
reflectorized surface (93) is coated with a reflective metal

(107).
An article according to claim 78, wherein said
reflective metal (107) is gold.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
