<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630806</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Boom brake.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63H900	B63H910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63H	B63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63H9	B63H9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A boom brake for controlling the swinging motion of the 
boom of a sailboat includes a housing attached to the boom 

having two plates between which three bearing surfaces are 
mounted to engage a line attached to the sides of the sailboat 

in a serpentine path such that the line makes less than a full 
turn around each bearing surface to preclude overwrapping of 

the line. At least one of the bearing surfaces can be 
adjustably rotatable such that the force required to cause 

rotation can be selectively controlled. Braking of the boom 
motion is provided by sliding friction between the line and the 

bearing surfaces. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BREEMS MARTINUS VAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAN BREEMS, MARTINUS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN BREEMS MARTINUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN BREEMS, MARTINUS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to sailboats and, more 
particularly, to boom brakes for controlling the swinging 
motion of the booms of sailboats. A jibe occurs when a sailboat changes course in a 
following or quartering wind. For example, if the wind is 
coming over the port, or left, rear quarter and the boat heads 
to starboard, the wind will then come over the starboard rear 
quarter requiring the sails to be reset. In the case of the 
mainsail, the mainsheet is pulled in until the mainsail fills 
on the other side, at which point the mainsail is let out to 
the correct position. An accidental jibe occurs when the boom 
swings freely across the deck because of a sudden change in 
wind direction, helmsman error or unexpected wave action. As 
the sail begins to fill on the new side in an accidental jibe, 
the mainsheet no longer restrains the boom, so the boom can 
very quickly gather a considerable amount of speed, and in one 
to three seconds from the start of the accidental jibe, the 
boom can pass over the cockpit. There is very little time to 
react, and the boom often weighs 40 to 60 lbs on an average 
boat. If someone is in the way, he or she will, at the least, 
receive an unpleasant knock, and can be killed by impact or 
knocked overboard as happens to sailors every year. One option 
to prevent such boom swings is to set a preventer, a line run  
 
knocked overboard as happens to sailors every year. One option 
to prevent such boom swings is to set a preventer, a line run 
from the boom forward, but such a line can be difficult to 
release offshore, especially at night and/or in rough 
conditions when the preventer line is needed most. 
Furthermore, when the preventer line is released an anxious 
moment is created as the crew tries to get the boom in. Prior art sailboat boom motion control, as exemplified by 
U.S. Patent No. 4,138,962 to Waelder, has utilized a brake line 
secured at opposite ends to the gunwales of the sailboat and 
passing through a device mounted on the boom for retarding the 
passage of the line by frictional resistance of one or more 
dead turns of the line around a fixed non-rotatable sheave. 
Retardation of the line is adjusted by removing or adding 
additional turns of the line around the fixed sheave; however, 
such adjustment is time consuming in all instances and 
difficult in rough weather. For coastal sailing, which 
generally requires frequent jibing and wind condition changes, 
such a procedure to appropriately adjust the brake resistance 
is unsatisfactory.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A boom brake for controlling swinging movement of a 
sailboat boom by engaging a line secured to opposite sides of 

the sailboat comprising: 
   a housing for attachment to the boom of the sailboat; 

   a plurality of bearing surfaces disposed within said 
housing for engaging the line; 

   at least one of said bearing surfaces being rotatably 
mounted in said housing, said plurality of bearing surfaces 

includes first and second spaced upper bearing surfaces and a 
lower bearing surface disposed below said first and second 

upper bearing surfaces such that the line extends over said 
first upper bearing surface, under said lower bearing surface 

and over said second upper bearing surface in a serpentine path 
making only a partial turn on each of said bearing surfaces; 

and 
   means for selectively controlling resistance to rotation 

of said rotatable bearing surface. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement 
of a sailboat boom as recited in claim 1 wherein said first and 

second upper bearing surfaces are non-rotatably fixed in said 
housing and said lower bearing surface is rotatably mounted in 

said housing. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement of 
a sailboat boom as recited in claim 1 wherein said housing 

includes first and second spaced parallel plates and said means 
for selectively controlling resistance to rotation includes 

means for compressing said first and second plates to contact 
said at least one rotatably mounted bearing surface with a 

variable force. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement 
of a sailboat boom as recited in claim 2 wherein said lower 

bearing surface includes a sheave having an axis of rotation 
and a bore along said axis of rotation and said compressing 

 
means includes a bolt extending through said first and second 

plates and said bore through said sheave. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement 
of a sailboat boom as recited in claim 4 wherein said 

compressing means includes a knob threadedly engaging said 
bolt. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement 
of a sailboat boom as recited in claim 1 and further 
comprising 
a first guide disposed in said housing spaced from said first 

upper bearing surface to define a first portal for receiving 
the line and a second guide disposed in said housing spaced 

from said second upper bearing surface to define a second 
portal for receiving the line. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement 
of a sailboat boom as recited in claim 2 wherein said first and 

second upper bearing surfaces are formed by sheaves. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement of 
a sailboat boom as recited in claim 1 wherein said housing 

includes first and second spaced parallel plates and said means 
for selectively controlling resistance to rotation includes 

means for compressing said first and second plates to contact 
said at least one rotatably mounted bearing surface with a 

variable force. 
A boom brake for controlling the swinging movement 
of a sailboat boom as recited in claim 8 wherein said at least 

one rotatably mounted bearing surface includes a sheave having 
an axis of rotation and a bore along said axis of rotation and 

said compressing means includes a bolt extending through said 
first and second plates and said bore through said sheave. 
A system for controlling the swinging movement of a 
sailboat boom including: 

   a boom brake for attachment to the sailboat boom having 
first and second fixed bearing surfaces and a rotatable bearing 

surface, said first and second bearing surfaces being spaced 
from said rotatable bearing surface; 

   a line having opposite ends for attachment to opposite 
sides of the sailboat, said line passing through said boom 

brake in a single plane along a serpentine path making only a 
partial turn on each of said first and second fixed bearing 

surfaces and said rotatable bearing surface, said line passing 
from said first bearing surface to said rotatable bearing 

surface along a first straight leg of said serpentine path, 
around said rotatable bearing surface along a curved portion 

of said serpentine path, and from said rotatable bearing 
surface along a second straight leg of said serpentine path to 

said second fixed bearing surface; and 
   said boom brake including means engaging said rotatable 

bearing surface with a variable force for selectively 
controlling resistance to rotation of said rotatable bearing 

surface. 
A boom brake for controlling swinging movement of a 
sailboat boom by engaging a line secured to opposite sides of 

the sailboat comprising 
   a housing for attachment to the boom of the sailboat; and 

   a plurality of fixed, non-rotating bearing surfaces 
disposed within said housing for engaging the line, said 

plurality of bearing surfaces including first, second and third 
spaced bearing surfaces disposed such that the line passes 

through said housing in a single plane along a serpentine path 
making only a partial turn on each of said bearing surfaces. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
