<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628096</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INERT GAS PURIFYING SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5332	B01D5332	C01B2100	C01B2104	C01B2300	C01B2300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	C01B	C01B	C01B	C01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D53	B01D53	C01B21	C01B21	C01B23	C01B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and system for removing trace amounts of oxygen as an impurity in inert gases is disclosed. The process and system involve an electrochemical cell (15) containing an oxygen ion transporting, solid state metal oxide electrolyte having a high thermodynamic potential and having only one thermodynamically stable valence state for the metal ion component of the electrolyte. The electrolyte is coated with a perovskite anode and a metallic cathode. Operation is conducted at high voltages, e.g., 1.5 volts and above, at elevated temperatures. Purification of inert gases to an oxygen content of about 1 ppm is readily achievable.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMATEC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CERAMATEC INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NACHLAS JESSE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR DALE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NACHLAS JESSE A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAYLOR DALE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 INERT GAS PURIFYING SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field: The instant invention relates to processes and systems for removing oxygen from gas streams through the use of a solid state oxygen ion conducting electrolyte. The invention particularly relates to the removal of trace amounts of oxygen as an impurity from inert gas streams. State of the Art; Since the formulation of theNernst equation in about 1890, it has been known that certain solid metal oxides such as zirconium oxide transported oxygen ions in a relationship to the voltage applied across the electrolyte or, in other words, that a partial pressure differential of oxygen across the electrolyte generated a certain voltage potential. The Nernst equation is stated as follows:RT i ?- p2 ( unknown) £=-— \n 2 2ZF ' P Px (ιeference)Since the developments of Ruka and others in the 1960's relating to zirconium oxide, particularly with respect to fuel cells but also with respect to the ability of zirconia to act as an oxygen concentration sensor and transporter of oxygen ions, it has been known that pure oxygen could be delivered by an applied voltage to an electrolyte to separate oxygen from air or other gases. In this regard, see Ruka patent, Re 28,792 (1976) .The technical issues which remain even to the present day is how to bring about an efficient transport of oxygen across an oxygen ion conducting electrolyte, especially when the concentration of oxygen in the inlet gas stream is very low.In a recent patent, U.S. Patent 5,035,726 assigned to Air Products, a system is described wherein 

argon containing oxygen as an impurity is pressurized to 206,850-551,600 Newtons per square meter gauge (30-80 psig) and placed in contact with an electrolyte to remove the oxygen. The operation of electrolytes under increased pressure is known from the Nernst equation and there is no data in the Air Products patent to indicate any particularly effectiveness achieved by the stated pressure ranges in comparison with atmospheric pressure operation. The Air Products patent further notes the use of a sweep gas at the anode side of the gas purifier to reduce the partial pressure of oxygen contained therein. This is done, according to the patent, to reduce the partial pressure differential between oxygen as a trace amount in the inert gas versus the oxygen concentration at the anode side. This, of course, would be expected from knowledge of the Nernst equation. To follow this to its logical conclusion, however, pure sweep gas, that is, containing no oxygen, would
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. An electrochemical cell employing a solid state oxygen ion conducting electrolyte for removing trace amounts of 0
2
 from inert gases, comprising: a cathode chamber with an inlet for oxygen contaminated inert gas and an outlet for purified inert gas; an anode chamber with an outlet for oxygen gas; a solid, non-porous electrolyte of a ceramic metal oxide, oxygen ion conductor separating said cathode chamber from said anode chamber, said electrolyte having a high thermodynamic decomposition potential at elevated temperatures and said metal having only one thermodynamically stable ionic valence state; a porous cathode coating adherent to said electrolyte, said cathode being in said cathode chamber and consisting essentially of metal-cermets or "n" type semiconducting oxides; a porous anode coating adherent to said electrolyte, said anode being in said anode chamber and comprising perovskite metal oxide electrodes; and metallic current collectors adherent to the exposed surface of said cathode and said anode.
2. The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cell contains means for imposing a voltage of at least 1.25 volts across said electrolyte.
3. The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cell contains means for imposing a voltage of at least about 1.5 volts across said electrolyte.
4. The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte is zirconia. 


 5. The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cathode contains metallic oxygen getters.
6. The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte is essentially free of any material having a transference number lowering effect.
7. The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte has an essentially homogeneous chemical composition.
8. The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said current collector metal is silver.
9. The electrochemical cell of claim 5, wherein said metallic oxygen getters are present in said cathode in an amount of about 20 to about 30% by weight.
10. A combination of electrochemical cells for removing oxygen as an impurity from inert gases, comprising: a first electrochemical cell comprising a cathode chamber having an inlet for oxygen- contaminated inert gas and an outlet for semi-purified inert gas, an anode chamber having an outlet for oxygen gas, a solid, non-porous oxygen ion conducting electrolyte consisting essentially of ceria, a porous cathode coating containing perovskite metal oxides adherent to said electrolyte, a porous anode coating containing perovskite metal oxides adherent to said electrolyte, metallic current collector adherent to the exposed surface of said cathode and anode; a second electrochemical cell comprising 


 a cathode chamber having an inlet communicating with the outlet for semi-purified gas from the cathode chamber of said first electrochemical cell, said second electrochemical cell cathode chamber having an outlet for purified inert gas, an anode chamber having an outlet for oxygen gas, a solid, non-porous ceramic metal oxide electrolyte separating said cathode chamber from said anode chamber, said electrolyte having a high thermodynamic decomposition potential at elevated temperatures and said metal having only one thermodynamically stable ionic valence state, a porous cathode coating adherent to said electrolyte, said cathode being in said cathode chamber and consisting essentially of an electronically conducting metal, metal-cermets and "n" type semiconducting oxides, a porous anode coating adherent to said electrolyte, said anode being in said anode chamber and comprising perovskite metal oxide electrodes, and metallic current collectors adherent to the exposed surface of said cathode and said anode.
11. The electrochemical cell combination of claim 10, wherein said first electrochemical cell has means for imposing a voltage of up to about one volt across said electrolyte.
12. The electrochemical cell combination of claim 10, wherein said second electrochemical cell has 


means for imposing a voltage of at least about 1.5 volts across said electrolyte.
13. The electrochemical cell combination of claim 10, wherein the electrolyte surface area of said first cell is larger than that of said second cell.
14. A process for removing trace amounts of oxygen from inert gases, comprising: introducing impure inert gas containing trace amounts of oxygen as an impurity into contact with a solid state, non-porous oxygen-ion conducting electrolyte having a high thermodynamic decomposition potential at elevated temperatures; operating said electrolyte at a temperature above about
700°C; imposing a voltage of at le- st 1.25 volts across said electrolyte; maintaining contact of said inert gas with said electrolyte until the oxygen content is reduced below about 5 ppm.
15. The process of claim 14, wherein said electrolyte is zirconia.
16. The process of claim 15, wherein said zirconia electrolyte is adherently coated with an electronically conductive cathode and an electronically conductive anode.
17. The process of claim 15, wherein said impure inert gas comes into contact with the cathode adherent to said zirconia electrolyte.
18. The process of claim 14, wherein said imposed voltage is at least about 1.4 volts. 


 19. The process of claim 14, wherein said imposed voltage is at least about 1.5 volts.
20. The process of claim 14, wherein said electrolyte temperature is maintained above about 750°C.
21. The process of claim 20, wherein oxygen is removed from the anode adherent to each electrolyte by maintaining a negative pressure (sub-atmospheric) at said anode surface.
22. The process or claim 21, wherein pure oxygen is collected from the anode adherent to said electrolyte and transported to a collector for pure oxygen.
23. The process of claim 14, wherein the electrolyte is operated at a temperature of about at least 750°C.
24. The process of claim 14, wherein the electrolyte is operated at a temperature of at least about 800°C.
25. The process of claim 14, wherein said inert gas is first introduced to an electrolyte having a high ionic conductivity efficiency and a lower thermodynamic decomposition potential than zirconia. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
