<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647167</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SAW ATTACHMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23D4900	B23D4916	B23D4904	B23D5116	B23D5100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23D	B23D	B23D	B23D	B23D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23D49	B23D49	B23D49	B23D51	B23D51	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A reciprocating saw includes a system (10) that permits the saw blade to be mounted so that it is at an angle (i.e., so that it is not parallel) to the axis of reciprocation of the saw. The system (10) permits the blade (6) to be rotated about its axis of reciprocation, and in some embodiments the angle between the blade axis (B) and the axis of reciprocation of the saw (A) may be varied through an angle of about 90 .
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WETHERBEE KIRK B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WETHERBEE, KIRK B.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETHERBEE KIRK B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WETHERBEE, KIRK B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a reciprocating saw
having, a body, a motor, and a shaft arranged for connection to the motor and mounted
for reciprocation along an axis relative to the body in response to the motor of the saw.
A saw of this kind is known from US-A-3876015.
More particularly, the invention relates to attachments for such saws.A reciprocating saw is one of the construction
industry's most useful tools. Carpenters, plumbers,
electricians, sheet metal workers and virtually all
other tradesmen use the reciprocating saw. However
because the sawblade is axially aligned with the body
of the saw, it is often difficult or awkward to cut,
for example, in confined spaced close to walls or
ceilings. Similar difficulties arise from the fact
that the blade typically is also fixed relative to its
long (reciprocating) axis.US-A-3876015 discloses an attachment for a
reciprocating saw. The attachment allows a blade to
be rotated about an axis parallel to but spaced from a
blade axis but is neither compact nor well adapted in
operation in particularly cramped quarters.This invention provides a motor, and a first
shaft arranged for connection to the motor and mounted
for reciprocation along a first axis relative to the
body in response to the motor for the saw, wherein a
second shaft is arranged for connection to a saw blade
and is mounted for reciprocation along a second axis
that is not coincident with, and in at least one
relative positioning of the first and second shafts is
not parallel to the first axis, and a drive connecting
the first shaft to the second shaft so that
reciprocation of the first shaft causes reciprocation
of the second shaft. The following is a description of some specific embodiments
of the invention, reference being made to the accompanying drawings,
in which:
Figure 1 schematically illustrates an attachment
constructed in accordance with the present invention
mounted on a conventional reciprocating say.Figure 2 is a plan view, with one side plate, the
saw blade and the tables removed, of the attachment of
Figure 1.Figure 3 is a plan view, partially in section, of
the attachment of Figure 1.Figure 4 is a section taken at line 4-4 of Figure
2.Figures 5a and 5b are plan, partially schematic,
views of a modified embodiment.Figure 6 is a side view, partially in section, of a
third embodiment of the invention. Figure 7 is an end sectional view, taken at 7-7 of
Figure 6.Figure 8 is a top sectional view, taken at 8-8 of
Figure 7.Figures 9 and 10 are aide views illustrating the
operation of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A reciprocating saw having a body (8), a motor (2''), and a first shaft (9)
arranged for connection to the motor and mounted for reciprocation along a first axis

(A) relative to the body in response to the motor of the saw, characterised in that a
second shaft (11) is arranged for connection to a saw blade (6) and is mounted for

reciprocation along a second axis (B) that is not coincident with, and in at least one
relative positioning of the first and second shafts (9, 11) not parallel to the first axis, and a

drive (19, 20, 21, 22, 23) connecting the first shaft to the second shaft so that
reciprocation of the first shaft causes reciprocation of the second shaft.
A saw as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that when the shafts (9, 11) are in
the at least one relative positioning, the second axis (B) is substantially perpendicular to

the first axis (A).
A saw as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the second shaft (11) is
rotatable about the second axis, the saw further including a retainer (30) for holding the

second shaft in a desired rotational position while permitting reciprocation of the
second shaft along the second axis.
A saw as claimed in claim 1, including a housing (10) receiving the first
shaft (9) and supporting the second shaft (11) and the drive, the housing being rotatable

about the first axis (A), and including a retainer (52) for holding the housing in a desired
rotational position.
A saw as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the first and second
shafts (9', 11') are movable relative to each other about a third axis generally

perpendicular to the first and second axes (A', B') to vary the angle between the first
axis and second axis.
A saw as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the angle is variable in a
range between about 45° and about 135°. 
A saw as claimed in claim 5, characterised in that the angle is variable in a
range between about 0° and about 90°.
A saw as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that each of the shafts (9, 11)
comprises a rack of axially-spaced, radially-extending gear teeth (26) extending

circumferentially thereof, and at least one of the shafts is rotatable relative to the drive
(18 to 23) when in engagement with the drive.
A saw as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the drive (18 to 23)
includes at least one gear (22'') rotatable about an axis perpendicular to the first and

second axes (A'', B'').
A saw as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that the drive comprises an
input gear (18) engaging the first shaft, an output gear (20) engaging the second shaft,

and an idler gear (22) engaging the input and output gears.
A saw as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that the first and second
shafts (9'', 11'') engage the gear (19'').
A saw as claimed in claim 1, including an attachment having a housing
(10, 10') in which the first and second shafts (9, 11) and the drive (18 to 23) are

mounted, the housing being arranged for connection to the body of the saw.
A saw as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that the saw includes a
reciprocating output shaft, and the first shaft (9) is connected to the output shaft.
A saw as claimed in claim 12, characterised in that the first axis and the
second axis (9, 11) are not parallel.
A saw as claimed in claim 14, characterised in that the angle between the
first axis (A) and the second axis (B) is in the range of about 45° to about 135°. 
A saw as claimed in claim 1, including first (12a'') and second (12b'')
relatively rotatable housing sections, the first shaft (9'') being received in and

reciprocable relative to the first housing section, the second shaft (11'') being received in
and reciprocable relative to the second housing section, and the drive (22'') being

received in and rotatable relative to both of the housing sections.
A saw as claimed in claim 16, characterised in that the drive comprises a
gear (22'') rotatable about a third 
axis (C) perpendicular to the first and second axes (A'',
B''), each of the first and second shafts (9'', 11'') engage the gear (22''), and the first and

second housing sections are relatively rotatable about the third axis.
A saw as claimed in claim 17, characterised in that the housing sections
(12a'', 12b'') are relatively rotatable about the third axis through an angle of not less

than about 90°.
A saw as claimed in claim 18, characterised in that the housing sections
are rotatable relative to the saw about the first axis (A'').
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
