<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612357</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR DETECTION OF CHROMOSOMAL STURCTURE AND REARRANGEMENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q168	C12Q168	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N3358	G01N3358	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and reagents for the in situ detection of chromosome structure or a region of a chromosome involved in rearrangements are disclosed. These reagents include a multiplicity of labeled probe DNA sequences that are complementary to different portions of the chromosome or chromosome region to be detected, and label specific antibodies conjugated to interdependent signal producing moieties. Selected pairs of the probes are contacted under hybridizing conditions with the chromosome or chromosome region of interest. Subsequently, said label specific antibodies are attached to the labels, resulting in the coupling of said moieties chemical reactions upon the addition of substrates. Consequently, a signal is produced at the chromosome region of interest that can be detected by optical means.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMOCO CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TARON DOUGLAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TARON, DOUGLAS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS FOR DETECTION OF CHROMOSOMAL STRUCTURE ANDREARRANGEMENTSThis invention relates to methods for detecting a site characterized by a genetically significant rearrangement event in targeted chromosomal DNA sequences which may occur at any location in any chromosome. This invention further relates to methods comprising steps of applying first and second labelled probes to a target nucleic acid at regions adjacent to said site, wherein the probes comprise DNA sequences which are complementary to the chromosomal DNA sequences of interest. One key element of this invention is that the labelled probe DNAs are then specifically associated with first and second interdependent signal producing moieties capable of interaction by the diffusion of a chemical substance to produce a detectable signal. With the addition of reagent , the first and second moieties are induced to produce a signal at the site of a genetically significant event, and the presence or absence of the signal is then optically detected.This invention also relates to methods for revealing pre-existing fluorescent labels, both for revival of faded labels and confirmation of previous results.Background Of The' InventionChromosome structure is intimately related to the manner and. mechanics of gene expression in normal cell function. Just as importantly, conservation of chromosome structure during cell division is necessary for transmission of genetic information from cell to cell, and from generation to generation. Often however, chromosome structure is changed and may forecast problems in gene function.Alterations in chromosome structure often coincide with, and may be the cause of many inborn genetic disorders and degenerative diseases, including certain cancers. Such alterations may take the form of additional or absent whole chromosomes, or additional or absent portions of chromosomes. Chromosomes may also be rearranged, as by a translocation, so that different chromosomal regions come to be linked to each other. A host of other genetic defects, including inversions, 

amplifications, and outright deletions, can occur alone or in combination with the above named defects.Some gross chromosomal alterations are detectable as diseases. Alterations such as additional or absent chromosomes may lead to, for example, Down syndrome (extra chromosome 21 matter), Turner syndrome (deleted X chromosome in females) or Klinefelter syndrome (XXY chromosomes). Alterations involving parts of chromosomes can produce, for example, chronic myeiogenous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
That which is claimed is:
1. A method for detecting a site characterized by a genetically significant rearrangement event in targeted chromosomal DNA sequences, which site may occur at any location in any chromosome, comprising the steps of:
(a) applying a first probe and a second probe to a target nucleic acid at a first and second region adjacent to said site, wherein said first probe has an attached first label, and comprises high and moderate complexity DNA sequences which are complementary to substantially all of chromosomal DNA sequences of said first adjacent region and is able to attach to said first region of the target, and wherein said second probe has an attached second label, and comprises high and moderate complexity DNA sequences which are complementary to substantially all of the chromosomal DNA sequences of said second adjacent region and is able to attach to said second region,
(b) contacting the labelled product of step (a) with first and second interdependent signal producing moieties, said first interdependent signal producing moiety (ISPM) capable of attaching specifically to said first label by immunological means, and said second interdependent signal producing moiety (ISPM) capable of attaching specifically to said second label by immunological means, wherein said first moiety and said second moiety are capable of interaction by the diffusion of a chemical substance to produce a detectable signal,
(c) adding reagent comprising chemical substance capable of inducing said first and second moieties to produce a detectable signal at a site of a genetically significant event, and
(d) optically detecting the presence or absence of said signal.
2. A method of detecting genetically significant rearrangement events in a target DNA sequence, as recited in claim 1 , wherein said immunological attaching means includes at least one of the following combinations;
(1 ) first antibodies which are conjugated to first ISPMs, and capable of immunologϊcally attaching to first labels, and second antibodies which are 


conjugated to second ISPM's, and capable of immunoiogically attaching to second labels, or
(2) first antibodies which are conjugated to first ISPMs, and capable of immunoiogically attaching to first labels, second antibodies capable of immunoiogically attaching to second label, and third antibodies which are conjugated to second ISPMs, and capable of immunoiogically attaching to said second antibodies, or
(3) first antibodies capable of immunoiogically attaching to first label, second antibodies which are conjugated to second ISPMs, and capable of immunoiogically attaching to second labels, and third antibodies which are conjugated to first ISPM, and capable of attaching to first antibodies, such that said immunological means juxtapose said first and second ISPMs so as to produce a signal.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein said first label and said second label are non-identical and are each taken from one of three groups including; a) multiple xanthine or lower alkyl substituted xanthine derivatives; b) phenyl substituted with one to three nitro groups; and c) fluorescent compounds.
4. A method of detecting genetically significant rearrangement events in a target DNA sequence, as recited in claim 3, wherein said first and second ISPMs are a coupled enzyme system, comprising a first enzyme able to interact with a second enzyme by the diffusion of a chemical substance essential to producing the detectable signal.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein there are two probes, and each is high complexity whole chromosome paint (WCP) consisting essentially of chromosome specific labelled DNA fragments corresponding to locations over an entire individual chromosome.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein a first probe is a whole chromosome paint, and second said probe DNA. is either a yeast autonomous 


chromosome (YAC) clone or cosmid clone, said clones having insert sizes exceeding 50000 nucleotides.
7. A method of detecting and locating genetically significant rearrangement events in targeted DNA sequences, as recited in claim 1 , wherein said targeted DNA sequences are taken from a biological source of interest, and said DNA may be in the form of whole nuclei, chromosomes or fragments thereof, naked DNA or fragments thereof, where such DNA is either fixed to a slide so as to conserve the identifying morphology of distinct chromosomes or nuclei, or where such DNA is naked and bound to a solid substrate after a fractionation and separation means have been applied.
8. A method of enhancing or replacing signal from flouresenctly labelled in situ hybridized chromosomes, wherein said fluorescent label is faded or otherwise non-detectable, comprising the steps of;
(a) contacting fluorescent label portion of fluorescence labelled hybridized chromosomes with a signal producing moiety, wherein said moiety is directed to florescence labelled chromosomes by immunological means comprising antigen/antibody or anubody/antiantibody pairs; and
(b) reacting reagent comprising a first and. second substance with said moiety, thereby converting a colorless soluble substrate to an insoluble detectable signal, said signal being in the range of visible light and detectable by optical means.
9. A method of enhancing or replacing signal from fluorescently labelled in situ hybridized chromosomes, as recited in claim 1 , wherein said fluorescent label is carboxytetramethylrhodamine.
10. A method for detecting a junction site resulting from a translocation event in chromosomal DNA sequences, wherein targeted chromosomal DNA sequences are in the form of a metaphase spread, and wherein said site may occur at any location in any chromosome, comprising the steps of: 


 (a) attaching a first probe and a second probe to a target chromosome at a first and second region at different sides of said site, wherein said first probe is a whole chromosome paint labelled with theophylline and comprises DNA sequences which are able to hybridize to said first region of the target, and wherein said second probe is a whole chromosome paint labelled with dinitrophenyl, and comprises DNA sequences which are able to hybridize to said second region,
(b) contacting said theophylline label with horseradish peroxidase anti- theophylline conjugate, and contacting said dinitrophenyl label, first with rabbit anti-dinitrophenyl and then with glucose oxidase anti-rabbit conjugate,
(c) adding reagent containing glucose and tetramethylbenzidine, capable of inducing said first and second moieties to produce a detectable signal at the junction site of a chromosomal translocation, and
(d) detecting the presence or absence of said signal in a light microscope. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
