<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640307</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Non-slip cushion and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47D1500	A47D1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47D	A47D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47D15	A47D15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A non-slip high chair cushion, having globules C of 
rubbery polymeric material deposited on a scrim fabric A as 

by dipping same in a plastic foam material, prevents an 
infant from sliding forwardly out of the high chair. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEHONDT JACQUES H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DEHONDT, JACQUES H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEHONDT JACQUES H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEHONDT, JACQUES H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a non-slip cushion which, for 
example, prevents an infant from sliding out of a high chair 
and which additionally restricts squirming of a user. As has been well recognized in the art, the infant must 
assume a substantially erect posture when seated in a 
conventional high chair to avoid sliding forwardly or 
outwardly therefrom. The infant will not maintain the 
desired position if allowed to squirm. Various devices have 
been proposed to improve the posture of the infant or to 
otherwise prevent the infant from sliding out of the high 
chair. For instance, U.S. Patent No. 4,712,833 illustrates 
a wedge-shaped cushion to prevent forward sliding of the 
infant. Also, U.S. Patent No. 3,311,410 illustrates an 
anti-slip bar having a convex upper side to prevent forward 
sliding of an infant from a high chair. Accordingly, it is an important object of the present 
invention to provide a non-slip high chair cushion which 
provides sufficient frictional force both between the 
cushion and the high chair seat and between the cushion and 
the bottom of the baby to prevent the baby from falling from 
the high chair. Another important object of the invention is to provide  
 
a non-slip cushion which covers a substantial portion of the 
upper surface of a support surface such as the high chair 
seat so as to provide a significant surface area of 
frictional resistance to movement of the cushion with 
respect to the support. Another important object of the invention is to provide 
a non-slip high chair cushion having a scrim material which 
possesses resistance to deformation at right angles to each 
other.  It has been found that a non-slip high chair cushion 
may be provided which prevents an infant from sliding 
forwardly out of the high chair and which inhibits lateral 
squirming of the infant. The cushion includes a fabric 
constructed of a scrim material so as to possess substantial 
resistance to deformation in two directions at right angles 
to each other. The scrim forms openings in the fabric, 
which, in the preferred embodiment, are in a checkerboard 
pattern. Globules of rubbery polymeric material are 
deposited on the scrim as by dipping the scrim in a plastic 
foam material. Cushions constructed in accordance with the invention 
are flexible so as to lie flat on the high chair seat. Said 
rubber polymeric material enables the cushion to maintain a 
high coefficient of friction both between the cushion and 
the high chair seat and between the cushion and the bottom 
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A non-slip cushion for a seat comprising a single 
layer of scrim fabric having spaced fibers extending 

longitudinally and transversely so as to possess substantial 
resistance to stretching in directions at right angles to 

each other; 
   said scrim fabric having enlarged substantially 

rectangular openings therein formed by said longitudinally 
and transversely extending spaced fibers; 

   globules of a rubbery polymeric material deposited 
on both sides of said scrim fabric providing each side 

thereof with a frictional coating of plastic foam material; 
   said coated scrim fabric being configured to 

conform to the shape of a seat and positioned thereon to 
provide a cushion for a user of the seat; 

   said cushion being breathable and flexible so as 
to lie flat against the seat surface under the weight of a 

user and maintaining a high coefficient of friction between 
one side of said cushion and said seat, and on the other 

side between said cushion and a user sitting on said 
cushion; 

   said single layer of fabric being oriented in said 
cushion so that said scrim is in respective transverse and 

longitudinal alignment on said seat; and
 

   said scrim fabric having a peripheral edge portion 
providing a border, including a binder, said binder being 

extended to form ties at one end of said cushion for 
securement to a chair back; and 

   including a binder; 
   whereby the user is protected against sliding and 

skidding off the seat and the cushion is protected against 
stretching under the weight of the user. 
The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
scrim fabric fiber forms enlarged openings in said fabric 

arranged in a checkerboard pattern. 
The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
globules are spaced randomly about said scrim. 
The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
globules are foamed polyvinyl chloride. 
The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein said 
seat is a smooth high chair seat of a high chair. 
A method of using a non-slip cushion material for 
use as a supporting surface comprising the steps of: 

   using a single-layer of a non-slip fabric made of 
scrim fabric having spaced fibers extending longitudinally 

and transversely so as to possess substantial resistance to 
 

stretching in directions at right angles to each other and 
providing enlarged openings therein, and having globules of 

rubbery polymeric foam material coated on both sides of said 
scrim so as to be flexible and breathable and to provide 

each side of said fabric with a friction surface; 
   orienting said fabric so that said scrim fibers 

are disposed in transverse and longitudinal alignment on a 
supporting surface; 

   cutting said fabric to form a cushion having a 

border portion defined by a peripheral edge and configured 
to conform to the supporting surface of a seat upon which 

the cushion is to be used, said border portion including a 
binder secured by stitches about the peripheral edge of the 

cushion, said binder being extended to form ties at one each 
of said cushion; 

   placing said cushion on the supporting surface of 
a chair; and 

   tying the ties to the back of the chair, whereby a 
person seated on said cushion is protected against sliding 

and skidding off the supporting surface. 
A method of using a non-slip cushion material for 
use on a supporting surface comprising the steps of: 

   using a single layer of a non-slip fabric made of 
scrim material spaced longitudinally and transversely having 

 
enlarged open gaps therein formed in a generally 

checkerboard pattern by said scrim, possessing substantial 
resistance to deformation in two directions at right angles 

to each other; 
   providing enlarged open gaps in said fabric formed 

by said scrim and having globules of rubbery plastic foam 
material coated on said scrim so as to be flexible and 

breathable and to provide a first non-slip surface across 
one side of said fabric overlying said supporting surface, 

and a second non-slip surface across the other side of said 
fabric; 

   orienting said fabric so that said scrim is 
disposed in transverse and longitudinal alignment on said 

supporting surface; 
   forming a border about edges of said fabric to 

define a shape of said cushion conforming to a supporting 
surface upon said cushion is used, 

   orienting said border for transverse and 
longitudinal alignment with said supporting surface and for 

transverse and longitudinal alignment with said generally 
checkerboard pattern formed by said scrim; and 

   placing said fabric on said supporting surface, 
   whereby said cushion is secured to said supporting 

surface, and a person seated on said fabric is protected 
against sliding or skidding off of said supporting surface, 

 
and the cushion is protected against stretching under the 

weight of the user. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
