<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656766</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL CATHETER WITH STRANDED FIBERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1820	A61B1822	A61B1824	G02B2326	G02B2326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	G02B23	G02B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A catheter (10) having an axis extending between a proximal end (18) an an opposite distal end (32) includes a plurality of optical fibers (70) arranged to spiral in a first direction to form a circumferential layer around the axis. Rotation of the catheter in the first direction tends to expand the layer while rotation of the catheter in a second opposite direction tends to contract the circumferential layer. An outer jacket (67) limits the contraction of the circumferential layer to increase torquability of the catheter. The stranded fibers (70) equalize bending stresses to maintain a circular cross-sectional configuration, increase flexibility and reduce diameter for the catheter.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED INTERVENTIONAL SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED INTERVENTIONAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDENBERG TSVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARDLE JOHN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDENBERG, TSVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARDLE, JOHN, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OPTICAL CATHETER WITH STRANDED FIBERSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates generally to fiberoptic catheters and more specifically to laser catheters such as those used in angioplasty.Background of the InventionA surgical procedure commonly referred to as coronary angioplasty is well known in the art and is a noninvasive technique which addresses problems associated with the blockage and sometimes occlusion of coronary arteries. In this procedure, a guide catheter is typically introduced into the femoral artery in the leg and directed upwardly through the aortic arch into either the left coronary artery or the right coronary artery.A very small guidewire is typically introduced through the guide catheter and carefully directed through the smaller coronary arteries up to and typically across the lesion of interest. An operative catheter is introduced over the guidewire and interiorly of the guide catheter until its distal end is brought into proximity to the lesion. The next step in the surgical procedure depends on the nature of the operative catheter. Balloon catheters have been used to compress the plague, but more recently, laser catheters have been used to ablate the plague material to increase the patency of the artery. 

 Laser catheters rely upon optical fibers to transmit laser energy from the proximal end of the catheter to the distal end of the catheter. In the past this transmission has taken place through a fiberoptic which may comprise a single fiber or a bundle including many small fibers which are arranged in a generally parallel configuration.Although the laser catheter relies heavily on the guide catheter and the guidewire for manipulation, it nevertheless must have its own flexibility in order to negotiate the various bends and curves which define a typically torturous path to the lesion. It is the bending of the optical fibers that has presented particular problems for these laser catheters.In the past, the parallel fibers have typically been housed in a catheter jacket. When the catheter is bent, the parallel fibers have unequal bending paths. With an outer jacket closely spaced to the fiber bundle, the catheter would have a very high resistance to bending due to the restriction of movement. It has been found that this resistance can be decreased by providing some space between the fiber bundle and the catheter jacket. This space increases the ability of the fibers to move relative to each other as required when the catheter is bent. Unfortunately,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A fiberoptic catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a plurality of optical fibers arranged in a spiral configuration around the axis in a circumferential layer of the optical fibers; the fibers, being arranged to spiral in a first direction between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter so that rotation of the catheter in the first direction tends to expand the cylindrical layer while rotation of the catheter in a second direction opposite to the first direction tends to contract the cylindrical layer; first means disposed outwardly of the circumferential layer for limiting the expansion of the circumferential layer when the catheter is rotated in the first direction; and second means disposed inwardly of the circumferential layer for limiting the contraction of the cylindrical layer when the catheter is rotated in the second direction.
2. The catheter recited in Claim 1 wherein the second means comprises a tube which is disposed inwardly of the circumferential layer and defines a lumen which extends between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter. 


3. The catheter recited in Claim 1 wherein the second means comprises a single optical fiber.
4. The catheter recited in Claim l wherein the second means comprises a shaft disposed along the axis of the catheter.
5. The catheter recited in Claim 1 wherein the first means comprises a jacket of the catheter.
6. The catheter recited in Claim 1 wherein the second means comprises a second plurality of optical fibers arranged in a spiral configuration around the axis in a second circumferential layer, the second fibers arranged to spiral in the second direction between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter so that axial rotation of the catheter in the first direction tends to contract the second circumferential layer while axial rotation of the catheter in the second direction tends to expand the second cylindrical layer; whereby an interference fit exists between the first layer and the second layer when the catheter is rotated in the second direction. 

7. The catheter recited in Claim 6 wherein: the first means comprises a third plurality of optical fibers arranged in a spiral configuration around the axis in a third circumferential layer; the third fibers are arranged to spiral in the first direction between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter so that axial rotation of the catheter in the second direction contracts the third cylindrical layer while axial rotation of the catheter in the first direction expands the third cylindrical layer; whereby an interference fit exists between the first layer and the third layer when the catheter is rotated in the first direction.
8. The catheter recited in Claim 7 wherein the first, second and third plurality of optical fibers include a relatively small fiber having a particular diameter and a relatively large optical fiber having a diameter greater than the particular diameter.
9. The catheter recited in Claim 8 wherein the small fiber and the large fiber are disposed in different layers. 

10. A fiberoptic catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a multiplicity of optical fibers arranged to spiral around the axis of the catheter in at least first, second, and third circumferential layers; the fibers in the first circumferential layer forming a first spiral having a first pitch; the fibers in the second circumferential layer forming a second spiral having a second pitch; the fibers in the third circumferential layer forming a third spiral having a third pitch; and at least one of the first pitch, second pitch and third pitch being different than the other two of the first, second, and third pitch.
11. The catheter recited in Claim 10 wherein the first pitch and the third pitch are substantially equivalent.
12. The catheter recited in Claim 10 wherein each of the first pitch, second pitch and third pitch is within a range . of about 0.125 to 1.0 inches.
13. The catheter recited in Claim 10 wherein each of the first pitch, second pitch and third pitch is within a range of about 0.2 to 0.8 inches.
14. The catheter recited in Claim 10. wherein each of the optical fibers has a diameter in a range of about 30 microns to 200 microns.
15. The catheter recited in Claim 14 wherein each of the optical fibers has a diameter in a range of about 50 microns to 80 microns. 


16. A catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a plurality of optical fibers extending between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter; the catheter being bendable between a first position wherein the axis of the catheter is generally straight and the catheter in radial cross-section has a first shape, and a second position wherein the axis of the catheter forms a curve and the catheter in radial cross-section has a second shape along the curve; and the optical fibers being arranged in a pattern so that the second shape is maintained in a configuration substantially similar to the first shape.
17. The catheter recited in Claim 16 wherein the pattern includes a first fiber arranged to spiral around the axis in a first direction to form a first circumferential layer.
18. The catheter recited in Claim 17 wherein the pattern includes at least a second fiber arranged to spiral around the axis and the first fiber in a second direction to form a second circumferential layer outwardly of the first circumferential layer.
19. The catheter recited in Claim 18 wherein the pattern includes at least a third fiber arranged to spiral around the axis, the first layer, and the second layer in the first direction to form a third circumferential layer outwardly of the second circumferential layer.
20. The catheter recited in Claim 19 wherein at least one of the first, second and third fibers is an electrical fiber. 


21. The catheter recited in Claim 19 wherein at least one of the first, second and third pluralities of fibers includes a radiopaque fiber.
22. The catheter recited in Claim 16 wherein the pattern provides for a substantially equal distribution of bending stresses among the optical fibers in the second position.
23. A fiberoptic catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a first axial section of the catheter; a second axial section of the catheter disposed distally of the first axial section of the catheter; a plurality of optical fibers arranged contiguously in a spiral configuration to form a first circumferential layer extending in the first axial section and the second axial section around the axis of the catheter; the optical fibers in the first axial section having a first pitch; and the optical fibers in the second axial section having a second pitch different than the first pitch. 

24. The catheter recited in 23 further comprising: a second plurality of optical fibers arranged contiguously in a spiral configuration to form a second cylindrical layer outwardly the first cylindrical layer; a third plurality of optical fibers arranged contiguously in a spiral configuration to form a third cylindrical layer outwardly of the second cylindrical layer; the first plurality of fibers arranged to spiral in a first direction; and at least one of the second and third plurality of fibers arranged to spiral in a direction different than the first direction.
25. The catheter recited in Claim 24 wherein at least two of the fibers have a different diameter.
26. The catheter recited in Claim 24 wherein at least two of the fibers spiral at a different pitch.
27. The catheter recited in Claim 24 wherein at least two of the fibers spiral in different directions.
28. The catheter recited in Claim 23 wherein the circumferential layers include at least one radiopaque fiber.
29. The catheter recited in Claim 23 wherein the circumferential layers include at least one electrical fiber. 


30. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a longitudinal core extending along the catheter; a multiplicity of optical fibers arranged around the core and having properties for conducting light between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter; a first plurality of the fibers spiraling around the core in a first angular direction and forming a first circumferential layer around the core; a second plurality of the fibers spiraling around the core in a second angular direction and forming a second circumferential layer . outwardly of the first circumferential layer; and the first direction being different than the second direction.
31. The laser catheter recited in Claim 30 further comprising: a third plurality of fibers spiraling around the core in the first direction and forming a third circumferential layer outwardly the first circumferential layer, second circumferential layer, and the.core.
32. The laser catheter recited in Claim 30 wherein the core is an optical fiber disposed along the axis of the catheter.
33. The laser catheter recited in Claim 30 wherein the core is a tube forming an open channel along at least a portion of the axis of the catheter.
34. The laser catheter recited in Claim 33 wherein the exit port is spaced from the distal end of the catheter a distance which is not less than 25 centimeters. 


35. The laser catheter recited in Claim 34 wherein the exit port is spaced from the distal end of the catheter a distance which is in a range between 25 and 50 centimeters.
36. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a longitudinal core extending along the catheter; a multiplicity of optical fibers arranged around the core and having properties for conducting light between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter; a circumferential layer of the fibers disposed around the core and having . properties for expanding circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a first direction and properties for contracting circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a second direction opposite to the first direction; and means for limiting the expansion of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the first direction and for limiting the contraction of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the second direction.
37. The laser catheter recited in Claim 36 wherein the limiting means comprises: first means disposed outwardly of the layer of fibers to limit the expansion of the layer when the catheter is torqued in the first direction; and second means disposed inwardly of the layer of fibers to limit the contraction of the layer when the catheter is torqued in the second direction. 


38. The laser catheter recited in Claim 37 wherein the first means comprises a second layer of fibers disposed circumferentially outwardly of the first layer and having properties for contracting circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in the first direction.
39. The laser catheter recited in Claim 37 wherein the second means comprises a third layer of the fibers disposed circumferentially inwardly of the first layer and having properties for expanding circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in the second direction.
40. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a longitudinal guide lumen extending along the catheter; a multiplicity of optical fibers arranged around the guide lumen and having properties for conducting light between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter; a circumferential layer of the fibers disposed around the guide lumen and having properties for expanding circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a first direction and properties for contracting circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a second direction opposite to the first direction; and means for limiting the expansion of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the first direction and for limiting the contraction of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the second direction.
41. The laser catheter recited in Claim 40 wherein the guide lumen extends at least partially between the distal end and the proximal end of the catheter. 


42. The laser catheter recited in Claim 41 wherein: the guide lumen has a first end and a second end; the first end of a guide lumen is disposed at the distal end of the catheter; and the second end of the lumen is disposed between the distal end of the catheter and the proximal end of the catheter.
43. The laser catheter recited in Claim 40 wherein the guide lumen is disposed at least in part along the axis of the catheter.
44. The laser catheter recited in Claim 43 wherein the first end of the guide lumen is disposed along the axis at the distal end of the catheter.
45. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and a distal end of the catheter, comprising: a first axial section of the catheter; a second axial section of the catheter disposed proximally of the first axial section of the catheter; a multiplicity of optical fibers extending through the first axial section and the second axial section; the fibers in the first axial section forming a first spiral having a first pitch; and the fibers in the second axial section forming a second spiral having a second pitch longer than the first pitch.
46. The laser catheter recited in Claim 45 further comprising a tube defining a lumen along the axis in at least the first axial section. 


47. The laser catheter recited in Claim 46 wherein the tube includes a first portion disposed in the first axial section and a second portion disposed in the second axial section and the catheter further comprises torque means disposed in the lumen of the second portion of the tube.
48. The laser catheter recited in Claim 45 further comprising: a third axial section of the catheter disposed proximally of the second axial section; and the optical fibers extending through the third axial section in a generally parallel relationship with the axis of the catheter.
49. The laser catheter recited in Claim 45 wherein the multiplicity of optical fibers includes a first plurality of the fibers forming a first spiral in a first direction around the axis, and a second plurality of the optical fibers forming a second spiral in a second direction different then the first direction around the axis of the catheter. 

50. A method for increasing the torque characteristics of a catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, comprising the steps of; providing a plurality of fibers; wrapping the fibers around the axis of the catheter to form a single generally cylindrical layer between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter, the layer having properties for expanding radially when the catheter is twisted in a first direction and properties for contracting radially when the catheter is twisted in a second direction opposite to the first direction; providing a cylindrical outer surface inwardly of the fiber layer creating an interference fit with the contracting fiber layer when the catheter is twisted in the second direction; and providing a cylindrical inner surface outwardly.of the fiber layer to create an interference fit with the expanding fiber layer when the catheter is twisted in the first direction.
51. The method recited in Claim 50 wherein the second providing step includes the step of providing an elongate core having the cylindrical outer surface.
52. The method recited in Claim 51 wherein the second providing step includes the step of providing a tube having the cylindrical outer surface and an inner surface defining a lumen extending between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter.
53. The method recited in Claim 51 wherein the second providing step includes the step of providing a fiber having the cylindrical outer surface. 


54. The method recited in Claim 50 wherein the first providing step includes the step of providing a plurality of optical fibers.
55. The method recited in Claim 53 wherein the first providing step includes the step of providing a plurality of fibers including at least one radiopaque fiber.
56. The method recited in Claim 54 wherein the optical fibers comprise a first plurality of optical fibers and the third providing step includes the step of: providing a second plurality of optical fibers; and wrapping the second plurality of optical fibers around the first plurality of optical fibers to form a second cylindrical layer around the first cylindrical layer.
57. The method recited in Claim 56 wherein the first wrapping step includes the step of spiraling the first optical fibers around the axis of the catheter to form the single cylindrical layer; and the second wrapping step includes the step of spiraling the second optical fibers around the first optical fibers to form the second cylindrical layer.
58. The method recited in Claim 54 wherein the first providing step includes the step of providing at least a pair of optical fibers having different diameters. 


59. A method of using a catheter having an axis extending between a proximal and an opposing distal end, the catheter having improved torque transmission characteristics, the method comprising the steps of: spiraling at least a first, second and third fiber around the axis to form a respective inner layer, a middle layer disposed outwardly of the inner layer, and an outer layer disposed outwardly of the middle layer; torquing the catheter in a first axial direction to expand the middle layer radially outwardly and contract the outer layer radially inwardly to form an interference fit between the middle layer and the outer layer; and torquing the catheter in a second axial direction opposite to the first axial direction to contract the middle layer radially inwardly and expand the inner layer radially outwardly,to form an interference fit between the middle layer and the inner layer of the catheter.
60. The method recited in Claim 59 wherein the spiraling step includes the step of spiraling the second fiber in a direction opposite to at least one of the first fiber and the third fiber.
61. The method recited in Claim 59 wherein the spiraling step comprises the step of spiraling the second fiber at a pitch different than the pitch of one of first fiber and the third fiber.
62. The method recited in Claim 59 wherein at least one of the first, second and third fibers is spiraled at a variable pitch in its respective layer.
63. The method recited in Claim 59 further comprising the step of forming a jacket around the fibers. 


64. The method recited in Claim 63 wherein the forming step includes the step of extruding a jacket around the fibers between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter.
65. A laser catheter system, comprising: a laser; a catheter coupled to the laser and having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end; a core included in the catheter and having a generally cylindrical outer surface; a multiplicity of optical fibers having properties for conducting light between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter the fibers being disposed in an ordered arrangement around the core with each of the fibers has a non-parallel relationship with the axis of the catheter; and a jacket included in the catheter and disposed in surrounding relationship with the fibers of the catheter.
66. The system recited in Claim 65 wherein the laser is a pulsed laser having a wavelength in the range of 0.2 to 12 microns.
67. The system recited in Claim 66 wherein the laser is an eximer laser providing a pulsed output in a frequency range between 20 and 30 hertz.
68. The system recited in Claim 65 wherein the optical fibers are each arranged in the configuration of a spiral. 


69. The system recited in Claim 65 wherein the optical fibers include: a first optical fiber having a first bending path around the core; a second optical fiber having a second bending path around the core; and the first bending path having substantially the same shape as the second bending path.
70. The system recited in. Claim 69 further comprising: a first layer of the optical fibers surrounding the core; a second layer of the optical fibers surrounding the first layer of optical fibers; and the first optical fiber and the second optical fiber are disposed in the same layer.
71. A laser catheter for ablating plaque in a blood vessel, comprising: a source of laser energy; a catheter coupled to the source and configured for movement through the blood vessel to the site of the plaque; a plurality of optical fibers included in the catheter for transmitting the laser energy between the source and the plaque; and the fibers being disposed in an ordered arrangement providing the fibers with bending paths of substantially equal length and bending stresses of substantially equal magnitude when the catheter is bent along a curve. 


72. The catheter recited in Claim 71 wherein: the catheter has an axis extending between a proximal end and a distal end; and the fibers in the ordered arrangement have a non- parallel relationship with the axis of the catheter.
73. The catheter recited in Claim 72 wherein: the catheter includes a core and the fibers are spiraled around the core to form at least one circumferential layer.
74. The catheter recited in Claim 73 wherein the core is a tube. 

75. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a longitudinal core extending along the catheter; a multiplicity of optical fibers arranged around the core and having properties for conducting light between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter; a circumferential layer of the fibers disposed around the core and having properties for expanding circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a first direction and properties for contracting circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a second direction opposite to the first direction; means for limiting the expansion of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the first direction and for limiting contraction of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in a second direction opposite to the first direction; means for limiting the expansion of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the first direction and for limiting the contraction of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the second direction; first means included in the limiting means for limiting the expansion of the layer, the first means including a second layer of fibers disposed circumferentially outwardly of the first layer and having properties for contracting circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in the first direction; and second means included in the limiting means and disposed inwardly of the layer of fibers to limit the contraction of the layer when the catheter is torqued in the second direction. 


76. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and an opposing distal end, the catheter comprising: a longitudinal core extending along the catheter; a multiplicity of optical fibers arranged around the core and having properties for conducting light between the proximal end and the distal end of the catheter; a circumferential layer of the fibers disposed around the core and having properties for expanding circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a first direction and properties for contracting circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in a second direction opposite to the first direction; means for limiting the expansion of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the first direction and for limiting the contraction of the layer of fibers when the catheter is torqued in the second direction; first means included in the limiting means and disposed outwardly of the layer of fibers for limiting the expansion of the layers when the catheter is torqued in the first direction; and second means included in the limiting means for limiting the contraction of the layer when the catheter is torqued in the second direction, the second means including a second layer of the fibers disposed circumferentially inwardly of the first layer and having properties for expanding circumferentially when the catheter is torqued in the second direction. 


77. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and a distal end of the catheter, comprising: a first axial section of the catheter; a second axial section of the catheter disposed proximally of the first axial section of the catheter; a tube defining a lumen along the axis of at least the first axial section; first portions of the tube disposed in the first axial section and second portions of the tube disposed in the second axial section; torque means disposed in the lumen of the second portion of the tube for rotating the catheter along the axis of the catheter; a multiplicity of optical fibers extending through the first axial section and the second axial second axial section; the fibers in the first axial section forming a first spiral having a first pitch; and the fibers in the second axial section forming a second spiral having a second pitch longer than the first pitch. 

78. A laser catheter having an axis extending between a proximal end and a distal end of the catheter, comprising: a first axial section of the catheter; a second axial section of the catheter disposed proximally of the first axial section of the catheter; a third axial section of the catheter disposed proximally of the second axial section; a multiplicity of optical fibers extending through the first axial section, the second axial section, and the third axial section; the fibers in the first axial section forming a first spiral having a first pitch; the fibers of the second axial section forming a second spiral having a second pitch longer than the first pitch; and the fibers in the third axial section extending in a generally parallel relationship with the axis of the catheter.
79. The laser catheter recited in Claim 36 wherein the limiting means includes: means contiguous with the layer of fibers for limiting the expansion of the layer when the catheter is torqued in the first direction; and means contiguous with the layer of fibers for limiting the contraction of the layer when the catheter is torqued in the second direction. 


80. The system recited in Claim 65 wherein the optical fibers include: a first optical fiber having a first bending stress around the core; a second optical fiber having a second bending stress around the core; and the first bending stress having substantially the same magnitude as the second bending stress. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
