<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651877</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND MEANS FOR GENERATING SYNTHETIC SPECTRA ALLOWING QUANTITATIVE MEASUREMENT IN NEAR INFRARED MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B5145	A61B5145	A61B51455	A61B1000	A61B1000	G01J300	G01J310	G01J342	G01J3427	G01N2131	G01N2135	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B10	A61B10	G01J3	G01J3	G01J3	G01J3	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and means for generating synthetic spectra allowing quantitative measurement utilizes dual chip (12, 14) alternatively energized IREDs (10) with optical bandpass filter(s) (22, 24) passing two optical bands which has been combined with curvilinear interpolation to be utilized in a low cost small size quantitative measuring instrument.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUTREX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUTREX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND MEANS FOR GENERATING SYNTHETIC SPECTRAALLOWING QUANTITATIVE MEASUREMENT IN NEAR INFRAREDMEASURING INSTRUMENTSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONCross-Reference to Related ApplicationsThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/588,628 filed September 26, 1990 and which will issue as U.S. Patent No. 5,134,302, on July 28, 1992.Field of the InventionThis invention relates to improvements in near- infrared quantitative measuring instruments and particularly, to a method and means for generating synthetic spectra for such instruments.Background and Prior ArtNear-infrared quantitative measuring instruments have been available for approximately 20 years. These instruments have proven to be highly accurate and simple to use for the measurement of chemical constituents in many different types of materials. For example, near-infrared instruments are commonly used in the grain industry for determining the protein of wheat and barley, in the food industry for measuring various organic constituents within food, in the chemical 

process industry to determine the chemical constituents within a production product, and in the medical field for non-invasively determining such items as body fat percentage. There are three general types of near-infrared measuring instruments. Reflectance-type instruments normally measure between 1,100 and 2,500 nanometers to provide accurate measurement of materials that have a consistent surface and require access to only one side of the product being measured. Transmission-type measurements are available that operate between 600 and 1,100 nanometers and are able to measure almost any type of product without sample preparation provided that access is available to both sides of the measured product. The third type of near-infrared instrument is the interactance type which normally operates between 600 and 1,100 nanometers. In this type of instrument, light energy is directed into a body of a product and on the same side of the body at some distance away, the internal reflected light is measured.In any of the above-described type of near- infrared measuring instruments, the use of discrete filters or the use of full scanning instruments are known. An example of the use of a filter-type approach is shown in U.S. Patent No. 4,286,327.In many applications, either discrete filter or full scanning instruments will provide similar accuracy. However, there are some applications where the typical discrete filter-type instruments do not provide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A quantitative near-infrared analysis instrument for non-invasive measurement of a blood analyte present in a body part of a subject, said analysis instrument comprising: (a) an introducing means comprising a near- infrared energy source for introducing near-infrared energy into blood present in a body part of a patient, said near infrared energy source comprising at least one infrared emitting diode having at least two chips and producing at least two separate wavelengths;
(b) detecting means for detecting near-infrared energy emerging from the body part; and
(c) processing means for calculating a synthetic spectra for curvilinear interpolation based upon signals from said detection means.
2. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 1, wherein said, at least one, infrared emitting diode having at least two chips is used in combination with a filter means for passing two separate wavelengths.
3. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 2, wherein said filter means is a single filter having two bandpasses.
4. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 2, wherein said filter means comprises separate filters, each with a single bandpass.
5. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 1, wherein said at least one infrared emitting diode having at least two chips comprises six infrared emitting diodes.
6. A quantitative near-infrared analysis instrument for non-invasive measurement of a blood 


analyte present in a body part of a subject, said instrument comprising: (a) an introducing means comprising a near- infrared energy source for introducing near-infrared energy into blood present in a body part of a patient, said near infrared 
"
energy source comprising six infrared emitting diodes each having at least two chips and wherein each of said two chips produces a separate wavelength;
(b) detecting means for detecting near-infrared energy emerging from the body part and generating a signal based upon said separate wavelength from each of two chips from said six infrared emitting diodes; and
(c) processing means for calculating a synthetic spectra for curvilinear interpolation based upon the signals generated from said detection means.
7. A quantitative near-infrared analysis instrument for non-invasive measurement of a blood analyte present in a body part of a subject, said analysis instrument comprising: (a) an introducing means comprising a near- infrared energy source for introducing near-infrared energy into blood present in a body part of a patient, said near infrared energy source comprising seven infrared emitting diodes each having at least two chips and wherein each of said two chips produces a separate wavelength;
(b) detecting means for detecting near-infrared energy emerging from the body part and generating a signal based upon said separate wavelength from each of two chips from said seven infrared emitting diodes; and
(c) processing means for calculating a synthetic spectra for curvilinear interpolation based upon the signals generated from said detection means. 


 8. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 7, wherein each of said seven infrared emitting diodes having at least two chips is used in combination with a filter means for passing two separate wavelengths.
9. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 8, wherein said filter means is a single filter having two bandpasses.
10. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 8, wherein said filter means comprises separate filters, each with a single bandpass.
11. The near-infrared analysis instrument of claim 7, wherein said seven infrared emitting diodes emit energy at selected wavelengths from approximately 600 nanometers to approximately 1100 nanometers.
12. A quantitative near-infrared analysis instrument for non-invasive measurement of a blood analyte present in a body part of a subject, said analysis instrument comprising: (a) an introducing means comprising a near- infrared energy source for introducing near-infrared energy into blood present in a body part of a patient, said near infrared energy source comprising at least one infrared emitting diode having three chips and producing at least three separate wavelengths;
(b) detecting means for detecting near-infrared energy emerging from the body part; and
(c) processing means for calculating a synthetic spectra for curvilinear interpolation based upon signals from said detection means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
