<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623086</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AEROSOL EXTENSION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D8314	B65D8314	B65D8316	B65D8316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	B65D83	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOTH JOHN B
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOTH, JOHN B.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOTH JOHN B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOTH, JOHN B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionAerosol ExtensionTechnical Field This invention relates generally to pressurized aerosol-spray containers, and more particularly, to extensions for aerosol spray nozzles and dispensing valves.Background ArtA remarkable number of domestic, industrial, pharmaceutical and general activities utilize products dispensed or sprayed from pressurized containers commonly known as aerosol.As used herein an aerosol involves a container and a method of dispensing. Thus, an aerosol container concerns products in a form of fine solids or liquid particles packaged in a pressurized-sealed container with a liquified or compressed gas propellant to enable the products to self-dispense by opening a valve. A limited example of aerosol products dispensed in domestic, industrial, general and pharmaceutical applications are: toiletries, room deodorants and food products for domestic applications: insecticides, lubricants, oils, detergent cleaners, paint fuels, fibers and insulation products for industrial and general applications; and chemicals products for pharmaceutical applications.In all of the above applications, convenience has usually been a primary consideration to justify a high cost of a pressurized gas delivery system of aerosols relative to the product ingredients. Because of convenience, aerosol have enjoyed universal acceptance and great commercial success. However, one of the problems with aerosol spray systems are an undesirable amount of product and propellant waste when a physical size or geometry of the container, or when the spray dispensing and distribution process, does not allow the product to 

accurately and satisfactorily reach an intended location. For example, such waste frequently occurs in spray lubricating applications when servicing compact, tightly assembled components of automotive systems, marine motor systems, or aircraft engine systems with aerosols.Well known prior art, aerosol, extension devices and associated product dispensing methods involve Batesteili. U.S. PaL Ser. No. 3,510,028 (1970), which discloses a pole handle extension for holding an aerosol container at one end, and controlling a discharge of fluid from the container with an actuator provided adjacent the pole handle. Further, Sena, U.S. Pat. Ser. No. 4,023,711 (1977) discloses an extension, which is used for holding paint spray devices. Similarly, Hess Jr., U.S. PaL Ser. No. 4,660,745 (1987) discloses a remote actuator for an aerosol can comprising an elongated rod having a jaw structure at one rod end for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. An aerosol extension for use with a pressurized container in domestic, industrial and general spray applications; said pressurized container having a cylindrically-shaped body with propellants and products for dispensing therewith, a planar bottom and a convex top; said convex top having a circular opening for receiving an actuator and a dispensing valve; said actuator and dispensing valve defining a dispensing system for delivering the products as a spray, a mist a powder or a stream; said actoator defining an outlet orifice for delivering said products contained within said pressurized container, wherein the improvement comprises: a. a clamping means for releasably locking said aerosol extension to the dispensing system; said clamping means being directly joined to said dispensing system; and b. a flexible, elongated, tobular member for accurately delivering products contained in said pressurized container from said dispensing system to intended locations otherwise difficult to reach with said products; said tobular member being coupled between said clamping means and said dispensing system to effect efficient delivery of said products-
2. The invention of claim 1, wherein said clamping means is directly joined to said dispensing system without requiring physical engagement with the convex top, body, or bottom of said pressurized container.
3. The invention of claim 2. wherein said clamping means comprises a ring-shape and defines opposed inner and outer surfaces; said clamping means including a first 


 aperture for receiving said tubular member and retaining said tubular member relative to the outlet orifice of said actuator.
4. The invention of claim 3, wherein said clamping means includes an inner button 5 member for assisting in positively, releasably locking said extension to said dispensing system; said button member being adopted for adjustably exerting pressure on a first region of said dispensing system; said button member also being adopted to adjustably exert a pressure against a terminal end portion of said tubular member, when said tubular member is located at said outlet orifice, to effect locking said tubular member 10 to said orifice; said clamping means and said button member enabling said tobular member to be locked to said orifice, while permitting said dispensing system to be actuated and said product to be transferred from said orifice through said tubular member.
15 5. The invention of claim 4, wherein said clamping means includes a locking member for adjustably locking and maintaining said tubular member in alignment with said orifice; said locking member comprising an adjusting screw; said adjusting screw being threadally connected to said clamping means in a manner to extend through said opposed inner and outer sides of said clamping means and to engage said button
20 member, and said adjustable screw being enabled to advance radially inwardly to allow i said button member to lock said tubular member at said orifice when said adjustable screw is tightened. 


6. The invention of claim 5, wherein said button member includes a socket for receiving a ball disposed at an end of said adjusting screw; the ball and socket connection of said button member and said adjusting screw allowing pressure to be exerted on said button member in any direction; said button member after taken up said pressure applied by said adjusting screw being enabled to transmit a clamping force to said first region of said dispensing system and an opposed second region of said dispensing system; to effect locking said extension to said dispensing system and said locking tobular means to said orifice.
7. The invention of claim 6, wherein said tubular member extends through a second aperture defined by said clamping means said tobular member being disposed in said second aperture to allow an inlet portion of a terminal end of said tubular means to engage said orifice of said dispensing system; said tobular member being removably retained within said second aperture with a retainer ring at a portion thereof intermediate said inlet portion and an outlet terminal end portion.
8. The invention of claim 7, wherein said tobular member includes a first resiliently, flexible and compressible gasket for forming a connection at said terminal end of said tubular member and said orifice; said connection being resistant to undesirable leaking from said products and propellants, when said tubular member is locked in engagement with said orifice; said first gasket being retained on said tubular member to prevent movement thereof, and to bear against a portion of said inner surface of said clamping means. 


9. The invention of claim 8, wherein said first gasket is compressed between said inner surface of said clamping means and said orifice by said clamping pressure exerted by said button member, said clamping pressure being transferred from said button member to confronting regions defined by said orifice and portions of said inner surface of the clamping means bearing on said first gasket to enable said first gasket to be compressed; said compressed first gasket assisting in maintaining said inlet terminal portion of said tubular member in mating alignment with said orifice, and assisting in effecting a leak-proof seal at said connection between said terminal inlet end of said tubular member and said orifice.
10. The invention of claim 9, wherein said pressurized container is an aerosol container.
11. The invention of claim 10, wherein said inlet terminal end of said tubular member and said first gasket are both sized to be inserted and seat within internal confines defined by said orifice.
12. The invention of claim 11, wherein said first gasket comprises a rubber material.
13. The invention of claim 12, wherein said clamping member comprises plastic material.
14. The invention of claim 13, wherein said tubular member comprises polyethylene or polypropylene material. 


15. A nozzle extension for use with a pressurized aerosol package; said package comprising: dispensable products therein, a propellant system, and a nozzle for delivering products as a stream, a mist, a powder or a spray; said nozzle defining an outlet passageway for producing a desired flow pattern; said passageway having a uniform diameter so as to define a generally, flat, nozzle face free of an enlarged chamber at an terminal end thereof, wherein the improvement comprises: a. a nozzle fastener member for removably attaching said extension unto the nozzle; said fastener member comprising: first and second parallel sections extending in a given longitudinal direction; said first and second parallel sections being spaced apart transversely to form a gap therebetween for receiving said nozzle therein; and an upper intermediate bridge section extending transverse to said first and second parallel sections and being unitary therewith; b. one of said first and second parallel sections of said fastener member comprising an aperture for receiving and retaining therein an elongated, flexible, tobular member; said retained tubular member being enabled to engage said nozzle member, when said extension is attached to said nozzle so as to permit the product to be received therein and transferred through said extension to a desired location otherwise difficult to reach with said product; c. said tubular member including a seal member reposed thereon adjacent the one parallel section retaining said tubular member, said seal member being compressed between said one parallel section retaining said tobular member and said nozzle face, when said nozzle fastener is attached to said nozzle; said compressed seal member forming a leak-resistant joint at the engagement of 



 said extension member with said passageway with respect to propellants and said products being transferred through said extension member, and d. a remaining one of said first and second parallel sections of said fastener comprising a releasable, adjustable, locking means for said attaching said
5 nozzle extension onto said nozzle; said locking means permitting a squeezing pressure to be applied to said nozzle through said first and second parallel sections, when said nozzle is received in the gap therebetween, to effect said attaching said nozzle extension unto said nozzle; and an application of said squeezing pressure to said first and second parallel sections through said
10 locking means enabling said retained tubular member to be accurately mated to said passageway, and allowing said seal member to said compress and effect said leak-resistant joint.
16. A valve extension for use with a device for dispensing products as a stream, a powder, 15 a mist or a spray; said device including: a pressurized receptacle, a dispensable product witii a compressed gas propellant; and a valve system for producing and dispensing the products from said device; said valve system defining an orifice for said dispensing said products; the orifice being free of chambers, chamfers and recesses so as to provide the valve system with a generally, planar face; wherein the improvement 20 comprises:
« a. an elongated, flexible, annular, extension member, said extension member having intake and outlet end portions for transferring said products from said valve system through said extension member to a desired location otherwise " difficult to reach with minimal loss of said products and propellants during 


 said dispensing of said product said annular extension member being mounted at said valve extension to permit alignment with and connection to said orifice of said valve system; b. said valve extension including first and second sleeve members positioned intermediate inner confronting surfaces of said orifice and said valve extension for maintaining said annular member and said outlet orifice in alignment, and for forming a joint substantially resistant to a non-desired leakage of products and compressed fluids, while said products are being said dispensed; the first sleeve member being hard and being rigidly secured around said annular extension member in a manner to be contiguous with said second sleeve member, said first sleeve being flexibly resilient and being disposed around said annular member, said first sleeve including an aperture therein for communicating with said outlet orifice, and for receiving said intake portion of said annular extension member therein; c. a locking member for adjustably locking said valve extension onto said valve system; said locking member comprising a collar; said collar including an aperture for allowing said annular extension member to extend therethrough; said collar member securing said annular extension member at said aperture to prevent movement thereof, and permitting said intake portion of said tobular member to be in line with said orifice, when said collar is locked to said valve system; d. an adjusting means movably connected to said collar to effect attaching said collar to said valve system, and attaching said annular extension member mating engagement with said orifice; said adjusting means being controllably 


 movable to enable said collar to be releasably clamped around said valve system to effect attaching said valve extension and said annular member to said valve system and said orifice, respectively; and e. a disk member connected to said adjusting means to enable confronting portions of said collar and said disk member to effect squeezingly attaching said collar and said annular extension member to said valve system and said orifice, respectively.
17. The invention of claim 16, wherein said adjusting means when advanced in a first direction exerts a squeezing force to said valve system and said orifice through said confronting portions of said collar and said disk member, said squeezing force acting on said second sleeve, wherein said second sleeve under an influence of said squeezing force bears against said first sleeve to cause said first sleeve to compress; such that, said orifice and said annular extension member are permitted to be positioned in line with one another and mating engaged to form said leak-proof joint.
18. The invention of claim 17, wherein said adjusting means, when moved in a second reverse direction, releases said squeezing force to allow said collar and said annular extension member to be dis-attached from said valve system and said orifice, respectively. 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 15 June 1993 (15.06.93); original claims 1-3 cancelled; original claim 4 amended; other claims unchanged (2 pages)]
Claims
1. An aerosol extension for use with a pressurized container in domestic, industrial and general spray applications; said pressurized container having a cylindrically-shaped body with propellants and products for dispensing therewith, a planar bottom and a convex top; said convex top having a circular opening for receiving an actuator and a dispensing valve; said actoator and dispensing valve defining a dispensing system for delivering the products as a spray, a mist a powder or a stream; said actuator defining an outlet orifice for delivering said products contained within said pressurized container, wherein the improvement comprises: a. a clamping means for releasably locking said aerosol extension to the dispensing system; said clamping means being directly joined to said dispensing system; and b. a flexible, elongated tubular member for accurately delivering products contained in said pressurized container from said dispensing system to intended locations otherwise difficult to reach with said products; said tubular member being coupled between said clamping means and said dispensing system to effect efficient delivery of said products; and wherein said clamping means is directly joined to said dispensing system without requiring physical engagement with the convex top, body, or bottom of said pressurized container, said clamping means further comprising a ring-shape and defines opposed inner and outer surfaces; said clamping means including a first aperture for receiving said tubular member and retaining said tubular member relative to the outlet orifice of said actuator, and wherein said clamping means further includes an inner 


button member for assisting in positively, releasably locking said extension to said dispensing system; said button member being adopted for adjustably exerting pressure on a first region of said dispensing system; said button member also being adopted to adjustably exert a pressure against a terminal end portion of said tubular member, when said tubular member is located at said outlet orifice, to effect locking said tubular member to said orifice; said clamping means and said button member enabling said tabular member to be locked to said orifice, while permitting said dispensing system to be actaated and said product to be transferred from said orifice through said tabular member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
