<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656017</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DRAG REDUCERS FOR FLOWING HYDROCARBONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F600	C08F612	C09K300	C09K300	F17D100	F17D116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C09K	C09K	F17D	F17D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F6	C08F6	C09K3	C09K3	F17D1	F17D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a process for precipitating a polyolefin from solution. The present invention also provides a polyolefin paste having drag reducing characteristics when dissolved in a flowing hydrocarbon stream and a method for making the drag reducing paste. Finally, the present invention provides a slurried drag reducer prepared from the paste for use in flowing hydrocarbon streams.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONOCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONOCO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRY LARRY G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON RAY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRY, LARRY, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON, RAY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DRAG REDUCERS FOR FLOWING HYDROCARBONS BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONSummary of the Invention The present invention provides an alpha-olefin polymer or copolymer paste for reducing drag in the transportation of hydrocarbons through conduits and a method for preparing the same. Further, the present invention provides a drag reducer comprising a slurried alpha-olefin polymer or copolymer. The present invention also provides a process for precipitating an alpha-olefin polymer or copolymer which has been formed by solution polymerization. Background of the Invention The preparation of alpha-olefin polymers or copolymers for use as drag reducers in the transportation of hydrocarbons through conduits is well known. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,584,244 describes the preparation of a drag reducer having an increased dissolution rate in flowing hydrocarbons. The process described includes the steps of grinding the polymer to a powder in the presence of a coating agent in order to preclude clumping. Additionally, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,771,799 and 5,165,440 discuss the use of a drag reducing polymer solution, commonly referred to as a gel, which is formed into threads or filaments in order to increase the rate of polymer gel dissolution when placed into a hydrocarbon stream.While the foregoing approaches successfully achieve their goals, each method has inherent handling problems. For example, when using a powdered drag reducer, special equipment is required to place the polymer powder into a pipeline and to ensure complete dissolution of polymer within the hydrocarbon stream. The gel or solution 

drag reducers of Patent Numbers 4,771,799 and 5,168,440 are shown to dissolve more readily. However, the introduction of the drag reducer gel to the hydrocarbon stream according to these disclosures necessitates the use of special equipment and pressurized containers. Thus, it would be desirable to provide a drag reducer in a form which allows for rapid dissolution of the polymer and does not require transportation of solvents or high pressures.It is an object of the present invention to provide an alpha-olefin polymer or copolymer paste capable of providing a drag reducer for use in flowing hydrocarbons which is easier to handle. Other objects will become apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the following disclosure. BRIEF DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTIONIn general, the present invention provides a process for precipitating an alpha-olefin polymer or copolymer (hereinafter collectively referred to as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. A process for precipitating a polyolefin having drag reducing characteristics which has been solution polymerized in a nonpolar solvent comprising the steps of: A) introducing an extracting agent miscible with the nonpolar solvent into one end of a first elongated zone containing a plurality of openings along the length of such zone, each opening containing a plurality of small passageways; B) passing the nonpolar solvent containing said polyolefin into a second elongated zone surrounding and spaced from the first elongated zone to form an annulus, said second zone being sealed to the first elongated zone at each end thereof; C) passing said nonpolar solvent containing said polyolefin through said plurality of openings to form strands of nonpolar solvent containing polyolefin;
D) contacting said strands of nonpolar solvent containing said polyolefin with said extracting agent within said first elongated zone and extracting said nonpolar solvent from the polyolefin, to precipitate said polyolefin from solution;
E) passing said precipitated polyolefin, the mixture of miscible extracting agent and nonpolar solvent and any unprecipitated polyolefin out of said first elongated zone;
F) allowing said extracting agent to remain in contact with said unprecipitated polyolefin for a sufficient period of time to insure precipitation of substantially all of said polyolefin; G) separating and recovering said precipitated polyolefin from the mixture of miscible extracting agent and nonpolar solvent. 


2. The process of claim 1, wherein said miscible extracting agent is a polar organic compound containing five carbons or less selected from the group consisting of aldehydes, ketones, alcohols and carboxylic acids.
3. A process for preparing a polyolefin paste having drag reducing characteristics comprising:
A) solution polymerizing an alpha-olefin in a nonpolar organic solvent to form a polyolefin solution; B) introducing an extracting agent miscible with said nonpolar organic solvent into one end of an inner elongated zone, said inner zone containing a plurality of openings along the length of such zone, each opening containing a plurality of small passageways which are in fluid communication with an outer elongated zone;
C) passing said polyolefin solution into said outer elongated zone surrounding and spaced from said inner elongated zone to form an annulus, said outer zone being sealed to the inner elongated zone at each end thereof; D) passing said polyolefin solution from said outer elongated zone through the small passageways of said inner zone to form strands of polymer in said inner elongated zone;
E) contacting the polyolefins solution with said extracting agent within said dinner elongated zone and precipitating said polyolefin from solution;
F) recovering said precipitated polyolefin;
G) grinding said polyolefin to a desired size;
H) mixing said ground polyolefin with a polar organic solvent.
4. The process of claim 3, wherein said precipitated polyolefin is chilled below the glass transition point and then cryoground. 


5. The process of claim 4, wherein said precipitated polyolefin is ground in the presence of a coating agent.
6. A polyolefin paste having drag reducing characteristics when dissolved in a flowing hydrocarbon stream comprising: a high molecular weight polyolefin having an inherent viscosity number of about 12-18 dL/g, wherein the inherent viscosity is determined by the use of a Cannon- Ubbelohde four bulb shear dilution viscometer (0.1 g polymer /100 ml toluene at 25°C) , calculated for each of the four bulbs, then plotted as a function of shear rate to determine the inherent viscosity at a shear rate of 300 sec" '; and a polar organic compound which is miscible with said hydrocarbon stream in which said paste is to be introduced and said polar organic compound is a nonsolvent with respect to said polyolefin.
7. The paste of claim 6, in which said polyolefin comprises from about 40 to 75 percent of said paste by weight.
8. The paste of claim 6, in which said polar organic compound is a polar organic compound containing five carbons or less selected from the group consisting of aldehydes, ketones, alcohols and carboxylic acids. 


9. A polyolefin slurry having drag reducing characteristics resulting from a process comprising the steps of:
A) solution polymerizing an alpha-olefin in a nonpolar organic solvent to form a polyolefin solution;
B) introducing an extracting agent miscible with said nonpolar organic solvent into one end of an inner elongated zone, said inner zone containing a plurality of openings along the length of such zone, each opening containing a plurality of small passageways which communicate with an outer elongated zone;
C) passing said polyolefin solution into said outer elongated zone surrounding and spaced from said inner elongated zone to form an annulus, said outer zone being sealed to the inner elongated zone at each end thereof;
D) passing said polyolefin solution from said outer elongated zone through the small passageways of said inner zone to form strands of polymer in said inner elongated zone; E) contacting the polyolefin solution with said extracting agent within said inner elongated zone and precipitating said polyolefin from solution;
F) recovering said precipitated polyolefin;
G) grinding said precipitated polyolefin to a desired size;
H) mixing said ground polyolefin with a polar organic solvent to form a paste;
I) adding said paste to water to form a slurry.
10. The slurry of claim 9, additionally comprising at least one compound selected from the group consisting of surfactants, defoamers, thickeners and biocides. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
