<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640147</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR HIGH RESOLUTION GENE MAPPING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Two convenient methods for ordering discrete DNA sequences at a high resolution are described. In one embodiment, the invention features a) contacting a eukaryotic cell containng a chromosome of interest with an agent that effects decondensation; b) preparing the cell containing decondensed chromatin for hybridization; and c) hybridizing the cell produced in step b) with at least two DNA probes, each probe being complementary to at least one discrete DNA sequence present on the chromosme of interest; and d) detecting the presence and relative order of the probes as an indication of the relative and absolute locations of the DNA sequences on the chromosome. In another embodiment, the invention features ordering at least two discret DNA sequences on a fragment of DNA that has been extended, for example by physical means, chemical means or a combination of both. A preffered physical means for extending DNA is by gentle smearing.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IG LAB INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IG LABORATORIES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOUSEAL TIMOTHY W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOUSEAL, TIMOTHY, W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS FOR HIGH RESOLUTION GENE MAPPINGBackground of the InventionThe human genome consists of about 3 billion base pairs of DNA carried on 46 chromosomes. This genetic blueprint encodes the information required for the growth, differentiation, maintenance and proper functioning of human cells. To aid in identifying genes associated with disease . there has been great interest in mapping the human genome. Indeed, in creating the Human Genome Project, the United States government has announced the elucidation of the human genome as a national objective. The two main types of human genome maps are genetic linkage and physical. Genetic linkage maps are generated mainly by studying families and measuring the frequency with which two different traits are inherited together, or linked. Physical maps, on the other hand, are derived from measurements made on the DNA molecules that form the human genome. Physical maps can be created based on information provided by restriction fragment polymorphisms or a collection of ordered clones of genomic fragments (e.g. cosmids). Maps based on ordered clones are especially useful, since each fragment is available as a clone that can be propagated and distributed. These clones can serve as a starting point for gene isolation, functional analyses and for the determination of nucleotide sequences. Preparing an ordered-cione collection involves cloning DNA fragments, determining their order in the genome and propagating the fragments in pure form to make them widely available for subsequent analysis. Because of the limited resolution currently available, the most difficult aspect involves determining the order of DNA fragments. In situ hybridization analysis has been useful for genome mapping, because it allows direct detection of the location at which a DNA fragment maps on a particular chromosome. However, the resolution for localizing probes to chromosomal bands in 

mefαphαse chromosomes is only several megabases (Lichter, P., et a]., et. al.. Science 247:64-69 (1990); Lawrence. J.B., et. al.. Science 249:64-69 (1990)). To achieve higher resolution. FISH has been applied to cell targets collected in interphase (Lawrence, J.B. et. al.. Cell 52:51-61 (1988)). At interphase, as opposed to at metaphase, chromatin within the cell nucleus exists in an uncondensed form. Probes separated by distances from <100 K up to at least 1Mb have been ordered on the X chromosome in somatic interphase nuclei (Lawrence, J.B., et. al.. Science 249:64-69 (1990); Trask, B.J., et g[.. Am. J.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method for ordering at least two discrete DNA sequences on an interphase chromosome of interest comprising the steps of: a) contacting a eukaryotic cell containing an interphase chromosome of interest with an agent that effects decondensation, thereby producing decondensed chromatin; b) preparing the cell containing relaxed chromatin for hybridization; c) hybridizing the cell produced in step b) with at least two distinct labelled DNA probes, each probe being complementary to at least one discrete DNA sequence present on the chromosome of interest; and d) detecting the presence and relative order of the probes as an indication of the relative and absolute locations of the DNA sequences on the chromosome.
2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the agent that effects decondensation is a salt of a short chain fatty acid.
3. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the agent that effects decondensation is a salt of a short chain fatty acid.
4. A method for ordering at least two discrete DNA sequences on a fragment of DNA, comprising the steps of: a) smearing a fragment of DNA; thereby producing smeared DNA; b) preparing the smeared DNA for hybridization; c) hybridizing the DNA produced in step b) with at least two distinct labelled DNA probes, each probe being complementary to at least one discrete DNA sequence present on the chromosome of interest; and d) detecting the presence and relative order of the probes as an indication of the relative and absolute locations of the DNA sequences on the fragment of DNA. 


5. A method of Claim 4, wherein step a), the smearing of the DNA is accomplished by physical means.
6. A method of Claim 4, wherein step a), the smearing of the DNA is accomplished by chemical means.
7. A method for ordering at least two discrete DNA sequences on an interphase chromosome of interest, comprising the steps of:
a) contacting a eukaryotic cell containing an interphase chromosome of interest with an agent that causes histone hyperacetylation, thereby producing decondensed chromatin;
b) preparing the ceil containing the decondensed chromatin for hybridization;
c) hybridizing the cell produced in step b) with at least two distinct labelled DNA probes, each probe being complementary to at least one discrete DNA sequence present on the chromosome of interest; and
d) detecting the presence and relative order of the probes as an indication of the relative and absolute locations of the DNA sequences on the chromosome.
8. A method of Claim 7, wherein the agent that causes histone hyperacetylation is a salt of a short chain fatty acid.
9. A method of Claim 8, wherein the salt of a short chain fatty acid is selected from the group consisting of sodium butyrate, sodium propionate and sodium valerate.
10. A method of Claim 8, wherein the salt of the short chain fatty acid is sodium butyrate. 


 11. A method for locating at least two discrete DNA sequences on an interphase human chromosome of interest comprising the steps of:
5 a) contacting a human cell containing an interphase chromosome of interest with an agent, that causes histone hyperacetylation, thereby producing decondensed chromatin;
b) preparing the cell containing the decondensed chromatin for 10 hybridization;
c) hybridizing the cell produced in step b) with at least two distinct labelled DNA probes, each probe being complementary to at least one discrete DNA sequence present on the chromosome of interest;
15 and
d) detecting the presence and relative order of the probes as an indication of the relative and absolute locations of the DNA sequences on the chromosome.
20
12. A method of Claim 11 , wherein the agent that causes histone hyperacetylation is a salt of a short chain fatty acid.
13. A method of Claim 12, wherein the salt of a short chain fatty acid is selected from 25 the group consisting of sodium butyrate, sodium propionate and sodium vaierate.
14. A method for ordering at least two discrete DNA sequences on an interphase chromosome comprising contacting a eukaryotic cell containing an interphase
30 chromosome with a histone removing agent and analyzing the cell by fluorescence in situ hybridization using at least two distinct labelled probes which are complementary to at least two discrete DNA sequences on the chromosomes.
35 15. A method for ordering at least two discrete DNA sequences on a fragment of 


 DNA, thereby producing smeared DNA and analyzing the smeared DNA by fluorescence in situ hybridization using at least two distinct labelled probes which are complementary to at least two discrete DNA sequences on the smeared DNA.
16. A method of Claim 2, wherein the salt of a short chain fatty acid is sodium butyrate.
17. A method of Claim 8. wherein the salt of a short chain fatty acid is sodium butyrate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
