<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635186</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RADIO TELEPHONE SYSTEM USING VOICE/DATA SIGNAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M1106	H04M1106	H04W7600	H04W7604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M11	H04M11	H04W76	H04W76	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus differentiate between voice calls and data calls in a cellular telephone network. A data signal discriminator (612) at cellsites (602) to independently monitor cellular channels and detect the presence of modulated data, and generation of predetermined signals by a cellular modem or interface circuit, such as dialing string instructions, periodic tones or periodic dta patterns during call placement, which are detectable to identify data calls.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPECTRUM INFORMATION TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPECTRUM INFORMATION TECH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAINTON JOSEPH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAINTON JOSEPH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 "RADIO TELEPHONE SYSTEM USING VOICE/DATA SIGNAL".Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a method and an apparatus for automatically discriminating between voice and modulated data transmissions over a radiotelephone system, particularly to facilitate control operations of the radiotelephone system to provide differential treatment of data and voice calls.Background of the InventionOver the last decade, cellular radiotelephone systems have been introduced in most major population areas in the United States and cellular radiotelephone service is now widely available. These cellular systems were originally designed for voice communication, and in many respects were not well suited to digital data communications.The well known early difficulties of transmitting modulated data over a cellular radiotelephone were first overcome when a practical cellular data modem was developed, through research by the assignee of the present application. An early cellular data modem is described in U.S. Patent 4,697,281 to O'Sullivan (now U.S. Patent RE 34,034), assigned to the assignee of the present application. Development of more advanced cellular modem systems continues, as exemplified by the systems disclosed in the original inventor's U.S. Patent No. 5,127,041, also owned by the assignee of the present application, and pending U.S. Patent application Serial No. 07/863,568, similarly assigned to' the assignee of the present application. 

 Cellular ready modems, as distinguished from traditional landline modems, have particular protocol and operating characteristics that effectively compensate for adverse characteristics of the cellular radio environment. As examples, an extended delay before hangup on loss of carrier, packetized data transmission with dynamically adjustable packet sizes, and the use of forward error correction, have all been found to improve link quality and data throughput in cellular data communications. Such enhancements make it practical to transmit modulated computer or facsimile data through a cellular telephone.Another radio data transmission system, theCellular Digital Packet Data (CDPD) system, is under development by a number of large cellular carriers as a further part of the cellular radiotelephone network.This system is discussed in the "CDPD System Overview" dated May 22, 1992. The CDPD system uses cellular radio frequencies and operates with modems similar in most important respects to the cellular radiotelephone modems described above. It is expected that customers
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A method of controlling the operation of a cellular radiotelephone system, comprising the steps of: providing data presence detection means for discriminating between voice signals and computer data exchange signals occurring in a call being transmitted over a specified cellular radiotelephone voice channel, said data presence detector having an output, said output providing a signal indication when said call contains computer data exchange signals; operating the data presence detection means to selectively generate said signal indication at said output; providing control means, connected to receive said output, for varying call handling operations of said cellular radiotelephone system in response to said signal indication when said call contains computer data exchange signals; operating said control means to provide differential call handling operations for said call in said cellular radiotelephone system when said call contains computer data exchange signals.
2. An apparatus for controlling the operation of a cellular radiotelephone system, comprising: a high pass filter connected to a radiotelephone circuit to be monitored and to a rectifier circuit, said highpass filter acting to produce a filtered AC signal containing frequencies above about 400 to 1600 hertz; a rectifier circuit connected to said high pass filter and to a comparator, said rectifier circuit acting to rectify said filtered signal and produce a DC signal; a comparator connected to said rectifier circuit and to a timer, said comparator acting to compare said 


 DC signal with a reference signal and to produce an indicating signal indicating whether said DC signal is above or below said reference signal; and a timer connected to said comparator, said timer measuring the time that said indicating signal indicates said DC signal is above or below said reference signal and producing a second indicating signal indicating whether said DC signal is above or below said reference signal for about 4-10 seconds. 3. An apparatus for controlling the operation of a cellular radiotelephone system, comprising: filtering means for filtering an input signal to produce a second signal having frequencies above about 400 to 1600 hertz, said filtering means connected to a radiotelephone circuit to be monitored; integrating means connected to the filtering means for integrating second signal to produce a DC signal, said rectifier means connected to said filtering means and to comparison means; comparison means for comparing said DC signal with a predetermined reference signal and providing an indication of whether said DC signal is above or below said reference signal, said comparison means connected to said rectifier means and to timer means; timer means for timing the duration that said comparison means indicates said DC signal is above or below said reference signal and for providing a second indication if said DC signal is above or below said reference signal for about 4-10 seconds, said timer means connected to said comparison means and to processing means; and processing means for processing said second indication signal, said processing means connect to said timer means. 


 4. An apparatus for controlling the operation of a cellular radiotelephone system, comprising: detecting means for detecting a predetermined dialing sequence occurring during the placing of a cellular radiotelephone call, said detecting means connected to a cellular radio telephone network and to connecting means; connecting means for connecting said detecting means to said processing means; and processing means connected to said connecting means for processing said predetermined dialing sequence and altering the operation of said cellular radiotelephone system in response to said dialing sequence.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, in which the operation of the cellular radiotelephone system is altered to reduce the number of cell handoffs occurring in the monitored call.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, in which the operation of the cellular radiotelephone system is altered to change the billing rate charged for use of the system.
7. The apparatus of claim 4 in which the operation of the cellular radiotelephone system is altered so that the system selects a cellular channel having improved transmission properties.
8. A method of controlling the operation of a cellular radiotelephone system, comprising the steps of: detecting a predetermined data pattern occurring in an information transmission, said data pattern indicating that the call contains a data transmission; and invoking modified call-handling procedures in response to said determination that said cellular call contains a data transmission. 


 - 29 -
9. A method of controlling the operation of a cellular radiotelephone system, comprising the steps of: detecting an analog signal present within a cellular channel, said analog signal indicating that the call contains a data transmission; and invoking modified call-handling procedures in response to said determination that said cellular call contains a data transmission.
10. A method of controlling the operation of a cellular radiotelephone system, comprising the steps of: detecting a predetermined dialing sequence occurring during the placing of a cellular radiotelephone call, said predetermined dial sequence indicating that the call contains a data transmission; and invoking modified call-handling procedures in response to said determination that said cellular call contains a data transmission. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
