<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623826</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Membrane connector with stretch induced micro scrub.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R1067	G01R1067	G01R1073	G01R1073	G01R3126	G01R3126	G01R3128	G01R3128	H01L2166	H01L2166	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R1	G01R1	G01R1	G01R1	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	G01R31	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A membrane connector or test probe having a group 
of connector or test probe contacts (14) in a central 

contact section of the membrane (12) is initially 
stretched by being axially displaced from the plane of 

the peripheral membrane support (10). The test probe is 
cause to contact the pads (43,44) of device (42) to be 

tested and is then moved through an over travel distance 
that tends to decrease the amount of the stretch of the 

membrane. This decrease in stretch effects a small 
amount of lateral radial displacement of the test probe 

contacts to provide a scrubbing action that enhances 
electrical engagement with a circuit chip pad that may 

have a poorly conductive oxide coating. Substantially 
all of the stretch of the membrane is caused to be 

concentrated in and about the central contact section of 
the membrane at which the test probe contacts are 

located. This is accomplished by causing the area of 
the membrane between its peripheral support and the 

central section to be substantially inextensible as by 
bonding an inextensible metallic shield (50) to these 

portions of the membrane. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRUMLY WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CRUMLY, WILLIAM R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to flexible membrane 
connectors and more particularly concerns membrane test 
connectors that provide a micro scrubbing action. A significant application of the present invention 
concerns test probe connectors for use in testing of 
integrated circuits, and therefore a discussion of prior 
test probe connectors will provide a background for 
description of this aspect of the invention. Integrated circuit chips are manufactured with large 
numbers of identical circuits on a single wafer which 
ultimately are separately cut from the wafer for use. It 
is desirable to test each circuit individually to determine 
whether or not it functions as intended before separating 
it from the wafer. Additional testing of separated 
circuits may be desired in various stages in assembly of a 
circuit and the finished apparatus. Further testing may be 
accomplished after packaging a circuit, after placing it in  
 
a multi-chip module, and after disassembly of a multi-chip 
module to identify inoperable circuits. Conventional testing involves a probe card that is 
provided with a large number of small tungsten blades or 
needles that are mechanically and electrically connected to 
a circuit board and act as test probe contacts. Electrical 
leads extend from the contacts to the outer edge of the 
board for connecting the probe card to testing circuitry. 
In use of the blades or needles, they are moved into 
engagement with pads on an integrated circuit to be tested. 
The motion preferably should be such that there is a slight 
scrubbing action that is required for breaking through 
oxidation coating that often covers an aluminum, tin or 
solder type contact. Thus, blades or needles will 
effectively slide along or scrub the surface of the pad by 
a small amount to break the oxide coating. This provides 
a good electrical connection so that signals can be read to 
determine the integrity of the circuit on the chip. Proper 
scrubbing action is important, but difficult to obtain. Ends of the test needles or blades must all fall in 
the same plane in order to assure that each one makes 
electrical contact with a pad of the integrated circuit. 
This is accomplished by bending the blades or needles after 
they have been mounted on the probe card, which, is 
laborious and time consuming, and expensive. Even after 
such adjustment, the blades or needles tend to creep back 
toward their original position so that their adjusted 
locations are lost. This lost of adjustment also comes 
about from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A membrane connector comprising: 
   a support, 

   an elastic membrane stretched across said 
support, said membrane having an intermediate contact 

section, 
   a plurality of contacts on said contact section, 

and 
   means for restraining stretch of said membrane 

over at least a major portion of the area of said membrane 
between said support and said contact section. 
The membrane connector of Claim 1 wherein said 
means for restraining comprises a layer of relatively 

inextensible material fixed to said membrane at said major 
portion of the area of said membrane. 
The membrane connector of Claim 2 including a 
layer of flexible elastomer secured to said intermediate 

contact section. 
The membrane connector of Claim 3 including a 
platen secured to said elastomer. 
The membrane connector of Claim 4 including 
spring means interposed between said support and said 

platen for resiliently displacing said intermediate contact 
section from the plane of said support. 
The membrane connector of Claim 5 wherein said 
layer of inextensible material extends outwardly in a first 

direction from said contact section, and is discontinuous 
in a second direction transverse to said first direction. 
The membrane connector of Claim 5 wherein said 
support circumscribes said membrane, and wherein said layer 

of inextensible material includes a plurality of radially 
extending sections that are mutually spaced 

circumferentially. 
The membrane connector of Claim 2 wherein said 
membrane connector is a membrane test probe, and wherein 

said layer of relatively inextensible material comprises a 
copper shield layer extending from points adjacent to but 

spaced from said contact section to points adjacent to but 
spaced from said support and bonded to said membrane. 
A membrane test probe comprising: 
   a perimetric support, 

   a membrane secured to and extending across said 
support, said membrane having an extensible contact section 

at a radially inward portion thereof and having relatively 
inextensible portions between said contact section and said 

support, 
   a plurality of test probe contacts on said 

membrane at said extensible contact section, and 
   means for elastically displacing said contact 

section from the plane of said perimetric support to 
thereby stretch said extensible contact section, whereby 

when said test probe contacts of said contact section are 
pressed against a device to be tested, displacement of the 

contact section is decreased to thereby decrease the 
stretch of said contact section and to laterally displace 

said test probe contacts. 
The test probe of Claim 9 wherein said membrane 
is elastic and wherein said relatively inextensible 

membrane portions include a layer of inextensible material 
bonded to the membrane. 
The test probe of Claim 10 wherein said layer of 
inextensible material comprises a shield layer of a 

metallic conductive material. 
The test probe of Claim 9 wherein said 
inextensible portions include means for restraining 

stretching of substantially all portions of said membrane 
between said contact section and said perimetric support. 
The test probe of Claim 9 including a plate 
secured to and extending across said perimetric support, an 

elastomeric backup layer secured to said membrane at said 
contact section, a platen positioned on said elastomeric 

layer, and wherein said means for displacing comprises 
means interposed between said plate and said platen for 

resiliently urging said contact section away from said 
plate. 
A method of constructing and using a circuit 
testing probe to test a device having pads be contacted by 

the probe, said method comprising the steps of: 
   providing a flexible elastic membrane having a 

substantially planar unstressed condition and having an 
axis perpendicular to the plane of the membrane, 

   securing test probe contacts at a central section 
on one side of said membrane in a pattern corresponding to 

that of pads on the device to be tested, 
   extending conductor means on said membrane from 

said contacts to peripheral portions of said membrane for 
connection of said contacts to a testing circuit, 

   fixedly holding said peripheral portions of said 
membrane in a predetermined configuration, 

   axially displacing said central section from said 
unstressed condition to laterally stretch said central 

section, and to laterally outwardly displace said test 
probe contacts,

 
   restraining stretch of said flexible elastic 

membrane between said central section and said peripheral 
portions, and 

   moving said probe to a device to be tested so as 
to press said test probe contacts against pads of the 

device to be tested, said step of moving comprising axially 
displacing said central section back toward said unstressed 

condition to thereby partly relax the radial stretch of 
said central section and to radially inwardly displace said 

test probe contacts as said test probe contacts engage the 
pads of the device to be tested, thereby providing a small 

amount of scrubbing of said test probe contacts against 
said pads. 
The method of Claim 14 wherein said step of 
restraining stretch comprises securing a layer of 

inextensible material to said membrane at membrane portions 
that are radially outward of said central section. 
The method of Claim 14 wherein said step of 
restraining stretch comprises securing a layer of 

inextensible material to said membrane at membrane portions 
that are of limited circumferential extent and extend 

radially outwardly of said central section. 
A connector part for electrically connecting 
first and second members, said connector part comprising: 

   a flexible elastic membrane fixed to one of said 
members at mutually spaced locations and having a contact 

section between said locations, 
   a plurality of connector part contacts on said 

membrane at said intermediate section, 
   means for displacing said membrane to stretch the 

membrane between said locations, and
 

   means for restraining stretch of the membrane at 
portions of the membrane between said contact section and 

said locations. 
The connector part of Claim 17 wherein said 
membrane includes at least one outer section between said 

contact section and said one member that is free of 
attachment to said one member, and wherein said means for 

restraining stretch comprises means for restraining stretch 
of said outer section, whereby stretch of said membrane is 

confined substantially to said contact section. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
