<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636096</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Carriers of multiples of flanged containers.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B1700	B65B1702	B65D7106	B65D7112	B65D7150	B65D7150	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B17	B65B17	B65D71	B65D71	B65D71	B65D71	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A carrier (72) formed of sheet material (70) or fiber board for ringing beverage containers (60) having upstanding walls (122) formed to engage a flange or chime (124) on a beverage container (60). The walls (122) extend circumferentially around the container engaging apertures (96) in the carrier (72). The carrier (72) may have concentric strengthening members (126, 128), such as scores or corrugations surrounding the container engaging apertures (96). The carriers (72) may be installed on arrays (62) of beverage containers (60) by automated or manually driven ringing machines (50). These machines (50) index the carriers (72) to locations which correspond to the location of an array (62) of containers (60) received in the machines (50). The machines (50) have mechanisms (54) to utilize preformed webs (70) of joined carriers (72). The ringing machines (50) position the carriers over an array (62) of containers (60) and force the carriers (72) into ringing engagement with the array (62). The carrier (72) may be compatible with modern disposal methods including incineration and biodegradation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMP PACKAGING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMPERIAL PACKAGING, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALBIERZ JEROME J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALBIERZ RICHARD T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REINIG MICHAEL L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALBIERZ, JEROME, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALBIERZ, RICHARD, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REINIG, MICHAEL, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
MULTIPLECONTAINERCARRIERSANDMACHINEFORINSTALLINGCARRIERSO CONTAINERSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to apparatus for installing carriers for flanged articles and especially to carriers for beverage containers such as cans and bottles.2. Description of the Prior ArtApplicants are aware of the following patents, the disclosure of which are incorporated by reference herein:3,432,202 3,959,949 4,219,1173,528,697 4,018,331 4,273,2733,601,253 4,136,772 4,432,5793,601,439 4,190,149 4,621,734Four considerations have influenced the present invention and the development of applicants' carriers for flanged articles: reduction in the amount and/or cost of materials making up the carrier, adaptability to high-speed machine application in container filling and packaging lines, compatibility with existing containers and packaging practices, and consideration of the environmental impact of the carrier throughout the entire use cycle, from production of its constituent materials through final disposal.Paper is derived from a renewable resource. It is inexpensive, recycleable, cleanly combustible, and ' biodegradable. It is therefore an object of this invention to employ paper as the primary constituent of the carrier, preferably in the form of paperboard. To further the effort to recycle containers used with the carrier, it is an additional 

object of the invention, and of designs which practice the invention, to preserve the integrity of the carrier sufficiently when containers are removed that it can easily accept and retain empty containers and make their return convenient.Unless it can completely replace existing methods and equipment, an innovation must harmonize with everything it cannot supplant, or it will fail to be adopted. It is therefore a further objective of this invention that it be adaptable to existing packaging machinery and practices and accommodate present and foreseen future container designs. In addition, applicants have developed equipment and methods specifically compatible with their carrier.The following discussion is in terms of a modern necked beverage can, which has a cylindrical body fairing into a tapered section which reduces the diameter sufficiently that a lid seamed onto the top will have an overall diameter no larger than that of the cylindrical part of the body. However, it will be appreciated that the invention can use cylindrical cans by putting spacers in the can array and by placing the carrier holes further apart, as described herein.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. Carrier for a container having a carrier engaging element, the carrier having a planar portion having a container receiving aperture therein, the planar portion having means for engaging a container at the periphery of the aperture, the carrier having means for strengthening the carrier in an area of the planar portion adjacent to the container receiving aperture.
2. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the strengthening means is adjacent to the container engaging means.
3. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the strengthening means provides increased resiliency to the container engaging means.
4. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the container engaging means includes a plurality of circumferentially spaced tabs at the periphery of the aperture.
5. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the strengthening means includes a corrugated score extending at least partially around the aperture.
6. The carrier of claim 5 wherein the carrier has a second corrugated score concentric to the aperture and extending at least partially around the aperture.
7. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the carrier has a plurality of container receiving apertures, the apertures having container engaging means, the container engaging means including a plurality of circumferentially spaced tabs at the peripheries of the apertures, the tabs being formed by radial slots extending outwardly from the periphery of the apertures.
8. The carrier of claim 7 wherein the slots of adjacent apertures are offset. 


 9. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the carrier engaging means includes a plurality of circumferentially spaced tabs at the periphery of the aperture and wherein the strengthening means includes a corrugated score extending at least partially around the aperture, the circumferentially spaced tabs being formed by radial slots extending outwardly from the periphery of the aperture, the radial slots extending toward the corrugated score but terminating at a location spaced therefrom.
10. The carrier of claim 1 where the carrier has a plurality of container receiving apertures.
11. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the carrier includes means for engaging a can.
12. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the carrier includes means for engaging a bottle.
13. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the carrier includes means for engaging a necked can.
14. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the carrier includes means for cooperating with container ringing machines for installation on an array of containers.
15. A carrier for an array of containers having flanged carrier engaging elements, the carrier having a planar portion having container receiving apertures therein, the carrier having means for engaging containers at the periphery of the apertures, the container engaging means including a plurality of circumferentially spaced tabs at the periphery of the apertures, the tabs being formed by radially extending slots extending outwardly from the periphery of the apertures, the carrier including means for increasing the resiliency of the carrier and including means for strengthening the carrier in an area of the planar portion adjacent to the 


container receiving apertures, the resiliency increasing and strengthening means including a plurality of corrugated rings extending at least partially around the apertures and the radial slots, the radial slots extending toward the innermost corrugated ring but terminating at a location spaced therefrom, the corrugated rings adding torsional and shear strength to the planar portion of the carrier and adding additional container engaging resiliency to the container engaging tabs.
16. A machine for installing carriers on arrays of containers comprising means for receiving a web of preformed carriers, means for guiding the web into the machine and means for indexing the web with arrays of containers, the machine having means for ringing the arrays with the carriers the ringing means forcing an indexed carrier onto a cooperating array.
17. The machine of claim 16 wherein the machine is manually operated.
18. The machine of claim 16 wherein the machine is a high speed machine mechanically driven by a power source.
19. The machine of claim 16 wherein the machine has pilot means for receiving a web of carrier and transferring the carriers to an array of containers.
20. The machine of claim 16 wherein the machine has a second pilot means for receiving the carriers and indexing the carriers with arrays of containers and wherein the machine has means for stripping the carriers from the second pilot means and installing the carriers on arrays of containers. 


 21. A machine for installing carriers onto arrays of containers for unitizing a predetermined number of containers in the array for manual handling, the machine comprising: a) means for supporting a supply of preformed carriers; b) means for identifying the individual carriers in said supply thereof; c) means for moving containers into the machine in predetermined arrays for individualizing the arrays; d) means for moving identified individual carriers into the machine into a predetermined position relative to the predetermined container arrays; and e) means for installing identified individual carriers on predetermined container arrays for unitizing the array of containers for subsequent manual handling.
22. The machine of claim 21 wherein the machine is manually operated.
23. The machine of claim 21 wherein means for moving containers into the machine and means for moving identified individual carriers are coordinated for installing the carriers on container arrays substantially continuously.
24. The machine of claim 21 wherein the means for supporting a supply of preformed carriers is a magazine of separate carriers.
25. The machine of claim 21 wherein means provided for substantially displacing preformed carriers from said magazine is coordinated with means for moving container arrays into the machine. 


 26. A machine for installing carriers onto arrays of containers to unite the containers as a group for subsequent group handling, the machine including a) a frame constructed with a first space to receive carriers and a second space to receive arrays of containers, said first and second spaces being in alignment; b) means in said frame defining separate openings for guiding carriers and arrays of containers into said aligned first and second spaces; and c) pressure applying means having a path of movement in said frame for effecting the forceful installation of carriers onto arrays of containers.
27. The machine set forth in claim 26 wherein said guiding means for the carriers is formed with notched means for releasibly supporting the carrier by its edges.
28. The machine set forth in claim 26 wherein said first and second spaces are in substantially vertical alignment with the first space over said second space.
29. The machine set forth in claim 26 wherein said guiding means for the carriers is disposed between said first and second spaces to support the carriers in the path of movement of said pressure applying means.
30. The machine set forth in claim 26 wherein said second space is constructed with first means to segregate the container arrays into side-by-side subarrays; and second means carried by said first means in position to subdivide said carriers to correspond with said segregated container arrays. 


 31. The machine set forth in claim 26 wherein said pressure applying means is manually operable.
32. The machine set forth in claim 26 wherein said pressure applying means is operatively connected to a fluid pressure actuator responsive to a system of controls comprising a) motor means operative to move carriers into said first space, b) sensing means responsive to the movement of arrays of containers into or out of said second space for interrupting the operation of said motor means, and c) switch means responsive to the arrival of arrays of containers in said second space for energizing said fluid pressure actuator to operate said pressure applying means for installing carriers onto arrays of containers.
33. The machine set forth in claim 26 wherein said system of controls is dependent for its function upon the manual insertion of arrays of containers in said second space. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
