<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615036</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements relating to floor panels
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04C230	E04B502	E04C242	E04B502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04C	E04B	E04C	E04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04C2	E04B5	E04C2	E04B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An elongate floor panel (20) comprising a transversely and 
longitudinally 

extensive plate part (21) having an upper surface (22) which providees 
a generally 

continuous floor surface and depending downwardly therefrom and 
integral 

therewith a plurality of longitudinal beam parts (23,23a,23b), the panel 
having been moulded 

in one piece by a pultruding operation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to floor panels, particularly of the kind used in 
industrial situations, such as in the provision of gratings supported on structural 
elements, in the provision of walkways, platforms, and access flooring, hereinafter 
referred to as a floor panel of the kind specified. One kind of floor panel of the kind specified comprises longitudinal 
beams, conventionally of T-section secured together at successive positions along 
the length by transverse bars to provide a transversely and longitudinally extensive 
grating. This construction is utilised in the provision of open flooring, in which 
the longitudinal beams bear downward load to provide a grating, whilst the 
transverse bars are intended primarily to hold the longitudinal beams in the 
required relative positions. Such a floor panel is disclosed in our UK Patent No. 
2036149 (WO-A-78/00002). Generally in the provision of such a floor panel, it is desirable to 
provide the floor panel as large as possible, whilst providing adequate strength 
and minimal spacing between longitudinal beams. However, a floor panel of this 
type suffers from the disadvantage that it is necessary to assemble the floor 
panels, and this is a time consuming operation. CA-A-989134 is an assembled structure made up of a plurality of 
adhesively secured together assembled components. It discloses flooring made up 
of a plurality of "grate" sections, each "grate" section being assembled from a 
plurality of relatively narrow T-shaped flooring members, which may have one or 
two vertical support members, in which the floor members must be assembled 
together and held to tie bars by adhesive. The "grate" sections are joined together 
by separate clips. Such individual flooring members are described as being made 
by pultrusion. The flooring suffers from the same disadvantages as discussed  
 
hereinbefore and in particular requires assembly from a plurality of components 
and application of adhesive. EP-A-413 500 is another assembled structure made up of a plurality 
of adhesively secured together components. It discloses a building system made 
by pultrusion having a curved top surface with two opposed side walls and a 
plurality of shorter ribs. It is generally unsuitable for use as a floor panel which 
is transversely extensive as it is supported only by opposite side walls. The T-shaped 
shorter members are assembled, by sliding engagement, with transverse 
stiffeners. In all cases it is intended that the described wall member is connected 
via separate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An elongate floor panel (20) comprising a plate 
part (21) having beam parts (23, 23a, 23b) depending 

downwardly from, and integral therewith, the panel (20) 
having been moulded in one piece by a pultruding operation, 

characterised in that the plate part (21) is 
transversely and longitudinally extensive having an upper 

surface (22) which provides a generally planar and 
continuous floor surface and said beam parts (23, 23a, 

23b) comprise a pair of end longitudinally extending 
beam parts (23a, 23b) and a plurality of intermediate 

longitudinally extending beam parts (23), the beam parts 
(23, 23a, 23b) being of equal depth and each pair of adjacent 

beam parts defining therebetween a channel which 
extends from end-to-end of the beam parts, the end beam 

parts (23a, 23b) having each means for the connection 
with a contiguous panel (20).  

 
A panel according to claim 1 wherein the panel (20) has end beam parts 
(23
a
, 23
b
) having a configuration whereby a tongue portion (26) of one panel (20) can 
be received in a groove portion (27) of an adjacent panel (20). 
A panel according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the panel (20) is 
provided with a longitudinally extending groove portion (27) on one side and a 

longitudinally extending tongue portion (26) at the other side whereby the tongue 
portion (26) and groove portion (27) of one panel may interengage with a groove 

portion (27) and tongue portion (26) respectively of two other adjacently juxtaposed 
panels to transfer load between the adjacent panels (20). 
A panel according to any one of the preceding claims wherein 
intermediate longitudinal beam parts (23) are of inverted T-shape in cross-section, 

a stem (24) of the T is being integral with the plate part (21) and a head (25) of the  
 

T providing oppositely directed flanges at the ends of the beam parts (23) remote 
from the plate part (21). 
A panel according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
plate part (21) is provided with a plurality of apertures (29) intermediate the beam 

parts (23). 
A panel according to claim 5 wherein the apertures (29) are punched 

apertures. 
A panel according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
panel (20) comprises fibre reinforced synthetic plastics material with the fibres 

aligned or substantially aligned in the longitudinal direction of the panel (20), 
thereby improving the strength of the panel (20). 
A panel according to claim 7 wherein the reinforcing fibres comprise 
uni-directional rovings to provide properties in the longitudinal direction of the 

member and continuous strand mat to provide transverse properties. 
A panel according to claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the plastics material 
comprises polyester or vinylester resin and may also comprise at least one of 

filler, pigments, curing agents and processing aids as appropriate and ultra-violet 
inhibitor. 
A panel according to any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein the panel (20) 
has a surface veil (40) of polyester non-woven fabric which encases the fibre 

reinforcement and provides a layer of resin at the surface of the panel. 
A panel according to any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein the plate part 
comprises, from the top surface downwardly,  

 

a plurality of continuous filament mats, (41
a
 - 
d
), 
a filling of uni-directional rovings, (42), 
a plurality of continuous filament mats (44
a
 - 
g
) 
the beam parts comprise, from one side surface to the other, 
a continuous filament mat, (41
a
, 44
c
 - 
g
), 
a filling of uni-directional rovings (45), 
a continuous filament mat (41
a
, 44
c
 - 
g
), and/or 
the surface of the panel is provided with a surface veil (40). 
A panel according to any one of claims 7 to 11 wherein the filaments 
and the rovings comprise glass filaments and rovings respectively. 
A floor comprising at least one panel (20) according to any one of the 
preceding claims wherein the or each panel (20) is supported on supports 30 with 

the beam parts (23, 23
a
, 23
b
) lowermost and engaging the supports 30 and with the 
floor surface (22) uppermost. 
A floor comprising at least two panels (20) according to claim 2 or claim 
3 or any one of claims 4 to 12 when dependent on claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the 

tongue portion (26) and groove portion (27) of adjacent panels are interengaged. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
