<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646866</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Redundant line decoder master enable.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C11401	G11C11401	G11C11408	G11C11408	G11C2900	G11C2900	G11C2904	G11C2904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C11	G11C29	G11C29	G11C29	G11C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A master enable circuit is provided which receives
multiple enable signal inputs while matching the redundant

decoder enable delay with decoder enable delay. A master
enable circuit contains a hard coded master fuse, driver

transistor, and a multiple input logic gate. A blown
master fuse forces the driver output to an enable state.

When the proper select signals are then received by the
logic gate, the decoder is enabled to allow selection of

the redundant row without introducing a mismatch of
redundant and normal line select times.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SGS THOMSON MICROELECTRONICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SGS-THOMSON MICROELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCCLURE, DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to redundant 
line decoding in a semiconductor memory array and in 
particular to a redundant decoder master enable circuit. 
Still more particularly, the present invention relates to a 
redundant decoder master enable circuit which allows 
multiple enable signal inputs. Modern VLSI semiconductor memories typically range in 
size from 64Kb to 4Mb. Processing defects in SRAM and DRAM 
semiconductor memories can significantly reduce the 
processing yield in such large scale memory arrays. In 
order to improve the processing yield of memory chips, 
various methods of error correction have been created to 
improve yield. These include electrical or 'soft' error 
correcting whereby software corrects for physical defects, 
and 'hard' error correcting whereby defective circuit 
elements are replaced with redundant elements included on 
the chip. The use of soft or hard error correcting can 
result in lower capital manufacturing cost and earlier 
introduction of new products on existing wafer fab lines or 
in new process technologies. Yield enhancement by 'hard' error correcting on a 
memory chip is typically produced by including redundant 
rows and columns within the memory array. A few redundant 
rows or columns can significantly enhance yield of a memory 
circuit since many devices are rejected for single bit  
 
failure or failures in a single row or column. These 
redundant rows or columns can be added to the memory design 
to replace defective rows or columns which are identified 
at electrical test after wafer processing. First, the 
defective row or column is disconnected from the array. 
This is accomplished by one of three methods: current blown 
fuses, laser blown fuses, and laser annealed resistor 
connections. Then a redundant row or column is enabled and 
programmed with the defective row or column address. The implementation of redundant lines in a memory 
array can impair the chip's speed if these lines are a 
significant distance away from the lines they are replacing 
or if the circuit path for the redundant lines contains 
additional devices. The attempt is usually made to locate 
the redundant elements in blocks of the array near the 
locations they will replace in order to reduce the signal 
path length. Also, additional signals such as "chip 
enable" or "left/right row address" are needed to enable 
the line. These additional signals require an additional 
logic device to be placed in the signal path or that the 
fan-in on an existing logical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A master enable circuit for enabling a redundant line 
decoder, comprising: 


(a) a programmable circuit for setting an enable 
state; and 
(b) an output circuit that combines the enable 
state with at least one additional enable signal to 

generate a decoder enable signal, the decoder enable signal 
enabling the decoder when the enable state and the 

additional enable signal have enabling values. 
The master enable circuit of Claim 1, wherein the 
output circuit comprises a logic gate, the inputs to the 

logic gate being the enable state set in the programmable 
circuit and the additional enable signal, wherein the logic 

gate outputs an enabling decoder enable signal if the 
inputs to the logic gate indicate an enabled decoder. 
The master enable circuit of Claim 2, wherein the 
logic gate comprises a NAND gate. 
The master enable circuit of Claim 2, further 
comprising an inverting amplifier connected to the output 

of the logic gate, whereby both the logic gate output and 
 

its complement may be output from the master enable 
circuit. 
The master enable circuit of Claim 1, wherein the 
programmable circuit comprises: 

   a fuse having a first end and second end, a high 
voltage power supply connected to the first end; 

   a MOSFET having a first terminal connected to a 
low voltage power supply, a second terminal connected to 

the second end of the fuse, and a gate terminal; and 
   an inverting amplifier having an input connected 

to the second terminal and an output connected to the gate 
terminal, the output of the inverting amplifier acting as 

the output of the programmable circuit. 
The master enable circuit of Claim 5, wherein the 
output circuit comprises a logic gate, the inputs to the 

logic gate being the output from the inverting amplifier 
and at least one additional enable signal, wherein the 

logic gate outputs an enabling decoder enable signal if the 
inputs to the logic gate indicate an enabled decoder. 
A redundant line decoder, comprising: 
   a master enable circuit for enabling the decoder, 

the master enable circuit outputting an enabling decoder 
 

enable signal when a programmed enable signal and at least 
one additional enable signal attain preselected values; 

   pass-gate means for permitting address signals to 
transmit in response to the decoder enable signal; 

   means for locking the decoder in a disabled state 
in response to the decoder enable signal; and 

   a decode circuit connected to the pass-gate means 
and the locking means, wherein the decoder circuit, 

programmed with an address, generates a redundant line 
select signal when the programmed address is received. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 7, wherein the master 
enable circuit comprises: 

   a master fuse connected to a power supply; 
   a MOSFET having the first terminal connected to 

the master fuse, and a second terminal connected to a 
second power supply; 

   an inverting amplifier having an input connected 
to the second terminal and an output connected to the gate 

terminal 
   a NAND gate having a plurality of additional 

enable signals and the output from the inverting amplifier 
as inputs. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 7, wherein the pass-gate 

means comprises a plurality of transistors connected 
between the address signals and the decode circuit, the 

transistors being controlled by the decoder enable signal. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 7, wherein the pass-gate 
means comprises a plurality of PMOS transistors and 

NMOS transistors connected between the address signals and 
the decode circuit, the PMOS transistors being controlled 

by a decoder enable signal and the NMOS transistors being 
controlled by a complement to the decoder enable signal. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 7, wherein the locking 
means comprises a plurality of transistors connected 

between the decode circuit and a voltage, the transistors 
being controlled by the decoder enable signal. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 11, wherein the voltage 
is ground. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 7, wherein the decode 
circuit comprises: 

   means for being programmed with an address 
through selection of address signals corresponding to the 

programmed address; and
 

   a logic gate having inputs of the selected 
address signals, the output being the redundant line select 

signal. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 13, wherein the means 
for being programmed comprises fuses connected in-line 

with each of the address signals. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 13, further comprising 
means for selecting address signals and complementary 

address signals corresponding to the programmed address. 
The redundant decoder of Claim 13, further comprising 
means for selecting predecoded signals corresponding to the 

programmed address. 
A method for enabling a redundant decoder, comprising 
the steps of: 

   generating a programmed enable signal dependant 
on whether a fuse is blown; 

   combining programmed enable signal with at least 
one additional enable signal to generate a master enable 

signal. 
The method for enabling a redundant decoder of Claim 
17, wherein the step of combining is performed by a logic 

gate. 
The method for enabling a redundant decoder of Claim 
17, wherein the additional enable signals are a chip enable 

control signal and a left/right row address signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
