<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638946</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Preparation of silver vanadium oxide cathodes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01G3100	C01G3100	H01M402	H01M402	H01M404	H01M404	H01M448	H01M448	H01M458	H01M458	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01G	C01G	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01G31	C01G31	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	H01M4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Various methods for preparing a cathode having as active 
material silver vanadium oxide formed by chemical addition, 

reaction or otherwise intimate contact of a silver-containing 
compound and a vanadium-containing compound present in either an 

anhydrous mixture or a gel solution which may generate a 
preparation of silver vanadium oxide, is described. The present 

invention provides alternate preparation techniques for improving 
chemical control in the formation of a cathode for incorporation 

into an electrochemical cell. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREATBATCH W LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GREATBATCH W LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEUCHI ESTHER S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIEBOLT III WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKEUCHI ESTHER S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THIEBOLT III WILLIAM C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the manufacture of an alkali metal 
electrochemical cell or battery, and more particularly to new and 
improved methods of preparing silver vanadium oxide composite 
cathode material for use in high energy density batteries. Solid cathode, liquid organic electrolyte alkali metal or 
lithium anode cells or batteries are used as the power source for 
implantable medical devices. The cathode of such a cell may have 
as active material carbon fluoride, a metal oxide, a mixed metal 
oxide such as silver vanadium oxide, or other suitable material 
as disclosed in U. S. Patent 4,830,940 to Keister et al., which 
patent is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and 
is incorporated herein by reference. Preparation of cathode material containing a mixed metal 
oxide such as silver vanadium oxide for use in a lithium cell or 
battery has been known by a decomposition reaction. However, the 
decomposition method of preparation is accompanied by the 
evolution of gaseous products. Typically, the synthesis is 
carried out by first thermally decomposing a vanadium salt to 
produce vanadium pentoxide. A decomposable metal salt, 
preferably containing silver, is then blended with the vanadium 
pentoxide in water and the mixture is oven-dried. Following 
drying, the mixture is again blended and ground to ensure 
thorough intermingling of the constituents and the resulting 
homogeneous mixture is subsequently baked for a final 
heating/decomposition period. Depending on the starting 
materials used, this final heating/decomposition period can 
result in the release of toxic by-product gases. For example, if  
 
silver nitrate (AgNO₃) is used as the silver source, nitrous 
oxide type gases may be formed. Such a decomposition reaction 
for the preparation of silver vanadium oxide is: 
AgNO₃ + V₂O₅ → AgV₂O5.5 + NO₂ + O₂Upon cooling, the baked material is blended with appropriate 
amounts of carbon black and graphite powder to enhance 
conductivity, and with a binder material, and then pressed to 
form the cathode. Such a method is described in more detail in 
U.S. Patent 4,310,609, to Liang et al., which patent is assigned 
to the assignee of the present invention and is incorporated 
herein by reference. Accordingly, the present invention provides several 
alternate preparation methods for silver vanadium oxide by 
chemical addition, reaction, or otherwise intimate contact of a 
silver-containing component with a vanadium-containing oxide or 
acid compound to form a mixed metal oxide .
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of preparing a cathode for an electrochemical cell having an alkali metal 
anode, wherein the cathode contains as active material silver vanadium oxide prepared by 

chemical addition or reaction and in a manner that brings about intimate contact of starting 
materials, which comprises: 


a) combining the starting materials comprising at least one silver-containing 
component with at least one vanadium-containing compound to form an 

intimate combination of the starting materials comprising an anhydrous 
mixed metal oxide; 
b) thermally treating the anhydrous mixed metal oxide to thereby form the 
silver vanadium oxide material; 
c) utilizing the silver vanadium oxide to form a cathode for the 
electrochemical cell; and either or both of 
d) selecting the silver-containing component in step (a) to have a silver 
content that provides the intimate combination with a desired shape in the 

electrical discharge characteristics of the electrochemical cell, and 
e) effecting the thermal treatment of step (b) in an atmosphere selected to aid 
the chemical addition or reaction to provide a desired shape in the electrical 

discharge characteristics of the electrochemical cell. 
A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the thermal treatment of the anhydrous 
mixed metal oxide of step b) comprises a first step comprising baking the mixed metal 

oxide, a second step of grinding the mixed metal oxide and a third step of further baking 
the mixed metal oxide. 
A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the first step comprising the thermal 
treatment of the anhydrous mixed metal oxide comprises baking the mixed metal oxide at 

a temperature of between 300°C to 400°C for a time of between about 2 hours to 24 hours 
and the third step comprises baking the mixed metal oxide at a temperature of between 

about 300°C to 550°C for a time of between about 2 hours to 24 hours. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the cathode is formed by 
pressing the silver vanadium oxide into a desired shape. 
A method of preparing a cathode for an electrochemical cell having an alkali metal 
anode, wherein the cathode contains as active material silver vanadium oxide prepared by 

the chemical addition or reaction and in a manner that brings about intimate contact of 
starting materials, which comprises: 


a) combining the starting materials comprising at least one silver-containing 
component with at least one vanadium-containing compound to form an 

intimate combination of the starting materials comprising a mixed metal 
oxide incorporated into a gel solution; 
b) thermally treating the mixed metal oxide incorporated into the gel solution 
to thereby form the silver vanadium oxide material; and 
c) utilizing the silver vanadium oxide to form a cathode for the 
electrochemical cell. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the silver-containing component is 
preselected to have a silver content that provides the intimate combination with a desired 

shape in the electrical discharge characteristics of the electrochemical cell. 
A method as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the thermal treatment of step 
b) is carried out in an atmosphere selected to aid the chemical addition or reaction to 

provide the preselected desired shape in the electrical discharge characteristics of the 
electrochemical cell. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the thermal treatment of 
the mixed metal oxide incorporated in the gel solution of step b) comprises a single step 

comprising baking the gel for a time ranging from about 2 hours to about 24 hours at a 
temperature ranging from about 300°C to about 500°C. 
A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 8 wherein the gel comprised of a 
mixed metal oxide is first diluted by addition of a suitable liquid prior to being applied by 

a spray coating technique to a substrate to form a thin sheet coating of active cathode 
material. 
A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the thin sheet coating is desirably a 
thickness of about 0.01 inch or less. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the thermal treatment is 
carried out in an oxidizing atmosphere. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the thermal treatment is 
carried out in an inert atmosphere selected from argon, nitrogen and helium. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the silver-containing 
component is selected from silver iodide, silver oxide, silver vanadate, silver metal, silver 

carbonate and combinations thereof. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the vanadium-containing 
compound is selected from vanadium oxide salts, silver vanadate, polyvanadic acid, 

vanadium oxide, and combinations thereof. 
A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the vanadium salt contains an alkali metal 
selected from lithium, sodium, and potassium. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the cathode comprises 
between about 80 weight percent to about 99 weight percent silver vanadium oxide. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the forming of the cathode of 
step c) further comprises the addition of binder and conductor materials. 
A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the cathode is comprised of between 
about 0 to 3 weight percent carbon, between about 0 to 3 weight percent fluororesin 

powder, and between about 94 and 99 weight percent silver vanadium oxide. 
A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the forming of the cathode of 
step c) further comprises the dropwise addition of a liquid electrolyte. 
A nonaqueous electrochemical cell comprising a cathode, an alkali metal anode and 
a nonaqueous electrolyte comprising a combination of an organic solvent and a lithium 

salt, characterised in that said cathode is obtained by a method as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 19. 
An electrochemical cell as claimed in claim 20 wherein the anode is comprised of 
lithium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
