<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633616</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ceramic motor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02N200	H01L4109	H02N200	H01L4109	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02N	H01L	H02N	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02N2	H01L41	H02N2	H01L41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A micromotor for moving a body including at least one 
rectangular piezoelectric plate having long and short edges 

and first and second faces, electrodes attached to the 
first and second faces and a ceramic spacer attached to the 

center of a first one of the edges and operative to be 
pressed against the body. A resilient force is applied to 

the center of a second edge opposite the first edge, whereby 
the ceramic spacer is pressed against the body. At least 

some of the electrodes are electrified by either an AC or 
an asymmetric unipolar pulsed voltage. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANOMOTION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NANOMOTION LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZUMERIS JONA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZUMERIS,JONA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to micro-motors and more particularly
to piezoelectric motors.The use of resonant piezoelectric ceramics to provide
linear and rotational motion is well known. The major
advantages of such systems is the capability of achieving
very fine motion without the use of moving mechanical
parts. In general such systems are limited to 1 micrometer
of motion accuracy in open loop operation and 50 nanometers
in closed loop operation. The velocity is limited to 5 to
10 mm/sec when the weight of a plate to be moved is 0.5 kg.
Under these circumstances the force applied to the plate in
the direction of motion is limited to about 5 N. It would
be useful in many situations to achieve better resolution,
higher velocities and greater motional drive force for such
motors. Improved resolution would be especially useful if
the ability to move at relatively high velocities was also
preserved.SU 693493 describes a piezoelectric motor comprising a
flat rectangular piezoelectric plate having one electrode
covering essentially all of one large face of the plate
(the "back" face) and four electrodes each covering a
quadrant of the front face. The back electrode is grounded
and diagonal electrodes are electrically connected. Two
ceramic pads are attached to one of the long edges of the
plate and these pads are pressed against the object to be 
moved by a spring mechanism which presses against the other
long edge.The long and short directions have nearby resonant
frequencies (for different mode orders) such that when one
pair of connected electrodes is excited with an AC voltage
to which the ceramic is responsive, the object moves in one
direction, and when the other pair is excited the object
moves in the other direction. The unexcited electrodes are electrically floating.It is an object of some aspects of the present invention
to provide a micromotor having higher speed, greater
driving force and smaller minimum step size than micromotors
of the prior art.This object is achieved by a micromotor according to claim 1 and a method
according to claim 12.One embodiment of the present invention comprises a thin
rectangular piezoelectric ceramic having at least one
electrode on one of the large faces thereof and a plurality
of electrodes on the other large face. In more embodiments a single
spacer of hard material is attached to the center of the
short edge of the piezoelectric ceramic and is pressed
against a body. When at least some of the electrodes are
electrified, as described below, movement of either the
pie
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A micromotor for moving a body comprising:

a substantially rectangular piezoelectric plate (10) having first and second
faces and two long and two short edges (40, 42; 28, 43);
a plurality of electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) situated on the first face of the plate
and an electrode situated on the second face; and
a source of electrical excitation (50) having a plurality of terminals connected
to said electrodes;
means for electrifying at least one of said terminals such that a voltage is
impressed by the means for electrifying between some, but not all, of the electrodes on

the first face and the electrode on the second face,

   
characterized in that
 those electrodes of the plurality of electrodes situated on
the first face on which no voltage is impressed, are grounded.
A micromotor according to claim 1 wherein the voltage is an AC voltage.
A micrometer according to claim 1 wherein the voltage is a unipolar pulsed
voltage.
A micromotor according to claim 3 wherein the unipolar pulsed voltage is an
asymmetric unipolar pulsed voltage.
A micromotor according to claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the unipolar pulsed
voltage is a triangular voltage.
A micromotor according to any of the preceding claims wherein the plurality
of electrodes comprises:


four electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) placed in the four portions of the first face
delineated by a line parallel to the long edge and a line parallel to the short edge, and

wherein:
the source of electrical excitation is operative to apply said voltage difference
between a first pair of diagonally situated electrodes and said electrode on the second

face, while a second pair of diagonally situated electrodes is not electrified.
A micromotor according to any of the claims 1-5 wherein the plurality of
electrodes comprises:


four electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) placed in the four portions of the first face
delineated by a line parallel to the long edge and a line parallel to the short edge, and

wherein:
the source of electrical excitation is operative to apply a different voltage
difference between one electrode on the first face and said electrode on the second

face, while the other electrodes on the one face are not electrified.
A micromotor according to any of the claims 1-5 wherein the plurality of
electrodes comprises:


four electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) placed in the four portions of the first face
delineated by a line parallel to the long edge and a line parallel to the short edge, and

wherein:
the source of electrical excitation is operative to apply a different voltage
difference between two non-diagonally situated electrodes on the first face and said

electrode on the second face, while the other electrodes on the first face are not
electrified.
A micromotor according to any of the claims 1-5 wherein the plurality of
electrodes comprises:


four electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) placed in the four portions of the first face
delineated by a line parallel to the long edge and a line parallel to the short edge, and

wherein:
the source of electrical excitation is operative to apply a different voltage

difference between three electrodes on the first face and said electrode on the second
face, while the other electrode on the first face are not electrified.
A micromotor according to any preceding claim wherein the electrode situated
on the second face is grounded.
A micromotor according to any preceding claim wherein the electrode situated
on the second face covers substantially all of the second face. 
A method of electrifying a micromotor for moving a body comprising a
substantially rectangular piezoelectric plate (10) having first and second faces and two

long and two short edges (40, 42; 28,43) and a plurality of electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20)
situated on one face of the plate and an electrode situated on the second face,


characterized in that
 the method includes:

   applying a voltage on some, but not all, of the plurality of electrodes on the
first face and grounding the non-electrified electrodes of the plurality of electrodes on

the first face.
A method according to claim 12 wherein the excitation is an AC voltage.
A method according to claim 12 wherein the excitation is a unipolar pulsed
voltage.
A method according to claim 12 or claim 14 wherein the excitation is an
asymmetric unipolar pulsed voltage.
A method according to any of claims 12, 14 and 15 wherein the excitation is a
triangular voltage.
A method according to any of claims 12-16 wherein the plurality of electrodes
comprises four electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) placed in the four portions of the first face

delineated by a line parallel to the long edge and a line parallel to the short edge, and
further comprising the steps of:

   applying a voltage to a first pair of diagonally situated electrodes while the
second pair of diagonally situated electrodes is not electrified.
A method according to any of claims 12-16 wherein the plurality of electrodes
comprises four electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) placed in the four portions of the first face

delineated by a line parallel to the long edge and a line parallel to the short edge, and
further comprising the steps of:

   applying a voltage to a single electrode on the first face while no voltage is
applied to the other electrodes on the first face. 
A method according to any of claims 12-16 wherein the plurality of electrodes
comprises four electrodes (14, 16, 18, 20) placed in the four portions of the first face

delineated by a line parallel to the long edge and a line parallel to the short edge, and
further comprising the steps of:

   appying a voltage to three electrodes on the first face while no voltage is
applied to the fourth electrode on the first face.
A method according to any one of claims 12-19 and including grounding the
electrode on the second face.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
