<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627796</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Methods and apparatus for detecting electrode separation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R3900	B23K1125	H01R3932	B23K1125	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	B23K	H01R	B23K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R39	B23K11	H01R39	B23K11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods and apparatus for identifying the 
occurrence of fusing electrical attachment during 

fusing operations are provided. After a conventional 
fusing operation is complete, an electrical signal is 

applied to the fusing electrode while the fusing 
electrode is returned to its home position. The 

electrical signal is monitored to determine whether a 
circuit path exists from the fusing electrode through 

the fused conductors to the ground electrode. The 
presence of a path would indicate that the fusing 

electrode has become attached to the fused conductors. 
An alternate embodiment is also described in which the 

force required to withdraw the fusing electrode is 
monitored while the electrode is returned to its home 

position. If the measured force does not fall within 
predetermined limits, or if the measured force varies 

during electrode movement, fusing electrode attachment 
has occurred. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXIS SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AXIS S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSI ALESSANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSSI, ALESSANDRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electrical
connection fusing machines, and more particularly to
machines for fusing the coil wires of an electric motor
and insuring that the fusing electrode does not remain
attached to the electrical conductor after completion
of the fusing operation.Fusing machines are widely used for fusing
armature wires to commutator tangs or slots, and stator
wires to terminal board contact hooks, of electric
motors. A typical armature fusing operation, for
example, involves applying a physical force from the
fusing electrode to the tang or slot being fused.
Next, current is applied to the fusing electrode, which
current passes through the commutator to a ground
electrode. The resistance of the fusing electrode is
higher than that of the commutator, causing the fusing
electrode to heat. The heat is thermally transferred
to the point of contact between the fusing electrode
and the commutator. A similar set of steps is required
for stator fusing operations.Assuming that the fusing process is
successfully completed, a reset step is performed
wherein the fusing electrode is removed from the
electrical conductors and returned to its home position 
for the next fusing operation. However, various
problems can occur during the previously described
application of current and heating which may cause the
fusing electrode to remain attached to the fused
electrical conductors. For example, an excessively
worn electrode tip may cause an uneven application of
heat which can result in "hot spots" (i.e., excessive
application of heat in specific locations) leading to
attachment of the electrode. Alternatively, if precise
control of the physical and electrical phases of the
fusing operation is not maintained, attachment may
occur from the application of excess heat.An apparatus for precise control of the
physical phases of the fusing operation is described in
Rossi U.S. Patent No. 5,063,279, entitled "Methods and
Apparatus for Fusing Armature and Stator Wires,".
The application of force from the fusing electrode to
the commutator bar (or terminal board) and wires is
performed according to predetermined force or
displacement functions.An apparatus for precise control of the
electrical phases of the fusing operation is described
in applicant's co-pending, commonly-assigned
application Ser. No. 07/903,910, filed June 25, 1992,
entitled "Methods and Apparatus for Fusing Electrical
Conductors,".
In application Ser. No. 07/903,910, a
precise, timed, and controlled delivery of electric
current to the fusing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for forming a fixed electrical
connection in an electrically conductive workpiece

(14,16,18) comprising:

a fusing electrode (12);
first means for moving said electrode (12)
relative to said workpiece in order to cause said electrode

to contact and apply force to said workpiece;
second means for passing an electric current
through said electrode (12) and said workpiece while said

electrode is in contact with said workpiece so that said
electrical current heats said electrode and said electrode

heats said workpiece;
third means for moving said electrode
relative to said workpiece in order to separate said

electrode from said workpiece after said first and second
means have performed their functions; the apparatus being


characterised in that
 it further comprises:

fourth means (126, 135) operative during
operation of said third means for detecting resistance to

electrode separation by monitoring and detecting the force
required to separate said electrode from said workpiece.
The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein
said third means pulls said electrode away from said

workpiece, and wherein said means for monitoring and
detecting force comprises:


means (126, 135) for detecting tension stress
in said electrode.
The apparatus defined in claim 1 further
comprising:


means (126) responsive to said means for
monitoring and detecting force for indicating that said

electrode has not satisfactorily separated from said 
workpiece when the force detected by said means for

monitoring and detecting force exceeds a predetermined
threshold level.
The apparatus defined in claim 1, further
comprises means (126) for modifying movement parameters of

said third means in response to identification of electrode
attachment to said workpiece.
The apparatus defined in claim 1, further
comprises means (126) for modifying regulation parameters of

said second means in response to identification of electrode
attachment to said workpiece.
The apparatus defined in claim 1, further
comprising means (126) for automatically rejecting said

workpiece in response to identification of electrode
attachment to said workpiece.
The apparatus defined in claim 1, further
comprising means (126) for automatically identifying a

fusing electrode for which electrode attachment to said
workpiece has occurred a predetermined number of times,

thereby signifying that said fusing electrode should be
replaced.
The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein
said means for monitoring and detecting force comprises:


a pressure transducer (136) for generating a
signal corresponding to current pressure required to

separate said fusing electrode, said pressure transducer
having an output.
The apparatus defined in claim 8 further
comprising: 


a position transducer (28) for generating a
signal corresponding to current position of said fusing

electrode, said position transducer having an output; and
a control system (126) for monitoring said
pressure transducer signal and for monitoring said position

transducer signal, said control system being coupled to said
output of said pressure transducer and also being coupled to

said output of said position transducer,
The apparatus defined in claim 9 wherein said
control system (126) determines that electrode attachment

has occurred if:

said pressure transducer signal varies while
said fusing electrode is being separated from said

workpiece, thereby signifying temporary electrode
attachment; or
said pressure transducer signal remains
constant, but is not within predetermined limits, while said

fusing electrode is being separated from said workpiece,
thereby identifying electrode attachment.
The apparatus defined in claim 1 wherein said
means for monitoring and detecting force continuously

monitors and detects the force required to separate said
electrode from said workpiece.
Apparatus for forming a fixed electrical
connection in an electrically conductive workpiece

(14,16,18) comprising:

a fusing electrode (12) ;
first means for moving said electrode (12)
relative to said workpiece in order to cause said electrode

to contact and apply force to said workpiece;
second means for passing an electric current

through said electrode and said workpiece while said 
electrode is in contact with said workpiece so that said

electrical current heats said electrode and said electrode
heats said workpiece;
third means for moving said electrode
relative to said workpiece in order to separate said

electrode from said workpiece after said first and second
means have performed their functions; the apparatus being


characterised in that
 it further comprises
fourth means (10) operative during operation
of said third means for detecting resistance to separation

of said electrode from said workpiece,

wherein said fourth means comprises:

fifth means (22) for passing an electrical
current in series through said electrode and said workpiece

during operation of said third means; and
sixth means (26) for detecting when, during
operation of said third means, the current from said fifth

means (22) ceases to flow through said electrode and said
workpiece.
The apparatus defined in claim 12 further
comprising:


means responsive to said sixth means (26) for
indicating that said electrode (12) has not satisfactorily

separated from said workpiece if said sixth means does not
indicate that the current from said fifth means (22) has

ceased to flow by a predetermined point during operation of
third means.
The apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein
said sixth means (26) comprises:


means (28) for detecting the position of said
electrode relative to said workpiece during operation of

said third means; and 
means (26,30) responsive to said means for
detecting position for identifying the position of said

electrode (12) relative to said workpiece when the current
from said fifth means (22) ceases to flow through said

electrode and said workpiece.
The apparatus defined in claim 14 further
comprising:


means (26) responsive to said means for
identifying position for indicating that said electrode has

not satisfactorily separated from said workpiece if the
position identified by said means (26,30) for identifying

position is not substantially equal to a predetermined
position.
The apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein
said fifth means (22) comprises:


a predetermined voltage source;
a switch (24) having an input connected to
said voltage source, an output connected to said fusing

electrode, and a control input; and wherein said sixth
means (26) comprises
a control signal for controlling said switch,
said control signal being coupled to said control input of

said switch.
The apparatus defined in claim 16, further
comprising:


a position transducer (28) for generating a
signal corresponding to current position of said fusing

electrode, said position transducer having an output; and
a control system (26) for monitoring applied
voltage of said voltage source and for monitoring said

position transducer signal, said control system being
coupled to said fusing electrode (12) and said workpiece in 

order to monitor said applied voltage and also being coupled
to said output of said position transducer, said control

system determining that electrode attachment has occurred
if:


said applied signal remains constant while
said fusing electrode is separated from said workpiece,

thereby signifying electrode attachment; or
said applied signal varies after a
predetermined compensation period while said fusing

electrode is separated from said workpiece, thereby
identifying temporary electrode attachment.
The apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein
said sixth means (26) comprises means for modifying movement

parameters of said third means in response to the
identification of electrode attachment.
The apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein
said sixth means (26) comprises means for modifying

regulation parameters of said second means in response to
the identification of electrode attachment.
The apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein
said sixth means (26) comprises means for automatically

rejecting workpiece in response to the identification of
electrode attachment.
The apparatus defined in claim 12, wherein
said sixth means (26) comprises means for automatically

identifying a fusing electrode (12) for which electrode
attachment has occurred a predetermined number of times,

thereby signifying that said fusing electrode should be
replaced. 
A method of forming a fixed electrical
connection in an electrically conductive workpiece

(14,16,18) comprising the steps of:

moving a fusing electrode (12) relative to
said workpiece in order to cause said electrode to contact

and apply force to said workpiece;
passing an electric current through said
electrode (12) and said workpiece while said electrode is in

contact with said workpiece so that said electrical current
heats said electrode and said electrode heats said

workpiece;
after said moving and said passing steps have
been completed, withdrawing said electrode relative to said

workpiece in order to separate said electrode from said
workpiece; and
at the same time as said withdrawing step is
being performed essentially instantaneously detecting changes in resistance to

separation of said electrode from said workpiece to
identify the quality of a cohesion joint of said electrical

connection.
The method defined in claim 22, wherein said
step of detecting comprises the step of monitoring the force

required to separate said electrode (12) from said
workpiece.
The method defined in claim 22, wherein said
step of detecting comprises the steps of:


passing a signal current in series through
said electrode (12) and said workpiece; and
monitoring said signal current to determine
when said signal current ceases to flow through said

electrode and said workpiece.
The method defined in claim 22 further
comprising the step of modifying movement parameters of said

moving step in response to the identification of electrode
attachment.
The method defined in claim 23 further
comprising the step of modifying regulation parameters of

said passing step in response to the identification of
electrode attachment.
The method defined in claim 23 further
comprising the step of automatically identifying a fusing

electrode (12) for which electrode attachment has occurred a
predetermined number of times, thereby signifying that said

fusing electrode should be replaced.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
