<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643887</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A MULTI-CHANNEL DIGITAL TRANSMITTER AND RECEIVER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03H1702	H03H1702	H04J100	H04J102	H04J400	H04J400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03H	H03H	H04J	H04J	H04J	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03H17	H03H17	H04J1	H04J1	H04J4	H04J4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus is provided for use in a multi-channel digital transmitter and receiver. A filtering process is accomplished by conditioning portions of a digitized signal during digital signal processing by integrating, taking the difference of, and multiplying portions of the digitized signal. The filtering process may be used in conjunction with a receiving process to generate a digitized channel signal (166, 168, 170, 172) by conditioning (132, 134, 136, 138) the digitized signal (128) and subsequently Fourier transforming (148) the conditioned portions of the digitized signal. Alternatively, the filtering process may be used in conjunction with a transmitting process by inverse Fourier transforming (324) a plurality of digitized information signals (300, 302, 304, 306) to be transmitted, generating a composite digitized signal (352), and subsequently conditioning the composite digitized signal (358).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARRISON, ROBERT, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A MULTI-CHANNEL DIGITAL TRANSMITTER AND RECEIVERCross Reference to Related ApplicationThis is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No.07/966,630 entitled "A Method and Means for Transmultiplexing Signals Between Signal Terminals and Radio Frequency Channels" which was filed on October 22, 1992 for the same inventor, Mark Harrison, as the present patent application and is also assigned to Motorola, Inc. is directed to a multi-channel digital transmitter and receiver which use a polyphase filter bank to pre- and post- process digital signals, respectively, which are used in conjunction with a Fourier transformer.Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to communication units which manipulate electromagnetic radiation within a frequency band, and more specifically to a multi-channel receiver which detects a plurality of information signals as well as a multi-channel transmitter which prepares a plurality of information signals for subsequent transmission over a communication channel. 

 Background of the InventionTransmitters and receivers for communication systems generally are designed such that they are tuned to transmit and receive one of a multiplicity of signals having widely varying bandwidths and which may fall within a particular frequency range. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that these transmitters and receivers radiate or intercept, respectively, electromagnetic radiation within a desired frequency band. The electromagnetic radiation can be output from or input to the transmitter or receiver, respectively, by several types of devices including an antenna, a wave guide, a coaxial cable, an optical fiber, and a transducer.These communication system transmitters and receivers may be capable of transmitting and receiving a multiplicity of signals; however, such transmitters and receivers generally utilize circuitry which is duplicated for each respective signal to be transmitted or received which has a different frequency or bandwidth. This circuitry duplication is not an optimal multi-channel communication unit design architecture, because of the added cost and complexity associated with building complete independent transmitters and/or receivers for each communication channel.An alternative transmitter and receiver architecture is possible which would be capable of transmitting and receiving signals having a desired multi-channel wide bandwidth. This alternative transmitter and receiver may utilize a digital-to-analog converter and a digitizer
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A filter comprising a plurality of conditioning means for conditioning a digitized signal during digital signal processing, each conditioning means comprising an integrator, at least one differencer, and at least one multiplier operatively coupled together to condition a portion of the digitized signal.
2. The filter of claim 1 wherein:
(a) the at least one differencer of each conditioning means comprises a first and a second differencer, each operatively coupled to an output of the integrator, the second differencer being operatively coupled through a delay element;
(b) the at least one multiplier of each conditioning means comprises a first and a second multiplier, operatively coupled to the first and the second differencer, respectively, for generating scaled outputs of the first and the second differencer; and
(c) each conditioning means further comprises a summing means, operatively coupled to the first and the second multiplier, for generating a portion of the conditioned digitized signal from the scaled outputs of the first and the second multiplier. 

3. The filter of claim 2 wherein:
(a) each conditioning means further comprises:
(i) a third differencer operatively coupled to an output of the integrator through at least two delay elements; and
(ii) a third multiplier, operatively coupled to the third differencer, for generating a scaled output of the third differencer; and
(b) the summing means is further operatively coupled to the third multiplier, for generating the portion of the conditioned digitized signal from the scaled output of the third multiplier.
4. The filter of claim 1 wherein: (a) the integrator of each conditioning means is operatively coupled to an output of the differencer of each conditioning means;
(b) the at least one multiplier of each conditioning means comprises a first and a second multiplier, operatively coupled to the integrator, for generating scaled outputs of the integrator, the second multiplier being operatively coupled through a delay element; and
(c) each conditioning means further comprises a summing means, operatively coupled to the first and the second multiplier, for generating a portion of the conditioned digitized signal from the scaled outputs of the first and the second multiplier. 

5. The filter of claim 4 wherein:
(a) each conditioning means further comprises a third multiplier, operatively coupled to an output of the integrator through at least two delay elements, for generating a scaled output of the integrator; and
(b) the summing means is further operatively coupled to the third multiplier, for generating the portion of the conditioned digitized signal from the scaled output of the third multiplier.
6. A communication receiving unit, comprising:
(a) a plurality of filtering means for pre-conditioning a digitized signal for subsequent Fourier transformation each filtering means comprising an integrator, at least one differencer, and at least one multiplier operatively coupled together to pre-condition a portion of the digitized signal; and
(b) Fourier transforming means, operatively coupled to the plurality of filtering means, for generating a digitized channel signal.
7. The communication unit of claim 6 further comprising:
(a) input means for intercepting electromagnetic radiation within a frequency band; and
(b) digitizing means, operatively coupled to the input means, for digitizing a portion of the intercepted electromagnetic radiation into the digitized signal.
8. The communication unit of claim 6 further comprising conditioning means, operatively coupled to the Fourier transforming means, for removing undesired signals from the digitized channel signal by filtering the digitized channel signal with respect to a signal characteristic selected from the group consisting of optimum selectivity, controlled phase response, and controlled amplitude response. 


9. The communication unit of claim 6 further comprising a detecting means, operatively coupled to the Fourier transforming means, for detecting an information signal within the digitized channel signal.
10. A communication transmitting unit, comprising:
(a) inverse Fourier transforming means for generating a composite digitized signal from a plurality of digitized information signals to be transmitted; and (b) a plurality of filtering means, operatively coupled to the inverse Fourier transforming means, for post-conditioning the composite digitized signal for subsequent transmission, each filtering means comprising an integrator, a differencer, and at least one multiplier operatively coupled together to post-condition a portion of the digitized signal.
11. The communication unit of claim 10 further comprising an input means, operatively coupled to the inverse Fourier transforming means, for receiving the plurality of digitized information signals to be transmitted and subsequently providing the plurality of digitized information signals to the inverse Fourier transforming means.
12. The communication unit of claim 10 further comprising a conditioning means, operatively coupled to the inverse Fourier transforming means, for removing undesired signals from the plurality of digitized information signals prior to the generation of the composite digitized signal by filtering each digitized information signal with respect to a signal characteristic selected from the group consisting of optimum selectivity, controlled phase response, and controlled amplitude response. 


13. A communication receiving unit, comprising:
(a) an analog-to-digital conversion means for digitizing a selected portion of an input frequency band;
(b) commutating means, operatively coupled to the analog-to- digital conversion means, for subdividing the digitized portion of the input frequency band into the plurality of digitized signal portions;
(c) discrete Fourier transforming means, operatively coupled to the commutating means, for generating a plurality of digitized channel signals by discrete Fourier transforming the plurality of digitized signal portions, the discrete Fourier transforming means comprising conditioning means for pre-conditioning the plurality of digitized signal portions with a modified cascaded integrator comb filter; and (d) a detecting means, operatively coupled to the discrete
Fourier transforming means, for detecting at least two information signals from the plurality of digitized channel signals.
14. The communication unit of claim 13 wherein the conditioning means comprises means for filtering each digitized signal portion with respect to a signal characteristic selected from the group consisting of optimum selectivity, controlled phase response, and controlled amplitude response.
15. The communication unit of claim 13 wherein each information signal conforms with a signal coding and channelization standard selected from the group consisting of frequency division multiple access, time division multiple access, and frequency hopping code division multiple access. 


16. A communication transmitting unit, comprising:
(a) inverse discrete Fourier transforming means for generating a plurality of digitized signals by inverse discrete Fourier transforming a plurality of input digitized information signals, the inverse discrete Fourier transforming means comprising conditioning means for post-conditioning the plurality of digitized signals with a modified cascaded integrator comb filter;
(b) commutating means, operatively coupled to the inverse discrete Fourier transforming means, for combining portions of the plurality of digitized signals into a composite digitized signal;
(c) digital-to-analog conversion means, operatively coupled to the commutating means, for generating a composite analog transmission signal from the composite digitized signal; and
(d) transmitting means, operatively coupled to the digital-to- analog conversion means, for transmitting the composite analog transmission signal over a frequency band.
17. The communication unit of claim 16 wherein each information signal conforms with a signal coding and channelization standard selected from the group consisting of frequency division multiple access, time division multiple access, and frequency hopping code division multiple access.
18. The communication unit of claim 16 wherein the conditioning means comprises means for filtering each digitized signal with respect to a signal characteristic selected from the group consisting of optimum selectivity, controlled phase response, and controlled amplitude response. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
