<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649957</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electronic combination lock.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05B4900	E05B4900	G07C900	G07C900	G07F906	G07F906	G07F1900	G07F1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05B	E05B	G07C	G07C	G07F	G07F	G07F	G07F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05B49	E05B49	G07C9	G07C9	G07F9	G07F9	G07F19	G07F19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The combination used to open a lock (16) is generated on 
a separate computer system using a series of steps that 

combine selected items of information (26,28,30) 
contained in the lock and alter the results of the 

combinations of the items (26,28,30). The lock (16) 
incorporates a computer processor (22) which performs 

the identical steps to generate an authorized 
combination after a combination is entered into the 

lock. When the two combinations match, the lock (16) is 
enabled for opening. At least some of the information 

items used in generating the combinations change with 
each successful opening of the lock. Thus, an operator 

obtains a combination to open the lock (16) from the 
computer, and this combination may only be used once. 

Each new opening of the lock requires a new combination 
from the computer. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAS HAMILTON GROUP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAS-HAMILTON GROUP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAWSON GERALD LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON DANIEL LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAWSON, GERALD LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMPSON, DANIEL LEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electronic combination locks and 
more specifically to electronic combination locks where the 
lock generates a combination for one-time use, and a separate 
dispatch computer generates the combination which is to be 
entered into the lock and compared with the generated 
combination in the lock. An electronic combination lock of the general type used herein 
is described in U.S. Patent 5,061,923. The lock described in 
the above patent is manufactured and sold as the Mas-Hamilton 
X-07 lock by the Mas-Hamilton Group of Lexington, Kentucky. Combination locks are used on containers such as vaults which 
may, in turn, contain automatic teller machines (ATM). To 
service or repair an ATM, access within the vault containing 
the ATM is required. Service and repair involves not only 
malfunctions, broken or worn out parts of the ATM, but also 
the replenishment of the cash supply within the ATM and to 
collect deposits made at the ATM. Due to the highly sensitive nature of the service or repair of 
an ATM, it has been customary in the past to use a two-person 
service/repair team. This concept is used to reduce the 
chances of theft of the cash either from the cash dispensing 
unit or from the ATM deposit collection container. The use of 
two-person service/repair teams is very expensive; and in an 
effort to reduce the cost of operations of ATMs, the two-person  
 
team in many cases has been replaced with a single 
person to repair/service the ATMs. With the use of only a 
single service person, the incidences of theft from the ATMs 
have dramatically increased. Service personnel must have the 
knowledge of the combination for the lock on the vault in 
order to gain access to the vault for the normal service or 
repair function and then the service person might return to 
the ATM location at a later time, open the vault and remove 
money therefrom. Also, several people may have been assigned 
the job of servicing the ATM at different times and, 
therefore, it is impossible to determine which of the 
individuals may have taken the money. To combat this weakness in the security of the ATM and its 
supply of cash following service by the service personnel, it 
would be necessary for a second person to go to the ATM in 
order to change the combination of the lock. This change of 
the combination requires a lock technician and a considerable 
amount of time resulting in still additional costs and charges 
to the organization maintaining and servicing the ATM. Further, since there are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic combination lock comprising: 
   an input dial for inputting numbers of a combination into 

said lock; 
   a display for displaying numbers; 

   an electronic control means for receiving said numbers of 
said combinations and for comparing said numbers with numbers 

of an authorized combination; 
   said electronic control means including: 

      an encrypting combination generator responsive to an 
entered combination for encrypting predetermined data and for 

generating a combination derived from said predetermined data; 
      a comparator for comparing said entered combination 

with said generated combination and responsive to a compare 
equal to generate a signal permitting said lock to open, 

      said encrypting and generating means responsive to a 
last accepted combination, a parameter unique to said lock, a 

master combination, a variable value, said variable value 
changed in a predictable manner upon each opening of said lock 

and manipulation of said result, to generate said authorized 
combination. 
The lock of claim 1 wherein said electronic control means 
comprises storage means for storing said entered combination 

upon said entered combination equalling said generated 
authorized combination. 
The lock of claim 1 or 2 wherein said electronic control means 
further includes a counter, contents of said counter 

incremented upon each comparing equal of said entered 
combination and said generated combination, said counter 

contents being said variable value. 
The lock of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said electronic control means 
further includes means for generating a new master combination 

responsive to said authorized combination meeting a 
predetermined criteria. 
The lock of claim 4 wherein said criteria is that a sum 
of predesignated digits of said authorized combination equals 

a predetermined value. 
A method of providing an electronic combination lock with 
a single use authorized combination for opening said lock 

comprising the steps of: 
   receiving a new combination into said lock; 

   responsive to said receiving said new combination, 
generating an authorized combination based upon an old 

authorized combination, a value unique to said lock, a 
randomly alterable master combination, a variable value unique 

to said lock and a mathematical combining of predesignated 
digits of said entered combination; 

   comparing said generated, authorized combination with 
said entered combination, and 

   responsive to said compare equal condition therebetween, 
replacing said old authorized combination with said generated 

authorized combination, and 
   providing an electrical authorization signal to condition 

said lock to be opened. 
The method of claim 6 further comprising the steps of: 
   testing said authorized combination for equality to at 

least one condition; 
   responsive to said condition being equalled, altering 

said randomly alterable master combination to create an 
altered master combination, and 

   replacing said randomly alterable master combination with 
 

said altered master combination. 
The method of claim 6 or 7, additionally including 
steps of incrementing said variable value by a fixed 

increment upon successful comparison of said new 
combination and said authorized combination. 
A computer system for generating a combination for 
operation of a lock comprising: 

   a memory for storing one fixed numerical value unique to 
a designated lock and at least three variable numerical 

values; 
   a computer processor; 

   a control program for controlling said processor to 
perform a predetermined sequence of operations involving a 

predetermined fixed numerical value and at least two variable 
numerical values; 

   said sequence of operations including at least a first 
operation of combining one variable numerical value and one 

fixed numerical value, producing a first result; a 
mathematical combining of a second variable value with said 

first result producing a second result, a rearranging of 
digits of said second variable numerical value, a mathematical 

combining of said second result and said rearranged value, 
producing a third result, adding two digits of said third 

result to two predesignated digits of said third result, 
producing a fourth result, and providing said result for the 

opening of a lock. 
The computer system of claim 10 wherein said control 
program defines said first operation of combining as exclusive 

ORing. 
The computer system of claim 10 wherein said control 
program defines said first operation of combining as a 

mathematical combining. 
The computer system of claim 10 wherein said two 
operations of mathematical combining are each addition or 

subtraction with the two operations being different. 
An electronic combination lock having a computer for 
controlling operation of said lock, said computer comprising: 

      a bolt, a bolt withdrawal mechanism including an 
actuator responsive to said computer for enabling withdrawal 

of said bolt; 
   said computer further comprising: 

   a memory for storing one fixed numerical value unique to 
a designated lock and at least three variable numerical 

values; 
   a computer processor; 

   a control program for controlling said processor to 
perform a predetermined sequence of operations involving a 

predetermined fixed numerical value and at least two variable 
numerical values; 

   said sequence of operations including at least a first 
operation of combining one variable numerical value and one 

fixed numerical value, producing a first result; a 
mathematical combining of a second variable value with said 

first result producing a second result, a rearranging of 
digits of said second variable numerical value, a mathematical 

combining of said second result and said rearranged value, 
producing a third result, adding two digits of said third 

 
result to two predesignated digits of said third result, 

producing a fourth result; 
   said computer processor responsive to said control 

program to compare said fourth result to a combination 
generated on a computer system performing identical operations 

in an identical sequence, using identical fixed and variable 
values; 

   said computer responsive to a finding of equality of said 
fourth result and said combination to signal said actuator to 

enable said bolt withdrawal. 
A lock system including an electronic lock which 
requires an authorised combination to enable it to be 

opened which is different from the last authorised 
combination used to open it, characterised in that the 

lock generates an authorised combination for each 
opening by acting on one or more parameter values in a 

predetermined manner, and in that the system includes a 
computer remote from the lock which generates the same 

authorised combination by acting on the same paramater 
values in the same predetermined manner. 
The system of claim 14, wherein at least one of the 
values is variable in a predictable manner with each 

generation of a new authorised combination. 
The system of claim 14 or 15, wherein the lock 
generates a new
 authorised combination only after a 
combination has been entered into the lock. 
An electronic lock which requires an authorised 
combination to enable it to be opened which is different 

from the last authorised combination used to open it, 
characterised in that the lock generates an authorised 

combination for each opening by acting on one or more 
parameter values in a predetermined manner. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
