<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619487</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for non-desturctive plate examination.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2782	G01N2782	G01N2790	G01N2790	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method includes steps, for non-destructive examination of 
a specimen for defects existing in one or both of opposed first 

and second surfaces thereof, comprising concurrently examining 
specimen locations with diverse examination techniques and 

comparing the respective detection results of such examination 
techniques for discriminating as between defects resident in the 

opposed surfaces of the specimen. A system for non-destructive 
examination of a specimen for defects existing in one or both of 

opposed first and second surfaces thereof comprises a generator (12) 
for inducing eddy currents in at least the specimen first 

surface and for establishing a magnetic field in the specimen, a 
detector (24) for detecting chracteristics of eddy currents in the 

specimen and for detecting characteristics of magnetic flux 
leakage from the specimen, a motor for effecting relative 

movement between the specimen and the detector to provide for 
examination of the specimen at multiple specimen locations and a 

display unit (38) for synchronous joint display of the detected 
characteristics of the eddy currents in the specimen and of the 

detected characteristics of magnetic flux leakage from the 
specimen at each of the multiple specimen locations. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNETIC ANALYSIS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAGNETIC ANALYSIS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEBICK PAUL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROOKS ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLMAN RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOU ZHONGGING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BEBICK, PAUL J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROOKS, ROBERT A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLMAN, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOU, ZHONGGING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to examination of plate 
members for flaws therein and pertains more particularly to 
systems and methods for magnetic field testing of tank bottoms. Large oil tanks may sit on the ground for thirty to fifty 
years or more. Due to various conditions and environmental 
factors, the bottom of the tank can become seriously corroded on 
its interior or top surface or on its back or ground-contacting 
surface. Where the corrosion gives rise to leakage of contents 
of the tank, evidently drastic environmental problems can occur. Governmental regulations in place at present require 
regular inspections of the tank bottom to predict the remaining 
life thereof and to spot the locations where a proper repair or 
replacement is needed. Top surface conditions can be visually 
examined if the surface is not coated. But, the more prevalent 
back surface corrosion is both more serious and more difficult 
to detect and locate.  Two currently used inspection methods used to detect and 
locate back surface corrosion are based in the techniques of 
ultrasonics and flux leakage. The ultrasonics method can be used to measure plate 
thickness and therefore detect plate thinning due to back 
surface corrosion. However, the technique is usually slow and 
tedious to apply in a sweeping inspection, due to the need for 
an oil or water based couplant between the transducer and the 
plate under inspection. For a tank of one hundred and eighty 
feet in diameter, inspection time can run as much as five weeks 
for the completion of a track-mounted ultrasonic inspection. 
Further, the effectiveness of this practice is called into 
serious doubt if the tank bottom has its top surface sealed with 
a laminate or coating which has become delaminated or disbonded 
from the top surface. Thus, under such conditions, the 
ultrasonic pulse will not properly propagate into the plate, 
severely degrading the inspection capability. Accordingly, the 
ultrasonic method is generally more useful in determining the 
remaining plate thickness after an area of corrosion has 
previously been identified by the more easily and rapidly 
applied flux leakage method, which requires no liquid couplant 
and can inspect a tank of the noted size in about five days. Extolling of the flux leakage method, however, cannot be 
such as to identify it as a problem-free practice. One of the  
 
major problems associated with the use of the flux leakage 
method is its inability to discern differences between top 
surface and back surface
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for non-destructive examination of a specimen 
for defects existing in one or both of opposed first and second 

surfaces thereof, said system comprising: 

(a) generator means for providing a signal for inducing eddy 
currents in at least said first specimen surface and for 

establishing a magnetic field in said specimen; 
(b) detector means for detecting characteristics of eddy 
currents in said specimen and for detecting characteristics of 

magnetic flux leakage from said specimen; 
(c) drive means for effecting relative movement between said 
specimen and said detector means to provide for examination of 

said specimen at multiple specimen locations; and 
(d) display means for synchronous joint display of said 
detected characteristics of said eddy currents in said specimen 

and of said detected characteristics of magnetic flux leakage 
from said specimen at each of said multiple specimen locations. 
The system claimed in claim 1 wherein said detector means 
provides first and second output signals respectively indicative 

of said detected characteristics of said eddy currents in said 
specimen and of said detected characteristics of magnetic flux 

leakage from said specimen at each of said multiple specimen 
locations, said system further including first and second 

 
circuit means for respective separate processing of said first 

and second output signals, said first and second circuit means 
providing processed signals to said display means. 
The system claimed in claim 1 wherein said generator 
means generates a high frequency signal for said inducing of 

eddy currents in said specimen and supplies direct current for 
said establishing of said magnetic field in said specimen. 
The system claimed in claim 1 wherein said detector means 
includes a platform supported for rotation relative to said 

specimen and probe apparatus supported by said platform. 
The system claimed in claim 4 further including speed 
control means for setting the rotational speed of said platform. 
The system claimed in claim 5 wherein said detector 
means provides first and second output signals respectively 

indicative of said detected characteristics of said eddy 
currents in said specimen and of said detected characteristics 

of magnetic flux leakage from said specimen at each of said 
multiple specimen locations, said system further including first 

and second circuit means for respective separate processing of 
said first and second output signals, said first and second 

circuit means providing processed signals to said display means, 
said controller means providing indication to said first and 

second circuit means of rotational speed of said platform. 
The system claimed in claim 4 wherein said probe 
apparatus further includes first sensor means for sensing eddy 

currents in said specimen and second sensor means for sensing 
flux leakage from said specimen, said first and second sensor 

means being fixedly supported by said platform. 
The system claimed in claim 7 wherein said first sensor 
means includes first and second coils connected to one another 

and wherein said second sensor means includes at least one coil. 
The system claimed in claim 8 wherein said probe 
apparatus further includes a core member having end courses 

extending into proximity with said specimen and a central course 
disposed interiorly of said second sensor means coil. 
The system claimed in claim 4 further including a slip 
ring unit having connection to said probe apparatus and said 

generator means. 
The system claimed in claim 6 further including a slip 
ring unit having connection to said probe apparatus, said 

generator means and said first and second circuit means. 
The system claimed in claim 4 wherein said probe 
apparatus includes first and second electromagnets, each fixedly 

secured to said platform and receiving an output of said 
generator means for establishing said magnetic field in said 

specimen. 
The system claimed in claim 12, wherein each of said 
first and second electromagnets includes a pole piece disposed 

in proximity to said specimen, a core connected with said pole 
piece and a coil circumscribing said pole piece. 
The system claimed in claim 1 wherein said relative 
movement is rotational movement and wherein said drive means 

furnishes said display means with a signal indicative of each 
revolution of said detector means relative to said specimen for 

effecting said synchronous joint display. 
A method for non-destructive examination of a specimen 
for defects existing in one or both of opposed first and second 

surfaces thereof, comprising the steps of concurrently examining 
specimen locations with diverse examination techniques and 

comparing the respective detection results of such examination 
techniques for discriminating as between defects resident in 

said opposed surfaces of said specimen. 
The method claimed in claim 15, wherein the concurrent 
examination step is practiced by respective use of eddy current 

and flux leakage techniques. 
The method claimed in claim 15 wherein said comparing 
step is practiced by furnishing said respective detection 

results to a display device for synchronous joint display 
thereof. 
The method claimed in claim 16 wherein said comparing 
step is practiced by furnishing said respective detection 

results to a display device for synchronous joint display 
thereof. 
A system for non-destructive examination of a specimen 
for defects existing in one or both of opposed first and second 

surfaces thereof, comprising: 

(a) first detector means for detecting specimen faults in 
said first surface thereof; 
(b) second detector means for detecting specimen faults in 
both said first and second surfaces thereof; and 
(c) fault indicator means responsive to the receipt of fault 
detections of both said first and second detector means for 

enabling discrimination as between faults in said first specimen 
surface and faults in said second specimen surface. 
The system claimed in claim 19 wherein said first 
detector means includes an eddy-current sensor and wherein said 

second detector means includes a flux leakage sensor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
