<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632737</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIQUID PURIFYING/DISTILLATION DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D100	B01D100	B01D130	B01D300	B01D300	B01D310	B01D310	B01D334	B01D340	B01D500	B01D500	B01D1900	B01D1900	C02F104	C02F104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D1	B01D1	B01D1	B01D3	B01D3	B01D3	B01D3	B01D3	B01D3	B01D5	B01D5	B01D19	B01D19	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed herein is a distillation purifying system. The device is comprised of a section which creates a vacuum pressure that is transmitted throughout the system, a distillation/purification zone in which fluids to be distilled/purified are treated, and a collection zone in which the distilled/purified liquids are transferred. The device is effective for certain liquids, solutions, and the like and can be used for water treatment, petroleum processes, and bodily fluid treatment.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FSR PATENTED TECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FSR PATENTED TECHNOLOGIES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAPP HAROLD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHLESINGER BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAPP, HAROLD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHLESINGER, BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 LIQUID PURIFYING/DISTILLATION DEVICEBACKGROUND OF THE PRIOR ARTThere is a recognized need to convert undrinkable water t potable water and to have the ability to cleanse liquids i general. Many inventions have been created to attend to thi need. A list of such inventions includes the following.U.S. Patent No. 5,064,505 (Borgren)U.S. Patent No. 4,770,748 (Cellini)U.S. Patent No. 4,954,223 (Leary)U.S. Patent No. 4,696,718 (Lasater)U.S. Patent No. 4,525,243 (Miller)U.S. Patent No. 4,585,524 (Hoiss)U.S. Patent No. 4,595,460 (Hurt)U.S. Patent No. 4,248,672 (Smith)U.S. Patent No. 4,267,022 (Pitcher)U.S. Patent No. 4,269,664 (Younger)U.S. Patent No. 4,282,070 (Egosi)U.S. Patent No. 3,597,328 (Michels)U.S. Patent No. 3,489,652 (Williamson)U.S. Patent No. 3,425,235 (Cox)U.S. Patent No. 3,440,147 (Rannenberg)U.S. Patent No. 3,236,748 (Pottharst, Jr.)U.S. Patent No. 3,203,875 (Sturtevant)U.S. Patent No. 4,555,307 (Hagen)U.S. Patent No. 4,686,009 (McCabe)U.S. Patent No. 4,285,776 (Atwell)U.S. Patent No. 4,366,030 (Anderson)U.S. Patent No. 3,248,305 (Williamson)U.S. Patent No. 3,390,057 (Day)U.S. Patent No. 3,140,986 (Hubbard)The S-200 Vapor Compression Water Processor produced by Superstill Technology Inc.U.S. Congress, Office of Technolog Assessment, "Using Desalination Technologies for Wate Treatment", OTA-BP-O-46 (Washington, DC: U.S. Governmen Printing Office, March 1988) . 

Unfortunately, many of these inventions are unduly complex, ungainly, uneconomical, unworkable, and/or not as efficient or as effective as they might be. The present invention attempts to overcome these drawbacks and to disclose an advance to the art. The present invention is essentially a closed loop system recycling heat, energy, and fluid.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe purpose of the first embodiment of this invention is to convert salt water, brackish water, contaminated groundwater, or contaminated water from large bodies of water to potable quality water which can be used for irrigation, human and animal consumption, or industrial or manufacturing needs. The device employs a vacuum distillation process which is believed to remove virtually all dissolved solids, particulates, bacteria, and organic matter from contaminated water. The device is environmentally desirable in that it does not concentrate brine residues or discharge high temperature water. While the following description directs itself to the cleansing of water, the cleansing of other liquids or fluids is also contemplated.The purpose of the second embodiment of this
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS 1. A distillation and purifying system comprised of: vacuum means for generating a vacuum pressur throughout said system; distillation and purifying means; a trap directly connected to said vacuum means a one point and directly connected to said distillation an purifying means at another point, said distillation an purifying means being in fluid communication with said vacuu means through said trap; a collection area in fluid communication with sai vacuum means and said distillation and purifying means wherein fluid is distilled and purified in said distillatio and purifying means and passes through said trap into sai collection area.
2. A distillation and purifying system comprised of: a computer control for controlling said system; vacuum means for generating a vacuum pressure i said system; distillation and purifying means; a single trap, said trap being directly connecte to said vacuum means at one point and directly connected t said distillation and purifying means at another point, sai distillation and purifying means being in fluid communicatio with said vacuum means through said trap; and collection means in fluid communication with sai trap and said vacuum means, said distillation and purifyin means communicating distilled and purified fluid to sai collection means through said trap to said collection mean such that when said trap fills with said distilled an purified fluid the vacuum requirement of said syste diminishes, the vacuum pressure generated by said vacuum mean acting on said purified and distilled fluid to facilitate th continuous flow of said purified and distilled fluid into sai collection means from said trap, said vacuum means generatin a vacuum that is controlled such that the latent heat o vaporization point under vacuum pressure corresponds to 


temperature greater than the temperature of the fluid in said trap so that the fluid in said trap remains in a condensed state and does not vaporize, said vacuum being effectively applied only to the fluid in said trap once said trap is filled with said fluid.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein said trap, said distillation and purifying means, said collection means and said connecting means are insulated and atmospherically sealed.
4. The system of claim 3 wherein said vacuum means is comprised of: at least two atmospherically closed towers; a vented tank connected to said towers; a pump connected between said vented tank and said towers; and valves associated with said towers whereby a fluid is pumped and drained alternately between said towers from said tank to create a vacuum pressure which is transmitted through said system.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein said towers are between 35 to 50 feet in height and 6 to 14 inches in diameter and wherein said distillation and purifying means is 42 to 50 feet in height.
6. The system of claim 4 wherein said fluid is polyalpholefin oil or a synthetic oil at ambient temperature in said tank and in said towers.
7. The system of claim 3 wherein said vacuum means is one of a water seal vacuum pump with air ejectors or a two stage vacuum pump with an in-line desiccant or moisture vapor trap.
8. The system of claim 3 wherein said collection means is comprised of at least two closed tanks, valves and sensors, said tanks being directly connected through said valves to said trap and said vacuum means and also directly connected through said valves to atmosphere and to a collection conduit open to atmosphere, wherein said distilled and purified fluid continuously flows from said trap to said at least two closed tanks, said tanks alternately filling and emptying. 


9. The system of claim 2 wherein said collection means is a rotating vane device.
10. A vacuum distillation system for distilling flui comprised of: a computer control means for operating said device; a vacuum means for generating vacuum pressure i said device; an insulated distillation and separation means having an evaporator chamber and a condensing unit, sai condensing unit being in communication with said evaporato chamber; a vapor separation device and a heating means associated with said evaporator chamber, said evaporator chamber also defining an outlet for non vaporized materials remaining after vaporizing said fluid; an open tube bundle heat exchanger associated wit said condensing unit of said distillation and separatio chamber; a fluid transfer pipe having a first end extendin into the impure fluids to be distilled and a second en opening into said evaporator chamber; an insulated single trap connected between sai condensing unit of said distillation and separation chambe and said vacuum means; and an insulated collection means connected to sai trap, where said fluid to be distilled passes through sai fluid transfer pipe into said evaporator chamber to be turne to vapor, said vapor passing into said condensing unit t become distillate as said vapor passes over said hea exchanger, said distillate passing into said collection mean through said trap.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein said fluid transfer pip has a third end opening into said heat exchanger and wherei said heat exchanger has an exit outlet extending into sai fluid such that a portion of said fluid enters said flui transfer pipe and passes into at least one of said evaporato chamber or said heat exchanger, said fluid entering said hea 


exchanger passing out said outlet to return to the main body of fluid.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein said outlet in said evaporator chamber opens into said exit outlet of said heat exchanger.
13. The system of claim 11 further comprising a degassification tank connected between said fluid transfer pipe and said evaporator chamber, said degassification tank connected to said vacuum means such that said fluid which is to be distilled passes through said degassification tank prior to passing into said evaporator chamber.
14. The system of claim 10 further comprising a degassification tank connected between said fluid transfer pipe and said evaporator chamber, said degassification tank connected to said vacuum means such that said fluid which is to be distilled passes through said degassification tank prior to passing into said evaporator chamber; and a refrigeration device, said heating means in said evaporator chamber being connected to said refrigeration device, said open tube bundle heat exchanger being connected at one end to said heating means in said evaporator chamber and at another end to said refrigeration device such that heating fluid is circulated from said refrigeration device through said open tube bundle heat exchanger to said heating means and back to said refrigeration device.
15. The system of claim 10 further comprising a supplemental heating electrode located between said heating means and said vapor separation means.
16. The system of claim 14 further comprising a non vaporized matter collection means connected to said outlet, said non vaporized, matter collection means comprising a closed and insulated tank for collection of non vaporized materials which have collected in the base of said insulated evaporator chamber, said insulated tank comprising valves and 


a sensor, said tank being connected through said valves t said evaporator chamber, the atmosphere, and said vacuu pressure from said vacuum means whereby when said senso indicates that the concentration in said insulated evaporato chamber is at a certain level, said valve to said evaporato chamber is opened to allow the non vaporized materials t drain into said tank, and upon completion of said draining, said valve to said evaporator chamber closes and said valv to the atmosphere opens so that said non vaporized material may be drained from said tank, when said tank is drained sai valve to the atmosphere is closed, said valve to said vacuu means is opened to return said tank to vacuum pressure a which time said valve to said vacuum means is closed and sai tank is again ready to receive non vaporized materials fro said evaporator chamber.
17. The system of claim 10 wherein said fluid transfer pip has a third end opening into said heat exchanger; said hea exchanger has a first exit outlet extending into said flui and a second exit outlet extending into said open tube bundl heat exchanger; said open tube bundle having a drain pip joining said first exit outlet such that fluid passing throug said fluid transfer pipe into said third end opening passe through said heat exchanger to at least one of said first exi outlet or said second exit outlet, said fluid passing throug said second exit outlet passing into and through said ope tube bundle heat exchanger and out said drain pipe, sai system also comprising a degassification tank connected t said evaporator chamber and said vacuum means such that sai fluid which is to be distilled passes through sai degassification tank prior to passing into said evaporato chamber.
18. The system of claim 10 wherein the location of sai open tube bundle heat exchanger is such that the fluid exitin therefrom offers power which is converted into usable energy.
19. A method for distilling and purifying a fluid comprise of: 


 bringing the fluid to be distilled and purified into a computer controlled, vacuum pressured distillation and purifying system; subjecting said fluid to heat and vacuum pressure by means of heating means and vacuum means to cause said fluid to separate into vapor and non vaporized matter; removing said non vaporized matter from said distillation and purifying system; passing said vapor over heat exchange coils to cause said vapor to condense into distillate; collecting said distillate through a trap into a collection means; such that when said trap fills with said distillate, the vacuum requirement of said system diminishes, the vacuum pressure generated by said vacuum means acting on said distillate to facilitate the continuous flow of said distillate into said collection means from said trap, said vacuum means generating a vacuum pressure that is controlled such that the latent heat of vaporization point under vacuum pressure corresponds to a temperature greater than the temperature of said distillate in said trap so that said distillate in said trap remains in a condensed state and does not vaporize, said vacuum being effectively applied only to said distillate in said trap once said trap is filled with said fluid.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of activating said heating means only after the computer controls of said system ensures that the vacuum level in said system corresponds to a latent heat of vaporization point which represents a set relationship with respect to the temperature of the fluid to be distilled and purified.
21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of placing said distillation and purifying system to enable hydraulic recovery to reduce pumping and power consumption and constructing said system for heat recovery and reuse.
22. The method of claim 19 wherein said vacuum means is 


comprised of: at least two atmospherically closed towers; vented tank connected to said towers; a pump connected betwee said vented tank and said towers; and valves associated wit said towers whereby oil is pumped from said tank to one o said at least two towers by said pump until a certain leve is reached in one of said two towers as monitored by sai computer control system at which time oil is pumped into th second of said two towers while the oil in said one of sai towers drains back into said tank to form said vacuum pressur in said one tower which vacuum pressure is transmitted throug one of said valves to said system, said towers continuousl filling and draining in alternating fashion to create th vacuum pressure for said system.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein said oil is one o polyalpholefin or synthetic oil and is at ambient temperatur in said tank and in said towers.
24. The method of claim 22 wherein said oil fills each towe to a level corresponding to one atmosphere of pressure befor being drained from said towers.
25. The method of claim 19 wherein said collection means i comprised of at least two closed tanks, valves and sensors, said tanks being directly connected through said valves t said trap and said vacuum means and also directly connecte through said valves to atmosphere and to a collection condui open to atmosphere wherein said distillate from said tra flows toward said at least two closed tanks to be alternatel collected and drained from each tank in a piston-lik arrangement so that a continuous flow of distillate from sai trap into said collection means occurs, whereby when sai sensor indicates that one tank is full the valve to said tra closes and the valve to atmosphere opens to enable th draining of said tank until a sensor indicates that said tan is drained, then said valve to atmosphere closes and sai valve to said vacuum opens until a sensor indicates that sai tank is pressurized at which time said valve to said vacuu closes and said valve to said trap opens to again enable sai 


tank to fill with distillate.
26. The method of claim 19 further comprising degassing said fluid by use of said vacuum means before causing said fluid to be vaporized in said subjecting step.
27. The method of claim 19 further comprising a closed and insulated tank for collection of said non vaporized materials which collect in the base of said area where vaporization occurs of said fluid, said insulated tank comprising valves and a sensor, said tank being connected through said valves to said area where said fluid is vaporized, the atmosphere, and said vacuum pressure from said vacuum means whereby when said sensor indicates that the concentration in said area where said fluid is vaporized is at a certain level, said valve to said area where said fluid is vaporized is opened to allow said non vaporized materials to drain into said tank, and upon completion of said draining, said valve to said area where said fluid is vaporized closes and said valve to the atmosphere opens so that said non vaporized materials may be drained from said tank, when said tank is drained said valve to the atmosphere is closed, said valve to said vacuum means is opened to return said tank to vacuum pressure at which time said valve to said vacuum means is closed and said tank is again ready to receive non vaporized materials from said evaporator chamber.
28. The method of claim 19 wherein said trap is connected at the base of the area where said vapor is condensed into distillate so that the flow of purified and distilled fluid therethrough is facilitated by gravity ; wherein fluid is able to fill and drain as distillate from the area where said fluid is vaporized under vacuum conditions due to the height location of the system; and wherein the vacuum pressure is selected to correspond to the vaporization point of the fluid to be distilled.
29. The method of claim 19 wherein said the area where said fluid is vaporized and the non vaporized materials separated 


therefrom, is located at a height such that nonvaporize materials drain by gravitational force and weight and wherein the power of the discharge of the nonvaporized materials is convertible into usable energy.
30. The method of claim 19 wherein the vacuum level is maintained to correspond to a temperature for vaporization of fluid under vacuum that is warmer than incoming fluid to be distilled and wherein all venting and draining of distillate and nonvaporized materials is accomplished in a fashion not to diminish the vacuum levels inside the device.
31. The method of claim 19 wherein as said trap fills with said distillate it acts as a pressure head to reduce the effective vacuum requirement of said system, said vacuum means acting merely on the surface area of said distillate in said trap while the vacuum level initially established in the area where said fluid is vaporized and condensed fluctuates thereb creating a pressure differential between where said vacuum is generated and the inside of the vaporizing and condensin area, said pressure differential facilitating the flow of said distillate through said trap and reducing the overall deman for vacuum from said vacuum means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
