<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645447</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Specimen collecting and transport system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12M126	C12M130	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12M	C12M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12M1	C12M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sleeve for use with a device for collecting and transporting 
biological specimens. The sleeve is used to exert pressure to the 

collection device so as to break the ampoule. The sleeve comprises 
means for limiting over compression of the collection device. The sleeve 

provides an environment to maintain the substantial viability of a 
specimen during transport in a collection device. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BECTON DICKINSON AND COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIVINGSTON DWIGHT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTHONY JAMES F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIVINGSTON, DWIGHT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MONTHONY, JAMES F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a device and method for breaking 
ampoules. In particular the device may be used for breaking ampoules in 
an apparatus for collecting and transporting biological specimens. An element common to most devices for collecting and 
transporting biological specimens is an ampoule in a container that can 
be broken to release medium into the container to keep the swab and 
sample moist. A typical collecting and transporting device has been 
described in several publications and most specifically in U.S. Patent No. 
4,014,748. A commercially available device for collecting and transporting 
biological specimens is the CULTURETTE® Collection and Transport 
System (trademark of Becton, Dickinson and Company) sold by Becton 
Dickinson Microbiology Systems, Cockeysville, Maryland. The 
CULTURETTE device is for collecting and transporting a biological sample 
with a protective sleeve or skirt surrounding the container where the 
ampoule, which is to be broken for use, is contained. A problem that has confronted users of collection and transport 
devices is maintaining the viability and preventing the contamination of  
 
any biological sample which is collected. In spite of the use of a high level 
of skill and care in collecting the specimen so as to prevent 
contamination of the specimen, viability of the microorganisms is not 
always assured by the use of the prior art collection devices. With the increased emphasis on the efficacy of medical products, a 
need exists for an improved device and method for effectively and 
efficiently handling the frangible ampoules in collection devices. The 
improved device would better protect the specimen during handling and 
use and would be comparatively simple and inexpensive to manufacture 
as compared to available devices. The present invention is a sleeve for use with a device for 
collecting and transporting biological specimens. The sleeve substantially 
prevents the specimen collected in the device from being exposed to the 
outside environment. The sleeve preferably comprises two opposing members spaced 
sufficiently from one another. The opposing members extend from a 
forward end to a rearward end. Desirably the opposing members are 
spaced sufficiently from one another by collapsible sidewalls that extend 
from the forward end to the rearward end. Preferably each member comprises a wall with an outer surface, 
an inner surface and an overhanging edge. The collapsible sidewalls 
extend between the inner surface of each member. Most
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A sleeve for use with a device for collecting and transporting specimens 
comprising of: 

   two movable and opposing members wherein each member comprises a forward 
end, a rearward end, an inner surface and an outer surface; 

   collapsible sidewalls that extend between said members and comprise an inner 
surface and an outer surface; and 

   a cavity between said opposing inner surfaces of said members and said sidewall, 
said cavity being of sufficient size to encompass at least one ampoule; 

   wherein said collapsible sidewalls each comprise at least one living hinge 
centrally located in said collapsible sidewalls; 

   wherein said collapsible sidewalls further comprise an upper section and a lower 
section, separated by said living hinge; and 

   wherein said upper section and said lower section comprise means for limiting 
the compression of said members, thereby preventing over compression of the device for 

collecting and transporting biological specimens and substantially eliminating 
contamination of the specimen. 
The sleeve of Claim 1 wherein said members further comprise a protrusion 
on said inner surface. 
The sleeve of Claim 2 wherein said means for limiting the compression of 
said members comprises overhanging edges on each of said members extending from said 

forward end to said rearward end toward the opposing member. 
The sleeve of Claim 3 wherein said means for limiting the compression of 
said members further comprises stop means located in said collapsible sidewalls between 

said living hinge and said member. 
An apparatus for collecting and transporting biological specimens 
comprising of: 

   an elongated tube having an open end and an opposite closed end; 
   a specimen collector disposed within said tube comprising a cap, a shaft 

connected to said cap and a swab connected to said shaft; 
   at least one ampoule disposed within said tube and located adjacent to said 

closed end of said tube; and 
   a sleeve removably disposed on said closed end of said housing comprising 

two movable and opposing members wherein each member comprises a forward end, a 
rearward end, an inner surface and an outer surface, collapsible sidewalls extending 

between said members and wherein said collapsible walls comprise an inner surface and 
an outer surface, and a cavity between said opposing inner surfaces of said members, said 

cavity being of sufficient size to encompass said at least one ampoule; and said 
collapsible sidewalls; wherein said collapsible sidewalls each comprise at least one living 

hinge centrally located in said collapsible sidewalls; said collapsible sidewalls further 
comprise an upper section and a lower section, separated by said living hinge; and 

wherein said upper section and said lower section comprise means for limiting the 
compression of said members. 
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein said members further comprise a 
protrusion on said inner surface. 
The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein said means for limiting the compression of 
said members comprises overhanging edges on each of said members extending from said 

forward end to said rearward end toward the opposing member. 
The apparatus of Claim 7 wherein said means for limiting the compression 
of said members further comprises stop means located in said collapsible sidewalls 

between said living hinge and said member. 
A method for collecting and transporting biological samples comprising: 

(a) providing an apparatus for collecting and transporting biological specimens 
having an elongated tubular housing extending from an open end to an 

 
opposite closed end, a specimen collector disposed within said housing 

comprising a cap, a shaft connected to said cap and a swab connected to 
said shaft, at least one ampoule disposed within said tube and located 

adjacent to said closed end of said tube; and; a sleeve removably disposed 
on said closed end of said housing, comprising two movable and opposing 

members wherein each member comprises a forward end, a rearward end, 
collapsible sidewalls extending between said members and wherein said 

collapsible sidewall comprises an inner surface and an outer surface, a 
cavity between said inner surfaces of said members, said cavity being of 

sufficient size to encompass said at least one ampoule; and wherein said 
collapsible sidewalls each comprise at least one living hinge centrally 

located in said collapsible sidewalls; said collapsible sidewalls further 
comprise an upper section and a lower section, separated by said living 

hinge; and wherein said upper section and said lower section comprise 
means for limiting the compression of said members, an ampoule 

containing a culture-sustaining medium disposed within the closed end of 
said housing and within said cavity of said sleeve; 
(b) contacting a sampling site with said swab; 
(c) obtaining a specimen from said site with said swab; 
(d) inserting the swab with the specimen into said housing; 
(e) closing said housing with said cap to protect said swab and said specimen 

from the environment external of said housing; 
(f) applying force to said outer surfaces of said members, reducing said cavity, 
rupturing said ampoule and engaging said means for limiting the 

compression of said members; 
(g) releasing medium into said housing; and 
(h) subjecting said specimen to said medium without overcompressing the tube, 
thereby substantially eliminating contamination of the specimen. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
