<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630496</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ACCELERATED TOKEN RING NETWORK.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F108	G06F108	G06F1300	G06F1300	H04L12427	H04L12433	H04L2538	H04L2552	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F13	G06F13	H04L12	H04L12	H04L25	H04L25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABLETRON SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CABLETRON SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REEDE IVAN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REEDE IVAN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ACCELERATED TOKEN RING NETWORKField of the InventionThis invention relates to token ring computer networks and, more particularly, to token ring networks wherein stations are decoupled into separate clock domains for improved performance.Background of the InventionA token ring computer network includes a plurality of stations connected to a data transmission path, or trunk, in the form of a closed loop. A block diagram of a conventional token ring network is shown in FIG. 1. Trunk coupling units (TCU's) 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, etc. are connected in series on a ring 20. Stations 22, 24, 26, 28, 30 receive and transmit signals through TCU's 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, respectively. A token ring network can include up to 250 stations. The ring 20 can comprise shielded twisted pair, unshielded twisted pair, optical fiber, or any other suitable media (for example, microwave). 

 Information is transmitted on the token ring network in frames. Token ring networks operate such that only one station at a time transmits data. The frame containing the data includes source and destination addresses. After transmission of data has been completed by one station a token circulates on the ring 20 until another station seizes the token and begins transmitting data.The token ring network uses a synchronous data transmission technique wherein the clock and data are combined in the transmitted signal. As used herein, the term "signal" refers to the combined data and clock utilized in token ring networks. Although the clock is recovered from the signal, the data and clock remain combined, except within the station. A clock transition occurs at the center of each data bit position. A transition or a lack thereof at the beginning of each bit position indicates a one or a zero in the binary data. In the insert mode, the transmitted signal is received by a TCTJ from its upstream neighbor and is forwarded to the station. The station receives the signal and recovers the clock and data it contains. The station then combines the two to form a new signal and retransmits the signal to its TCU. Its TCU in turn forwards the signal to its downstream neighbor. In bypass mode, as contrasted with insert mode, the TCϋ forwards the signal it receives from its upstream neighbor directly to its downstream neighbor. This process is repeated until the signal 

reaches the active monitor. When the active monitor receives the signal, it sinks the recovered clock and stores the recovered data in a FIFO buffer. The active monitor then builds a new signal with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method for operating a station coupled to a ring in a token ring network, said ring carrying signal at an active monitor clock rate, comprising the steps of: generating a local clock at an accelerated clock rate that is equal to or greater than the active monitor clock rate; operating the station at the accelerated clock rate when the station is a standby monitor; operating the station at the active monitor clock rate when the station is the active monitor; operating the station at its own clock rate when the station is in loopback mode; and receiving signal from the ring and transmitting signal to the ring at the active monitor clock rate, the station thereby operating at the accelerated clock rate of the local clock except when the station is the active monitor or is in loopback mode.
2. Apparatus for operating a station coupled to a ring in a token ring network, said ring carrying signal at an active monitor clock rate, comprising: a ring input port for received signal, a ring output port for transmitted signal and a station 


port for output signal to the station and input signal from the station; means for generating a local clock at an accelerated clock rate that is equal to or greater than the active monitor clock rate; means for operating the station at the accelerated clock rate when the station is a standby monitor; means for operating the station at the active monitor clock rate when the station is the active monitor; means for operating the station at its own clock rate when the station is in loopback mode; and means for receiving signal from the ring input ___ port and transmitting signal to-the ring output port at the active monitor clock rate, the station thereby operating at the accelerated clock rate of the local clock except when the station is the active monitor or is in loopback mode.
3. Apparatus for coupling a ring to a station in a token ring network, said ring carrying signal at an active monitor clock rate, comprising: a ring input port for received signal, a ring output port for transmitted signal and a station port for output signal to the station and input signal from the station; a local clock for generating an accelerated clock at an accelerated clock rate that is equal to or greater than the active monitor clock rate; 


 first means for accelerating the clock rate of received signal from the ring input port from the active monitor clock rate to the accelerated clock rate to provide output signal to the station port at the accelerated clock rate when the station connected to the station port is a standby monitor and for providing received signal from the ring input port to the station port as output signal at the active monitor clock rate when the station connected to the station port is the active monitor; and second means for decelerating the clock rate of input signal from the station port from the accelerated clock rate to the active monitor clock rate to provide transmitted signal to the ring output port at the active monitor clock rate when the station connected to the station port is a standby monitor and for providing input signal from the station port to the ring output port as transmitted signal at the active monitor clock rate when the station connected to the station port is the active monitor, the station thereby operating at the accelerated data rate of the local clock except when the station is the active monitor or is in loopback mode.
4. Apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein said first means comprises: first accelerating means for accelerating the clock rate of the received signal from the active 


monitor clock rate to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal in, and first decelerating means for decelerating the clock rate of said accelerated signal in to the active monitor clock rate to provide the output signal to the station port when the station is the active monitor and for maintaining the clock rate of said accelerated signal in at the accelerated clock rate to provide the output signal to the station port when the station is a standby monitor.
5. Apparatus as defined in claim 4 wherein said second means comprises: second accelerating means for accelerating the
^
 clock rate of the input signal from the station port to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is the active monitor and for maintaining the clock rate of the input signal from the station port at the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is a standby monitor, and second decelerating means for decelerating the clock rate of said accelerated signal out to said active monitor clock rate to provide transmitted signal to said ring output port.
6. Apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said first accelerating means and said second accelerating means each comprises: means for recovering a clock and signal from an 


input signal to provide a recovered clock and recovered signal, means for removing fill from the recovered signal to provide a frame signal, a FIFO buffer for storing said frame signal at the recovered clock rate and for outputting said frame signal at the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated frame signal, and means for adding fill to the accelerated frame signal to provide accelerated signal.
7. Apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein said means for recovering a clock and signal comprises a digital phase locked loop.
8. Apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein said first accelerating means and said second accelerating means each further comprises a clock differential speed estimator for estimating a difference between said accelerated clock rate and said recovered clock rate and for setting a length of said FIFO buffer in response to said difference.
9. Apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said first decelerating means and said second decelerating means each comprises: means for removing fill from accelerated signal to provide accelerated frame signal, a FIFO buffer for storing said accelerated frame signal at the accelerated clock rate and for 


outputting said frame signal at a selected clock rate to provide decelerated frame signal, and means for adding fill to the decelerated frame signal to provide decelerated signal.
10. A concentrator for coupling a plurality of stations to a ring in a token ring network, said ring carrying signal at an active monitor clock rate, comprising: a ring input port for received signal and a ring output port for transmitted signal; a clock for generating an accelerated clock signal at an accelerated clock rate that is equal to or greater than the active monitor clock rate; an input accelerator for accelerating the clock rate of the received signal from the active monitor clock rate to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal in; an output decelerator for providing transmitted signal to the ring output port at the active monitor clock rate; and a plurality of trunk coupling units coupled in series between said input accelerator and said output decelerator, each of said trunk coupling units receiving accelerated signal in from a previous trunk coupling unit or from said input accelerator and transmitting accelerated signal out to a next trunk coupling unit or to said output decelerator, each of said trunk coupling units including a station port for coupling output signal 


to a station and for coupling input signal from said station, each of said trunk coupling units further including means for decelerating the clock rate of said accelerated signal in to said active monitor clock rate to provide the output signal to the station when the station is the active monitor and for maintaining the clock rate of said accelerated signal in at said accelerated clock rate to provide the output signal to the station when the station is a standby monitor, and means for accelerating the clock rate of the input signal from the station to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is the active monitor and for maintaining the clock rate of the input signal from the station at the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is a standby monitor,
11. A concentrator as defined in claim 10 wherein said input accelerator and said means for accelerating in each of said trunk coupling units each comprises means for recovering a clock and signal from an input signal to provide a recovered clock and recovered signal, means for removing fill from the recovered signal to provide a frame signal. 


 a FIFO buffer for storing said frame signal at the recovered clock rate and for outputting frame signal at the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated frame signal, and means for adding fill to the accelerated frame signal to provide accelerated signal.
12. A concentrator as defined in claim 11 wherein said means for recovering a clock and signal comprises a digital phase locked loop.
13. A concentrator as defined in claim 11 wherein said input accelerator and said means for accelerating in each of said trunk coupling units each further comprises a clock' differential speed estimator for estimating a difference between 'said accelerated clock rate and said recovered clock rate and for setting a length of said FIFO buffer in response to said difference.
14. A concentrator as defined in claim 10 wherein said output decelerator and said means for decelerating in each of said trunk coupling units each comprises: means for removing fill from accelerated signal to provide accelerated frame signal, a FIFO buffer for storing said accelerated frame signal at the accelerated clock rate and for outputting frame signal at a selected clock rate to provide decelerated frame signal, and 


 means for adding fill to the decelerated frame signal to provide decelerated signal.
15. A concentrator as defined in claim 10 further including means for selecting the active monitor clock from the ring input port or from one of the stations connected to said trunk coupling units, and a low bandwidth phase locked loop responsive to the selected active monitor clock for applying a recovered active monitor clock to said output decelerator.
16. A method for coupling a ring to a station in a token ring network, said ring carrying signal at an active monitor clock rate, comprising the steps of: a) generating a local clock at an accelerated clock rate that is equal to or greater than the active monitor clock rate; b) accelerating the clock rate of received signal through a ring input port from the active monitor clock rate to the accelerated clock rate to provide output signal to a station port at the accelerated clock rate when the station connected to the station port is a standby monitor; c) providing received signal to the station port as output signal at the active monitor clock rate when the station connected to the station port is the active monitor; d) decelerating the clock rate of input signal from the station port from the accelerated clock 


rate to the active monitor clock rate to provide transmitted signal to a ring output port at the active monitor clock rate when the station connected to the station port is a standby monitor; and e) providing input signal from the station port to the ring output port as transmitted signal at the active monitor clock rate when the station connected to the station port is the active monitor, the station thereby operating at the accelerated clock rate of the local clock except when the station is the active monitor or is in loopback mode.
17. A method as defined in claim 16 wherein steps b) and c) include the steps of accelerating the clock
^
 rate of the received signal from the active monitor clock rate to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal in, and decelerating the clock rate of the accelerated signal in to the active monitor clock rate to provide the output signal to the station port when the station is the active monitor and maintaining the clock rate of the accelerated signal in at the accelerated clock rate to provide the output signal to the station port when the station is a standby monitor.
18. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein steps d) and e) include the steps of accelerating the clock rate of the input signal from the station port to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is the active monitor 


and maintaining the clock rate of the input signal from the station port at the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is a standby monitor, and decelerating the clock rate of the accelerated signal out to the active monitor clock rate to provide transmitted signal to the ring output port.
19. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein the steps of accelerating the clock rate include the steps of: recovering a clock and signal from an input signal to provide a recovered clock and recovered signal, removing fill from the recovered signal to provide a frame signal, storing the frame signal in a buffer at the recovered clock rate and outputting the frame signal from the buffer at the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated frame signal, and adding fill to the accelerated frame signal to provide accelerated signal.
20. A method as defined in claim 19 wherein the steps of accelerating the clock rate further include the step of estimating a difference between the accelerated clock rate and the recovered clock rate and setting a length of the buffer in response to the difference. 



21. A method as defined in claim 16 wherein the steps of decelerating the clock rate include the steps of: removing fill from accelerated signal to provide accelerated frame signal, storing the accelerated frame signal in a buffer at the accelerated clock rate and outputting the frame signal from the buffer at a selected clock rate to provide decelerated frame signal, and adding fill to the decelerated frame signal to provide decelerated signal.
22. Apparatus for coupling a ring to a station in a token ring network, said ring carrying signal at an active monitor clock rate, comprising: a ring input port for received signal, a ring output port for transmitted signal and a station port for input signal from the station and output signal to the station; a clock for generating an accelerated clock at an accelerated clock rate that is equal to or greater than the active monitor.clock rate; first accelerating means for accelerating the clock rate of the received signal from the active monitor clock rate to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal in; first decelerating means for decelerating the clock rate of said accelerated signal in to said active monitor clock rate to provide the output signal to the station when the station is the active 


monitor and for maintaining the clock rate of said accelerated signal in at said accelerated clock rate to provide the output signal to the station when the station is a standby monitor; second accelerating means for accelerating the clock rate of the input signal from the station to the accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is the active monitor and for maintaining the clock rate of the input signal from the station at said accelerated clock rate to provide accelerated signal out when the station is a standby monitor; and second decelerating means for decelerating the clock rate of said accelerated signal out to said active monitor clock rate to provide transmitted signal to said ring output port, the station thereby operating at said accelerated clock rate established by said clock except when the station is the active monitor or is in loopback mode. 
"
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
