<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610296</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR SUPPORTING CONDUCTORS FOR USE IN A DYNAMOELECTRIC MACHINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02K304	H02K304	H02K346	H02K350	H02K350	H02K352	H02K522	H02K522	H02K1504	H02K1504	H02K1702	H02K1712	H02K1902	H02K1910	H02K1916	H02K1920	H02K1924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02K3	H02K3	H02K3	H02K3	H02K3	H02K3	H02K5	H02K5	H02K15	H02K15	H02K17	H02K17	H02K19	H02K19	H02K19	H02K19	H02K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REM TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REM TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMA RODOLFO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALMA, RODOLFO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYSTEM FOR SUPPORTING CONDUCTORS FOR USE IN A DYNAMOELECTRIC MACHINEBackground of the InventionField of the InventionThis invention relates to inductor type dynamoelectric motors and, more specifically, to a support and positioning structure for conductors of a stator assembly of such a motor.Background ArtDynamoelectric machines are commonly used as motors for converting electrical to mechanical energy. Inductor type dynamoelectric motors may be used as adjustable speed drives for high speed operation. A dynamoelectric machine may also be used for electrical generation by driving its rotor in reverse thereby producing energy in the armature windings. Inductor type dynamoelectric machines are generally characterized by a stator which includes both AC armature and DC exitation coils surrounding a coil-less rotor. In this configuration, there are no rotating field or armature coils, slip rings, brushes and associated connections which are common to machines having rotating windings. Since inductor 

 type dynamoelectric machines contain fewer rotating parts they have a more rugged rotor construction and are particularly suitable for high speed application. One version of such an inductor type dynamoelectric machine, employs a circumferentially distributed arrangement of C-shaped armature elements surrounding a generally cylindrical field coil which in turn encloses a transverse pole magnetic rotor. U.S. Patent Nos. 437,501 and 2,519,697 and 3,912,958 describe earlier machines of this type of design. More recent versions of such inductor type machines are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Patent Nos. 4,786,834 and 4,864,176. In these patents, a spool-like support structure supporting field windings and armature elements is disclosed. The spool-like structure is made of a nonmagnetic material and has a hollow, elongated central portion extending concentrically about a longitudinal axis. This central portion supports a field coil and defines an interior longitudinal passageway for accommodating the insertion of a coaxial rotor. End portions are located at each end of the central portion and extend radially outward therefrom. Each of the end portions is preferably provided with radially oriented grooves in its axially outermost surface. The grooves are configured to receive and orient legs of generally C-shaped armature coil elements arranged in a circumferentially distributed pattern about the periphery of the spool-like structure. The armature elements are thereby positioned in three orthogonal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is:
1. A system for supporting conductors which interconnect windings of armature elements, one to another, in a dynamoelectric machine having a stator assembly including a plurality of stationary armature elements spaced along a circumference, the armature elements being positioned radially about a central longitudinal axis, each armature element including an armature winding on a longitudinally extending base portion thereof and a leg extending from each end of said base portion in a radially inward direction, said system comprising: a.spacer for supporting one or more electrical conductors and for insulating said one or more conductors from one of said armature elements, said spacer being mountable on said armature element; and an electrical conductor adapted to be supported by said spacer, said electrical conductor extending between a pair of said armature elements and electrically interconnecting said armature windings of said pair, one to another.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the electrical conductors comprise interconnecting bars and the spacer comprises one or more grooves therein for supporting one or more interconnecting bars, said interconnecting bars being capable of interconnecting the armature windings of two or more armature elements.
3. The system of claim 2 further comprising means for fastening the spacer to the stator assembly.
'
4. The system of claim 3 wherein the means for fastening the spacer to the stator assembly comprises an aperture located within the spacer, the aperture 


being capable of receiving a fastener therethrough.
5. The system of claim 4 further comprising a fastener inserted through the aperture into the stator assembly.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the fastener is inserted into a ring shaped member of the stator assembly.
7. The system of claim 3 wherein the spacer further comprises a recess sized to receive one of said armature elements therein for positioning the spaceϊ on said armature element, the recess being located in a position on the spacer such that the grooves are exposed to an end wall of the machine when the spacer is positioned on the armature element.
8. The system of claims 2 or 7 wherein said system comprises: a plurality of spacers each of the plurality of spacers being mounted on a corresponding discrete armature element; and a plurality of said interconnecting bars supported by said spacers and interconnecting armature windings of sets of armature elements for different phases of current.
9. A system for supplying current to a stator assembly of a dynamoelectric machine having a plurality of stationary armature elements spaced along a circumference, the armature elements positioned radially about a central longitudinal axis, each armature element including an armature winding on a longitudinally extending base portion thereof and a leg extending from each end of said base portion in a radially inward direction, each leg located towards one of two end walls of the dynamoelectric machine, said system comprising: a plurality of spacers, each spacer mounted 


 on an armature element and having a plurality of grooves therein, each spacer being configured to enable the grooves therein to be oriented towards an adjacent end wall of the dynamoelectric machine; a plurality of interconnecting bars acting as conductors for interconnecting the armature windings of selected armature elements one to another, each interconnecting bar inserted within a groove of one or more spacers thereby being supported by said one or more spacers; and means for connecting the interconnecting bars to the armature windings of the selected armature elements.
10. The system according to claim 9 wherein the stator assembly comprises twelve circumferentially oriented C-shaped armature elements, each armature element numbered sequentially starting from a first armature element and continuing counterclockwise to a twelfth armature element, each of said armature elements having an armature winding wound thereon in an identical axial direction, the interconnecting bars being connected at each end thereof to an armature winding of two different armature elements.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the grooves of each of the spacers form a first, second, and third radial mounting position for said interconnecting bars.
12. The system according to claim 11 wherein: the windings of a first and a fourth of said armature elements are connected to each other by a first of said interconnecting bars located towards a first end wall of the machine; the armature windings of the fourth and a seventh of said armature elements are connected to each other by a second of said 


interconnecting bars located towards a second end wall of the machine; the armature windings of the seventh and a tenth of said armature elements are connected to each other by a third of said interconnecting bars located towards the first end wall of the machine; and an end of the winding of the first armature element located towards the second end wall of the machine is connected to an external current at a first phase.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein: the armature windings of an eleventh and an eighth of said armature elements are connected to each other by a fourth of said interconnecting bars located towards the first end wall of the machine; the armature windings of the eighth and a fifth of said armature elements are connected to each other by a fifth of said interconnecting bars located towards the second end wall of the machine; the armature windings of the fifth and a second of said armature elements are connected to each other by a sixth of said interconnecting bars located towards the first end wall of the machine; and an end of the winding of the eleventh of said armature elements located towards the second end wall of the machine is connected to an external current at a second phase.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein: the armature windings of a third and a sixth of said armature elements are connected to each other by a seventh of said interconnecting bars towards the first end wall of the machine; 


 the armature windings of the sixth and a ninth of said armature elements are connected to each other by an eighth of said interconnecting bars located towards the second end wall of the machine; the armature windings of the ninth and a twelfth of said armature elements are connected to each other by a ninth of said interconnecting bars located towards the first end wall of the machine; an end of the armature winding of the third of said armature elements located towards the second end wall of the machine is connected to an external current at a third phase; and the armature windings of the tenth, twelfth and second of said armature elements are connected to each other by a tenth interconnecting bar located towards the second end wall of the machine thereby forming a neutral phase point.
15. The system of claim 9 or 14 wherein the means for connecting the interconnecting bars to the armature windings comprises a plurality of slots located at the ends of each of the interconnecting bars, said ends being capable of meshing with armature windings therein, wherein the armature windings and the ends of the interconnecting bars can be brazed together.
16. The system of claim 15 further comprising a conductive receiver for connecting a conductor bar to one of said armature windings thereby allowing a current to be transmitted to said one of the armature windings via the conductor bar and receiver.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the receiver comprises a leg capable of being inserted into one of the grooves of the spacer whereby the receiver may be 


supported by the spacer.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the receiver leg contains a plurality of slots therein for receiving an end of an armature windings.
19. The system of claim 2 wherein the interconnecting bars comprise a plurality of individual ribbon-like strands.
20. The system of claim 9 wherein said interconnecting bars conducting different phases of current are located at different radial positions, within the grooves of the spacers, relative to the central longitudinal axis.
21. The system of claim 9 or 20 wherein the said interconnecting bars conducting different phases of current do not contact one another.
22. The system of claim 21 further comprising an interconnecting bar which provides a neutral point where all phases of current are combined. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 26 January 1993 (26.01.93); original claims 1,15,18 and 21 amended; remaining claims unchanged (3 pages)]
1. A system for supporting conductors which interconnect windings of armature elements, one to another, in a dynamoelectric machine having a stator assembly including a plurality of stationary armature 5 elements spaced along a circumference, the armature elements being positioned radially about a central longitudinal axis, each armature element including an armature winding on a longitudinally extending base portion thereof and a leg extending from each end of 10 said base-portion in a radially inward direction, said system comprising: a spacer for supporting one or more electrical conductors and for insulating said one or more electrical conductors from one of 15 said armature elements, said spacer being mountable on said armature element? and an electrical conductor adapted to be supported by said spacer, said electrical conductor extending between a pair of said 20 armature elements and electrically interconnecting said armature windings of said pair, one to another.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the electrical conductors comprise interconnecting bars and the spacer comprises one or more grooves therein for supporting one or more interconnecting bars, said
5 interconnecting bars being capable of interconnecting the armature windings of two or more armature elements.
3. The system of claim 2 further comprising means for fastening the spacer to the stator assembly.
4. The system of claim 3 wherein the means for fastening the spacer to the stator assembly comprises an aperture located within the spacer, the aperture 


 the armature windings of the sixth and a ninth of said armature elements are connected to each other by an eighth of said interconnecting bars located towards the second end wall of the machine; the armature windings of the ninth and a twelfth of said armature elements are connected to each other by a ninth of said interconnecting bars located towards the first end wall of the 
*
&
 machine; an end of the armature winding of the third of said armature elements located towards the second end wall of the machine is connected to an external current at a third phase; and , the armature windings of the tenth, twelfth and second of said armature elements are connected to each other by a tenth interconnecting bar located towards the second end wall of the machine thereby forming a neutral phase point.
15. The system of claim 9 or 14 wherein the means for connecting the interconnecting bars to the armature windings comprises a plurality of slots located at ends of each of the interconnecting bars, said ends being capable of meshing with armature windings therein, wherein the armature windings and the ends of the interconnecting bars can be brazed together.
16. The system of claim 15 further comprising a conductive receiver for connecting a conductor bar to one of said armature windings thereby allowing a current to be transmitted to said one of the armature windings via the conductor bar and receiver.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the receiver comprises a leg capable of being inserted into one of the grooves of the spacer whereby the receiver may be 


 supported by the spacer.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the receiver leg contains a plurality of slots therein for receiving an end of an armature winding.
19. The system of claim 2 wherein the interconnecting bars comprise a plurality of individual ribbon-like strands.
20. The system of claim 9 wherein said interconnecting bars conducting different phases of current are located at different radial positions, within the grooves of the spacers, relative to the central longitudinal axis.
21. The system of claim 9 or 20 wherein the interconnecting bars conducting different phases of current do not contact one another.
22. The system of claim 21 further comprising an interconnecting bar which provides a neutral point where all phases of current are combined. 

STATEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 19
Claims 1, 15, 18 and 21 have been amended. The remaining claims remain unchanged.
All of the claims now pending in this application conform identically to those claims that have been allowed in the corresponding U.S. patent application in view of the same 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
