<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645777</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cold nuclear fusion apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21B300	G21B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21B	G21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21B3	G21B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus which is high in 
industrial value in that the screening effect and a 

cooperative phenomenon are enhanced for a substance for 
nuclear fusion after occluded into an occlusion member 

to promote a nuclear fusion reaction and the time, the 
scale and so forth of occurrence of nuclear fusion can 

be controlled is disclosed. An excitation apparatus 
(10) for promoting a nuclear fusion reaction of a 

substance (25) for nuclear fusion occluded in a reactor 
(11) in a reaction vessel (26) from the outside is 

provided in close contact with a portion (11b) of the 
reactor (11). The excitation apparatus includes one or 

more of a battery (12), a magnetic flux generator (13), 
a heating unit (14), an ultrasonic wave generator (15), 

a laser light irradiation apparatus (16) and a high 
voltage discharging apparatus (17). Also a confinement 

apparatus for preventing the substance (25) for nuclear 
fusion occluded in the occlusion member (11) from 

escaping to the outside of the occlusion member (11) is 
provided. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHIKUMA TOICHI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHIKUMA, TOICHI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIKUMA TOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHIKUMA, TOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a cold nuclear fusion 
apparatus wherein a substance for nuclear fusion is 
occluded into an occlusion member in a reaction vessel 
to cause a nuclear fusion reaction. It is to be noted 
that the occlusion member herein generically denotes any 
member which occludes a substance for nuclear fusion 
such as deuterium to cause a nuclear fusion reaction and 
may be constituted from a single substance (for example, 
palladium) or a plurality of substances (for example, 
ceramics) and may or may not itself construct an 
electrode. It was claimed by two noted chemists, Martin 
Fleischmann and B. Stanley Pons, of the University of 
Utah in United States of America on March 23, 1989 that 
electrolysis had taken place using palladium foil for a 
cathode and platinum foil for an anode while deuterium 
was occluded into the palladium of the cathode for a 
long period of time, and as a result of the experiment,  
 
excessive heat, which is supposed to arise from a 
nuclear fusion reaction at room temperature, was 
obtained. In succession, it was published from the 
investigation group of Steven E. Jones et al, physicists 
of Brigham Young University in United States, that heavy 
water with salts added thereto had been accommodated 
into an electrolytic cell and occluded similarly into a 
cathode of titanium and palladium while electrolysis 
took place, and while generation of a large amount of 
heat had not been observed, neutrons which give 
indications of a nuclear fusion reaction were detected. 
Since then, various scientific controversies over cold 
nuclear fusion have been raised, and various reports of 
experiments have been published. The circumstances of 
them are disclosed in detail in F. David Peat, "Cold 
Fusion", Contemporary Books Inc., United States, 1989. The theory that heavy water is occluded into 
palladium of a cathode and causes nuclear fusion is 
understood in the following manner. Heavy water (D₂O) is ionized in an electric cell 
into D⁺ and OD⁻. Then, anions OD⁻ are attracted by an 
anode to produce oxygen. Meanwhile, cations D⁺ are 
attracted by a cathode of palladium and each given an 
electron to make a deuterium atom D. Since palladium  
 
has, due to its crystal structure, a hydrogen occluding 
characteristic of absorbing and catching hydrogen and 
deuterium, deuterium atoms are successively driven into 
the crystal of palladium. In this instance, electrodes 
of the deuterium atoms are discharged and are present 
together with electrons of palladium. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus wherein a 
substance for nuclear fusion is occluded into an 

occlusion member accommodated in a reaction vessel to 
cause a nuclear fusion reaction, characterized in that 

it comprises excitation means (10; 10A) disposed in 
close contact with a portion of said occlusion member 

(11) for promoting the nuclear fusion reaction of the 
substance for nuclear reaction occluded in said 

occlusion member (11) from the outside. 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that said excitation means 

(10; 10A) includes one or more of a battery (12), a 
magnetic flux generator (13), a heating apparatus (14), 

an ultrasonic wave generator (15), a laser light 
irradiation apparatus (16) and a high voltage 

discharging apparatus (17). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that a portion of said 

occlusion member (11) is disposed outside said reaction 
vessel (26; 33), and said excitation means (10; 10A) 

closely contacts with the portion of said occlusion 
member (11) outside said reaction vessel (26: 33). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
 

in claim 1, characterized in that said reaction vessel 
(26) is provided by a pair together with said occlusion 

member (11b), and the occlusion members (1b) are 
connected to each other outside the reaction vessels 

(26) while said excitation means (10) closely contacts 
with the connection portion (11) between the occlusion 

members (11b). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that a portion (11a) of 

said occlusion member (11) is exchangeable, and said 
excitation means (10; 10A) closely contacts with the 

exchangeable portion (11a) of said occlusion member 
(11). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
in claim 1, further comprising heat exchange means (18; 

18A) provided around said occlusion member (11). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
in claim 6, characterized in that said heat exchange 

means (18; 18A) includes a thermoelectric converter 
(19). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that said reaction vessel 

(26) includes an electrolytic cell (26) in which said 
occlusion member (11) acts as a cathode, and further 

 
comprising reduction reaction means (29) provided in 

said electrolytic cell (26) for causing gas produced on 
the anode side of said electrolytic cell (26) to react 

with gas produced on the cathode side by reduction 
reaction. 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set forth 
in claim 1, characterized in that said occlusion member 

(11) is constituted from a plurality of occlusion 
substance wires or plates (3) of different materials 

combined together. 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1, characterized in that the substance 

for nuclear fusion is a mixture (25) of water and heavy 
water. 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1, characterized in that the substance 

for nuclear fusion is a mixture of high hydrogen gas and 
deuterium gas. 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set 
forth in claim 1, further comprising confinement means 

for preventing the substance for nuclear fusion occluded 
in said occlusion member (11) from escaping to the 

outside of said occlusion member (11). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set 
 

forth in claim 12, characterized in that said 
confinement means includes a conductor layer (37) formed 

on an outer periphery of said occlusion member (11), 
which acts as a cathode, with an electric insulator 

layer (36) interposed therebetween, a voltage being 
applied such that said conductor layer (37) acts as an 

anode. 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set 
forth in claim 12, characterized in that said 

confinement means includes a magnetic coil (24). 
A cold nuclear fusion apparatus as set 
forth in claim 12, characterized in that said 

confinement means includes an anode (27) in the form of 
a coil provided around said occlusion member (11) which 

acts as a cathode. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
