<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659137</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULAR COMPOSITE BICYCLE FRAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62K300	B62K310	B62K1900	B62K1916	B62K1922	B62K1932	B62M900	B62M912	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62K	B62K	B62K	B62K	B62K	B62K	B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62K3	B62K3	B62K19	B62K19	B62K19	B62K19	B62M9	B62M9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bicycle (10) with a frame (12) formed out of composite material is disclosed. The frame of this bicycle includes a head unit or module (34) that is attached to two body units (36, 38). The head unit and body unit are formed out of a urethane core and can be formed of stiffened fiberglass, carbon fibers, or like nonmetallic material. The head unit and body units are formed with bores (78, 81, 83, 90) in which sleeves and cables are seated to accommodate the installation of the other components of the bicycle to the frame. The body is further formed with a set of rearwardly extending members that form the chain stays (22) of the bicycle. Dropouts (104) are seated in recesses formed in the chain stays. The bicycle includes a front derailleur/rear brake assembly (30) with a front derailleur (134) that can be both selectively moved up and down and selectively pivoted along a lateral axis of the bicycle. By selecting an appropriately sized head unit, the frame of the bicycle can be built to a specific size. Components of specific dimension can then be attached to the frame to facilitate the construction of a bicycle of this invention so that it is built for a cyclist of a specific size.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOFTRIDE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOFTRIDE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLSOP JAMES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLSOP MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLSOP, JAMES, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLSOP, MICHAEL, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MODULAR COMPOSITE BICYCLE FRAMEField of the Invention This invention relates generally to bicycles and, more particularly, to a bicycle with a modular composite frame that can be readily constructed for cyclists of different sizes and statures.Background of the InventionBicycles have proven to be very efficient vehicles for converting human energy into mechanical energy in order to produce self-propelled motion Most bicycles include a metallic frame that comprises a set of tubes that are welded together. The wheels, the drive assembly, and the steering assembly are all mounted to the frame to complete the bicycle. Recently, there have been significant efforts to substitute frames formed out of composite material for frames formed out of metal. An advantage of a composite frame is that it offers as much structural strength as a metal frame and weighs significantly less. Moreover, composite frames, unlike conventional frames, do not rust and corrode when exposed to the elements. These advantages are expected to help make composite-frame bicycles very popular for use as mountain bicycles and other types of bicycles where it is desirable to have a frame with significant mechanical strength and that can withstand the rigors of contact with water, mud, rocks, and other wearing material. Composite bicycle frames are typically formed out of nonmetallic material that is shaped in a mold. Owing to the expenses associated with forming the molds, it has proven very expensive to provide the differently sized composite frames required to build bicycles for large numbers of cyclists who are themselves of different statures.Moreover, in order to satisfy the bicycling population's demand for differently sized 

bicycles, the retailer, the distributor, and/or the manufacturer are forced to have a large number of already assembled frames in inventory. At a minimum, this requires a large amount of storage space and at worst may require those involved in the manufacturing and sale of bicycles to tie up large amounts of capitol in inventory for which there may seldom be a need. Some bicycle manufactures have attempted to overcome this problem by providing composite frames with metal fittings and fixtures that can be adjustably set to accommodate the needs of differently sized cyclists. However, this solution has not proven to be wholly satisfactory. The addition of these metal components increases the weight of the assembled bicycle so as to detract from the advantages of the composite frame.Summary of the Invention This
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims:
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A bicycle comprising : a frame including a head unit and at least one body unit secured to said head unit, said body unit having a center portion coupled to said head unit and two spaced- apart chain stays extending rearward from said center portion; a seat assembly including a seat support beam attached to said head unit, said seat support beam extending rearward from said head unit, and a seat attached to a portion of said seat support unit distal from said head unit; a front wheel assembly including a front fork assembly rotatably coupled to said head unit, a front wheel attached to said front fork assembly below said head unit, and a handlebar assembly attached to said front fork assembly above said head unit; a rear wheel rotatably coupled to said chain stays; and a drive train assembly including a free gear secured to said rear wheel, a crank assembly secured to said center portion of said frame, at least one body unit, and a drive chain connecting said crank assembly to said free gear.
2. The bicycle of Claim 1, wherein said frame is formed of a composite material.
3. The bicycle of Claim 1, wherein said frame is formed of an injection- molded material.
4. The bicycle of Claim 1, wherein said body unit of said frame has a top section that defines an upward opening socket and said head unit of said frame includes a portion seated in said socket.
5. The bicycle of Claim 1, wherein said frame includes two symmetrically shaped body units, each said body unit having a center portion and forming a separate one of said chain stays.
6. The bicycle of Claim 5, wherein each chain stay is elongated and has a generally horizontally extending longitudinal slot dividing the stay into top and bottom bifurcations, and including a strip of resilient material received in each of said slots. 


 7. The bicycle of Claim 5, wherein said body units have top sections that define an upward opening socket and said head unit is seated in said socket.
8. The bicycle of Claim 5, wherein said head unit and said body units of said frame are each formed with a foam core and skin formed from rigid, nonmetallic material, and said body units are mated so that said skins of said body units join each other and form at least one rib extending longitudinally through at least a part of said frame.
9. The bicycle of Claim 5, wherein said body and head units have interfitting portions joined together.
10. The bicycle assembly of Claim 9, further including a head tube extending longitudinally through said head unit and wherein said front fork assembly is disposed in said head tube.
11. The bicycle assembly of Claim 9, further including a bottom bracket assembly including a sleeve extending longitudinally through said body unit, wherein said crank assembly is rotatably mounted to said bottom bracket assembly.
12. The bicycle assembly of Claim 5, further including two dropouts for securing said rear wheel to said chain stays, said dropouts being releasably secured in recesses formed in said chain stays.
13. The bicycle assembly of Claim 5, further including two dropouts for securing said rear wheel to said chain stays, said dropouts being releasably secured in recesses formed in said chain stays.
14. The bicycle assembly of Claim 5, further including a front derailleur and rear brake assembly attached to said body units adjacent said crank assembly, said assembly including a front derailleur having a chain guide disposed around said drive chain and a brake disposed around said rear wheel.
15. The bicycle assembly of Claim 14, wherein said front derailleur and rear brake assembly includes a mount secured to said body units and said front derailleur is connected to said assembly mount to pivot about said assembly mount.
16. The bicycle assembly of Claim 5, further including at least one derailleur attached to said frame to change the position of said drive chain, a shifter 


attached to said head unit, and a shifter cable extending from said shifter to' said derailleur for controlling the position of said derailleur in response to movement of said shifter and one of said body units is formed with a bore and said derailleur cable is partially disposed in said bore.
17. The bicycle assembly of Claim 5, further including at least one mounting assembly for securing said seat support to said head unit of said frame, said mounting assembly for said seat support being at least partially disposed under said skin of said head unit.
18. A bicycle frame formed of composite material comprising a head unit and two body units secured to said head unit, said body units each having a center section coupled to said head unit and two spaced-apart chain stays extending rearward from said center sections, and wherein said head unit and said body units each comprise a core member that is at least partially encased in a rigid, nonmetallic skin and said body units are mated together so that the adjacent skins of said body units form a rib that extends longitudinally through at least a part of said frame.
19. The bicycle frame of Claim 18, wherein: said body units have top sections that define a first connection component; and said head unit has a bottom section that defines a second connection component interfitted with said first connection component.
20. The bicycle frame of Claim 18, further including a head tube disposed in said head unit, said head tube being dimensioned to receive a front fork assembly.
21. The bicycle frame of Claim 18, further including a bottom bracket assembly including a sleeve extending longitudinally through said body unit, said sleeve being dimensioned to receive a crank assembly.
22. The bicycle frame of Claim 18, further including two dropouts for securing a rear wheel to said chain stays, said dropouts being releasably secured to said frame in recesses formed in said chain stays.
23. The bicycle frame assembly of Claim 18, wherein said center section of at least one said body unit is formed with a bore dimensioned to accommodate either a shifter cable or a derailleur cable. 


 24. The bicycle frame of Claim 18, further including at least one mounting assembly for securing a seat support to said head unit of said frame, said mounting assembly for said seat support being at least partially disposed under said skin of said head unit.
25. A front derailleur/rear brake assembly for a bicycle comprising: a mount adapted to be attached to the bicycle, a front derailleur attached to said mount to pivot in a lateral axis about said mount, and a rear brake attached to said mount.
26. The front derailleur/rear brake assembly of Claim 25, wherein said mount includes a base member for mating to the surface of the bicycle, a fin extending away from said base member, and an arm attached to said fin, wherein said front derailleur is mounted to said fin and said rear brake is mounted to said arm.
27. A method of manufacturing a bicycle frame formed of composite material including the steps of: forming a plurality of head units and at least one body unit, each said unit being formed with a core member and a rigid, nonmetallic outer skin, said head units being of different sizes but each of said head units being adapted to be joined to said body unit; selecting one of said head units to selectively size said frame; and securing said selected head unit to said at least one body unit.
28. The method of manufacturing a bicycle frame of Claim 27, further including the steps of: forming two symmetrically shaped body units; mating said body units together so that said skins of said body units are adjacent each other and form a rib that extends longitudinally through at least a portion of said frame; and securing said selected head unit to said body units.
29. The method of manufacturing a bicycle frame of Claim 28, further including the steps of: forming a socket in said body units; forming a tongue in each of said head units of a size and shape adapted to be close fitted in said socket; and seating said the tongue of said selected head unit in said socket. 


 30. A bicycle comprising: a frame formed of composite material, said frame defining a pair of rearwardly extending chain stays; a seat assembly including a seat support beam attached to said frame, said seat support beam extending rearward from said frame, and a seat attached to a portion of said seat support beam distal from said frame; a front wheel assembly including a front fork assembly rotatably coupled to said head unit, a front wheel attached to said front fork assembly below said head unit, and a handlebar assembly attached to said front fork assembly above said head unit; a rear wheel rotatably coupled to said chain stays; and a drive train coupled to said frame and connected to said rear wheel for rotating said wheel.
31. The bicycle of Claim 30, wherein each chain stay is elongated and has a generally horizontally extending longitudinal slot dividing the stay into top and bottom bifurcations, and a strip of resilient material received in each of said slots. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
