<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622907</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A radio phone and method of operating a radio phone
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B138	H03G320	H04B118	H03G320	H04B118	H04B138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H03G	H04B	H03G	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H03G3	H04B1	H03G3	H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a procedure for using a radio phone (2) 
with an external amplifying means (1) for receiving, amplifying and 

transmitting a radio frequency reception signal to the radio phone, in 
which radio phone a reception frequency signal is supplied to a front end 

amplifier (9). When the external amplifying means (1) is connected to the 
radio phone, the front end amplifier (9) of the radio phone is bypassed or 

the gain thereof (9) is adjusted to be lower. The control signal (OHJ) is 
preferably a voltage control signal of direct voltage frequency or low 

frequency produced in the amplifying means (1), which in the amplifying 
means is added into the reception signal, and in the radio phone separated 

from the reception signal into a control signal of the front end amplifier. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOINTULA ERKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOINTULA, ERKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a procedure for using a radio phone with
an external amplifier for receiving, amplifying and transmitting a radio
frequency signal received to a radio phone in which radio phone a
reception frequency signal is fed to a front end amplifier. The invention
also relates to a radio phone and an external amplifier for implementing
the procedure.Currently, both car phones and hand-held phones are used in radio phone
networks. The greatest difference therebetween is the higher output power
of the car phone and the greater requirements as regards sensitivity and
error repetitions. In the present patent application the characteristic
features of the car phone also refer to the properties of a combination of
a hand-held phone and an amplifier i.e. booster.In the prior art designs a booster comprises a synthesizer, a processor and
radio unit of its own, in addition to the standard RF components. One of
the state of the art designs is the so-called serial number transmission
system in which the booster is a complete car phone without a fixed serial
number of its own, i.e. a so-called NAM booster (Number Assignment
Module). When a phone is connected to a booster, the NAM data,
comprising the phone number of the phone, is transmitted electrically to
the booster which thereafter serves as a phone, and the hand-held phone
serves thereafter merely as an operating means, in other words, no RF
connection between the hand-held phone and the booster exists. In another conventional design, the booster comprises two duplex filters
(one for the phone terminal and the other for the antenna terminal), and rf
components therebetween. An advantage of the design is a simple RF
connection, comprising only one coaxial cable between the booster and the
telephone. A drawback of the design is that higher performance values are
required of the hand-held phone than the specifications set for the radio
phone system would usually require of it, so that because of the booster,
the hand-held phone has to be produced with unnecessary high
performance, resulting in it being expensive to produce and manufacture.The prior art technology is described below referring to the accompanying
Figure 1, showing the principle of how to combine a hand-held phone and
an amplifying means known in the art.Figure 1 presents a combination of a hand-held phone and an amplifying
means known in the art. A connection point for the amplifying means 1
and the hand-held phone 2 is an antenna terminal 3 of the hand-held phone
2. Instead
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A radio phone (2) adapted for coupling to an external amplifying means
(1), the radio phone (2) comprising a reception branch (RX
R
) and a
transmission branch (TX
R
), the reception branch (RX
R
) being provided with
a front end amplifier (9) for amplifying a received radio frequency signal,


characterised in that
 a control signal (OHJ) is coupled to the radio phone
(2) when the external amplifying means (1) is coupled to the radio phone

(2), for controlling amplification of the received radio frequency signal by the
front end amplifier (9).
A radio phone (2) according to claim 1, wherein the radio phone is
arranged so that, when the control signal (OHJ) is coupled to the radio

phone, the gain of the front end amplifier (9) is reduced.
A radio phone (2) according to claim 1, wherein the radio phone is
arranged so that, when the control signal (OHJ) is coupled to the radio

phone, the gain of the front end amplifier (9) is bypassed.
A radio phone according to claims 1 to 3, wherein the control signal
(OHJ) is a low-frequency voltage signal.
A radio phone according to claim 4, wherein the control signal (OHJ)
is a direct voltage signal.
A radio phone according to claims 1 to 5, 
characterised in that
 there is
provided a separate terminal for coupling the control signal (OHJ) to the 

radio phone (2).
A radio phone according to claim 6, 
characterised in that
 the separate
terminal (3) is an antenna terminal of the radio phone suitable for coupling

to the external amplifying means (1).
A radio phone according to claim 7, 
characterised in that

there is provided means (10) for separating the control signal (OHJ) from
other signals and for coupling the control signal (OHJ) to the control input

of the front end amplifier (9).
A radio phone according to claim 8, wherein the means (10) comprise
a filter (10) for separating the control signal (OHJ) from the radio

frequency reception signal.
A radio phone according to claim 9 in combination with claims 8 and 4, wherein the
filter (10) further comprises an ac/dc converter for converting the low-frequency

control signal (OHJ) into a direct voltage signal.
A method of operating a radio phone (2) with an external amplifying
means (1) for receiving, amplifying and transmitting a radio frequency

reception signal to and from a radio phone, in which radio phone the
reception frequency signal is supplied to a front end amplifier (9),


characterised in that
 when the external amplifying means (1) is coupled to
the radio phone, a control signal (OHJ) is coupled to a control input of the

front end amplifier (9) to control the
amplification of the reception signal by

the front end amplifier. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein in response to the control
signal (OHJ) the front end amplifier (9) of the radio phone is bypassed or

the gain of the front end amplifier (9) is reduced.
A method according to claim 12, wherein the control signal (OHJ) is
produced in the external amplifying means (1) where it is added into a

received radio frequency signal, supplied to the radio phone via an antenna
terminal (3) of the radio phone, and it is separated from the radio

frequency reception signal in the radio phone and coupled to the front end
amplifier (9).
An external amplifying means (1) for a radio phone (2), the external
amplifying means comprising an antenna terminal (ANT) for receiving and

transmitting radio frequency signals, means (6') connected to the antenna

terminal (ANT) for separating reception and transmission frequency
signals from one another, a reception branch (RX
v
) and a transmission
branch (TX
v
) to amplify respective received and transmitted signals, and
second separation means (6) connected to each of the branches to separate

the reception and transmission frequency signals into their respective
branches (RX
v
, TX
v
), the radio phone being couplable to a terminal point
of the second separation means common to reception and transmission

frequency signals, 
characterised in that
 there is provided means for
producing a control signal (OHJ)

for controlling amplification of radio frequency
signals by the radio phone and means for summing said

control signal in the radio frequency reception signal
in said common terminal point of said second separation

means. 
Amplifying means according to claim 14 
characterised in that
 the external
amplifying means further comprises means for summing the control signal

and a radio frequency reception signal in said common terminal point of
said second separation means (6).
Amplifying means according to claim 14 or 15 wherein there is
provided a dc/dc converter for producing a direct voltage control signal

(OHJ) from the supply voltage of the external amplifying means.
Amplifying means according to claim 14 or 15 wherein there is
provided a dc/ac converter for producing a low frequency voltage control

signal (OHJ) from the supply voltage of the external amplifying means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
