<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0944917</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Os RECTIFYING SCHOTTKY AND OHMIC JUNCTION AND W/WC/TiC OHMIC CONTACTS ON SiC
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2104	H01L2128	H01L21331	H01L21338	H01L2170	H01L21822	H01L2348	H01L2349	H01L2704	H01L2704	H01L2940	H01L2945	H01L2947	H01L2966	H01L2973	H01L2974	H01L29749	H01L2978	H01L29812	H01L29861	H01L29872	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L27	H01L27	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Metallic osmium on SiC (either  beta  or  alpha ) forms a contact that remains firmly attached to the SiC surface and forms an effective barrier against diffusion from the conductive metal. On n-type SiC (12), Os (20) forms an abrupt Schottky rectifying junction having essentially unchanged operating characteristics to at least 1050  DEG C and Schottky diodes that remain operable to 1175  DEG C and a barrier height over 1.5 eV. On p-type SiC, Os forms an ohmic contact with specific contact resistance of 
<
10
<
-4
>
 ohm-cm
<
2
>
. Ohmic and rectifying contacts to a TiC layer (30) on a SiC substrate (12) are formed by depositing a WC layer (32) over the TiC layer (30), followed by a metallic W layer (34). Such contacts are stable to at least 1150  DEG C. Electrodes (38) connect to the contacts either directly or via a protective bonding layer (36) such as Pt or PtAu alloy.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
3C SEMICONDUCTOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
3C SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARSONS JAMES D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARSONS, JAMES, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Os RECTIFYING SCHOTTKY AND OHMIC JUNCTION AND W/WC/TiC OHMIC CONTACTS ON SiCBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to electrical contacts on SiC-based semiconductor devices, and more particularly to ohmic and rectifying contacts on silicon carbide semiconductors.SiC possesses tremendous advantages for high temperature and high power solid state electronics. In addition, it offers potential advantages for high frequency and logic circuit applications: e.g., power conversion (mixer diodes, MESFETs) , single chip computers (n-MOS, CMOS, bipolar transistors) , non-volatile random access memory SiC CCDs can hold charge for more than a thousand years thus, for example, making hard disks a thing of the past.The potential maximum average power, maximum operating temperature, thermal stability, and the reliability of SiC electronics far exceeds Si or GaAs based electronics. The degree to which these advantages of SiC can be utilized, however, is presently constrained by the thermal stability and electrical properties of the metal/SiC junctions. The primary reasons for this are: (1) the power density of SiC devices is limited by the thermal stability of the ohmic contact junctions, and (2) substantial cooling is required to insure the stability of electrical contact junctions. 

 For a long time, researchers have been striving without success to develop electrical contacts to silicon carbide trying overcome these constraints. Until these constraints are removed, SiC devices/circuits offer only marginal - if any - advantages over Si and GaAs. Utilization of the full performance potential of SiC itself (for all devices) , requires four types of performance- limiting electrical contacts: (1) ohmic to p-type SiC, (2) ohmic to n-type SiC, (3) rectifying to p-type SiC, and (4) rectifying to n-type SiC.The value of SiC electronics lies in its potential to extend the capabilities of solid state electronics beyond what is possible with Si or GaAs. Thus, suitable electrical contact characteristics obtained in the laboratory - under low stress conditions - must not drift or degrade, due to changes at the metal/SiC junctions, under actual device operating conditions. This requires two additional attributes of metal/SiC electrical contacts. First, the contact metal must form a junction with SiC that is chemically stable to approximately 1000°C (joule heating at high forward current densities in power SiC devices could easily cause metal/SiC junctions to reach such temperatures) . Second, the contact
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A SiC semiconductor device comprising: a semiconductor substrate comprising silicon carbide having a first surface and a second surface, the substrate including a first doped region adjacent the first surface and a second doped region adjacent the second surface; a first conductive layer comprising metallic osmium (Os) contacting the first surface to form a first contact having an electronic interface to the first region; and a second layer comprising a metal contacting the second surface to form a second electronic contact to the second doped region.
2. A SiC
.
 semiconductor device according to claim 1 in which the first region is doped n-type, and the first contact forms a Schottky junction as said electronic interface.
3. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 2 in which the first conductive layer includes a thin film of Si or OsSi interfacing the metallic osmium to the first surface of the silicon carbide substrate.
4. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 in which the first and second regions are doped n-type, the first contact forms a Schottky junction and the second contact forms an ohmic junction.
5. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 4 in which the first and second regions and intervening portions of the substrate are doped n-type, the first contact forms a Schottky junction and the second contact 



forms an ohmic junction, so that the device acts as a Schottky diode.
6. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 in which the first region is doped p-type, and the first contact forms an ohmic junction as said electronic interface.
7. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 6 in which the second region is doped n-type, to form a pn junction at an interface between said regions. 8. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 7 in which the second layer includes: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer contacting the second surface; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer covering the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and a layer consisting essentially of elemental tungsten contacting the tungsten carbide (WC) layer.
9. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 in which the first and second regions are doped to a first dopant type and an intervening portion of the substrate is doped to an opposite dopant type to form a first pn junction at an interface adjoining the first region and a second pn junction at an interface adjoining the second region. 10. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 in which the first region is doped to a first dopant type and the second region is doped to a second, opposite dopant type, and an intervening portion of the substrate is doped to form a first pn junction at an interface adjoining the 


first region, a second pn junction at an interface adjoining the second region and a third pn junction within the intervening portion.
11. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 including a layer of a protective metal covering the Os first conductive layer, selected from a group of conductive metals that is protective of the Os layer against oxidation and adapted to bond to an osmium surface.
12. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 including a layer of a protective metal selected from a group consisting of Pt, Pd, W, Au, PtAu, Ti, Zr, Hf, V, Cr, Fe, Ni, Cu, Nb, Mo, Tc, Ru, Rh, Ag, Ta, Re, Ir.
13. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 in which the second conductive layer comprises metallic osmium (Os) .
14. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 13 in which the first and second regions and intervening portions of the substrate are doped p-type so that the first contact and the second contact each form an ohmic junction and the device acts as a resistive device.
15. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 13 in which the first and second regions and an intervening portion of the substrate are doped p-type so that the first contact and the second contact each form an ohmic junction and a gate structure contacts a third surface portion contacting the intervening portion of the substrate so that the device acts as field effect transistor. 


 16. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 13 in which the first and second regions of the substrate are doped p-type so that the first contact and the second contact each form an ohmic junction, and an intervening portion of the substrate is doped n-type to form a pn junction with at least one of said first and second regions.
17. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 13 including a contact coupled to the intervening portion of the substrate so that the device acts as a transistor.
18. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 17 in which the first and second regions are doped p-type and the intervening region is doped n-type and contact coupled to the intervening portion comprises a material which forms an ohmic contact therewith so that the device is operable as a bipolar transistor.
19. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 17 in which the first and second regions are doped p-type and the contact coupled to the intervening portion includes a third metallic layer overlying an insulative layer to form an insulated gate over the intervening portion so that the device is operable as a field effect transistor.
20. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 19 in which the third conductive layer includes an Os layer. 21. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 19 in which the third conductive layer includes: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer the insulative layer; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer covering the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and 


 a layer consisting essentially of elemental tungsten contacting the tungsten carbide (WC) layer.
22. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 17 in which the first and second regions are doped p-type and the contact coupled to the intervening portion includes a conductive layer contacting a surface of the intervening portion so that the device is operable as a transistor.
23. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 22 in which the contact coupled to the intervening portion includes: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer contacting the a surface portion of the intervening layer; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer covering the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and a layer consisting essentially of elemental tungsten contacting the tungsten carbide (WC) layer; the intervening layer being doped p-type so that the device is operable as a transistor.
24. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 22 in which the contact coupled to the intervening portion includes an Os layer contacting the a surface portion of the intervening layer.
25. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 1 in which the second layer includes: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer on the second surface; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer on the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and a metallic tungsten (W) layer on the tungsten carbide (WC) layer. 


 26. A SiC semiconductor device comprising: a semiconductor substrate comprising silicon carbide having a first surface and a second surface, the substrate including a first doped region adjacent the first surface and a second doped region adjacent the second surface; a first conductive layer comprising a first contact metal layer on the first surface to form a first contact having an electronic interface to the first region; and a second conductive layer contacting the second surface to form a second electronic contact to the substrate, the second layer including: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer contacting the second surface; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer covering the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and a layer consisting essentially of elemental tungsten contacting the tungsten carbide (WC) layer.
27. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 26 in which the second region is doped n-type, and the second contact forms an ohmic junction.
28. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 26 including a layer of a bonding metal contacting the tungsten layer, selected from a group of conductive metals that is adapted to bond to a tungsten surface.
29. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 26 including a layer of a bonding metal contacting the tungsten layer, the bonding metal being selected from a group consisting of Pt, Pd, W, Au, PtAu, V, Ti, Zr, Hf, 


Cr, Fe, Ni, Cu, Nb, Mo, Tc, Ru, Rh, Ag, Ta, Re, Ir.
30. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 26 in which the second region is doped p-type, and the second contact forms a rectifying junction. 31. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 26 in which the first layer includes: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer on the first surface; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer on the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and a metallic tungsten (W) layer on the tungsten carbide (WC) layer.
32. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 31 in which the first and second regions and intervening portions of the substrate are doped n-type so that the first contacts and the second contact each form an ohmic junction and the device acts as a resistive device.
33. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 31 in which the first and second regions are doped n-type and a contact is coupled to an intervening portion of the substrate, the contact including a third conductive layer overlying an insulative layer to form an insulated gate over the intervening portion so that the device is operable as a field effect transistor.
34. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 33 in which the conductive layer overlying the insulative layer includes: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer on the insulative surface; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer on the titanium carbide 


 (TiC) layer; and a metallic tungsten (W) layer on the tungsten carbide (WC) layer.
35. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 33 in which the conductive layer overlying the insulative layer includes a layer of Os contacting the insulative layer.
36. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 31 in which the first and second regions are doped n-type and a contact is coupled to an intervening portion of the substrate, the contact including a conductive layer contacting a surface of the intervening portion so that the device is operable as a transistor.
37. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 36 in which the conductive layer includes: a titanium carbide (TiC) layer on the surface of the intervening portion; a tungsten carbide (WC) layer on the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and a metallic tungsten (W) layer on the tungsten carbide (WC) layer.
38. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 36 in which the conductive layer includes a layer of Os contacting the surface of the intervening region. 39. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 36 in which the intervening portion of the substrate is doped p-type so that the device is operable as a bipolar transistor. 


 40. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 36 in which intervening portion of the substrate is doped n- type so that the device is operable as a MESFET.
41. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 40 the contact contacting a surface portion of the intervening portion comprises an Os layer.
42. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 31 including a contact coupled to an intervening portion of the substrate so that the device acts as a transistor. 43. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 42 in which the gate contact material includes a third conductive layer overlying an insulative layer to form an insulated gate over the intervening portion so that the device acts as a field effect transistor. 44. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 26 in which the first region is doped p-type and the first conductive layer is formed of a material suitable to form an ohmic contact with the first region, the second region is doped n-type to form an ohmic contact to the second layer, and the substrate includes a first n-type intervening portion adjoining the region and a second p- type intervening portion adjoining the second region of the substrate so as to define a four-layer device having three pn junctions electrically coupled between said first and second conductive layers.
45. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 44 in which the first conductive layer comprises an Os layer contacting the first region. 


 46. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 44 including a third conductive layer contacting a surface of one of the intervening portions.
47. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 46 in which the third conductive layer comprises one of an Os layer and a TiC/WC/W layer.
48. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 44 in the third conductive layer is capacitively coupled to a surface of one of the intervening portions. 49. A SiC semiconductor device according to claim 48 in which the third conductive layer comprises one of an Os layer and a TiC/WC/W layer.
50. A method of forming an electrical contact to a surface of SiC semiconductor substrate comprising: depositing a layer comprising metallic osmium (Os) on an area of the substrate surface to form a contact having an electronic interface to the substrate; and forming a protective cap over the osmium layer.
51. A method according to claim 50 including annealing the substrate after depositing the Os layer to bond the Os layer to the SiC substrate at said surface.
52. A method according to claim 51 including doping a portion of the substrate in said area with an n-type impurity so that the Os layer and the n-type doped substrate portion form a rectifying Schottky junction.
53. A method according to claim 52 including depositing a thin silicon layer on the substrate surface in said area prior to depositing the Os layer. 


 54. A method according to claim 51 including doping a portion of the substrate in said area with an p-type impurity so that the Os layer and the p-type doped substrate portion form an ohmic junction. 55. A method, according to claim 51 in which the step of forming a protective cap over the osmium layer includes depositing a layer comprising platinum (Pt) over the osmium layer.
56. A method of forming an electrical contact to a surface of SiC semiconductor substrate comprising: depositing a layer comprising metallic osmium (Os) on an area of the substrate surface to form a contact to the substrate; and annealing the substrate after depositing the Os layer to bond the Os layer to the SiC substrate at said surface.
57. A method according to claim 56 including depositing a thin silicon layer on the substrate surface in said area prior to depositing the Os layer.
58. A method according to claim 56 including doping a portion of the substrate in said area with an n-type impurity so that the Os layer and the n-type doped substrate portion form a rectifying junction.
59. A method according to claim 56 including doping a portion of the substrate in said area with an p-type impurity so that the Os layer and the p-type doped substrate portion form an ohmic junction.
60. A method of forming an electrical contact to a surface of SiC semiconductor substrate comprising: depositing a titanium carbide (TiC) layer on an area 


of the substrate surface to form a contact having an electronic interface to the substrate; depositing a tungsten carbide (WC) layer on the titanium carbide (TiC) layer; and depositing a metallic tungsten (W) layer on the tungsten carbide (WC) layer.
61. A method according to claim 60 including doping a portion of the substrate in said area with an n-type impurity so that the TiC/WC/W layer and the n-type doped substrate portion form an ohmic junction.
62. A method according to claim 60 including doping a portion of the substrate in said area with an p-type impurity so that the TiC/WC/W layer and the p-type doped substrate portion form a rectifying junction. 63. A method according to claim 60 including annealing the substrate during or after deposition of the W layer to bond the W layer to the WC layer.
64. A method according to claim 60 including annealing the substrate during or after deposition of TiC layer to densify the TiC layer before deposition of the WC layer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
