<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656837</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDEPENDENT WHEEL SUSPENSION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60G318	B60G320	B60G700	B60G700	B60G1100	B60G1114	B60G1300	B60G1302	B60G1500	B60G1506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	B60G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60G3	B60G3	B60G7	B60G7	B60G11	B60G11	B60G13	B60G13	B60G15	B60G15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An independent wheel suspension (1) for all-terrain vehicles has upper and lower wishbones (2, 3) pivoted at one of their ends on the structure (C) of the vehicle about respective axes (X, X1) which are parallel to each other and to a longitudinal axis of the vehicle, a wheel support (4) which is pivotably connected to the wishbones at their other ends about respective axes (Y, Y1) parallel to the other axes, and two telescopic spring/shock-absorber struts (5, 6) pivotably connected at opposite ends to the structure (C) of the vehicle and to the upper wishbone (2), intermediate the ends of the latter, about respective axes (Z, Z1) parallel to the other axes (X, X1; Y, Y1) so that the struts can pivot about their respective axes (Z, Z1) as they contract and extend with oscillations of the wishbones (2, 3) in use, with the lower ends of the struts describing a transverse arcuate path about the axis (Z) of the upper ends. The ability of the struts (5, 6) to pivot about the two axes (Z, Z1) as they are compressed or extended results in their progressive loading or unloading and leads to a smooth ride.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOTAL MOBILITY VEHICLES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOTAL MOBILITY VEHICLES LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VICKERY MELVIN DOUGLAS ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VICKERY, MELVIN DOUGLAS ALBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Independent Wheel SuspensionThe present invention relates to an independent wheel suspension for vehicles, particularly but not exclusively for all-terrain vehicles.Independent wheel suspensions for all-terrain vehicles must allow a large degree of travel to cope with rough terrain but this is usually achieved at the expense of ride comfort. The present invention aims to provide an independent wheel suspension suitable for all-terrain vehicles, which affords better ride comfort than conventional suspensions while still permitting a large degree of travel.According to the present invention, there is provided an independent wheel suspension comprising upper and lower wishbones, each of which is pivoted at one end on the structure of the vehicle about a respective axis, the axes being parallel to each other and to a longitudinal axis of the vehicle, a wheel support which is pivotably connected to the wishbones at their other ends about respective axes parallel to the other axes, and resilient shock-absorbing means pivotably connected at opposite ends to the structure of the vehicle and to one of the wishbones, intermediate the ends of the latter, about respective axes parallel to the other axes so that the resilient shock-absorbing means can pivot about their respective axes as they contract and extend with oscillations of the wishbones in use, with the lower end of the said means describing a transverse arcuate path about the axis of the upper end. This ability of the resilient shock-absorbing means to pivot about the two longitudinal axes as they are compressed or extended results in their progressive loading or 

unloading and leads to a smooth ride.The resilient shock-absorbing means preferably comprise a shock-absorber and an associated spring. Although the shock-absorber and the spring may be separate from each other and be pivotably connected to the vehicle structure and the wishbone about separate axes, for example, transversely spaced-apart axes, they are preferably in the form of a telescopic spring/shock-absorber strut.The pivot mounting for the lower end of the telescopic strut preferably comprises a bracket projecting from the wishbone and the wishbone to which the lower end of the strut is connected is preferably the upper wishbone. In this latter case, the bracket is preferably dependent from the upper wishbone so that the lower pivot axis of the strut lies between the two wishbones, below a line joining the pivot axes of the upper wishbone on the vehicle and of the wheel support on the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. An independent wheel suspension (1) comprising upper and lower wishbones (2, 3) , each of which is pivoted at one end on the structure (C) of the vehicle about a respective axis (X, XI) , the axes (X, XI) being parallel to each other and to a longitudinal axis of the vehicle, a wheel support (4) which is pivotably connected to the wishbones (2, 3) at their other ends about respective axes (Y, Yl) parallel to the other said axes (X, XI) , and resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) pivotably connected at opposite ends to the structure (C) of the vehicle and to one (2) of the wishbones, intermediate the ends of the latter, about respective axis (Z, Zl) parallel to the other said axes (X, XI, Y, Yl) so that the resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) can pivot about their respective axes (Z, Zl) as they contract and extend with oscillations of the wishbones (2, 3) in use, with the lower end of the said means describing a transverse arcuate path (A) about the axis (Z) of the upper end.
2. A suspension according to Claim 1, characterised in that the resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) comprise a shock-absorber and an associated spring.
3. A suspension according to Claim 2, characterised in that the resilient shock-absorbing means comprise a telescopic spring/shock-absorber strut (5, 6).
4. A suspension according to Claim 3, characterised in that the lower end of the telescopic strut (5, 6) is pivotably connected to a bracket (7) projecting from the said one wishbone (2) .
5. A suspension according to Claim 3 or Claim 4, 


characterised in that the wishbone to which the lower end of the strut (5, 6) is connected is the upper wishbone (2) .
6. A suspension according to Claim 4 or Claim 5, characterised in that the bracket (7) is dependent from the upper wishbone (2) so that the lower pivot axis (Zl) of the strut (5, 6) lies between the two wishbones (2, 3) , below a line joining the pivot axes (X, Y) of the upper wishbone (2) on the vehicle and of the wheel support (4) on the upper wishbone.
7. A suspension according to any one of Claims 3 to 6, characterised in that it has two telescopic spring/shock-absorber struts (5, 6) the lower ends of which are pivoted about a common axis (Zl) on respective brackets (7) dependent from opposite sides of the upper wishbone (2) .
8. A suspension wishbone (2) for use with independent wheel suspensions, the wishbone having mountings at opposite ends for the pivotable connection of the wishbone to the structure of a vehicle and for the pivotable connection of a wheel support to the wishbone respectively, and a further mounting (7) intermediate its ends for the pivotable connection of one end of resilient shock-absorbing means, the mountings defining parallel pivot axes (X, Y, Zl) transverse the longitudinal median axis of the wishbone.
9. A wishbone according to Claim 8, characterised in that the pivot axes (X, Y, Zl) are perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal median axis of the wishbone (2) . 


10. A wishbone according to Claim 8 or Claim 9, characterised in that the further mounting comprises a bracket (7) which projects from the wishbone and the wishbone is intended for use as an upper wishbone with the bracket (7) extending downwardly in use. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 21 December 1993 (21.12.93); claims 8-10 cancelled, original claims 1 and 6 replaced by amended claim. 1; new claims 2 and 3 added; claims 2 and 3 renumbered as claims 4 and 5; claim 7 replaced by amended claim 6 (2 pages)]
1. An independent wheel suspension (1) comprising upper and lower wishbones (2, 3) , each of which is pivoted at one end on the structure (C) of the vehicle about a respective axis (X, XI), the axes (X, XI) being parallel to each other and to a longitudinal axis of the vehicle, a wheel support (4) which is pivotably connected to the wishbones (2, 3) at their other ends about respective axes (Y, Yl) parallel to the other said axes (X, XI), and resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) pivotably connected at their upper and lower ends respectively to the structure (C) of the vehicle and to one of the wishbones (2, 3), about respective axes (Z, Zl) parallel to the other said axes (X, XI, Y, Yl), so that the resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) can pivot about their respective axes (Z, Zl) as they contract and extend with oscillations of the wishbones (2, 3) in use, characterised in that the lower end of the resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) is pivotably connected to the upper wishbone (2), intermediate its ends, by means of a pivot mounting (7) which is fast with the wishbone (2) and projects downwardly therefrom so that the axis (Zl) of the lower end of the said means (5, 6) lies between the two wishbones (2, 3) , below a ]-ine joining the pivot axes (X, Y) at the ends of the upper wishbone (2), whereby the lower end of the resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) describes a transverse arcuate path (A) about the axis (X) of the upper wishbone (2) during pivoting of the said means (5, 6) and moves outwardly of the vehicle when the suspension moves towards the top of its travel (Fig. 2) in use.
2. A suspens.on according to Claim 1, characterised in that the axis (Zl) of the lower end of the resilient 


shock-absorbing means (5, 6) is closer to a line joining the axes (XI, Yl) of the lower wishbone (3) than to the line joining the axes (X, Y) of the upper wishbone (2) .
3. A suspension according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterised in that the pivot mounting for the lower end of the resilient shock-absorbing means (5,6) comprises a bracket (7) integral with the upper wishbone (2) .
4. A suspension according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the resilient shock-absorbing means (5, 6) comprise a shock-absorber and an associated spring.
5. A suspension according to Claim 4, characterised in that the resilient shock-absorbing means comprise a telescopic spring/shock-absorber strut (5, 6).
6. A suspension according to Claim 5, characterised in that it has two telescopic spring/shock-absorber struts (5, 6) the lower ends of which are pivoted about a common axis (Zl) on respective pivot mountings or brackets (7) projecting downwardly from opposite sides of the upper wishbone (2). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
