<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLEXIBLE WEARABLE COMPUTER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41D100	A41D100	G06F116	G06F116	H05K114	H05K114	H05K118	H05K118	H05K336	H05K336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41D	A41D	G06F	G06F	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41D1	A41D1	G06F1	G06F1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOBILA TECHNOLOGY INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOBILA TECHNOLOGY INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANIK CRAIG M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANIK, CRAIG, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FLEXIBLE WEARABLE COMPUTERBackground-Field of InventionThis invention relates generally to the field of portable computers, and more specifically to a flexible, wearable computer that can be worn on the body and repeatedly bent in an infinite number of planes without failure of operation.Background-Description of Prior ArtDefinitions A computer system is defined as comprising three basic components: an input device, an output device, and a computer. A computer is defined as comprising memory, a processor, and associated support circuitry and components. Memory comprises main memory which is volatile, and mass storage memory which is usually nonvolatile. A portable computer system is one that the user can easily carry around. Throughout this text the author will refer to a computer to mean only and specifically the main and secondary storage memory, the processor, and a power supply. The author will also use volume to characterize both the size and the mass of computers. This is because the overall density of silicon-based computers is asymptotic to a constant. Therefore, volume will necessarily indicate a maximum weight.IntegrationSmall and therefore portable computers have resulted from the intersection of innovations and inventions across a wide variety of domains and 

fields including the arts of silicon manipulation, and mechanical and electrical design, and component integration. Integration is the process of decreasing the size of and the space between electrical elements, and it has been the pathway to power reduction and speed But size reduction accrued benefits independent of processing power. Computers that once required buildings to house and small power plants to -run can now be comfortably lifted with one hand. Since integration and therefore miniaturization has brought nearly all of the advances in service levels to date, it is the major force in the creation of the prior art in portable computing and the direction of future advancement for computer construction in general.There has been tremendous innovation and invention using integration as a means of making computers portable. Computers are available that are small enough to be lifted by one finger. The result has been explosive demand for portable computing devices. Dataguest predicts that by 1994 sales of portable computing devices will be well over $13 billion (Byte, volume 16, number II, pl94) ."Picoco puters" are the state of the art of integration as a means of creating portable computers (New York Times, March 23, 1992) .
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
I claim:
1. A flexible computer comprising, in combination, elements for computing comprising a plurality of mechanically disintegrated but functionally intact components of an otherwise integrated computer: a flexible signal relaying means connecting said elements for computing; a flexible nonstretchable wearable member; a mounting means for mounting said elements for computing and said flexible signal relaying means on said wearable member; a protective covering means connected to said flexible non-stretchable wearable member for enclosing said elements for computing and said flexible signal relaying means.
2. The flexible computer of claim 1 wherein said flexible signal relaying means can be easily detached from and reattached to the computing elements and is therefore replaceable and disposable.
3. The flexible computer of claim 1 wherein said mounting means includes a module bottom shell; a module top shell; a circuit board member for mounting at least one of said computing elements thereon and positioned between the bottom shell and the top shell, said flexible nonstretchable wearable member positioned on the opposite side of the bottom shell from the position of said circuit board member; a retention plate positioned on the opposite side of the wearable member from the bottom shell; 


 a clamping means for mechanically connecting the top shell, the bottom shell, said circuit board member, the wearable member, and said retention plate.
4. The flexible computer of claim 3 wherein said protective covering is an antimicrobial microcellular polyurethane foam sheath.
5. The flexible computer of claim 3 wherein said flexible nonstretchable wearable member consists of woven ara id fibers.
6. The flexible computer of claim 1 wherein the computing elements includes flash memory as a nonvolatile data storage means.
7. The flexible computer of claim 3 wherein the computing elements includes flash memory as a nonvolatile data storage means.
8. The flexible computer of claim 3 in the form of a belt.
9. The flexible computer of claim 3 in the form of a vest.
10. A flexible computer in the form of a wearable article comprising, in combination, elements for computing comprising a microprocessor, an input/output controller, a plurality of data storage means, a power supply, and a plurality of computing components; a plurality of flexible signal relaying means operably connected with the computing elements; 


 a flexible tensile load bearing means mechanically connected with the computing elements and said flexible signal relaying means for limiting tensile loads; a flexible compressive load bearing means connected to the computing elements, said flexible signal relaying means, and said tensile load bearing means for limiting compressive loads; a curvature radius limiting means connecting the computing elements and said flexible signal relaying means and said tensile load bearing means for limiting the curvature radius experienced.
11. The flexible computer of claim 10 wherein said curvature radius limiting means comprises: a module bottom shell; a module top shell; a circuit board member for mounting at least one of said computing elements thereon and positioned between the bottom shell and the top shell, said tensile load bearing means positioned on the opposite side of the bottom shell from the position of said circuit board member; a retention plate positioned on the opposite side of said tensile load bearing means from the position of said bottom shell; a clamping means for mechanically connecting the top shell, the bottom shell, said circuit board member, said tensile load bearing means, and said retention plate.
12. The flexible computer of claim 10 wherein the plurality of flexible signal relaying means can be easily detached from and reattached to the computing elements and is therefore replaceable and disposable. 


13. The flexible computer of claim 10 wherein the computing elements includes flash memory as a nonvolatile data storage means.
14. The flexible computer of claim 11 wherein the computing elements includes flash memory as a nonvolatile data storage means.
15. The flexible computer of claim 11 wherein said tensile load bearing means consists of woven aramid fibers.
16. The flexible computer of claim 11 wherein said protective covering is a antimicrobial microcellular polyurethane foam sheath.
17. A method of computing comprising the steps of:
a. mechanically disintegrating functionally intact elements for computing with an otherwise integrated computer;
b. flexibly connecting said elements for computing with a flexible signal relying means on a flexible non-stretchable wearable member;
c. enclosing said elements, said relying means and said wearable member within a protective covering;
d. wearing said wearable member on the person; and 


 e. computing with said elements and said relying means worn on the person.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein said connecting step includes connecting with an expansion bus.
19. The method of claim 18 including detaching and replacing said expansion bus with a replacement expansion bus.
20. The method of claim 17 including connecting as one of said elements a flash memory as a non-volatile data storage means. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
