<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621477</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for obtaining a quantitative representation of the cell morphology of a biological tissue.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B310	A61B310	A61B3117	A61B3117	A61B1900	A61B1900	A61F9007	A61F9007	G06T100	G06T100	G06T760	G06T760	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B3	A61B3	A61B3	A61B3	A61B19	A61B19	A61F9	A61F9	G06T1	G06T1	G06T7	G06T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In examining the progress of patients before and after a 
cataract operation, all data can be computed upon the 

morphology of cornea endothelium cells for use of medical 
treatment, from a cornea endothelium cell image with less 

labor. 
Positional data of center points of two-dimensionally 
continuous cells of a cornea endothelium cell image are 

entered into a computer. Center points of the cells within 
a specified distance from a given center point are sorted 

clockwise (101-104). If an angle formed by two angularly 
successive points and the center point is less than a 

specified angle, the point having the greater distance from 
the center point is excluded (105-113). If the distance 

between the first point and the third point of three 
angularly successive points is shorter than the distance 

between the given center point and the second point, the 
second point is excluded (114-122). In this way, for each 

given cell a set of peripheral points which are center 
points of cells directly adjacent to the given cells is 

obtained. The average distances between the peripheral 
points and the center point of each given cell are 

determined (123). A perpendicular line that proportionally 
divides the distance between a center point and any of its  

 
peripheral points proportional to the ratio of their 

average distances to the peripheral points is determined, 
and intersection points of the resulting perpendicular 

lines are determined as vertices of the polygonal outline 
of the cells (124-131). Thus, morphological data are 

computed from the obtained vertices (132). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONAN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONAN INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASAHARA TATSUYA C O KONAN INC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI YOHKO C O KONAN INC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASAHARA, TATSUYA, C/O KONAN INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI,YOHKO, C/O KONAN INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method for obtaining a quantitative 
representation of the cell morphology of a biological 
tissue, and more specifically a method for quantitatively 
computing morphology of cornea endothelium cells to provide 
decision data to doctors, in examining the progress of 
patients before and after a cataract operation in the 
ophthalmic field of medical treatment.  As the aging society progresses, the number of 
cataract patients has been increasing. It is common 
practice, almost mandatorily, that cornea endothelium cells 
are checked up before and after a cornea operation. As the 
method of the checkup, there has conventionally been 
implemented specular photography (photography of cornea 
endothelium cells by reflected rays of light that has been 
projected on the cornea), in which the following methods 
are available to obtain decision reference data: With a grid superimposed on a magnified 
photograph of cornea endothelium or the like, the number of 
cells in the grid of specified intervals is counted and 
converted into the number of cells per mm² (cell density). A model whose cell density and coefficient of 
variation (CV) have been known is previously prepared, and 
the cell density and the CV are determined by comparing it 
with a cornea endothelium photograph or the like. Coordinates of vertices of a cell (e.g. 
coordinates of points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc. which are 
vertices of the profile of a hexagonal cell as show in FIG.  
 
1) are entered into a computer or the like, and the correct 
morphology of the individual cells is determined by the 
following equations:

Equation 1:   Cell area: Ar=12Σ {(Xn×Yn+1)-(Xn+1×Yn)} (µm²) Equation 3:   Cell density: CD=1000000/Ave (pcs/m²) Equation 5:   Coefficient of variation: CV=SD/AveEquation 6:   Hexagonal cell frequency: Ap₆=(number of hexagonal cells)/N With inputs of midpoints ac, bc, cc, ... of 
opposite two sides of mutually adjoining cells A, B, C, ... 
(see FIG. 2), the cell area is approximated by determining  
 
the area of an equilateral hexagon circumscribing a circle 
whose diameter is formed by each two points of the 
midpoints. In this case, for example, the area of the cell 
A is as follows: 
   The above-described conventional methods have the 
following problems: 
1. The grid method allows only the determination of cell 
density; 2. The cell sizer method, although allowing determination 
of cell density and coefficient of variation, would result 
in variation among persons who execute the comparison and 
have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for obtaining a quantitative representation 
of the cell morphology of biological tissue, especially of 

cornea endothelium cells, comprising the steps of 

a) obtaining a two-dimensional image of a selected 
area of the cell tissue; 
b) determining the positions of the center points of 
cells in the image and entering the position data in a computer; 
c) for each given cell (Pn) having a center point 
(a), selecting the center points (b, c, d, e, f) of peripheral 

cells (Sm) which are directly adjacent to the given 
cell (Pn); 
d) for each given cell (Pn), determining the connecting 
lines from its center point (a) to the center points 

(b, c, d, e, f) of the adjacent peripheral cells (Sm) and 
constructing perpendicular lines on each connecting line at 

an intermediate point thereof; 
e) determining the intersection point (a₁) of each 
two perpendicular lines; 
f) determining a polygonal outline of the given cell 
(Pn) as determined by the intersection points (a₁) as polygon 

vertices; 
g) repeating the foregoing steps for determining a 
polygonal outline for each cell. 
The method as claimed in claim 1 , wherein the step of 
selecting the peripheral cells (Sm) adjacent to a given 

cell (Pn) (step c) comprises the steps of: 

selecting the center points which are within a specified 
distance from the center point of the given cell (Pn) 

as being quasi- peripheral points; 
sorting the thus determined quasi-peripheral point 
in clockwise or counterclockwise order with respect to the 

given center point (Pn); 
of two angularly successive quasi-peripheral points 
(Sm, Sm+1) being angularly spaced by less than a 

predetermined angle, selecting the point nearer to the 
given center point (Pn) as a peripheral point and excluding 

the other quasi-peripheral point having the greater 
distance from the given center point (Pn). 
A method as claimed in claims 1 or 2 , wherein the 
intermediate points in step d) are determined by the steps 

of 

h) for each given cell (Pn), determining the average 
distance from its center point (a) to the center points of 

the selected peripheral cells (Sm); 
i) dividing each distance (Pn, Sm) between the center 
point (a) of a given cell (Pn) and the center points (b, c, 

d, e, f) of each neighbouring peripheral cell (Sm, Sm+1 
...) in proportion to the ratio of the average distances 

 
associated with the respective two cells or to a power of 

said ratio of average distances. 
A method for quantitatively computing morphology of 
cornea endothelium cells from a cornea endothelium cell 

image, comprising, for every center point of individual 
cells of a two-dimensionally continuous cornea endothelium 

cell image: 
   a step for determining peripheral points which 

are cell centers within a specified distance from a center 
point; 

   a step for sorting clockwise or counterclockwise 
the peripheral points obtained by the preceding step; 

   a step for, when an angle formed by successive 
two peripheral points obtained by the preceding step and 

the center point is less than a specified angle, excluding 
from the peripheral points either of the two peripherals 

points, whichever longer in distance from the center point; 
   a step for, when a distance between the first 

point and the third point of successive three peripheral 
points obtained by the preceding step is shorter than a 

distance between the center point and the second point, 
excluding the second point from the peripheral points;

 
   a step for determining an average distance 

between the peripheral points obtained by the preceding 
step and the center point; 

   a step for, after effecting all the preceding 
steps respectively on a plurality of two-dimensionally 

successive center points of cornea endothelium cells, 
determining a perpendicular line which proportionally 

divides a distance between the center point and a 
peripheral point by their average distances to the 

peripheral points, respectively for successive peripheral 
points, and determining intersection points of the 

resulting perpendicular lines as vertices of a profile of 
a cell; and 

   a step for computing morphological data of cornea 
endothelium cells from coordinates of the vertices obtained 

by the preceding step. 
The method for computing morphology of cornea 
endothelium cells according to Claim 4, wherein in the step 

for determining peripheral points within a specified 
distance from a center point, 

   the specified distance is a distance in a range 
of 2.5 to 3.5 times a distance from the center point to its 

shortest peripheral point. 
The method for computing morphology of cornea 
endothelium cells according to Claim 4 or 5, wherein in the 

 
step for, when an angle formed by successive two peripheral 

points and the center point is less than a specified angle, 
excluding from the peripheral points either of the two 

peripheral points, whichever longer in distance from the 

center point, 
   the specified angle is a value in a range of 20 

to 40 degrees. 
The method for computing morphology of cornea 
endothelium cells according to Claim 4, 5, or 6, further 

comprising, in the step for, when an angle formed by 
successive two peripheral points and the center point is 

less than a specified angle, excluding from the peripheral 
points either of the two peripheral points, whichever 

longer in distance from the center point, 
   a step for, when the angle formed by successive 

two peripheral points and the center point is greater than 
a value of 90 to 110 degrees, the center point is taken as 

a center point of a peripheral cornea endothelium cell. 
8. The method for computing morphology of cornea 

endothelium cells according to any one of Claims 4 to 7, 
further comprising, in the step for, when a distance 

between the first point and the third point of successive 
three peripheral points is shorter than a distance between 

the center point and the second point, excluding the second 
point from the peripheral points;

 
   a step for, when the angle formed by the first 

point, the center point, and the third point is greater 
than a value of 120 to 140 degrees, suppressing the second 

point from being excluded from the peripheral points. 
9. The method for computing morphology of cornea 

endothelium cells according to any one of Claims 4 to 8, 
further comprising, in the step for determining a 

perpendicular line which proportionally divides a distance 
between the center point and a peripheral point by their 

average distances to the peripheral points, respectively 
for successive peripheral points, and determining 

intersection points of the resulting perpendicular lines as 
vertices of a profile of a cell, 

   a step for weighting proportional allotment with 
values of the square to fourth power of the average 

distances and effecting the proportional division with the 
values. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
