<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0679117</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD OF MAKING AN ABRASIVE ARTICLE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C3914	C09K314	C08F248	C09K314	B24D300	B24D1100	B24D300	B24D1100	B29C3900	C08F246	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	C09K	C08F	C09K	B24D	B24D	B24D	B24D	B29C	C08F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C39	C09K3	C08F2	C09K3	B24D3	B24D11	B24D3	B24D11	B29C39	C08F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a method of making an abrasive article. The method of this invention comprises the steps of: a) providing a backing having a front surface; b) providing a radiation energy transmissive production tool having a contacting surface; c) applying a mixture comprising a plurality of abrasive particles and a binder precursor onto the contacting surface of the production tool; d) causing the mixture on the contacting surface of the production tool to come into contact with the front surface of the backing such that the mixture wets the front surface of the backing; e) transmitting radiation energy through the production tool to at least partially cure the binder precursor to form a shaped, handleable structure; and f) separating the shaped, handleable structure from the production tool. The shaped, handleable structure can be fully cured to form a coated abrasive article.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CULLER SCOTT R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARDY DAVID H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMES GARY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPURGEON KATHRYN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CULLER, SCOTT, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HARDY, DAVID, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLMES, GARY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPURGEON, KATHRYN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of making
an abrasive article, more particularly, a method
involving curing a binder precursor by means of
radiation energy.A coated abrasive article typically comprises
a plurality of abrasive particles bonded to a backing
by means of one or more binders. Examples of typical
binders include the following cured resins: phenolic
resins, aminoplast resins, urethane resins, epoxy
resins, ethylenically unsaturated resins, acrylated
isocyanurate resins, urea-formaldehyde resins,
isocyanurate resins, acrylated urethane resins,
acrylated epoxy resins, and mixtures thereof, with
cured phenolic resins being the most popular binder.
Most coated abrasive articles are made by a continuous
process in which a backing is first coated with a
binder precursor and abrasive particles. Then, the
binder precursor is cured to form a binder. This
curing process results in the polymerization and
solidification of the binder precursor. In some
instances, it is desirable to mold a coated abrasive to
impart a pattern on its abrasive surface. The molding
process will provide a reproducible coating having
precisely shaped abrasive particles. If the binder
precursor is a thermally curable resin, the thermal
cure cycle may be over 10 hours in duration. This
length of cure cycle is excessively long, and, in many
instances, is impractical for preparing coated abrasive
articles having precisely shaped abrasive particles.
It is desired to develop a process having a short cycle 
time for preparing a coated abrasive article having a
surface bearing precisely shaped abrasive composites. AU-A-49642 discloses a buffing member and a method of
forming a limp sheet member having buffing or abrasive
qualities. In this method an abrasive grain is deposited on
a fibrous mesh containing a bonding agent. The fibrous mesh
and the adherents are squeezed by roller members and pass
between a compressing belt and a heated drum, where they are
compressed and cured.JP H2-83172 discloses an abrasive tape and the
fabrication thereof. A paint for the formation of an
abrasive layer is formed at one side of a film substrate
resulting in a coating layer. Subsequently, an excipient
film is coated on the coating layer as an excipient layer.
The excipient film comprises a plurality of protrusions in
order to form cavities in the coating layer. Alternatively,
a paint for the abrasive layer formation is coated on
excipient protrusions of an excipient film. Afterwards, a
non-cured coating layer is stacked against the film.
Finally, a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for continuously preparing a shaped,
handleable structure suitable for making a coated

abrasive article having an abrasive surface having a
plurality of abrasive composites, said method

comprising the steps of:

a. providing a mixture comprising abrasive
particles and a binder precursor;
b. providing a backing (12, 42) having a front
surface (13, 44);
c. positioning said backing (12, 42) with
respect to a radiation energy transmissive production

tool (11, 41) in the form of a belt, endless belt,
sheet or web and having a continuous contacting surface

(17, 47) and a pattern of individual cavities so that
said front surface (13, 44) of said backing (12, 42)

faces said contacting surface (17, 47) of said
production tool (11, 41) to define a mixture receiving

space between said contacting surface (17, 47) of said
production tool (11, 41) and said front surface (13,

44) of said backing (12, 42), said production tool (11,
41) continuously moving together with said backing (12,

42);
d. introducing said mixture of step (a) into
said mixture receiving space and said cavities;
e. transmitting radiation energy through said
production tool (11, 41) to at least partially cure 

said binder precursor to provide a shaped, handleable
structure; and
f. separating said shaped, handleable structure
from said production tool (11, 41).
A method for continuously preparing a shaped,
handleable structure for making a coated abrasive

article having an abrasive surface having a plurality
of abrasive composites, said method comprising the

steps of:

a. providing a backing (12) having a front
surface (13);
b. providing a radiation energy transmissive
production tool (11) in the form of a belt, endless

belt, sheet or web and having a continuous contacting
surface and a pattern of individual cavities;
c. applying a mixture comprising a plurality of
abrasive particles and a binder precursor onto the

contacting surface (17) and said pattern of individual
cavities of said production tool;
d. causing the mixture on the contacting surface
(17) and said pattern of individual cavities of said

production tool (11) to come into contact with the
front surface (13) of said backing (12) such that said

mixture wets the front surface (13) of said backing
(12), said production tool (11) continuously moving

together with said backing (12);
e. transmitting radiation energy through said
production tool (11) to at least partially cure said

binder structure precursor to provide a shaped,
handleable structure; and
f. separating said shaped handleable structure
from said production tool (11).
A method for continuously preparing a shaped,
handleable structure for making a coated abrasive

article having an abrasive surface having a plurality
of abrasive composites, said method comprising the

steps of:

a. providing a backing (42) having a front
surface (44);
b. providing a radiation energy transmissive
production tool (41) in the form of a belt, endless

belt, sheet or web and having a continuous contacting
surface (47) and a pattern of individual cavities;
c. applying a mixture comprising a plurality of
abrasive particles and a binder precursor to the front

surface (44) of said backing (42);
d. causing said mixture on the front surface
(44) of said backing (42) to come into direct contact

with the continuous contacting surface (47) and said
pattern of individual cavities of said production tool

(41) such that said mixture wets the contacting surface
(47) and said pattern of individual cavities of said

production tool (41), said production tool (41)
continuously moving together with said backing (42);
e. transmitting radiation energy through said
production tool (41) to at least partially cure said

binder precursor to provide a shaped, handleable
structure; and
f. separating said shaped, handleable structure
from said production tool (41).
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said

cavities are disposed in a non-random pattern.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
backing (12, 42) comprises a material selected from the group

consisting of polymeric film, primed polymeric film,
untreated cloth, treated cloth, untreated paper,

treated paper, vulcanized fiber, nonwovens, and
combinations thereof.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
abrasive particles comprise material selected from the

group consisting of fused aluminum oxide, ceramic
aluminum oxide, heat treated aluminum oxide, green

silicon carbide, white aluminum oxide, silicon carbide,
alumina zirconia, diamond, ceria, cubic boron nitride,

garnet, and combinations thereof.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
abrasive particles have a Mohs' hardness of at least

about 8. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
binder precursor is capable of being cured by radiation

energy.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
binder precursor is selected from the group consisting

of acrylated urethanes, acrylated epoxies,
ethylenically unsaturated compounds, aminoplast

derivatives having pendant unsaturated carbonyl groups,
isocyanurate derivatives having at least one pendant

acrylate group, isocyanate derivatives having at least
one pendant acrylate group, vinyl ethers, epoxy resins,

and combinations thereof.
The method of claim 8 wherein said
binder precursor further comprises a photoinitiator.
The method of claim 10 wherein said photoinitiator is 2-benzyl-2-N, N-dimethylamino-1-(4-morpholinophenyl)-1-butanone.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
mixture is applied by means of a coater selected from

the group consisting of knife coater, drop die coater,
curtain coater, vacuum die coater, and extension die

coater.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
production tool (11, 41) is transmissive of ultraviolet

radiation, visible radiation, or both ultraviolet
radiation and visible radiation.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
production tool (11, 41) comprises a thermoplastic resin, a

thermosetting resin, or a radiation-curable resin. 
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
source of energy is selected from the group consisting

of electron beam, ultraviolet radiation, and visible
radiation.
The method of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
backing is opaque to said radiation energy.
The method of any of claims 1 to 16 comprising the
further step of fully curing the shaped, handleable

structure for preparing a coated abrasive article.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
