<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624767</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process and apparatus for producing oxygen
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25J304	F25J304	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25J	F25J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25J3	F25J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process and apparatus for separating air in which compressed, purified air is 
cooled in a heat exchanger 18 and separated in a single rectification column 24 

into nitrogen vapour at its top and liquid oxygen at its bottom. A nitrogen stream 
is withdrawn from the column 24 and is partly condensed in a condenser 32. Fluid 

from the condenser 32 is passed into a phase separator 36. A stream of the 
resulting vapour phase is warmed in the heat exchanger 18, and is expanded in a 

turboexpander 48. The resulting expanded vapour is passed through the heat 
exchanger 18 from its cold end to its warm end in order to provide refrigeration for 

the process. A stream of liquid oxygen is withdrawn from the bottom of the 
column 24, is reduced in pressure by passage through a valve 43, is vaporised by 

heat exchange with condensing nitrogen in the condenser 32 and is compressed 
cold in the compressor 54. One part of the compressed oxygen is taken as 

product, and another part recycled to the column 24. The turboexpander 48 is 
coupled to and drives the compressor 54. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOC GROUP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOC GROUP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAUMOVITZ JOSEPH P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAUMOVITZ, JOSEPH P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a process and apparatus for rectifying air in a
single column to produce oxygen. More particularly, the present invention
relates to such a process and apparatus in which the single column operates
at an above-atmospheric pressure to produce the oxygen at an above-atmospheric
delivery pressure.The prior art has provided a variety of processes and apparatus to rectify air
within various single column arrangements to produce an oxygen product. In
a typical single column oxygen producing plant, air is compressed, purified,
cooled to a temperature suitable for its rectification and then introduced into
a heat exchanger in the bottom of the column to provide boil-up against the
partial liquefaction of the air. The air is thereafter introduced into the
column, at an intermediate location thereof. The air is distilled in the column
to produce a liquid oxygen column bottom and a nitrogen vapour tower
overhead. The column typically operates slightly above atmospheric
pressure. As a result, the liquid oxygen must again be pumped to increase
its pressure to a delivery pressure. As can be appreciated, such pumping
represents an energy outlay which adds to the operating overhead involved in
producing the oxygen product.As will be discussed, the present invention provides a process and apparatus
in which air is distilled in a column to produce an oxygen product at an
above-atmospheric delivery pressure without the necessity of there being any
additional energy outlay involved in increasing the pressure of the oxygen
product to the delivery pressure.US-A-4 966 002 relates to process and apparatus for producing nitrogen
from air. A stream of air is compressed and purified. The resulting stream is
cooled to a temperature suitable for its rectification in a main heat exchanger.
The resulting cooled air is separated in a rectification column operating at a
superatmospheric pressure into nitrogen vapour at its top and oxygen-rich
liquid at its bottom. A stream of the oxygen-rich liquid is vaporised in
indirect heat exchange with a stream of nitrogen taken from the top of the
rectification column. The condensate is returned to the top of the column as 
reflux. Another stream of nitrogen vapour flows from the top of the column
through the main heat exchanger from its cold end to its warm end and is
taken as product. The vaporised oxygen-rich gas is divided into two parts.
One part is "cold compressed" and is returned to the rectification column.
The other part is partially warmed in the main
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process of separating oxygen from air to form an oxygen product
(64), said process comprising:


compressing and purifying the air;
cooling the air to a temperature suitable for its rectification;
separating the air in a rectification column (24) operating at a
superatmospheric pressure into nitrogen vapour at its top (26) and liquid

oxygen at its bottom (28);
removing from the column (24) a refrigerant stream (44, 46)
comprising nitrogen, a reflux stream (38) composed of the top

nitrogen vapour, and an oxygen stream (40, 56) composed of the said
liquid oxygen;
expanding the oxygen stream,
vaporizing the expanded oxygen stream (40, 56) against the reflux stream

(38), at least part of the reflux stream (38) being condensed thereby,
returning at least part of the reflux stream to the column (24) as reflux,

compressing the vaporised oxygen stream (40, 56) to at least the
superatmospheric pressure of the column (24), and dividing the resulting

compressed oxygen stream (58) into two partial streams (66, 68);
cooling one (66) of the partial streams (66, 68) and introducing the
cooled partial stream (66) into the bottom region (68) of the column

(24);
partially warming the refrigerant stream (44, 46) against the air
being cooled and the said partial stream (66) being cooled, expanding

the refrigerant stream (44, 46) with the performance of work, and, 
fully warming the expanded refrigerant stream (50) against air being

cooled and the partial stream (66) being cooled;
recovering the oxygen product (64) from the other partial stream (68),
wherein the said work comprises all that required to compress the

vaporised oxygen stream (40, 56).
A process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the oxygen stream (40, 56) is
compressed at the column (24) temperature.
A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, in which the air is introduced
into the column at an intermediate liquid-vapour contact level thereof.
An apparatus for performing a process according to any one of the
preceding claims, said apparatus comprising:


means (12) for compressing the air;
means (16) for purifying the air;
heat exchange means (18) for cooling the air to a temperature suitable
for its rectification;
a rectification column (24) for separating the cooled into nitrogen vapour
at its top (26) and liquid oxygen at its bottom (28);
means (32) for condensing at least part of a reflux stream (38)
composed of the top nitrogen vapour against an expanded vaporising oxygen

stream (40, 56) composed of the said liquid oxygen;
means (36) for returning at least part of the condensed reflux stream
(38) to the column (24); 
a recycle compressor (54) communicating with the condenser means
(32) for compressing the oxygen stream (40, 56) to at least the

operating pressure of the column;
means communicating with the recycle compressor (54) for dividing the
compressed oxygen stream (58) into two partial streams (66, 68), said

dividing means communicating with an inlet for one partial stream (66)
to the bottom of the column (24) via the cold end of the heat exchange

means (18), and with an outlet from the warm end of the heat exchange
means (18) for a product oxygen stream (64) comprising the other

partial stream (68);
means for taking a refrigerant stream (44, 46) comprising nitrogen
from the column (24) and passing it into the cold end of the heat

exchange means (18);
means (48) for expanding the refrigerant stream (44, 46) with the
performance of work, the expansion means (48) having an inlet for

partially warmed refrigerant communicating with an intermediate region
of the heat exchange means (18) and an outlet for expanded refrigerant

communicating with a passage through the heat exchange means (18)
having an inlet at the cold end of the heat exchange means (18) and an

outlet at the warm end of the heat exchange means (18);
wherein the expansion means (48) is coupled to the recycle compressor
(54) such that all the work of compressing the oxygen stream (40, 56)

is able to be provided by the expansion of the refrigerant stream
(44, 46).
Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein:

the expansion means (48) comprises a turboexpander (48); and 
the turboexpander (48) is connected to the recycle compressor (54) by
an energy dissipative brake.
Apparatus according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein:

the reflux return means (36) comprises a phase separation tank (36)
having an inlet communicating with the condenser means (32), an outlet

for liquid communicating with the top (26) of the column (24), and an
outlet for vapour communicating with an inlet to the expansion means

(48).
Apparatus according to any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein:

the recycle compressor (54) so communicates with the condenser
means (36) that it receives, in use, the oxygen at essentially the

operating temperature of the column (24).
Apparatus according to any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein there is an
inlet for the cooled air at an intermediate liquid-vapour contact level of

the column (24).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
