<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618237</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polymerization process
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F246	C08F248	C08F246	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C08F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F2	C08F2	C08F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Composition containing charge transfer complex from at 
least one unsaturated compound having an electron donor group 

and having an electron withdrawing group and being free of any 
photoinitiating compound is polymerized by being subjected to 

ultraviolet light. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUSION UV SYS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUSION UV SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONSSON SONNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHAEFFER WILLIAM R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNDELL PER-ERIK G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONSSON, SONNY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHAEFFER, WILLIAM R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUNDELL, PER-ERIK G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is concerned with a polymerization
process and especially with a polymerization process employing
ultraviolet light. More particularly, the process of the
present invention is concerned with polymerizing compositions
that are free from photoinitiators but, nonetheless, can be
polymerized employing ultraviolet light. The polymerizable
compositions of the present invention contain a charge
transfer complex from at least one unsaturated compound having
an electron donor group and having an electron withdrawing
group.Industrial applications of radiation polymerizable coatings,
inks and films have significantly increased over the last
several years. One factor that has lead to the great interest
in radiation polymerization has been environmental concern and
particularly efforts to reduce solvent pollution of the
atmosphere. Furthermore, radiation polymerization as compared
to more traditional methods of polymerization require much
less energy along with the possibility of significantly
reduced cure times.The two major sources of energy for radiation polymerization
currently employed are ultraviolet light and electron beam.
However, of the two sources, electron beam is significantly
more expensive in view of the high cost of equipment necessary
for such processing. Accordingly, the commercial energy  
source most favored for radiation polymerization is
ultraviolet light, which provides for photopolymerization.Typically, the photopolymerizable compositions contain a
photosensitive monomeric and/or polymeric material along with
a photoinitiator, a photosensitizer and adjuvant materials for
providing particular properties. Continuing efforts are
underway to develop materials that exhibit particular
characteristics desired for a particular industrial
application and/or to reduce the expense of the compositions
employed and/or of the process.It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide
a photopolymerizable process which does not require a
photoinitiator.It has been suggested in the past to polymerize certain
unsaturated monomers using ultraviolet light, without the
addition of any photosensitizing substance. However, the
wavelength of the ultraviolet light required is typically so
short as to require the use of light sources and reaction
vessels constructed of fused quartz or another substance
transparent to short ultraviolet light. For example, see U.S.
Patent 2,880,152 to Hiltz et al. Therefore, such a process is
not practiced from a commercial viewpoint. Another problem
wit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A polymerization process which comprises providing a
composition comprising a charge transfer complex, and

subjecting said composition to ultraviolet light for a time
sufficient to polymerize said complex, wherein said

composition is free of any photoinitiating compound, and
wherein said charge transfer complex is obtained from at

least one bifunctional compound having both an electron
donor group and an electron withdrawing group, and a

polymerizable unsaturated moiety
which is bonded to the electron donot group and another polymerizable

insaturated moiety which is bonded to the electron withdrawing group
or is obtained from at

least one unsaturated compound having an electron donor
group and a polymerizable unsaturated moiety, and at least

one other unsaturated compound having an electron acceptor
group and a polymerizable unsaturated moiety; wherein said

charge transfer complex is capable of absorbing light having
a wavelength that is longer than the longest wavelength in

the spectrum of light absorbed by the individual donor and
withdrawing groups used to form said complex so that

ultraviolet light is absorbed by the complex rather than by
individual groups or compounds forming said complex, and

wherein this difference in absorbtivity is sufficient so as
to permit the polymerization of said complex to proceed by

absorbing light. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the charge transfer
complex is obtained from electron withdrawing and electron

donating compounds represented by the formula


wherein n is an integer from 1 to 4, Z is A or D
or both, wherein A is a structural fragment imparting

acceptor properties to the double bond, D is a structural

fragment imparting donor properties to the double bond, and
R is the structural part of the backbone.
The process of claim 1, wherein said charge transfer
complex is obtained from


a) at least one unsaturated compound selected from the group
consisting of

   maleic diesters represented by the formula:


   maleic amide halfesters reprented by the formula:

 
   maleic diamides represented by the formula:



   maleimides represented by the formula:


   maleic acid halfesters represented by the formula:


   maleic acid half amides represented by the formula:


   fumaric diesters represented by the formula:

 
   fumaric acid monoester halfamides represented by the formula:



   fumaric diamides represented by the formula:


   fumaric acid monoester represented by the formula:


   fumaric acid monoamides represented by the formula:

 
   exomethylene structures represented by the formula:



   itaconic acid derivatives represented by the formula:


nitrile derivatives of formulae 2-14; and imide derivatives
of formulae 2-14; and wherein each X and Y independently is

selected from the group consisting of OR
1
, OR
2
, NHR
1
, NHR
2
,
NR
1
, and OH and wherein each R
1
 and R
2
 in the above formulae
2-14 is independently an aliphatic group or aromatic group;

and
b) at least one unsaturated compound selected from the group
consisting of:

   vinyl ethers represented by the formula:

 
   alkenylethers represented by the formula:



   substituted cyclopentenes represented by the formula:


   substituted cyclohexenes represented by the formula:


   partially substituted furanes or thiophenes represented by the formula:


   partially substituted pyranes or thiopyranes represented by the formula:


   ring substituted styrenes represented by the formula:

 
   substituted alkenylbenzenes represented by the formula:



   substituted alkenyl-cyclopentenes represented by the formula:


   substituted alkenyl cyclohexenes represented by the formula:

 
wherein each Rx and R is independently an aliphatic group or

aromatic group, each R
3
, R
4
, and R
5
 independently is H or
aliphatic; each Z is independently selected from the group

of O and S, k and l are integers independently from 0 to 5
wherein 0 ≤ k + l ≤ 5;

or wherein said charge transfer complex is obtained from the
bifunctional compound having both an electron donor group

and an electron acceptor group and being represented by
said formulae 2 to 12 except that each R
1
 and R
2
 in formulae
2 to 12 is independently selected from the group consisting

of:


wherein n is at least 2, R
1
 is an aliphatic group, and
Aryl is an aromatic group.
The process of claim 3, wherein n in formula 25 is
2 to 12.
The process of claim 1, wherein said ultraviolet light
has substantial magnitude of wavelengths of at least about

310 nanometers.
The process of claim 5, wherein said ultraviolet light
contains more than half of its energy between 350 nanometers

and 450 namometers. 
The process of claim 6, wherein said ultraviolet light is
peaked between 350 nanometers and 450 nanometers.
The process of claim 1, wherein the dosage of ultraviolet
light is at least about 200 millijoules per square

centimeter of surface area of said composition.
The process of claim 1, wherein said charge transfer
complex is obtained from the at least one unsaturated

compound having an electron donor group and the at least one
other unsaturated compound having an electron withdrawing

group.
The process of claim 9, wherein said complex absorbs
light having a wavelength of at least about 10 nanometers

greater than the highest wavelength in the spectrum of light
absorbed by the compounds from which said complex was

obtained.
The process of claim 9, wherein the molar ratio of the
unsaturated bonds of said compound having an electron donor

group to said compound having an electron withdrawing group
is 0.5 to 2.
The process of claim 11, wherein said molar ratio is
0.8 to 1.2.
The process of claim 11, wherein said molar ratio is

1:1.
The process of claim 1, wherein said complex is a
complex of diethyl fumarate and dimethoxy propylene benzene.
The process of claim 1, wherein said complex is a
complex of maleic anhydride and 3 ethylene glycol divinyl

ether. 
The process of any one of claims 1, 5, 8 and 9, wherein
the peak intensity of said ultraviolet light is at least

about 500 milliwatts/cm
2
 of surface area of said
composition.
The process of claim 16, wherein said entire dosage of
light is measured at spectral wavelengths of between 300

nanometers and 420 nanometers.
The process of claim 1, wherein said ultraviolet light
has a spectrum which is peaked between 350 nanometers and

450 nanometers and wherein more than half of the energy of
said ultraviolet light is present between said wavelengths,

and wherein the peak intensity of said light is at least
about 500 milliwatts/cm
2
, and wherein the dosage is at least
about 200 millijoules/cm
2
, the peak intensity and dosage
being measured from light only at wavelengths of between 300

nanometers and 420 nanometers.
The process of claim 1, wherein said ultraviolet light
has a spectrum substantially as shown in the following



and wherein the peak intensity of said light is at least
about 500 milliwatts/cm
2
 and the dosage is at least about
200 millijoules/cm
2
, the peak intensity and dosage being
measured from light only at wavelengths of between 300

nanometers and 400 nanometers.
The process of claim 15 or 17, wherein said complex
absorbs light having a wavelength of at least about 10

nanometers greater than the highest wavelength in the
spectrum of light absorbed by the compounds from which said

complex was obtained.
The process of claim 1, wherein a film of said
composition is cured through its thickness.  
The process of claim 21, wherein said film is about 1
micrometer to about 5 millimeters thick.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
