<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614507</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ENGINE VALVE SEATING VELOCITY HYDRAULIC SNUBBER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F01L902	F01L900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F01L	F01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F01L9	F01L9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention described herein is a system (5) and method for opening an engine valve (12) by hydraulic force and for slowing the engine valve (12) by hydraulic force to an acceptable impact velocity when the engine valve (12) closes. Basically, a snubbing valve (10) is situated between the rail (40) that transports the high pressure hydraulic fluid needed to open the engine valve (12) and the engine valve (12). The snubbing valve (10) allows relatively unrestricted flow of the fluid in the direction from the rail (40) to the engine valve (12) so that adequate high pressure fluid can be provided to quickly open the engine valve (12). When the enging valve (12) returns towards the closed position under the force of a return spring (72) the snubbing valve (10) then restricts the flow of fluid out of the cavity (52) between the snubbing valve (10) and the engine valve (12) so as to slow the engine valve (12) to an acceptable impact velocity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CATERPILLAR INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CATERPILLAR INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER JOHN ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER, JOHN, ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Hydraulically actuated engine poppet valve systems, 
and more particularly, hydraulically actuated engine 
poppet valve systems having a hydraulic snubber for 
decelerating the valve during valve closing to an 
acceptable impact velocity before the valve contacts 
the valve seat. Engine combustion chamber valves are almost 
universally of a poppet type. A number of means exist 
for opening such valves including a cam on a rotating 
cam shaft, hydraulic pressure, electromagnetics, and 
others. Hydraulically actuated valves are typically 
spring loaded toward a valve-closed position and 
opened against the spring bias by the hydraulic 
pressure. Such hydraulically actuated engine poppet valve systems 
are for example known from US-A-4 796 573 which shows an 
hydraulic engine valve lifter including a pair of pistons 
defining a pressure chamber therebetween and a separate 
lash adjusting piston which defines a lash adjustment 
chamber with one of the pistons in the pair. A one-way 
valve structure permits fluid to flow from the pressure 
chamber into the lash adjustment chamber thereby 
displacing the lash adjusting piston to, in turn, adjust 
valve lash. Motion damping functions are provided during 
a downstroke of the lifter piston by a valve damper 
chamber and a fluid passage way between the pressure and 
the damper chambers. A structure is provided which opens 
communication between pressure and damper chambers during 
upstroke of the lifter pistons (thereby precluding motion 
damping) and then closes communication at a predetermined 
location during downstroke (thereby providing motion 
damping).  
 Another such system is known from WO 87/07677 which shows 
an hydraulic tappet comprising a cylinder which defines 
by means of a central wall upper and lower chambers 
having respective pistons, with one piston being 
connected to an actuator rod of a valve whilst the other 
piston rides on a cam. The central wall is formed with 
two flow paths. The first allows oil to flow from one 
chamber to the other during upward movement of the second 
piston and hence the cam can cause lifing movement of the 
first piston and opening of the valve. As the cam falls 
away the valve closes under the action of a spring which 
results in downward movement of the first piston. The 
rate of this return is dictated by the rate at which oil 
can flow through the second flow path which can be 
variably restricted by a control element. Further, DE-A-1 962 916 shows a control for an 
hydraulically actuated engine poppet valve
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system, comprising: 


an engine valve body (24) including a first 
bore (18); 
an engine valve poppet (12) movably disposed 
in said first bore (18) between first and second 

positions; 
said engine valve poppet defining a 
hydraulic cavity (52) in said first bore (18) and 

being actuable toward said second position in response 
to fluid pressure in said hydraulic cavity (52); and 
means for communicating first and second 
rates of fluid flow with said hydraulic cavity (52), 

said first rate of fluid flow pressurizing said 
hydraulic cavity (52) to actuate said engine valve 

poppet (12) toward said second position and said 
second rate of fluid flow restricting fluid flow from 

said hydraulic cavity (52) to slow movement of said 
engine valve poppet (12) toward said first position; 
 
characterised by: said means for communicating first 

and second rates of fluid flow including a check valve 
member (36) movable against a check valve seat (58), 

said check valve member (36) including a secondary 
passage (54) adapted for flowing said second rate of 

fluid flow thereacross from said first bore (18) when 
seated against said check valve seat (58).  

 
A hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of claim 1, 

wherein said 
check valve 

member (36) is movable between a first check valve seat 
(34) and a second check valve seat (58), 

and said secondary passage (54) 
is adapt
ed for flowing said second rate of fluid flow 
thereacross from said first bore (18) when seated 

against said second check valve seat (58). 
The hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of claim 1 or 2, wherein said engine valve body (24) 

includes a second bore (22) and a valve insert (20) 
mounted in said second bore (22), said valve insert 

(22) defining said first bore (18) therein. 
The hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of any one of the preceeding claims, wherein said valve insert (20)  

 
defines said first check valve seat (34) and said 

second bore (22) defines said second check valve seat 
(58) at an end thereof opposite said first check valve 

seat (34), said check valve member (36) being movably 
disposed in said second bore (22) between said first 

check valve seat (34) and said second check valve seat 
(58). 
The hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of any one of the preceeding claims, wherein said means for 

communicating includes first passage means (40) 
disposed in said valve body (24) in fluid 

communication with said second check valve seat (58), 
said first passage means (40) being adapted for 

supplying pressurized fluid to said second bore (22). 
The hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of any one of the preceeding claims, wherein said means for 

communicating includes second passage means (26,27,28) 
disposed in said valve insert (20) in fluid 

communication with said first bore (18) and third 
passage means (42) disposed in said valve body (24) in 

fluid communication with said second passage means 
(26,27,28), said second passage means (26,27,28) and 

said third passage means (42) being adapted for 
exhausting pressurized fluid from said first bore 

(18). 
The hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of any one of the preceeding claims, wherein said valve insert (20) 

defines said first check valve seat (34) at a first 
end (30) thereof, said first end (30) including 

primary passages (32) therein adapted for flowing said 
first rate of fluid flow to said valve bore (18) when  

 
said check valve member (36) is seated against check 

valve seat (34) . 
The hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of any one of the preceeding claims, wherein said check valve member 

(36) is a flat check having a top surface (48) and a 
bottom surface (50) and said primary passages (32) are 

keyhole slots disposed in said first end (30) radially 
outward of said check valve member (36) when said 

bottom surface (50) is seated on said first check 
valve seat (34), said keyhole slots extending between 

said first end (30) and said first bore (18). 
The hydraulically actuated engine valve 
poppet system of any one of the preceeding claims, wherein said secondary passage (54) 

extends between said top surface (48) and said bottom 
surface (50). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
