<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642367</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROTHERAPY DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61N132	A61N134	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61N	A61N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61N1	A61N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrotherapy device (10) for delivering electrical energy to subcutaneous, excitable tissues in an around the joints of a human body for the purposes of pain control and the promotion of tissue healing post injury. The device includes a housing (12) containing at least one pair of electrodes (14) connected to an electronics unit (16). The electronics unit (16) consists of a housing unit that contains batteries, a micro-controller integrated circuit coupled to a transistor based output stage coupled to subminiature jacks used to connect the electronics unit to the electrodes. Control software monitors user-controlled mechanical switches (26, 28) for the selection of one of six operational modes (TENS, MENS, or iontophoresis) and one of six discrete intensity levels within each operational mode. The housing (12) is a flexible, elastic sleeve that conforms to joint anatomy and has the electrodes (14) sewn into specific positions such that when the user puts on the sleeve, the electrodes are placed at the correct anatomic over the affected joint.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAVEN LABS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MAVEN LABS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERTOLUCCI LAWRENCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREY THOMAS L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERTOLUCCI, LAWRENCE, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREY, THOMAS, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTROTHERAPY DEVICEThis application is a continuation-in-part of copending application Serial No. 08/038, 179 filed on March 29, 1993.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to medical devices that effectively aid in pain relief and promote healing in injured tissues using electric current. More specifically, this invention relates to the design of a single electrotherapy device that provides multiple modalities using transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) , microcurrent electrical neuromuscular stimulation (MENS , also called microcurrent electrotherapy) , and iontophoresis techniques for post-traumatic pain relief and healing.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONTranscutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) has been an accepted mode of electrotherapy for many years and is well characterized (Kahn, J., Principles and Practice of Electrotherapy, New York, Churchill Livingstone, 1987; Greene, R. . et al., Transcutaneous Pain Control and/or Muscle Stimulating Apparatus, U.S . Patent #4,147, 171) . TENS is primarily intended for pain relief via a nerve signal blocking mechanism, but it has also been used to promote healing. TENS devices typically deliver biphasic stimulus pulses between 10 milliamperes (mA) and 100 mA in amplitude. Pulse amplitude, pulse width and pulse rate are often user adjustable. The stimulus pulse is delivered to a pair of electrodes that are manually placed over major muscle groups or 

nerves that are to receive the stimulation. There are several portable TENS devices available for clinical use (e.g., TENZ CARE, 3M Co., St. Paul, Minnesota; Premier TENS, American Imex, Irvine, California; ProTENS, NTRON, Sugarland, Texas) .Microcurrent electrotherapy, sometimes abbreviated as "MENS" (Microcurrent Electrical Neuromuscular Stimulation) , is becoming a more widely accepted clinical practice for decreasing or eliminating pain and stimulating the healing process. MENS is typically used for pain relief and, more typically, for tissue healing by affecting the injured tissue at the cellular level. Tissues that respond to MENS include muscle, tendon, bone, nerve and skin. The effectiveness and use of microcurrent electrotherapy has been well documented (Wallace, L., P.T., MENS Therapy: Clinical Perspectives, Vol. 1, Cleveland, privately published, 1990; Picker, R.I., M.D., Microcurrent Therapy: Harnessing the Healing Power of Bioelectricitv. (publication pending) ; Kahn, J., Principles and Practice of Electrotherapy, New York, Churchill Livingstone, 1987;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
AME3SIDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 3 August 1994 (03.08.94); original claims 12,14,16-20 cancelled; original claims 1,2,4-10,13,
15 amended; remaining claims unchanged (5 pages)]
1. An electrotherapy device for treating a variety of physical conditions comprising: a housing having a size and shape adapted to be worn on the body; at least one pair of electrodes carried by said housing in spaced relation to each other; control circuit means mounted within said housing and electrically coupled to said electrodes, said control circuit means having means for providing a selected stimulation signal for one of a plurality of modes, each adapted for treatment of a physical condition and means for variably selecting and adjusting the intensity of said stimulation signal, said modes including transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) , microcurrent electrical nerve stimulation (MENS) , and iontophoresis.
2. The electrotherapy device of claim 1, wherein said housing is an elastic flexible sleeve adapted to be worn around an affected joint of the body without impeding joint function or movement.
3. The electrotherapy device of claim 2, wherein said electrodes are carried by said sleeve for physically overlying specific musculo-tendonous structures.
4. The electrotherapy device of Claim 3, wherein the affected joint is the elbow and a first pair of electrodes is positioned in the sleeve for contacting the lateral side of the elbow and a second pair of electrodes for contacting the medial side of the elbow such that a first electrode of said first pair is adapted to overlie the insertion point of the forearm common extensor tendons lateral epicondyle to cover the lateral portion of the radiohumeral joint 


capsule, a second electrode of said first pair is about three inches distal to the first electrode and adapted to be situated over the acupuncture point of the large intestine No. 10, and a first electrode of said second pair is adapted to overlie the medial epicondyle and the attachment of the forearm common flexor tendons, the lateral joint capsule of the ulna humeral joint and its related ligaments, and a second electrode of the second pair placed about three inches distally adapted to overlie the muscle bellies of the common forearm flexors and acupuncture point small intestine No. 7.
5. The electrotherapy device of claim 3, wherein the affected joint is the wrist and a first electrode is adapted to overlie the proximal skin crease of the volar side of the wrist and a second electrode is adapted to overlie the palmer hand surface allowing for penetration into the aponeurosis and related tendon sheaths of the long finger flexor tendons.
6. The electrotherapy device of claim 3, wherein the affected joint is the shoulder and a first and second pair of electrodes is placed in the sleeve so that a superior/inferior orientation will occur, a first electrode of said first pair adapted to overlie the shoulder anterior capsule encompassing the long and short heads of the biceps and the insertion of the subscapularis tendon and the glenoid labrum, and a second electrode of the first pair adapted to overlie the tendon insertions of the shoulder external rotators, secondarily covering the acupuncture points of small intestine Nos. 9 and 10, and a first electrode of said second pair adapted to be over the insertion point of the deltoid muscle corresponding with acupuncture point of large 


intestine No. 15 and a second electrode of the second pair adapted to be over the acupuncture point of large intestine No. 16.
7. The electrotherapy device of claim 3, wherein the affected joint is the ankle and a first pair of electrodes is placed in the sleeve lateral of the ankle and a second pair medial of the ankle such that a first electrode of said first pair is adapted to overlie the anterior - talo - fibular ligament and the acupuncture point of gall bladder No. 40, and a second electrode of said first pair is adapted to overlie the lateral posterior aspect of the fibulo -calcaneal and talar ligaments which secondarily overlie the tendons of the common peroneals, and a first electrode of said second pair adapted to overlie the insertion point of the anterior tibialis tendon and anterior medial joint capsule of the tibial-tolar joint also covering the acupuncture point of liver No. 4 and spleen No. 5, and a second electrode of the second pair adapted to being placed posterior medially to encompass the medial/posterior attachment of the deltoid ligament and the tendons of the toe flexors and posterior tibialis and kidney acupuncture points 3, 4, 5 and 6.
8. The electrotherapy device of claim 3, wherein the affected joint is the knee and a first pair of electrodes is placed in the sleeve laterally and the second pair is placed in the sleeve medially, a first electrode of said first pair adapted to overlie the collateral ligament and proximal femoral attachment and a second electrode positioned over the distal/anterior aspect of the ligament on the fibula and lateral aspect of the tibia and a portion of the lateral aspect of the patella tendon and lateral retinacula of the patella and acupuncture point gall bladder No. 34 and a first electrode of said second 


pair over the superior medial collateral ligament and acupuncture point of spleen No. 10 and a second electrode over spleen No. 9 and the medial aspect of the patella tendon and medial anterior aspect of the tibia catching a portion of the medial menscus.
9. The electrotherapy device of claim 3, wherein the affected joint is the back and a first pair of electrodes is adapted to be positioned on the right and left side of the lumbar spine adjacent to and over the transverse process of the lumbar vertabrae 1 - 3, the proximal electrode extending laterally to encompass the attachment of the iliocostalis lumborum muscle and acupuncture points of bladder Nos. 21 and 23, the distal electrode adapted to be positioned adjacent to each other overlying acupuncture points of bladder Nos. 27 - 31, the distal electrode also adapted to overlie the ligamentous structures of the ilio-lumbar, sacro-iliac, lumbosacal, and sacro-iliac joint and a portion of the sciatic nerves bilaterally.
10. The electrotherapy device of claim 3, wherein the affected joint is in the neck and a first pair of electrodes is spatially oriented laterally and posterially oriented mirror images right to left and the proximal electrodes adapted to be positioned to overlie acupuncture points bladder No. 10 and gall bladder No. 21 and the distal electrodes adapted to be positioned to overlie the posterior lateral acupuncture points of small intestine No. 15 and gall bladder No. 21.
11. The electrotherapy device of claim 3, wherein said sleeve further provides therapeutic compression of the musculo-tendonous structures. 


 13. The electrotherapy device of claim 1 wherein said control circuit means is user- adjustable.
15. The electrotherapy device of claim 1, wherein the user may select one TENS mode, one of three MENS modes, or one of two iontophoresis modes. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
