<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632676</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Manufacturing method of a loudspeaker
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R904	H04R3100	H04R900	H04R3100	H04R902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R9	H04R31	H04R9	H04R31	H04R9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A repulsion magnetic circuit type loudspeaker which 
is compact and easy to assemble, and a method of easily 

manufacturing such a repulsion magnetic circuit type 
loudspeaker by using conventional loudspeaker 

manufacturing lines. The repulsion magnetic circuit has 
two magnets magnetized in the thickness direction and 

disposed with the same polarity being faced each other, 
and a center plate being squeezed between the two 

magnets. A magnetic field is generated by repulsive 
fluxes at the outer peripheral area of the center plate. 

A voice coil is disposed in the magnetic field. In the 
manufacturing method, a coupling member of either a 

concave or a convex is formed at each of the contact 
planes of the magnets and center plate. The coupling 

members are engaged with each other to assemble the 
repulsion magnetic circuit. The repulsion magnetic 

circuit is mounted on a speaker frame with position 
alignment therebetween, by forming a convex or concave at 

the speaker frame, the convex or concave matching a 
concave or convex formed at the lower magnet. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KENWOOD CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI KAISHA KENWOOD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAKAMOTO YOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SAKAMOTO, YOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a 
manufacturing method of a loudspeaker 
(hereinafter called a repulsion magnetic circuit type 
loudspeaker) having a magnetic circuit (hereinafter 
called a repulsion magnetic circuit) wherein two magnets 
magnetized in the thickness direction are disposed with 
the same poles facing each other, a center plate 
made of soft magnetic material is squeezed between the 
two magnets, a magnetic field of repulsion magnetic 
fluxes is generated on the outer periphery side of the 
center plate. Conventional general loudspeakers are classified 
mainly into a type using an outer magnet type magnetic 
circuit such as shown in Fig.16 and a type using an inner 
magnet type magnetic circuit such as shown in Fig.17. 
Most of current loudspeakers use the former inner magnet 
type magnetic circuit. In Figs.16 and 17, reference 
numeral 1 represents a magnet, reference numeral 4 
represents a yoke, and reference numeral 5 represents a  
 
top plate. In a conventional loudspeaker manufacturing method, 
magnetic circuit components such as the magnet 1, yoke 4, 
and top plate 5 and vibrating system components such as a 
voice coil 6, a damper 7, and a diaphragm 8 are mounted 
on a speaker frame 2, and the magnets 1 are magnetized 
generally at the last process. A manufacturing line 
and method the applicant uses will be described with 
reference to Figs.18 to 28. A manufacturing line is 
constructed of transport units for intermittently 
transporting pallets P at a predetermined space 
therebetween, and work stations for performing each 
process. The work stations include automatic stations Sa 
installed with automatic assemblers and manual stations 
So with operators op, forming a semi-automatic line. The 
work stations are constructed mainly of a magnetic 
circuit assembly line Lm, vibrating system assembly lines 
Ld1, Ld2, and Ld3, and a dry line Lo for drying adhesive 
agent, as shown in Fig.18. The manufacturing method at the manufacturing line 
will be described. At the magnetic circuit assembly line 
Lm, a yoke 4 is supplied from a supply station Sa4 to a 
transport pallet P on the transport line by using a 
loader R4. The relationship between the transport line 
and a transport pallet P is shown in Fig.19. A transport  
 
pallet P is placed on a transport belt B. The width of 
the transport belt B is about 30 mm. Two transport belts 
are disposed in parallel and spaced generally by the 
distance same as the width of the transport pallet P. As 
the belts B are intermittently moved
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a loudspeaker having a magnetic circuit structured by 
two magnets (1m,1m) magnetized in the thickness direction and disposed with the same 

poles facing each other and a center plate (3) made of soft magnetic material and squeezed 
between the two magnets (1m,1m), a magnetic field of repulsion fluxes being generated at 

the outer peripheral area of the center plate (3), and a vibrating system being assembled so 
as to dispose a voice coil (6) within said magnetic field, 
characterized in that
 
   said magnetic circuit is assembled by using the magnets (1m,1m) magnetized in 

advance,
 
   said magnetic circuit is mounted on a speaker frame (2),
 
   thereafter said vibrating system is assembled,
 
   wherein said method includes the following steps: 


positioning one of the magnetized magnets (1m) on a fixed base (J1), 
bringing the center plate (3) attached to a magnetic chuck (ch) onto said one of the 
magnetized magnets (1m) on the fixed base (J1) to mount the center plate (3) on said one 

of the magnetized magnets (1m) on the fixed base (J1), a magnetic field of the magnetic 
chuck (ch) being set to a direction opposite to the magnetic field direction of said one of the 

magnetized magnets (1m) on the fixed base (J1), and 
positioning the other of the magnetized magnets (1m) on the center plate (3) 
mounted on said one of the magnetized magnets (1m) on the fixed base (J1) to form said magnetic circuit. 
The method of claim 1, in which one of said two magnets (1m, 1m) magnetized in 
advance is placed on the bottom of the speaker frame (2) to attach and fix said speaker 

frame (2) to a loudspeaker assembly transport pallet (P) by using the 
attraction force exerted by said one magnet.  

 
The method of claim 1 or 2, in which said magnetic circuit is assembled by using as 
a reference guide the outer periphery (13) of said magnets (1m,1m) or the outer periphery (33) 

of said center plate (3). 
The method of claim 2, wherein a magnetic circuit assembly jig (J3) formed with a 
hole having a size matching the outer periphery of said center plate (3) is disposed at a 

predetermined position of the bottom of said speaker frame (2), and said magnetic circuit is 
assembled by inserting said magnet (1m) which faces the speaker frame and said center 

plate (3) into said hole of said jig. 
The method of claim 2, wherein a magnetic circuit assembly jig (J2) formed with a 
hole having a size matching the outer periphery of said center plate (3) or the outer 

periphery (13) of said magnet (1m) which faces the speaker frame is used, said magnetic 
circuit is assembled by inserting said magnet which faces the speaker frame and said 

center plate into said hole of said jig (J2) and said magnetic circuit is fixed to a predetermined 
position of said speaker frame (2). 
The method of claim 4, wherein while said magnetic circuit is assembled by 
disposing said magnetic circuit assembly jig (J3) formed with a hole having a size matching the 

outer periphery of said center plate (3) at said speaker frame (2), said magnetic circuit is set 
to a predeterimed position of said speaker frame. 
The method of claim 1, in which a plurality of pins (P5) are mounted at 
predetermined positions of a loudspeaker assembly transport pallet (P), holes (25, Jh) fitting 

said pins are formed in the bottom of a speaker frame (2) and in a magnetic circuit 
assembly jig (J3), and said magnetic circuit is assembled by inserting said pins into said 

holes of said speaker frame and said jig (J3). 
The method of claim 1, in which a magnetic material member (P4) is mounted on a 
loudspeaker transport pallet (P), and said magnetic material member is magnetized in the 

same direction as the magnetizing direction of a lower one of said two magnets (1m, 1m) of 
said magnetic circuit.  

 
The method of claim 1, in which a pin (P1) is provided in a loudspeaker assembly 
transport pallet (P), an aperture (23) fitting said pin (P1) is formed in the bottom (24) of the 

speaker frame (2), and said magnetic circuit is assembled by inserting said pin (P1) through said aperture (23) into a 

concave contour (11c) provided at the bottom of said magnetic circuit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
