<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631686</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPUTER DISK DRIVE INTEGRATED DATA PATH CIRCUIT OPTIMIZED FOR HANDLING BOTH DATA AND SERVO SIGNALS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11B2010	H03G320	H03K508	H03K508	H03G320	G11B2010	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11B	H03G	H03K	H03K	H03G	G11B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11B20	H03G3	H03K5	H03K5	H03G3	G11B20	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An integrated circuit adapted for use in a data path of a disk storage system of a type wherein data is recorded at different rates depending upon the storage track of the data and includes servo bursts of head positioning signals disbursed throughout the data on all of the tracks. The circuit includes a variable cut off low pass filter (55) that is adjusted both for the rate of data being read and for the rate of the servo bursts when being read. An automatic gain control (51) and a pulse detector (63) are similarly dynamically adjusted in characteristics to fit that of the data and servo bursts when each is being read from the disk. An output of the filter provides both read data and head positioning signals. A write data path (39, 79, 35) is also provided as part of the circuit.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IMP, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSEN COREY D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSEN, COREY, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is related to an electronic circuit 
adapted to be used as a part of a mass 
storage system as well as to an 
electronic circuit adapted to be used as 
a part of a rotating disk drive system. As is well known, rotating disk storage devices 
magnetically record bits of data in concentric tracks on 
magnetic surfaces of one or more rotating disks. A 
read/write head is provided for each such disk surface. 
A mechanism is provided for moving the disk heads 
radially inward and outward to position them over the 
desired track for reading or writing data on such a 
track. Such data is recorded in sectors that each 
contain a set maximum number of bytes of data plus 
identification information, error correction codes, and 
various other control and status bits. In order to shrink the size of the disk and 
increase the amount of data that can be stored in such 
systems, a great deal of effort has been directed toward 
increasing the density of bits recorded around each  
 
track, and toward reducing the distance between the 
tracks so that more of them can be included on a given 
surface area. The density of bits stored on each track 
is made to be roughly the same, resulting in the rate of 
data written to or read from the disk being higher on 
outer tracks than on the inner tracks. Rather than the 
data rate being different for each track, the tracks are 
generally grouped into zones of tracks with the bit 
density on each track within a given zone varied so that 
the bit rate is the same when reading from or writing to 
any track within a given zone. In order to finally 
position the head over desired track, and thus allow the 
tracks to be packed closer together, groups of head 
positioning data bits, commonly called servo bursts, are 
permanently recorded at spaced intervals around each 
track and interleaved with data recorded on the tracks. 
The servo signals including such bursts are read by the 
read/write head during both read and write operations in 
order to precisely position the head over the track. The electronics used in a magnetic disk storage 
system include a microprocessor based controller that 
operates in response to commands from a host computer to 
position the read/write heads over designated tracks in 
a manner to transfer data files between the disk and the 
host computer. Data path electronics are also made a 
part of the disk storage system for both reading data 
from and writing data to the disk. In the read path, a 
preamplifier is generally connected directly to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic circuit adapted to be used as part of a 
mass storage system by receiving a signal from a read 

head (15) that includes data having bursts (143) of 
servo head positioning pulses repetitively distributed 

therein, and by receiving at least one control signal 
(SGT, RGT) that indicates when said read head signal 

contains data (141, 145) and when it contains the servo 
burst (143), comprising on a single integrated circuit 

chip: 

means (53, 55) connected to receive said read head 
signal for processing and presenting at a common output 

both data and servo bursts in time sequence, 
means (85) connected to receive said at least one 
control signal for switching at least one functional 

characteristic of said processing means between first 
and second values during respective processing of the 

data and the servo bursts by the processing means, 
means (75) connected to said processing circuits for 
providing a head positioning signal, and  

 
means (63, 67, 73) connected to said processing 
circuits for providing a data output signal wherein said 

processing means includes a filter of the read head 
signal and its said at least one functional 

characteristic includes at least first and second 
frequency passband characteristics of the filter. 
The circuit according to claim 1 wherein said processing 
means further includes an adjustable gain control (53) and its 

said at least one functional characteristic further includes 
first and second values of a control voltage in a 

control loop of said adjustable gain control that are 
automatically set by operation of the circuit. 
The circuit according to claim 2 wherein said adjustable 
gain control further includes a peak detector circuit 

(151) and its said at 
least one functional characteristic further includes first and second values of droop. 
The circuit according to claim 1 wherein said processing 
means further includes an adjustable gain control having a peak 

detector circuit (151) and its said at least one 
functional characteristic further includes first and second 

values of droop. 
The circuit according to claim 1 wherein said processing 
means further includes a pulse detector (63) and its said at 

least one functional characteristic further includes first and 
second threshold values used to detect the existence of 

pulses in the read head signal.  
 
The circuit according to claim 1 wherein said processing 
means functional characteristics further includes at least first 

and second values of gain equalisation. 
The circuit according to claim 1 wherein said processing 
means functional characteristic further includes at least first 

and second signal qualification threshold levels. 
The circuit according to claim 1 wherein said processing 
means functional characteristic includes at least first 

and second values of signal bandwidth. 
The circuit according to claim 1 wherein said processing 
means functional characteristic further includes at least first 

and second pulse shapes. 
The circuit according to any one of claims 1-9 wherein 
said processing means includes analog circuits formed at 

least in part with a substantially zero threshold 
voltage transistor. 
The circuit according to any one of claims 1-6 which 
additionally comprises a power supply connected with 

said single integrated circuit chip (29) that is 
characterised by supplying to said chip a voltage of 

only substantially three volts or less. 
An electronic circuit adapted to be used as part of a 
rotating disk drive system by receiving signal from a 

read head that includes data having bursts of servo head 
positioning pulses distributed therein, and by receiving  

 
at least one control signal (SGT, RGT) that indicates 

when said read head signal contains data and when it 
contains the servo burst, comprising: 


automatic gain control means (51) receiving said read 
head signal and responsive to said at least one control 

signal for maintaining an output signal of both the data 
and servo bursts within common pre-set upper and lower 

limits, 
filter means (55) receiving the output of said automatic 
gain control means and responsive to said at least one 

control signal for setting different frequency 
characteristics when receiving the servo bursts than 

when receiving data, and 
pulse detector means (63) receiving an output of said 
filter means and responsive to said at least one control 

signal for generating pulses corresponding to said read 
head signal by use of at least one threshold level that 

is different when receiving the servo bursts than when 
receiving said data, 
whereby characteristics of a single set of gain control, 
filter and pulse detectors means are optimised for both 

the servo bursts and the data. 
The circuit according to claim 12 wherein said automatic 
gain control means includes a variable gain amplifier, 

and means receiving the output of said filter for 
controlling the gain of said amplifier , said gain  

 
controlling means including a pair of capacitors and 

means responsive to said at least one control signal for 
connecting one of the pair of capacitors (C
s
, C
d
) into 
the gain controlling circuit when receiving the servo 

bursts and another of the pair of capacitors when 
receiving data. 
The circuit according to claim 12 wherein said automatic 
gain control means includes a peak detector means (151) 

responsive to said at least one control signal for 
providing different values of droop when receiving the 

servo bursts and when receiving data. 
The circuit according to claim 12 wherein said filter 
means (55) includes a low pass filter (105) having a 

programmable cut-off frequency response, and means 
responsive to said at least one control signal for 

alternately switching said filter cut-off frequency 
between a servo burst value when receiving the servo 

bursts and a data value when receiving data. 
The circuit according to claim 12 that is further 
adapted to be used with a signal from a read head that 

has a data rate which depends upon the position on the 
disk where the data is recorded, said circuit 

additionally comprising means responsive to another 
control signal for causing said filter cut-off frequency 

to follow the variable data rate of the read head signal 
when receiving data.  

 
The circuit according to claim 12 wherein said pulse 

detector means (163) includes a threshold detector 
having a programmable threshold, and means responsive to 

said at least one control signal for alternately 
switching said threshold between a first value when 

receiving the servo bursts and a second value when 
receiving data. 
The circuit according to claim 12 wherein all of said 
automatic gain control means, said filter means and said 

pulse detector means are provided and inter-connected 
together on a single integrated circuit chip (29). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
