<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656147</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPUTER KEYBOARD WITH CANTILEVER SWITCH DESIGN AND IMPROVED PCB/SWITCH MEMBRANE INTERFACE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F302	G06F302	H01H1370	H01H13705	H01H13712	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	H01H	H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	H01H13	H01H13	H01H13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A computer keyboard has multiple rows of cantilevered keys which are flexibly attached to common mounting strips. The rows of cantilevered keys are arranged to partially overlap adjacent rows such that the keys in one row actuate switch contacts aligned beneath mounting strips in the adjacent row. An interface between the switch contact membrane and a printed circuit board, and employing a portion of the dome sheet as supporting legs for the keyboard, are also described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEY TRONIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KEY TRONIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENEFIELD JOSEPH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK THEODORE D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMITIO STEPHEN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGLISH GEORGE P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BENEFIELD, JOSEPH, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLARK, THEODORE, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAMITIO, STEPHEN, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ENGLISH, GEORGE, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION Computer Keyboard With Cantilever Switch Design And Improved PCB/Switch Membrane Interface Technical Field This invention relates to computer keyboards, and more particularly to computer keyboards with cantilevered keys. Background ArtAs the computer keyboard industry matures, there is an increasing drive among keyboard manufacturers to produce lower cost keyboards. Traditionally, manufacturers have produced a keyboard 10 such as that shown in Fig. 1. One such prior art computer keyboard is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,560,844 granted to Takamura on December 24, 1985.Keyboard 10 includes multiple keys 12 mounted in a housing 14, which includes a rigid metal backing plate 16, a rigid metal or plastic mounting plate 18, and a rigid plastic enclosure 20. Keyboard 10 also has a switch membrane 22 and a dome sheet 24 positioned between backing plate 16 and mounting plate 18.Mounting plate 18 has multiple key supports 26 into which key stems 30 of keys 12 are slidably mounted so that keys 12 can be moved from rest positions to activated positions.Switch membrane 22 comprises multiple switch contacts positioned beneath respective keys 12. The switch contacts are actuated upon depression of these keys. Dome sheet 24 comprises multiple resilient domes 28 which project upward to bias keys 12 to their rest position. Domes 28 collapse when keys 12 are depressed and rebound to their original form when keys 12 are released by the user to provide the "spring-like" feel of the computer keys. When the keys are depressed, switch membrane 22 conveys an electric signal from the actuated switch contact to an electrical circuit, such as a microprocessor, which is also provided on keyboard 10, but not shown in this figure. One of the drawbacks of the prior art keyboard shown in Fig. 1 concerns the bearing interface between monoblock key support 26 and key stem 30 of keys 12. At this interface, key stem 30 slides within key support 26, creating surface friction therebetween. As keyboards age, the surface friction increases and keys 12 begin to move less freely. As a result, keyboard users must press harder to depress the computer keys. The necessity of an increased pushing 

force contributes to user fatigue and other repetitive stress conditions. As the bearing interface further degrades, computer keys often "stick" in the depressed position or return very slowly to the rest position. In such situations, the friction between the key stem 30 and key support 26 is equal to, or greater than, the spring-like force
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A computer keyboard comprising: a support plate; 
Ck
 a first mounting strip secured to the support plate; a first cantilevered key having at least one elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the first mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap; a second mounting strip secured to the support plate; a second cantilevered key having at least one elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the second mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap; and the second cantilevered key being arranged to overlap the first mounting strip and a portion of the first cantilevered key.
2. A computer keyboard according to claim 1 wherein: the elongated member of the second cantilevered key extends above the first mounting strip; and the key cap of the second cantilevered key extends above a portion of the elongated member of the first cantilevered key.
3. A computer keyboard according to claim 1 wherein: the first mounting strip and the first cantilevered key are formed as a single, integral unit; and the second mounting strip and the second cantilevered key are formed as a single, integral unit.
4. A computer keyboard according to claim 1 wherein: the elongated members of the first and second cantilevered keys are attached to respective first and second mounting strips by serpentine-shaped hinges.
5. A computer keyboard according to claim 1 wherein: the elongated members of the first and second cantilevered keys are attached to respective first and second mounting strips by "S"-shaped hinges, individual "S"-shaped hinges having a first bend connected to the mounting strips 


and a second bend connected to the elongated member, the first bend having a cross-sectional thickness which is less than a cross-sectional thickness of the second bend.
6. A computer keyboard comprising: a support plate; a first mounting strip secured to the support plate, the first mounting strip having apertures formed therein; a first row of first cantilevered keys, individual first cantilevered keys having at least one elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the first mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap, the individual first cantilevered keys being movable from a rest position to a depressed activated position; a second mounting strip secured to the support plate; a second row of second cantilevered keys adjacent to, and partially overlapping, the first row of first cantilevered keys, individual second cantilevered keys having at least one elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the second mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap, the individual second cantilevered keys being movable from a rest position to a depressed activated position; a switch membrane positioned intermediate of the mounting strips and the support plate, the switch membrane having a row of switch contacts aligned beneath corresponding apertures of the first mounting strip; a dome sheet positioned intermediate of the mounting strips and the support plate, the dome sheet having a row of resilient domes extending upward through corresponding apertures of the first mounting strip; and the elongated members of the second cantilevered keys extending above corresponding domes that extend through the apertures in the first mounting strip and corresponding switch contacts, the second cantilevered keys actuating the corresponding switch contacts when the second cantilevered keys are depressed to their activated positions.
7. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein: individual domes comprise means for actuating the corresponding switch contacts upon depression of corresponding second cantilevered keys. 


 8. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein: the first mounting strip and the first row of cantilevered keys are formed of as a single, integral unit; and the second mounting strip and the second row of cantilevered keys are formed of as a single, integral unit.
9. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein: the first mounting strip and the first row of cantilevered keys are formed as a single, integral unit; the second mounting strip and the second row of cantilevered keys are formed as a single, integral unit; and the cantilevered keys of the first and second rows are molded from one of at least two different colored materials to define different colored keys.
10. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein: the elongated members of the first and second cantilevered keys are attached to respective first and second mounting strips by serpentine-shaped hinges.
11. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein: the elongated members of the first and second cantilevered keys are attached to respective first and second mounting strips by "S"-shaped hinges, individual "S"-shaped hinges having a first bend connected to the mounting strips and a second bend connected to the elongated member, the first bend having a cross-sectional thickness which is less than a cross-sectional thickness of the second bend.
12. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein: the individual first and second cantilevered keys are movable through an intermediate position between the rest position and the activated position; the domes are adapted to buckle as the second cantilevered keys are depressed to the intermediate position; and individual elongated members of the second cantilevered keys comprise overtravel means for allowing the second cantilevered keys to continue downward movement as they are depressed beyond the intermediate position. 


 13. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein at least one of the rows of the first and second cantilevered keys includes "single-wide" keys and "multi-wide" keys, the "single-wide" keys having narrow key caps of a first width and the "multi-wide" keys having wide key caps of a second width greater than the first width, the "multi-wide" keys having multiple elongated members connecting the wide key caps with the respective first and second mounting strips, each of the multiple elongated members being positioned above associated domes and switch contacts.
14. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 wherein: the dome sheet and the switch membrane have aligned apertures formed therein; the keyboard further comprising: clip means for securing the first and second mounting strips to the support plate, the clip means including a plurality of fastening members which extend through the aligned apertures provided in the dome sheet and switch membrane and connect the mounting strips to the support plate.
15. A computer keyboard according to claim 6 further comprising: an enclosure with a top portion and a bottom portion for encasing the cantilevered keys, the dome sheet, and the switch membrane, the enclosure having an opening formed in the bottom portion; the dome sheet having a peripheral portion which extends through the opening in the bottom portion of the enclosure to support the computer keyboard.
16. A computer keyboard comprising: a support plate; a first mounting strip secured to the support plate, the first mounting strip having apertures formed therein; a first row of first cantilevered keys, individual first cantilevered keys having at least one elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the first mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap, the individual first cantilevered keys being movable from a rest position to a depressed activated position; 


 a second mounting strip secured to the support plate, the second mounting strip having apertures formed therein; a second row of second cantilevered keys adjacent to, and partially overlapping, the first row of first cantilevered keys, individual second cantilevered keys having at least one elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the second mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap, the individual second cantilevered keys being movable from a rest position to a depressed activated position; a third mounting strip secured to the support plate, the third mounting strip having apertures formed therein; a third row of third cantilevered keys adjacent to, and partially overlapping, the second row of second cantilevered keys, individual third cantilevered keys having at least one elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the third mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap, the individual third cantilevered keys being movable from a rest position to a depressed activated position; a switch membrane positioned intermediate of the mounting strips and the support plate, the switch membrane having multiple rows of switch contacts aligned beneath corresponding apertures of respective first, second, and third mounting strips; a dome sheet positioned intermediate of the mounting strips and the support plate, the dome sheet having multiple rows of resilient domes extending upward through corresponding apertures of respective first, second, and third mounting strips; the elongated members of the third cantilevered keys extending above corresponding domes that extend through the second mounting strips and corresponding switch contacts, the third cantilevered keys actuating the corresponding switch contacts when the third cantilevered keys are depressed to their activated positions; and upstop means for establishing an upward travel stop position of the third cantilevered keys, the upstop means comprising complementary first and second interlocking components, the first interlocking components being provided on the first mounting strip and the second interlocking components being provided on individual third cantilevered keys. 


 17. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: individual domes comprise means for actuating the corresponding switch contacts upon depression of corresponding third cantilevered keys.
18. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: the first mounting strip and the first row of cantilevered keys are formed of a single, integral unit of plastic; the second mounting strip and the second row of cantilevered keys are formed as a single, integral unit; and the third mounting strip and the third row of cantilevered keys are formed as a single, integral unit.
19. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: the first mounting strip and the first row of cantilevered keys are formed as a single, integral unit; the second mounting strip and the second row of cantilevered keys are formed as a single, integral unit; the third mounting strip and the third row of cantilevered keys are formed as a single, integral unit; and the cantilevered keys of the first, second, and third rows are molded from one of at least two different colored materials to define different colored keys.
20. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: the elongated members of the first, second, and third cantilevered keys are attached to respective first, second, and third mounting strips by serpentine-shaped hinges.
21. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: the elongated members of the first, second, and third cantilevered keys are attached to respective first, second, and third mounting strips by "S"-shaped hinges, individual "S"-shaped hinges having a first bend connected to the mounting strips and a second bend connected to the elongated member, the first bend having a cross-sectional thickness which is less than a cross-sectional thickness of the second bend. 


 22. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: the individual first, second, and third cantilevered keys are movable through an intermediate position between the rest position and the activated position; the domes are adapted to buckle as the third cantilevered keys are depressed to the intermediate position; and individual elongated members of the third cantilevered keys comprise overtravel means for allowing the third cantilevered keys to continue downward movement as they are depressed beyond the intermediate position.
23. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein at least one of the rows of the first, second, and third cantilevered keys includes "single-wide" keys and "multi-wide" keys, the "single-wide" keys having narrow key caps of a first width and the "multi-wide keys" having wide key caps of a second width greater than the first width, the "multi-wide" keys having multiple elongated members connecting the wide key caps with the respective first, second, and third mounting strips, each of the multiple elongated members being positioned above associated domes and switch contacts.
24. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: the first interlocking components of the upstop means comprise loops formed on the first mounting strip adjacent to the apertures; the second interlocking components of the upstop means comprise hooks projecting downward from the key caps of the third cantilevered keys, the hooks being slidably interconnected within corresponding loops to allow downward travel of the third cantilevered keys as they are depressed, the hooks abutting the corresponding loops to limit upward travel of the third cantilevered keys when they are in their rest position.
25. A computer keyboard according to claim 24 wherein: the dome sheet is positioned beneath the first, second, and third mounting strips; the first mounting strip has second apertures aligned beneath corresponding loops; 


 the hooks passing through corresponding second apertures to contact the dome sheet when the individual third cantilevered keys are depressed.
26. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 wherein: the dome sheet and the switch membrane have aligned apertures formed therein; the keyboard further comprising: clip means for securing the first, second, and third mounting strips to the support plate, the clip means including a plurality of fastening members which extend through the aligned apertures provided in the dome sheet and switch membrane and connect the support plate to the mounting strips.
27. A computer keyboard according to claim 16 further comprising: an enclosure with a top portion and a bottom portion for encasing the cantilevered keys, the dome sheet, and the switch membrane, the enclosure having an opening formed in the bottom portion; the dome sheet having a peripheral portion which extends through the opening in the bottom portion of the enclosure to support the computer keyboard.
28. A computer keyboard comprising: a support plate; a first mounting strip secured to the support plate; a first row of first cantilevered keys, individual first cantilevered keys having an elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the first mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap; a second mounting strip secured to the support plate; a second row of second cantilevered keys adjacent to, and partially overlapping, the first row of the first cantilevered keys, individual second cantilevered keys having an elongated member with one end flexibly attached to the second mounting strip and the other end coupled to a key cap; the second row of cantilevered keys being arranged to overlap the first mounting strip and a portion of the first row of cantilevered keys; a swkh membrane positioned intermediate of the mounting strips and the support plate, the switch membrane having (1) switch contacts positioned for actuation by 


corresponding first and second cantilevered keys, (2) conductive first interface pads, and (3) conductive traces for conveying electric signals from the switch contacts to the first interface pads; a printed circuit board positioned to overlap the switch membrane, the printed circuit board having conductive second interface pads for corresponding first interface pads on the switch membrane; interfacing means for connecting the printed circuit board with the switch membrane, the interfacing means comprising: a support member; an interconnect member positioned above the printed circuit board and switch membrane; and fastening means for exerting a downward pressure on the interconnect member to force the printed circuit board together with the switch membrane and against the support member to facilitate electrical contact between the first and second interface pads.
29. A computer keyboard according to claim 28 wherein the interconnect member has a plurality of force concentrator knobs which apply a concentrated pressure to selected locations on the switch membrane within the interface region.
30. A computer keyboard according to claim 28 wherein the support member is formed of resilient material which is compressible under the downward pressure exerted by the fastening means against the interconnect member.
31. A computer keyboard comprising: a support plate; a plurality of keys operatively mounted to the support plate; a switch membrane positioned intermediate of the keys and the support plate, the switch membrane having (1) switch contacts positioned for actuation by corresponding keys, (2) conductive first interface pads, and (3) conductive traces for conveying electric signals from the switch contacts to the first interface pads; 


 a printed circuit board positioned to overlap the switch membrane, the printed circuit board having conductive second interface pads for corresponding first interface pads; interfacing means for connecting the printed circuit board with the switch membrane, the interfacing means comprising: a support member; an interconnect member positioned above the printed circuit board and switch membrane; and fastening means for exerting a downward pressure on the interconnect member to force the printed circuit board together with the switch membrane and against the support member to facilitate electrical contact between the first and second interface pads.
32. A computer keyboard according to claim 31 wherein the interconnect member has a plurality of force concentrator knobs which apply a concentrated pressure to selected locations on the switch membrane within the interface region.
33. A computer keyboard according to claim 31 wherein the support member is formed of resilient material which is compressible under the downward pressure exerted by the fastening means against the interconnect member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
