<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649467</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-STABILIZED OLIGONUCLEOTIDES AS THERAPEUTIC AGENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3800	A61P3112	C12N1511	C12N1509	A61K3800	C12N1511	C07H2104	A61K3170	C12N1509	A61K4800	A61P3100	A61K3170	A61K4800	A61P3104	C07H2100	C07H2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61P	C12N	C12N	A61K	C12N	C07H	A61K	C12N	A61K	A61P	A61K	A61K	A61P	C07H	C07H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K38	A61P31	C12N15	C12N15	A61K38	C12N15	C07H21	A61K31	C12N15	A61K48	A61P31	A61K31	A61K48	A61P31	C07H21	C07H21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides improved antisense oligonucleotides that are resistant to nucleolytic degradation. Such oligonuclotides are called self-stabilized oligonucleotides and comprise two regions: a target hybridizing region having a nucleotide sequence complementary to a nucleic acid sequence that is from a virus, a pathogenic organism, or a cellular gene; and a self-complementary region having an oligonucleotide sequence complementary to a nucleic acid sequence that is within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYBRIDON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HYBRIDON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AGRAWAL SUDHIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANG JIN-YAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AGRAWAL, SUDHIR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANG, JIN-YAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to novel therapeutic agents
used in the antisense oligonucleotide therapeutic
approach. More particularly, the invention relates to
improved antisense oligonucleotides that have increased
resistance to nucleases.The antisense oligonucleotide based therapeutic
principle provides an attractive strategy for rationally
designing antiviral drugs and chemotherapeutic agents
against other pathogens, and against disease conditions
resulting from disorders of gene expression. The
therapeutic principle relies upon specific binding
between a target nucleic acid sequence and a
complementary oligonucleotide. Several publications have
demonstrated the efficacy of complementary
oligonucleotides in inhibiting gene expression by such
specific binding.Zamecnik and Stephenson, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
75: 285-288 (1978) discloses specific inhibition of Rous
Sarcoma Virus replication in infected chicken fibroblasts
by a 13-mer synthetic oligodeoxynucleotide that is
complementary to part of the viral genome.Zamecnik et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83:
4143-4146 (1986) discloses inhibition of replication and
expression of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1, then
called HTLV-III) in cultured cells by synthetic
oligonucleotide phosphodiesters complementary to viral
RNA. More recently, it has been reported that
oligonucleotides having greater resistance to nucleolytic
degradation than oligonucleotide phosphodiesters are more
effective as antisense oligonucleotides. Agrawal,
Tibtech 10: 152-158 (1992) has extensively reviewed the
use of modified oligonucleotides as antiviral agents.Sarin et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 7448-7451
(1988) teaches that oligodeoxynucleoside
methylphosphonates are more active as inhibitors of HIV-1
than conventional oligodeoxynucleotides.Agrawal et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 7079-7083
(1988) teaches that oligonucleotide
phosphorothioates and various oligonucleotide
phosphoramidates are more effective at inhibiting HIV-1
than conventional oligodeoxynucleotides.Agrawal et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 7790-7794
(1989) discloses the advantage of oligonucleotide
phosphorothioates in inhibiting HIV-1 in early and
chronically infected cells.An additional characteristic that renders
oligonucleotides more effective as antisense agents is
the ability to activate RNase H. Thus, oligonucleotide
phosphorothioates, which are both resistant to
nucleolytic degradation and activators of RNase H, are
effective as inhibitors of HIV-1 and several other
viruses.Gao et al.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A self-stabilized oligonucleotide comprising a target hybridizing region and a
self-complementary region,


wherein the target hybridizing region comprises an oligonucleotide sequence of
at least 8 nucleotides which is complementary to a nucleic acid sequence that is from a

virus, a pathogenic organism or a cellular gene,
wherein the self-complementary region comprises an oligonucleotide sequence
of at least 4 nucleotides which is complementary to a nucleic acid sequence that is

within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide,
wherein either the oligonucleotide sequence of the self-complementary region or
the complementary nucleic acid sequence within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide

comprises the 3' most sequence of nucleotides in the self-stabilized oligonucleotide,
wherein the oligonucleotide sequence of the self-complementary region and the
complementary nucleic acid sequence within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide form a

stable duplex under physiological conditions,
provided that no portion of the target hybridizing region is between the
oligonucleotide sequence of the self-complementary region and the complementary

nucleic acid sequence within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide,
further provided that the target hybridizing region does not comprise the entire
molecule and
further provided that the target hybridizing region and the complementary
nucleic acid sequence of the self-complementary region within the self-stabilized

oligonucleotide have at least one nucleotide in common.
A self-stabilized oligonucleotide according to claim 1, wherein the target
hybridizing region includes four or more contiguous deoxyribonucleotide phosphodiesters,

phosphorothioates, or phosphorodithioates.
A self-stabilized oligonucleotide according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the self-complementary
region comprises nucleotides selected from the group consisting of:

deoxyribonucleotide or ribonucleotide phosphodiesters, phosphotriesters, phosphorothioates,
phosphorodithioates, phosphoramidates, alkylphosphonates, and

alkylphosphonothioates.
A self-stabilized oligonucleotide according to anyone of claims 1 to 3,
wherein the virus is selected from the group consisting of: human immunodeficiency virus,

herpes simplex virus, human papilloma virus, influenza virus, foot and mouth disease virus,
yellow fever virus, Varicella-Zoster virus, and cucumber mosaic virus,


wherein the pathogenic organism is selected from the group consisting of 
Plasmodium
falciparum, Trypanosoma brucei, Leishmania
, and 
Fasciola hepatica
, and
wherein the cellular gene is selected from a gene encoding a prion protein or
Alzheimer's amyloid-like protein or from oncogenes or proto-oncogenes.
The self-stabilized oligonucleotide according to anyone of claims 1 to 4,
wherein the target hybridizing region comprises said oligonucleotide sequence from about 8 to about 50 nucleotides and the

self-complementary region comprises said oligonucleotide sequence of 6, 8, or about 10 nucleotides.
The self-stabilized oligonucleotide according to claim 5, wherein said self-complementary
region comprises said oligonucleotide sequence of about 10 nucleotides. 
An in vitro method of inhibiting the gene expression of a virus, a pathogenic
organism, or a cellular gene, comprising providing a self-stabilized oligonucleotide to

virus or pathogen infected cells, or to uninfected cells, respectively, the self-stabilized
oligonucleotide comprising a target hybridizing region and a self-complementary

region,

wherein the target hybridizing region comprises an oligonucleotide sequence of
at least 8 nucleotides which is complementary to a nucleic acid sequence that is from a

virus, a pathogenic organism or a cellular gene,
wherein the self-complementary region comprises an oligonucleotide sequence
of at least 4 nucleotides which is complementary to a nucleic acid sequence that is

within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide,
wherein either the oligonucleotide sequence of the self-complementary region or
the complementary nucleic acid sequence within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide

comprises the 3' most sequence of nucleotides in the self-stabilized oligonucleotide,
wherein the oligonucleotide sequence of the self-complementary region and the
complementary nucleic acid sequence within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide form a

stable duplex under physiological conditions,
provided that no portion of the target hybridizing region is between the
oligonucleotide sequence of the self-complementary region and the complementary

nucleic acid sequence within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide,
further provided that the target hybridizing region does not comprise the entire
molecule and
further provided that the target hybridizing region and the complementary
nucleic acid sequence of the self-complementary region within the self-stabilized

oligonucleotide have at least one nucleotide in common.
The method according to claim 7, wherein the self-complementary region
comprises said oligonucleotide sequence of about 10 nucleotides which is complementary to a nucleic

acid sequence that is within the self-stabilized oligonucleotide.
The method according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the target hybridizing region
includes 4 or more contiguous deoxyribonucleotide phosphodiesters, phosphorothioates, or

phosphorodithioates.
The method according to anyone of claims 7 to 9, wherein the virus is selected
from the group consisting or human immunodeficiency virus, herpes simplex virus, human

papillomavirus, influenza virus, foot and mouth disease virus, yellow fever virus, Varicella-Zoster
virus and cucumber mosaic virus,


wherein the pathogenic organism is selected from the group consisting of 
Plasmodium
falciparum, Trypanosoma brucei, Leishmanic,
 and 
Fasciola hepatica
, and
wherein the cellular gene is selected from a gene encoding a prion protein or

Alzheimer's amyloid-like protein or from oncogenes or proto-oncogenes.
The use of a self-stabilized oligonucleotide according to anyone of claims 1
to 6 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for inhibiting the gene expression

of a virus, a pathogenic organism, or a cellular gene.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
