<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618316</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A composite fiber and polyolefin microfibers made therefrom
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>D01D530	D01D536	D01D530	D06M1100	D01F1106	D06M1105	D01F1100	D06M1100	D01F806	D01F806	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>D01D	D01D	D01D	D06M	D01F	D06M	D01F	D06M	D01F	D01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>D01D5	D01D5	D01D5	D06M11	D01F11	D06M11	D01F11	D06M11	D01F8	D01F8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a composite fiber comprising at least two different 
polymers, one of which is a water-insoluble polyolefin and the 

other is a water-soluble polymer, having a plurality of at least 19 
segments of the water-insoluble polyolefin, uniformly distributed 

across the cross-section of the fiber and being surrounded by the 
water-soluble polymer, a process for the manufacture of such a 

fiber and a process for the manufacture of microfibers therefrom. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASF CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BASF CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUGGAN JEFFREY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUGGAN, JEFFREY S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a composite fiber, and polyolefin
microfiber made therefrom, a process for the manufacture of the
composite fiber as well as a process for the production of the
polyolefin microfiber. In particular it relates to a composite
fiber, comprising a polyolefin which is water insoluble and a water
soluble polymer.Composite fibers and microfibers made therefrom as well as
different processes for their manufacture are well known in the
art.The composite fibers are manufactured in general by combining at
least two incompatible fiber-forming polymers via extrusion
followed by optionally dissolving one of the polymers from the
resultant fiber to form microfibers.U.S. Pat. No. 3,700,545 discloses a multi-segmented polyester or
polyamide fiber having at least 10 fine segments with cross
sectional shapes and areas irregular and uneven to each other.The spun fibers are treated with an alkali or an acid to decompose
and at least a part of the polyester or polyamide is removed.Described is a complex spinnerette for the manufacture of such
fibers.U.S. Pat. No. 3,382,305 discloses a process for the formation of 
microfibers having an average diameter of 0.01 to 3 microns by
blending two incompatible polymers and extruding the resultant
mixture into filaments and further dissolving one of the polymers
from the filament. The disadvantage of this process is, that the
cross section of these filaments is very irregular and uneven, so
that the resulting microfibers are irregular, uneven and having
varying diameters.U.S. Pat. No. 5,120,598 describes ultra-fine polymeric fibers for
cleaning up oil spills. The fibers were produced by mixing an
polyolefin with poly (vinyl alcohol) and extruding the mixture
through a die followed by further orientation. The poly (vinyl
alcohol) is extracted with water to yield ultra-fine polymeric
fibers. the disadvantage of this process is that the melt
extrusion and what results in irregular and uneven microfibers
and the islands, which form the microfibers after the hydrolysis,
are discontinuous, which means that they are not continuous over
the length of the composite fibers.EP-A-0,498,672 discloses microfiber generating fibers of island-in-the-sea
type obtained by melt extrusion of a mixture of two
polymers, whereby the sea polymer is soluble in a solvent and
releases the insoluble island fiber of a fineness of 0.01 denier
or less. Described is polyvinyl alcohol as the sea polymer. The
disadvantage is that by the process of melt mixing the islands-in-the-sea
cross
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composite fiber with an island-in-a-sea cross section
comprising at least two different polymers, one of which is a

water-insoluble polyolefin and the other is a water-soluble
polymer, having a plurality of at least 19 islands of the

water-insoluble polyolefin, the islands having an average
fineness of less than 0.3 denier per filament and being uniformly

distributed with reduced fusing to adjacent islands
across the cross section of the fiber and being continuous

over the length of the composite fiber and each being surrounded
by the sea of the water-soluble polymer.
The fiber according to claim 1, wherein the water-insoluble
polyolefin is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene,

polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl-polymers,
polybutylene, copolymers and blends thereof.
The fiber according to claim 1, wherein the water-soluble
polymer is polyvinylalcohol.
The fiber according to claim 1, wherein the islands have a
round shape.
The fiber according to claim 1, wherein the islands have a
honeycomb shape.
A process for the manufacture of a composite fiber comprising
the steps of:


(a) melting a water-insoluble polyolefin and a water-soluble
polymer in two separate extruders into two melt flows;
(b) directing the melt flows through two channels into one
spinnerette;
(c) spinning a fiber from the spinnerette such that the fiber
has a plurality of at least 19 microfiber islands of the

water-insoluble polyolefin uniformly distributed with reduced
fusing to adjacent islands across the cross-section of

the fiber and continuous over the length of the fiber,
each of said microfiber islands being surrounded by a sea

of the water-soluble polymer;
(d) quenching the fiber; 
(e) treating the fibers with a water-free spin finish; and
(f) drawing the fibers.
A process for the manufacture of microfibers comprising the
steps of:


(a) providing a composite fiber which is comprised of at
least two different polymers, one of which is a water-insoluble

polyolefin and the other is a water-soluble polymer,
having a plurality of at least 19 microfiber islands

of the water-insoluble polyolefin uniformly distributed
with reduced fusing to adjacent islands across the cross-section

of the fiber and continuous over the length of the
fiber, each of said microfiber islands being surrounded

by a sea of water-soluble polymer; and
(b) hydrolyzing the fiber provided in step (a) in water to
remove the sea of water-soluble polymer thereby forming

microfibers constituted by said microfiber islands which
remain upon removal of said sea of water-soluble polymer.
A process for the manufacture of a microfiber fabric comprising
the steps of:


(a) converting into a fabric composite fibers which are comprised
of at least two different polymers, one of which

is a water-insoluble polyolefin and the other is a water-soluble
polymer, having a plurality of at least 19 microfiber

islands of the water-insoluble polyolefin, uniformly
distributed with reduced fusing to adjacent islands

across the cross-section of the fiber and continuous over
the length of the fiber, each of said microfiber islands

being surrounded by the water-soluble polymer; and
(b) hydrolyzing the fabric in water to remove the sea of
water-soluble polymer of said composite fibers to thereby

form a microfiber fabric comprised of microfibers constituted
by said microfiber islands of said composite fibers

which remain upon removal of said sea of water-soluble
polymer.
The process as in claim 7 or 8, wherein said composite fibers
are prepared by the steps comprising: 


(a) melting a water-insoluble polyolefin and a water-soluble
polymer in two separate extruders into two melt flows;
(b) directing the melt flows through two channels into one
spinnerette;
(c) spinning from the spinnerette a fiber having a plurality
of at least 19 segments of the water-insoluble polyolefin

uniformly distributed across the cross-section of the
fiber and being surrounded by the water-soluble polymer.
The process as in claim 9, wherein said composite fibers are
further prepared by the steps comprising:


(d) quenching the fibers;
(e) treating the fibers with a water-free spin finish; and
(f) drawing the fibers.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
