<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645037</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR DETECTING CHANGES IN MOVING IMAGES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T720	G06T100	H04N5232	G06T100	G06T720	H04N5232	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	H04N	G06T	G06T	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T7	G06T1	H04N5	G06T1	G06T7	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The proposal is for a process for detecting changes in moving images. The process comprises an imaging unit (3), a computing unit (1) and a store (2). The imaging unit (3) records images in pixels. The computing unit (1) transmits the images signals to the store (2) in pixels. The computing unit (1) calculates the change in the image signals of the sections of the image n+1 in relation to the previous image n. Various values are allocated to the image sections according to whether the change is greater or smaller than a threshold value, i.e. whether the image sections are to be further processed as changed or unchanged. The larger the number of adjacent image sections considered as changed in comparison with their thresholds, the lower is the threshold.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
Process for detecting changes in electronically
recorded moving images by means of a computing unit,

the image signals being present pixel by pixel and
being stored in a memory and the computing unit

determining the change of an image detail having at
least one image pixel in comparison with the image

detail, arranged identically in the image plane, of at
least one preceding image, the change being compared

with a predetermined threshold by the computing unit
and different values being assigned to the memory

addresses stored for each image pixel of the image
detail in the memory, depending on whether the change

is greater or less than the threshold,

characterized

in that the computing unit (1) selects from the stored
image signals an observation window (4) in the image

space with respect to a period of time, which contains
the image detail (5) to be compared and at least one

further image detail that has already been compared
with a threshold,
in that the computing unit (1) changes the threshold
depending on whether the change in the image detail

already compared was less than or greater than its
threshold, and
in that the result of the comparison between the change
in the image detail (5) to be compared and the

threshold determined is allocated by the computing unit 
(1) to at least one address, stored in the memory (2),

of an image pixel of the image detail (5).
Process according to Claim 1, characterized

in that the computing unit (1) takes account of the
results of the comparisons of the changes in the image

details contained in the observation window (4) with
their thresholds, during the determination of the

threshold, in a differently weighted manner according
to distance and orientation with regard to the image

detail (5) to be compared.
Process according to one of Claims 1 and 2,
characterized

in that the computing unit (1) determines the change of
the image detail (5) to be compared in comparison with

an image detail (6), arranged identically in the image
plane, of at least one preceding image by means of the

differences between the image signals, the computing
unit (1) preferably normalizing the sum of the squared

differences between the image signals to the power

(variance) of the camera noise in the differential
image, or multiplying the threshold by the power of the

camera noise in the differential image.
Process according to one of Claims 1 and 2,
characterized

in that the computing unit (1) determines the change of
the image detail (5) to be compared in comparison with

an image detail (6), arranged identically in the image
plane, of at least one preceding image by means of the

differences between the image signals, the computing
unit (1) preferably normalizing the sum of the absolute

values of the differences between the image signals to
the standard deviation of the camera noise in the

differential image, or multiplying the threshold by the
power of the camera noise in the differential image.
Process according to one of Claims 1 to 4,
characterized

in that the computing unit (1) forms the observation
window (4) from the image detail (5) to be compared and

the adjoining image details. 
in that the computing unit (1) forms the observation

window (4) from the image detail (5) to be compared and
the adjoining image details.
Process according to Claim 5, characterized

in that the computing unit (1) uses, instead of the
image details which belong to the same image and have

not yet been decided with a threshold, the image
details of the preceding image which are arranged

identically in the image plane and have already been
compared with a threshold.
Process according to one of Claims 1 to 6,
characterized

in that the computing unit (1), in order to determine
the threshold, takes account of the result of the

comparison of the image detail (6), arranged
identically with regard to the image detail (5) to be

compared in the image plane, with its threshold of at
least one preceding image.
Process according to one of Claims 1 to 7,
characterized

in that the computing unit (1) forms the threshold from
a defined portion and a portion which is determined as

a function of the results of the comparisons of the
image details contained in the observation window (4).
Process according to one of Claims 1 to 8,
characterized

in that only a subset of the image signals contained in
the image detail is used by the computing unit (1) to

determine the change in an image detail.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
