<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for substantially simultaneously exciting a plurality of slices in NMR imaging.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B5055	A61B5055	G01R3348	G01R3348	G01R3354	G01R3354	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01R	G01R	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An NMR parallel imaging method and apparatus in a single 
sequence has a plurality of RF pulses (RF EXCITE 90°) applied 

substantially simultaneously, each having a different frequency, 
in the same contiguous time period in a subinterval of time (τ) 

during which the select slice magnetic gradient (SS) is applied, 
to activate a plurality of different physical slices. The 

refocusing RF pulses also comprise a plurality of RF pulses (RF 
EXCITE 180°) each having a different frequency, applied non-simultaneously 

but within the same slice select magnetic gradient 
(SS) in the same subinterval time (τ). A plurality of echo 

signals (RF RECEIVE) from the plurality of different excited 
slices then read out during the same single read out magnetic 

pulse (RO) in the same subinterval. The method and apparatus of 
the present invention can be applied in MRI spin echo, pre-saturation 

or inversion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOSHIBA AMERICAN MRI INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TOSHIBA AMERICAN MRI, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAO CHING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAO, CHING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and an 
apparatus for parallel multi-slice NMR imaging, and 
more particularly to a method and an apparatus for 
exciting the plurality of slices substantially 
simultaneously. The formation of NMR images based upon excited 
nuclei is well known in the art. A typical sequence 
consists of a plurality of contiguous TR time periods. 
In the case of multi-slice/multi-echo sequence, each 
TR time period is further divided into a plurality of 
slice time intervals, or subinterval time periods. In a serial exciting sequence, a single physical 
slice is excited and echo signals are acquired, in 
each subinterval time period. The echo signal is 
received by subjecting the patient or subject under 
study to a particular magnetic gradient pulse and 
applying a single RF signal having a particular 
frequency during the time period in which the 
magnetic gradient pulse is applied. The combination 
of the RF signal at the particular frequency and the 
application of the magnetic gradient pulse, serves to 
selectively excite a particular physical slice of 
selected nuclei. The readout of the RF signal occurs 
by the application of another magnetic gradient 
during which time the RF signal is received from the 
excited nuclei, as it decays, in the selected slice. In an effort to expedite the acquisition of RF 
signals from a plurality of physical slices, U.S.  
 
Patent No. 4,843,322 discloses a method for 
simultaneously exciting a plurality of slices in each 
single subinterval time periods to produce multislice 
NMR images. That reference discloses the 
application of two RF excitation pulses having 
different frequency during the subinterval time 
period in which a magnetic gradient is applied. (See 
column 10, lines 53-55). The application of RF 
signals simultaneously requires a considerable amount 
of power to the RF transmitter in the MRI apparatus. 
Therefore, as a practical matter, the teaching of the 
reference U.S. Patent No. 4,843,322 has been limited 
to the application of two RF pulses simultaneously, 
thereby exciting only two physical slices 
simultaneously. Once the plurality of RF echo signals from each 
subinterval time periods are received, U.S. Patent 
No. 4,843,322 discloses the method of processing it 
in order derive the plurality of slice images from 
the plurality of physical slices. In addition, see 
"SIMA: Simultaneous Multi-slice Acquisition of MR 
Images by Hadmard-encoded Excitation" S.P. Souza et 
al, Journal of Computer Assisted Tomography,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of exciting a plurality of 
selected nuclei for NMR imaging comprising the steps 

of: 
   subjecting the plurality of selected nuclei 

to a first magnetic gradient having a first 
gradient amplitude for a first contiguous period 

of time; 
   exciting the plurality of selected nuclei, 

during said first contiguous of period of time, 
with a plurality of first RF signals, each of 

said first RF signals having a frequency 
different from one another and having a first RF 

peak amplitude, spaced apart in time from one 
another; 

   subjecting the plurality of selected nuclei 
to a second magnetic gradient having a second 

gradient amplitude for a second contiguous 
period of time; 

   exciting said plurality of selected nuclei, 
during said second contiguous period of time, 

with a plurality of second RF signals, each of 
said second RF signals having a frequency 

different from one another and having a second 
RF peak amplitude, spaced apart in time from one 

another; 
   applying a third magnetic gradient during a 

third contiguous period of time; and 
   receiving a plurality of RF signals from 

said plurality of selected nuclei during said 
third contiguous period of time. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said first RF 
peak amplitudes are separated by D, said second RF 

peak amplitudes are separated by D', said first 
 

gradient amplitude is g and said second gradient 

amplitude is g' and wherein 
gD = 2g'D' 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said first RF 
signals are 90° RF pulses and said second RF signals 

are 180° RF pulses. 
The method of Claim 1 further comprising 
the steps of: 

   unscrambling said plurality of RF signals 
received to form a plurality of unscrambled 

signals. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said 
plurality of first RF signals comprises a first 

plurality and a second plurality of first RF signals, 
with each of said first plurality of first RF signals 

having a first RF peak amplitude spaced apart in time 
from one another and each of said second plurality of 

first RF signals having a first RF peak amplitude, 
spaced apart in time from on another, and coincident 

in time with a first RF peak amplitude of one of the 
first plurality of first RF signals. 
The method of Claim 5 wherein said first 
magnetic gradient has a first gradient amplitude 

substantially constant over said first period of 
time. 
The method of Claim 5 wherein said 
plurality of second RF signals comprises a number of 

RF signals equal to the first plurality of first RF 
signals. 
The method of Claim 7 wherein said second 
gradient amplitude is less than said first gradient 

amplitude. 
The method of Claim 1 wherein said first 
magnetic gradient has a first gradient amplitude 

varying over said first period of time. 
The method of Claim 9 wherein said second 
magnetic gradient has a second gradient amplitude 

varying over said second period of time. 
An apparatus for exciting a plurality of 
selected nuclei for NMR imaging, said apparatus 

comprising: 
   means for applying a first magnetic 

gradient having a first gradient amplitude to 
the plurality of selected nuclei for a first 

period of time; 
   means for exciting the plurality of 

selected nuclei during said first period of 
time, with a plurality of first RF signals, each 

of said first RF signals having a frequency 
different from one another and having a first RF 

peak amplitude, spaced apart in time from one 
another; 

   means for applying a second magnetic 
gradient having a second gradient amplitude to 

the plurality of selected nuclei for a second 
period of time; 

   means for exciting the plurality of 
selected nuclei during said second period of 

time, with a plurality of second RF signals, 
each of said second RF signals having a 

frequency different from one another and having 
 

a second RF peak amplitude, spaced apart in time 
from one another; 

   means for applying a third magnetic 
gradient during a third period of time; and 

   means for receiving a plurality of RF 
signals from said plurality of selected nuclei 

during said third period of time. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said 
first RF peak amplitudes are separated by D, said 

second RF peak amplitudes are separated by D', said 
first gradient amplitude is g and said second 

gradient amplitude is g' and wherein 
gD = 2g'D' 
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said 
first RF signals are 90° RF pulses and said second RF 

signals are 180° RF pulses. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 further 
comprising: 

   means for unscrambling said plurality of RF 
signals received to from a plurality of 

unscrambled signals. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said 
plurality of first RF signals comprises a first 

plurality and a second plurality of first RF signals, 
with each of said first plurality of first RF signals 

having a first RF peak amplitude spaced apart in time 
from one another and each of said second plurality of 

first RF signals having a first RF peak amplitude, 
spaced apart in time from on another, and coincident 

in time with a first RF peak amplitude of one of the 
first plurality of first RF signals. 
The apparatus of Claim 15 wherein said 
first magnetic gradient has a first gradient 

amplitude substantially constant over said first 
period of time. 
The apparatus of Claim 15 wherein said 
plurality of second RF signals comprises a number of 

RF signals equal to the first plurality of first RF 
signals. 
The apparatus of Claim 17 wherein said 
gradient amplitude is less than said first gradient 

amplitude. 
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said 
first magnetic gradient has a first gradient 

amplitude varying over said first period of time. 
The apparatus of Claim 19 wherein said 
second magnetic gradient has a second gradient 

amplitude varying over said second period of time. 
In an NMR system for producing images from 
an NMR data set acquired from a set of NMR pulse 

sequences, the improved method comprising: 
   applying a plurality of non-simultaneous RF 

excitation pulses during the same time period 
the associated magnetic gradient is activated, 

said plurality of RF excitation pulses exciting 
spins in a plurality of different slices; 

   receiving a plurality of NMR data set from 
the spins excited during the same time period 

the associated magnetic gradient is activated; 
and

 
   performing a transformation of the received 

NMR data set, to produce an image array. 
The method of Claim 21 further comprising 
the step of 

   separating the slice images contained in 
the image array for each of said plurality of 

slices. 
A method of producing a plurality of images 
from a plurality of slices in an NMR imaging said 

method comprising: 
   applying a first magnetic gradient having a 

first gradient amplitude for a first contiguous 
period of time to the plurality of slices; 

   exciting the plurality of slices, during 
said first contiguous period of time, with a 

plurality of first RF signals, non-simultaneously; 
   applying a second magnetic gradient having 

a second gradient amplitude for a second 
contiguous period of time to the plurality of 

slices; 
   exciting the plurality of slices, during 

said second contiguous period of time, with a 
plurality of second RF signals, non-simultaneously; 

   applying a third magnetic gradient for a 
third contiguous period of time to the plurality 

of slices; 
   receiving a plurality of RF signals from 

the plurality of slices during the third 
contiguous period of time; and

 
   processing said plurality of signals 

received to form the plurality of images from 
the plurality of slices. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
