<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643807</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MISFIRE DETECTION IN AN INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE USING EXHAUST PRESSURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01M1510	F02D4500	F02M2507	F02D4500	F02M2507	F02B7708	G01M1504	F02B7708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01M	F02D	F02M	F02D	F02M	F02B	G01M	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01M15	F02D45	F02M25	F02D45	F02M25	F02B77	G01M15	F02B77	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to detecting 
misfires occurring during normal in-use vehicle operation of 
internal combustion engines and more specifically to 
identifying the occurrence of individual misfires by 
digitally processing a pressure wave from the exhaust 
manifold of the engine. Catalytic converters are used in automobiles to reduce 
the amount of pollutants in the engine exhaust. When a 
cylinder misfires so that no combustion or incomplete 
combustion occurs, uncombusted fuel is introduced into the 
exhaust which then burns in the hot catalytic converter. 
The heat from fuel burning in the catalytic converter 
destroys the catalyst. Thus, it becomes desirable to detect 
and count engine misfires and signal the operator of the 
vehicle upon occurrence of excessive misfires so that steps 
may be taken to protect the catalytic converter. Some prior art techniques for detecting misfires have 
employed monitoring of engine crankshaft accelerations, 
monitoring of electrical properties of the ignition spark, 
and monitoring various properties of the exhaust gas, such 
as, exhaust gas pressure and exhaust gas temperature. 
However, each prior art method has been found to have 
disadvantages which have prevented the attainment of an 
acceptable misfire detection system. Low signal-to-noise 
ratios and slow operating speed have required averaging of 
many events in some previous misfire detection systems. 
Such systems are only capable of detecting recurrent 
misfires of any particular cylinder rather than individual 
misfires. Other systems may require expensive custom 
sensors and components or may require disadvantageous sensor 
locations. Furthermore, existing misfire detection systems 
all suffer from poor accuracy which prevents any ability to 
identify very low misfire rates. For example, in order to 
protect catalytic converters and prevent excessive emissions 
of pollutants, a misfire rate of about one or two percent  
 
must be detected. In addition, the identity of the 
misfiring cylinder associated with each individual misfire 
must be determined and stored to facilitate later servicing 
of an engine to correct the condition leading to the 
misfires. Typically, such diagnoctic strategies must have 
very low false alarm rates in order to be deployed in large 
numbers of vehicles. Furthermore in EP-A2-381855 a misfire detection is indicated 
using exaust gas pressure and a pattern recognition with an 
electronically controlled combustion engine is generally known 
from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for detecting individual misfires in an 
internal combustion engine (10) having an exhaust 

manifold (11,12,13), comprising: 

pressure transducer means (20) in communication with 
said exhaust manifold for generating pressure signals 

responsive to exhaust pressure within said exhaust manifold; 
position means (27) for generating a plurality of 
position signals during each cycle of operation of said internal combustion engine indicative of predetermined rotational 

positions within each cycle of said internal combustion engine; 
an analog-to-digital converter (21) coupled to sample the pressure signals from said pressure 
transducer means (20) in response to the position signals from said position means (27) 

thereby to generate digitized pressure data corresponding to said 
predetermined rotational positions; and 
a trained classifier (24) having a data input coupled 
to said analog-to-digital converter and having a set of 

predetermined internal coefficients for processing said 
digi
tized pressure data to generate an output signal (25) 
indicative of the detection of individual misfires. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, further 
comprising an exhaust gas recirculation system coupled to 

said pressure transducer means. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, further 
comprising register means coupled between said analog-to-digital 

converter and said trained classifier for formatting 
said digitized pressure data into respective input vectors 

for said trained classifier. 
An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said 
register means is coupled to said position means, wherein 

said position means provides a reference signal for 
determining a full engine cycle, and wherein aid input 

vectors each correspond to a respective engine cycle.  
 
An apparatus according to claim 3, further 
comprising translating means coupled to said trained 

classifier for translating said digitized pressure data to a 
more compact representation using a predetermined 

transformation function. 
An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said 
transformation function is predetermined using principal 

component analysis. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said set 
of predetermined internal coefficients are determined in 

advance by training a trainable classifier on a 
substantially identical internal combustion engine using 

digitized pressure data containing known misfires. 
A method for detecting individual misfires in an 
internal combustion engine having an exaust manifold, 

comprising the steps of: 

generating pressure signals responsive to exhaust 
pressure within said exhaust manifold; 
generating a plurality of position signals during each cycle of operation of said internal combustion engine indicative 
of predetermined rotational positions within each cycle of said 

internal combustion engine; 
employing an analog-to digital converter coupled to sample the pressure signals in response to the position signals to generate digitized pressure data corresponding to said predetermined rotational positions; and 
processing said digitized pressure data using a set of 
predetermined internal coefficients to generate an output 

signal indicative of the detection of individual misfires. 
A method according to claim 3, further comprising 
the step of formatting said digitized pressure data into 

respective input vectors. 
A method according to claim 8, wherein said input 
vectors each correspond to a respective engine cycle.  

 
A method according to claim 8, further comprising 
the step of translating said digitized pressure data to a 

more compact representation using a predetermined 
transformation function. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein said 
transformation function is predetermined using principal 

component analysis. 
A method according to claim 8, wherein said set of 
predetermined internal coefficients are determined in 

advance by training a trainable classifier on a 
substantially identical internal combustion engine using 

digitized pressure data containing known misfires. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
