<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658816</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Image forming method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03G9087	G03G1501	G03G700	G03G1516	G03G1520	G03G9087	G03G1501	G03G1520	G03G908	G03G1516	G03G700	G03G908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	G03G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03G9	G03G15	G03G7	G03G15	G03G15	G03G9	G03G15	G03G15	G03G9	G03G15	G03G7	G03G9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An image forming method, comprising the steps 
of forming an electrostatic image on a electrostatic 

image-bearing member, developing the electrostatic 
image with toner particles having a first shape factor 

(SF-1) of 100 - 150 and containing a low-softening 
point substance 
to form a toner image on the 
electrostatic image-bearing member, transferring the 

toner image on the electrostatic image-bearing member 
to an intermediate transfer member which has been 

voltage-applied, transferring the toner image on the 
intermediate transfer member to a transfer-receiving 

material by a transfer means which has been voltage-applied, 
and heat-fixing the toner image on the 

transfer-receiving material. The toner particles may 
preferably have a second shape factor (SF-2) of 100-140. 

The total of SF-1 and SF-2 may preferably at 
most 275, particularly at most 240, for improving 

transfer efficiency of the toner particles. The low-softening 
point substance may preferably be an ester 

wax having a long-chain (e.g., ≧ C₁₀) alkyl group. 
The image forming method is effective in providing a 

high-quality (full-color) toner image with high 
transfer efficiency and free from toner sticking. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CANON KABUSHIKI KAISHA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMURA KATSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIGAWA KOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAZAKI MASUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NISHIMURA, KATSUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANIGAWA, KOICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAZAKI, MASUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an image
forming method wherein a toner image formed on an
electrostatic image-bearing member is transferred to
an intermediate transfer member, further transferred
to a transfer-receiving material, and heat-fixed on a
transfer-receiving material.The present invention also relates to an
image forming method applicable to copying machines,
printers, facsimile machines, etc.Heretofore, in full-color copying apparatus,
there have generally been used full-color image
forming method wherein electrostatic images formed on
four photosensitive members are developed with a cyan
toner, a magenta toner, a yellow toner, and a black
toner, respectively, and the respective resultant
toner images are transferred on a transfer-receiving
material conveyed by a belt-like transfer member or
wherein a transfer-receiving material is wound about
the surface of a transfer receiving material-bearing
member disposed opposite to one photosensitive member
by the action of electrostatic force or mechanical
force and an electrostatic image is subjected to
developing-transfer steps four times.In recent years, a transfer-receiving 
material for a full-color image has been required to
meet the needs of a smaller sized paper such as
cardboard, card or postcard paper. In the above-mentioned
image forming method using four
photosensitive members, a transfer-receiving material
is conveyed in the form of a plate or a sheet, so that
such an image forming method can employ various
transfer-receiving materials but is required to
accurately superpose plural toner images on a
prescribed position of the transfer-receiving
material, thus resulting in a lowering in image
quality even when a slight registration error is
caused to occur. In order to enhance registration
accuracy, the image forming method is encountered a
problem such that a conveying mechanism of the
transfer-receiving material is complicated to increase
parts or components therefor. On the other hand, in
the image forming method of attaching the transfer-receiving
material to the transfer-receiving material-bearing
member thereby to wind it about the transfer-receiving
material-bearing member and performing
developing-transfer steps four times, when a cardboard
having a large basis weight is used as a transfer-receiving
material, such a transfer-receiving material
has a high stiffness and causes adhesion failure to
the transfer-receiving material-bearing member at the
back end of the transfer-receiving material. As a 
result, such a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An image forming method for forming a multi-color
or full color image, comprising the steps of:


forming an electrostatic image on a electrostatic
image-bearing member,
developing the electrostatic image with color toner
particles having a first shape factor (SF-1) of 100 - 150

and a second shape factor (SF-2) of 100 - 140 and
containing a low-softening point substance to form a

color toner image on said electrostatic image-bearing
member,
transferring the color toner image on said
electrostatic image-bearing member to an intermediate

transfer member which has voltage applied to it,
transferring the color toner image on said
intermediate transfer member to a transfer-receiving

material by a transfer means which has a voltage applied
to it, and
heat-fixing the toner image on said transfer-receiving
material to form said multi-color or full color

image.
The method of claim 1, wherein said color toner
particles are selected from cyan, yellow, magenta and

black toner particles. 
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said toner
particles have insulating properties and triboelectric

charge.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles have an SF-1 of 100 - 125.
The method of claim 4, wherein said toner particles
have an SF-1 of 100 - 110.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles have an SF-2 of 100 - 130.
The method of claim 6, wherein said toner particles
have an SF-2 of 100 - 125.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles have a sum of SF-1 and an SF-2 which is

at most 275.
The method of claim 8, wherein said toner particles
have a sum of an SF-1 and SF-2 which is at most 240.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles contain said low-softening point

substance in an amount of 5 - 30 wt %. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said low-softening
point substance provides a DSC curve showing

a temperature corresponding to a maximum heat absorption
peak of 40 - 90° C.
The method of claim 11, wherein said low-softening
point substance comprises an ester wax having a long-chain

alkyl group having 10 or more carbon atoms.
The method of any of claims 1 to 10, wherein said
low-softening point substance has a softening point of

40 - 150° C.
The method of claim 13, wherein said low-softening
point substance comprises a compound selected from a

group consisting of paraffin wax, polyolefin wax,
Fischer-Tropsch wax, amide wax, higher fatty acid, ester

wax and derivatives thereof.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles comprise non-magnetic cyan toner

particles.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles comprise non-magnetic yellow toner

particles. 
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles comprise non-magnetic magenta toner

particles.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles comprise magnetic black toner particles.
The method of any of claims 1 to 17, wherein said
toner particles comprise non-magnetic black toner

particles.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles have a weight-average particle size of

at most 10 µm and a coefficient of variation in number
of at most 35 %.
The method of any of claims 1 to 19, wherein said
toner particles have a weight-average particle size of

4 - 8 µm and a coefficient of variation in number of at
most 35 %.
The method of claim 20 or 21, wherein said toner
particles have a coefficient of variation in number of

at most 30 %.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein

a first electrostatic image is formed on said 
electrostatic image-bearing member and developed with

cyan toner particles to form a cyan toner image, which
is transferred to said intermediate transfer member;
a second electrostatic image is formed on said
electrostatic image-bearing member and developed with

yellow toner particles to form a yellow toner image,
which is transferred to said intermediate transfer

member;
a third electrostatic image is formed on said
electrostatic image-bearing member and developed with

magenta toner particles to form a magenta toner image,
which is transferred to said intermediate transfer

member;
a fourth electrostatic image is formed on said
electrostatic image-bearing member and developed with

black toner particles to form a black toner image, which
is transferred to said intermediate transfer member;
the cyan toner image, the yellow toner image, the
magenta toner image and the black toner image on said

intermediate transfer member are transferred to a
transfer-receiving material; and
the cyan toner image, the yellow toner image, the
magenta toner image and the black toner image on said

transfer-receiving material are fixed thereon under
application of heat and pressure to form a multi-color

image or a full color image.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
intermediate transfer member has an elastic layer.
The method of claim 24, wherein said elastic layer
has a volume resistivity of 10
5
 - 10
11
 ohm.cm and is
formed on a core metal to which a voltage is applied.
The method of claim 25, wherein said elastic layer
has a volume resistivity of 10
7
 - 10
10
 ohm.cm.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
transfer means comprises a transfer roller to which a

voltage is applied.
The method of claim 27, wherein said transfer roller
has an elastic layer.
The method of claim 28, wherein said intermediate
transfer member and said transfer roller each have an

elastic layer, and wherein said elastic layer of said
intermediate transfer member has a higher volume

resistivity than said elastic layer of said transfer
roller.
The image forming method according to claim 29,
wherein


said intermediate transfer member has a surface 
hardness of 10 - 40 as measured by JIS K-6301,
said transfer roller has a higher surface hardness
than said intermediate transfer member and is pressed

against said intermediate transfer member to form a nip
in a concave shape with respect to said intermediate

transfer member; and
a voltage is applied to said intermediate transfer
member thereby to transfer the color toner image on said

intermediate transfer member to said transfer-receiving
material.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles contain said low-softening point

substance inside themselves.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
toner particles are produced by suspension

polymerisation.
The method of any of claims 1 to 31, wherein said
toner particles are produced by emulsion polymerisation.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
