<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653686</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Imaging element comprising a photopolymerizable composition and methods for producing lithographic plates therewith
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03F711	G03F734	G03F734	B41N303	B41N303	G03F711	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03F	G03F	G03F	B41N	B41N	G03F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03F7	G03F7	G03F7	B41N3	B41N3	G03F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides an imaging element comprising on 
a hydrophilic base a hydrophobic photopolymerizable composition 

capable of being irradiated with actinic light through the support 
and/or through the front and containing a photopolymerizable 

composition characterized in that a water-swellable barrier layer 
comprising at least one non-proteinic water-soluble film-forming 

polymer is located between said hydrophilic base and said 
hydrophobic photopolymerizable composition, contiguous to the 

hydrophilic base and is coated at a ratio of 0.01 to 2.0 g/m2, said 
water-swellable barrier layer being capable of being peeled off of 

said hydrophilic base by dry development. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an imaging element comprising a
photopolymerizable composition and to a method for the formation of
lithographic printing plates from said imaging element.The use of photosensitive imaging elements comprising
photopolymerizable compositions for the production of images by
information-wise exposure thereof to actinic radiation is well
known. Several methods for forming images using photopolymerizable
compositions are known. All these methods are based on the
principle of introducing a differentiation in properties between the
exposed and non-exposed parts of the photopolymerizable composition
e.g. a difference in solubility, adhesion, conductivity, refractive
index, tackiness, permeability, diffusibility of incorporated
substances e.g. dyes etc.. The thus produced differences may be
subsequently employed in a developing step to produce a visible
image and/or master for printing e.g. a lithographic or
electrostatic printing master.A difference in solubility between the exposed and non-exposed
parts of the photopolymerizable composition is often used for the
production of lithographic printing plates where a hydrophilic base
is coated with the photopolymerizable composition, subsequently
exposed and developed using a solvent to remove the non-exposed or
insufficiently exposed parts. Such a process is for example
described in "Unconventional imaging processes" by E. Brinckman, G.
Delzenne, A. Poot and J. Willems, Focal Press London-New York, first
edition 1978, pages 33 to 39. An analogous process is described in
FR-P 2,080,616 wherein however a swellable hydrophilic layer is
comprised between the support and the photopolymerizable
composition.The use of the difference in tackiness to obtain an image is
described in e.g. US-P 3,060,024, 3,085,488 and 3,649,268.
According to the method disclosed in these US patents the image-wise
exposed photopolymerizable composition looses its tackiness in the
exposed parts while the non-exposed parts keep their tackiness. The 
non-exposed parts can therefore be colored with dry dye pigments to
make the image visible.According to a method disclosed in US-P 3,060,023 the adhesion
of the photopolymerizable composition is modified upon image-wise
exposure. After image-wise exposure the non-exposed parts will
stick or adhere, during a step of overall heating, to a receptor
sheet thus allowing the transfer of the non-exposed parts to the
receptor sheet.US-P 3,342,593 discloses a process for image production which
comprises (i) exposing a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An imaging element comprising on a hydrophilic base a hydrophobic
photopolymerizable composition capable of being irradiated with

actinic light through the support and/or through the front, and comprising at least one monomer and at least one polymeric binder,
characterized in that a water-swellable barrier layer comprising at

least one non-proteinic water-soluble film-forming polymer is
located between said hydrophilic base and said hydrophobic

photopolymerizable composition, contiguous to the hydrophilic base
and is coated at a ratio of 0.01 to 2.0 g/m2, said water-swellable

barrier layer being capable of being peeled off of said hydrophilic
base by dry development and comprising hydrophobic polymer beads

having an average diameter not lower than 0.2 µm and having been
prepared by polymerization of at least one ethylenically

unsaturated monomer.
An imaging element according to claim 1 wherein said hydrophilic
base is a grained, anodized, and sealed aluminum support.
An imaging element according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said
water-swellable barrier layer is coated at a ratio of 0.4 to 1.5

g/m
2
.
An imaging element according to any of claims 1 to 3 comprising
on top of said hydrophobic photopolymerizable composition a thermo-adhesive

layer having a glas transition temperature T
g
 value between
20 °C and 45 °C, measured with the 1090 THERMOANALYZER of Du Pont

Co., a melt viscosity greater than 7000 Poise and an elasticity
corresponding to a tg δ
-1
 value greater than 1.30 measured at 120 °C
with the VISCOELASTIC MELT TESTER of Rheometrics Co, Surrey, UK.
An imaging element according to any of claims 1 to 3 comprising
on 
top of said hydrophobic photopolymerizable composition a
pressure-adhesive layer with a continuous-coat (100% coverage) peel

adhesion value, when applied to untreated paper between 1 and 10
N/cm width. 
A method for obtaining a lithographic printing plate comprising
the steps of:


(a) image-wise or information-wise exposing an imaging element
according to any of claims 1 to 5
(b) laminating said imaging element with its upper non-receptor
layer to a receptor layer of a receptor element before or after said

exposure and
(c) peeling away the receptor element from the hydrophilic base thus
transferring said hydrophobic photopolymerizable composition

pattern-wise to the receptor element.
A method for obtaining a lithographic printing plate according to
claim 6 wherein the weight ratio in the hydrophobic

photopolymerizable composition between said monomer(s) and said
polymer(s) is less than 1 so as to form a negative working plate.
A method for obtaining a lithographic printing plate according to
claim 6 wherein the weight ratio in the hydrophobic

photopolymerizable composition between said monomer(s) and said
polymer(s) is more than 2 so as to form a positive working plate.
A method for obtaining a lithographic printing plate according to
claim 6 wherein said imaging element is an imaging element according

to any of claims 1 to 4 and wherein heating at a temperature between
40 °C and 180 °C is applied to either or both the hydrophilic base

and the receptor element before, while or after bringing both
elements in contact with each other.
A method for obtaining a lithographic printing plate according
to claim 6 wherein said imaging element is an imaging element

according to claim 6 and wherein pressure is applied while the
receptor layer is in contact with the upper non-receptor layer of

the imaging element.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
