<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639957</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DENTAL AIR ABRASIVE SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C302	A61C302	A61C3025	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A61C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C3	A61C3	A61C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Improvements are provided for a dental air abrasive system of the type which utilizes a compressed gas or air which creates a gas stream. Abrasive particles are introduced into the gas stream and expelled out through one end of a nozzle whereupon the abrasive laden gas stream impinges upon the target, i.e. tooth amalgam, composites, stain and/or tooth dental filling materials. The improvements include the use of two or more hoppers each containing different sized abrasive particles, which are selectively fed, either together or independently of each other, into the gas stream. Different sized abrasive particles are provided in each hopper for cutting different types of tooth structures. Other improvements include the use of fluorescent and/or colored abrasive particles to facilitate the aiming process, a laser beam, strobe, white light or other illuminating means for aiming the abrasive stream and/or illuminating the target area as well as a disposable nozzle for hygienic reasons. Other improvements include the use of a vacuum evacuation system to minimize dusting of the abrasive particles, as well as a dam removably positioned within the patient's mouth which reflects the abrasive particles back towards the evacuation system. Still other improvements include the use of a microvalve adjacent the nozzle which, when closed, terminates gas flow through the fluid passageway in order to further minimize dusting of the abrasive particles.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN DENTAL LASER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN DENTAL LASER INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSMITH DANIEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWELL MICHAEL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER WILLIAM S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOLDSMITH DANIEL S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWELL MICHAEL P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PARKER WILLIAM S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DENTAL AIR ABRASIVE SYSTEM Background of the InventionI. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to dental air abrasive systems for removing and/or cutting tooth structure, amalgam, composites, other dental tooth filling materials and/or stain.II. Description of the Prior ArtThere are a number of previously known air abrasive systems which have been used in dentistry for cutting tooth structure, such as enamel and dentin. These previously known air abrasive systems typically comprise an elongated tube having a nozzle at one end and having its other end coupled through a valve to a source of compressed air. Additionally, a hopper containing abrasive particles, such as aluminum oxide, are fed into the fluid passageway between the compressed air source and the nozzle. Thus, with the valve open, the compressed air creates an abrasive particle laden air stream which is expelled outwardly through the end of the nozzle. When this abrasive particle laden air stream is directed so that it impinges upon the tooth structure, cutting of the tooth structure results.Although such dental abrasive air systems have bene known for many years, they have not enjoyed widespread use or acceptance for a number of different reasons. One reason for the commercial failure of these previously known dental air abrasive systems is that such systems create a "dusting" around the work area. While such abrasive particles are medically harmless, they do create an untidy and undesirable condition for the patient. A still further disadvantage of these previously known dental air abrasive systems is that it was difficult to properly aim the effluent from the system nozzle. If improperly aimed, inadequate and imprecise cutting of the tooth structure can result or, alternatively, cutting of the wrong tooth structure and/or overcutting of the tooth structure. A still further disadvantage of these previously known dental air abrasive systems is that typically only one size of abrasive material could be 

 fed into the air stream. In practice, however, different types of abrasive materials and/or different sizes of abrasive materials are more desirable for different dental applications.Summary of the Present Invention The present invention provides a number of improvements in dental air abrasive systems which overcome all of the above mentioned disadvantages of the previously known devices.In brief, the air abrasive system of the present invention comprises a source of compressed gas, preferably air, having its outlet
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a first source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material having a first average size, a second source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material having a second average size different from said first average size, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from one of said sources of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site.
2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said sources contains abrasive material having at least two different colors.
3. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said feeding means simultaneously feeds abrasive material from said first and second source into said gas stream.
4. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said abrasive material in said first source has an average size of substantially 20-30 microns.
5. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said abrasive material in said second source has an average size of substantially 45-55 microns. 


 6. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for creating a gas stream comprises a source of pressurized air.
7. The invention as defined in claim 1 and further comprising at least a third source of abrasive particles different from said first and second source.
8. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, and means for illuminating the target site.
9. The invention as defined in claim 8 wherein said delivery means comprises an elongated tube which discharges the abrasive material out one end, and wherein said illuminating means comprises a lamp attached adjacent said one end of said tube.
10. The invention as defined in claim 8 wherein said illuminating means comprises a laser and means for aiming the laser at the target site.
11. The invention as defined in claim 10 wherein said laser is a helium neon laser. 


 12. The invention as defined in claim 8 wherein said illuminating means comprises a strobe light.
13. The invention as defined in claim 8 wherein said delivery means comprises an elongated tube which discharges the abrasive material out one end, and wherein said illuminating means comprises a strobe light attached adjacent said one of said tube.
14. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, and wherein at least a portion of said abrasive material is fluorescent or colored.
15. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, 


 - 16 -
wherein said delivering means comprises an elongated tube defining a fluid passageway having one end connected to said feeding means and adapted to discharge the abrasive laden gas stream out its other end, and valve means at said other end of said fluid passageway, said valve means being movable between an open position in which the abrasive material laden gas stream discharges from said other end of the fluid passageway, and a closed position in which gas discharge from said other end of said fluid passageway is terminated.
16. The invention as defined in claim 15 wherein said valve means comprises a pressure responsive valve so that said valve means is actuated to said open position only when the pressure at said other end of said fluid passageway exceeds a predetermined amount.
17. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, wherein said delivering means comprises an elongated tube defining a fluid passageway having one end connected to said feeding means and adapted to discharge the abrasive material laden gas stream out its other end, wherein said tube is constructed of an inelastic material so that fluid pressure within said tube does not expand the volume of said fluid passageway. 


 18. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, wherein said delivering means comprises an elongated tube defining a fluid passageway having one end connected to said feeding means and adapted to discharge the abrasive material laden gas stream out its other end, and a nozzle detachably secured to said other end of said fluid passageway.
19. The invention as defined in claim 18 wherein said nozzle is constructed of a disposable material.
20. The invention as defined in claim 18 wherein said nozzle is attached to a handpiece and said handpiece is made of a disposable material.
21. The invention as defined in claim 18 and comprising means for preventing reattachment of the nozzle following detachment from said fluid passageway.
22. The invention as defined in claim 18 wherein said nozzle is substantially conical in shape having a circular outlet port. 


 23. The invention as defined in claim 18 wherein said nozzle has a rectangular shape outlet port.
24. The invention as defined in claim 23 wherein the length to width ratio of the outlet port exceeds ten.
25. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, means for evacuating abrasive material following impingement on the tooth structure at the target site.
26. The invention as defined in claim 25 wherein said evacuating means comprises a source of vacuum, a hose having one end connected to the vacuum source and a scoop connected to the other end of said vacuum hose, said vacuum scoop adapted to be positioned immediately outside a patient's mouth.
27. The invention as defined in claim 26 wherein an end of said vacuum hose is dimensioned to be positioned within the patient's mouth adjacent the target site and wherein said scoop is positioned around said hose at a position spaced from said other end of said vacuum hose. 


 28. The invention as defined in claim 25 and comprising a dam removably positioned in a patient's mouth, said dam being positioned so that said dam deflects abrasive material particles towards said scoop.
29. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, wherein a majority of said abrasive material has a size of 45-55 microns.
30. The invention as defined in claim 29 wherein more than 95% of the abrasive material has a size of 45-55 microns.
31. The invention as defined in claim 29 wherein said abrasive material comprises fused white, roll crushed aluminum oxide.
32. The invention as defined in claim 29 wherein said abrasive material comprises jet milled aluminum oxide.
33. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, 


 means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, wherein said delivering means comprises an elongated tube defining a fluid passageway having one end connected to said feeding means and adapted to discharge the abrasive material laden gas stream out its other end, means for aiming said abrasive material laden gas stream at the target site.
34. The invention as defined in claim 33 wherein said aiming means comprises a laser beam.
35. The invention as defined in claim 34 wherein said laser beam is a helium neon laser beam.
36. The invention as defined in claim 34 wherein said aiming means comprises a focussed light attached to said other end of said tube.
37. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, 


 valve means for initiating the gas flow through said delivering means said valve means being movable between an open position in which said valve means establishes gas flow through said delivering means and a closed position in which said valve means terminates gas flow through said delivering means, means for actuating said valve means to an open position, and means for automatically closing said valve means after a predetermined time period following each actuation of said valve means to an open position.
38. The invention as defined in claim 37 wherein said valve means is a solenoid actuated valve.
39. The invention as defined in claim 37 wherein said predetermined time period is substantially one second.
40. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material at a user selected rate from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, means for varying said user selected rate of feeding abrasive material into said gas stream.
41. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, 


 means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, wherein said means for creating a gas stream comprises a source of compressed gas having an outlet and means for varying the pressure of the compressed gas at said outlet.
42. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, said creating means comprising a source of compressed gas having an outlet, and a gas pressure amplifier having an inlet connected to the outlet from the source of compresses gas and an outlet, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site.
43. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a first source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material having a first average size, a second source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material having a second average size different from said first average size, 


 means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, wherein said delivering means comprises a fluid junction connector, a first hose for delivering abrasive material gas stream from said first source to said junction connector, a second hose for delivering an abrasive material jet stream from said second source to said junction connector, and a handpiece connected to said junction connector.
44. The invention as defined in claim 43 and comprising a valve means in said junction connector for selectively fluidly opening said hoses.
45. The invention as defined in claim 44 wherein said valve means is pressure actuated.
46. A handpiece for a dental gas abrasive material system of the type which discharges an abrasive material laden gas stream at a target site on tooth structure comprising: a body, a nozzle on said body through which the gas stream is discharged, and a probe extending outwardly from said nozzle by a predetermined distance. 


 47. The invention as defined in claim 46 wherein said body is detachably connected to the system.
48. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a main unit which generates a gas stream laden with abrasive material, a fluid conduit loop, means for fluidly connecting said gas stream from said main unit to said loop, means for recirculating abrasive material laden gas in said loop, at least two remote stations, user operated means at each remote station for selectively withdrawing a portion of the abrasive material laden gas stream from said loop and means for delivering said withdrawn portion to a target site at the tooth structure.
49. The invention as defined in claim 48 wherein said withdrawing means comprises a valve having an inlet open to said loop and an outlet open to said delivering means.
50. The invention as defined in claim 49 wherein said valve further comprises means for relieving pressure from said delivering means upon closure of said valve.
51. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, 


 means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, and a flavoring added to said source of abrasive material.
52. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, wherein said delivering means comprises an elongated tube defining a fluid passageway having one end connected to said feeding means and adapted to discharge the abrasive material laden gas stream out its other end, and handpiece having a nozzle secured to said other end of said fluid passageway, and means attached to said handpiece for actuating said delivery means.
53. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, 


 means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, means for reducing dusting of abrasive material following impingement of the abrasive material on the tooth structure at the target site.
54. The invention as defined in claim 53 wherein said dusting reducing means comprises means for spraying water adjacent said target site.
55. The invention as defined in claim 54 wherein said spraying means creates a water spray which encloses said abrasive material laden gas stream.
56. The invention as defined in claim 55 wherein said water spray is substantially conical in shape.
57. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream comprising a source of pressurized gas, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material at a user selected rate from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, means for varying said user selected rate of feeding abrasive material into said gas stream, and 


 means for varying the pressure of said pressurized gas source.
58. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material at a user selected rate from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, means for varying said user selected rate of feeding abrasive material into said gas stream in accordance with the desired rate of removal of the tooth structure.
59. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream comprising a source of compressed gas, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material at a user selected rate from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, means for varying the pressure of said pressurized gas source in accordance with the desired rate of removal of the tooth structure.
60. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: 


 a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, valve means for initiating the gas flow through said delivering means, said valve means being movable between an open position in which said valve means establishes gas flow through said delivering means and a closed position in which said valve means terminates gas flow through said delivering means, means for actuating said valve means to an open position, and means for automatically introducing a preset amount of abrasive material into the gas stream during each actuation of said valve means.
61. A method for desensitizing tooth structure comprising: creating an abrasive material laden gas stream, and directing said gas stream toward said tooth structure.
62. In combination: a dental air abrasive system of the type which directs an abrasive material laden gas stream at tooth structure, and a dental mirror, said mirror being coated with a scratch resistant material.
63. An apparatus for cutting tooth structure comprising: a source of abrasive material containing an abrasive material, means for creating a gas stream, 


 means for delivering said gas stream to a target site at the tooth structure, means for selectively feeding abrasive material from said source of abrasive material into said gas stream upstream from said delivering means so that said gas stream is laden with abrasive material, wherein said gas stream is of sufficient velocity so that, when laden with abrasive material, cuts tooth structure at the target site, and means for illuminating the target site comprising a light source and an elongated optical transmission fiber having one end disposed adjacent the light source and a second end directed at the target site, said fiber transmitting light from said source to said target site.
64. The invention as defined in claim 63 wherein said light source has optical qualities capable of curing light curable dental composites. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
