<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641447</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RADIO FREQUENCY RANGING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S510	G01S510	G01S1100	G01S1108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S5	G01S5	G01S11	G01S11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RACAL POSITIONING SYST LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RACAL POSITIONING SYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARNER EDWARD STEVEN PEN-Y-MOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WARNER, EDWARD, STEVEN 8 PEN-Y-MOR ROAD PENLAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RADIO FREQUENCY RANGING APPARATUSThe present invention concerns radio frequency ranging apparatus. The invention is particularly applicable to radio frequency ranging apparatus used as radio positioning apparatus, e.g. as a navigational aid. However, the invention also has application in other forms of ranging apparatus, such as radar, in which the propagation time of radio signals is used to obtain a range and/or a position. In radio positioning systems, the position of a receiver relative to a number of transmitters is determined. In radar systems, the positions of the transmitter and receiver are generally known (usually the same) and the radio signal propagation time is employed to determine the range of a reflecting target.In radio positioning systems, spread-spectrum (SS) are known and used particularly to reduce interference between the transmitters of the radio positioning system and other users of the radio frequency spectrum. Spread-spectrum techniques permit the power spectral density (psd) to be kept low whilst maintaining sufficient total power in the transmitted signal for adequate reception.In some systems, such as radar, the radio signals can be transmitted as short pulses of radio frequency energy, but this is an inefficient method of ensuring adequate mean power, and also generates high levels of interference. For radio positioning systems, a commonly employed technique is to measure the phase on reception of unmodulated continuous wave (CW) narrow band carrier. Systems employing this technique include the navigation systems called Omega and Hyper-Fix. A problem with CW systems is that a receiver cannot distinguish between 

multiples of 2π in phase. In addition, the use of CW does not permit discrimination between the wanted signal propagated via the direct path between transmitter and receiver, and interference propagated by other paths, such as the so called "sky wave" signal reflected by the ionosphere.More recently, spread-spectrum techniques have been introduced for radio positioning and current examples include Geoloc, Syledis and Spot. In spread-spectrum techniques for radio positioning employed hitherto, a carrier wave is phase angle modulated by a digital code sequence. The digital code sequence is typically a pseudorandom noise (PN) code. In a PN code, the individual elements of the binary code sequence are known as chips, and the frequency of these code elements is known as the chip rate. A particular PN code has a predetermined number of chips before the code sequence
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Radio, frequency ranging apparatus comprising a transmitter having a pseudorandom noise (PN) code generator and a modulator to modulate a carrier frequency with the generated PN code for transmission; and a receiver comprising a processing means incorporating a correlator to correlate a PN code, recovered from a radio signal received from the transmitter, with a similar reference PN code and providing a time signal dependent on a propagration time for said radio signal between the transmitter and the receiver, wherein said PN code generator is arranged to generate a plurality of PN codes having the same number of chips and a common chip rate, said PN codes being equally time shifted one from the next within the period of a single chip of said PN codes, and said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals with respective said codes for transmission as respective radio signals, and wherein the receiver is arranged to receive said respective radio signals and said processing means includes combining means to combine the received PN codes to recover a higher rate PN code having a chip rate which is the product of said common chip rate and the number of said received PN codes, said correlator being arranged to correlate said recovered higher rate PN code with a similar reference PN code.
2. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said PN code generator in the transmitter comprises means to generate a PN code having a higher chip rate and sampling means to sample the chips of said higher rate PN code sequentially to form said plurality of PN codes at a common lower chip rate which is equal to said 


higher rate divided by the number of said plurality of PN codes.
3. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals each having a different frequency, such that the band widths of each carrier signal does not substantially overlap.
4. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals each having substantially the same frequency.
5. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in Claim l or Claim 2 wherein said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals, each having a different frequency such that the band widths of each carrier signal substantially overlap.
6. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in any preceding Claim, wherein said combining means comprises adding means for performing modulo two addition of the received PN codes.
7. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the chips of the PN codes are represented as +1 and -1 in accordance with their binary state, and the combining means comprises multiplying means to multiply together the chips of the received PN codes.
8. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim and configured as radio positioning apparatus, wherein the apparatus includes at least three 


said transmitters and at least one said receiver, said processing means thereof providing said time signals for each of the transmitters from which radio signals are received at the receiver and identifying a position for the receiver relative to the transmitters from- said time signals.
9. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, wherein each said transmitter has different sets of carrier frequencies.
10. Radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, wherein each said transmitter has the same set of carrier frequencies and transmits for a predetermined time period on the set of carrier frequencies.
11. A receiver for use in radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the receiver comprises processing means incorporating a correlator to correlate a received radio signal modulated with a PN code with a similar reference PN code and providing a time signal dependent on a progagation time for said radio signal between a transmitter and the receiver, wherein the receiver is arranged to receive a plurality of radio signals from a transmitter comprising respective carrier signals modulated by respective
PN codes each having the same number of chips and a common chip rate, said PN codes being equally offset in time one from the next within the period of a single chip of said PN codes, and the processing means includes combining means to combine the received PN codes to recover a higher rate PN code having a chip rate which is the product of said common chip rate and the number of said received PN codes, said correlator being arranged to correlate said 


recovered higher rate PN code with a similar reference PN code.
12. A receiver as claimed in Claim 11, wherein said receiver is arranged to receive a plurality of
*
radio signals comprising a plurality of carrier signals each having a different frequency, the band widths of each carrier signal not substantially overlapping.
13. A receiver as claimed in Claim 11, wherein said receiver is arranged to receive a plurality of radio signals comprising a plurality of carrier signals each having substantially the same frequency.
14. A receiver as claimed in Claim 11, wherein said receiver is arranged to receive a plurality of radio signals comprising a plurality of carrier signals each having a different frequency the band widths of each carrier signal substantially overlapping.
15. A transmitter for use in radio frequency ranging apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the transmitter comprises a pseudorandom noise (PN) code generator and a modulator to modulate a carrier frequency with the generated PN code for transmission, wherein said PN code generator is arranged to generate a plurality of PN codes having the same number of chips and a common chip rate, said PN codes being equally offset in time one from the next within the period of a single chip of said PN codes, and said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals with respective said codes for transmission as respective radio signals. 


16. A transmitter as claimed in Claim 15 wherein said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals each having a different frequency, such that the band widths of each carrier signal does not substantially overlap.
17. A transmitter as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals each having substantially the same frequency.
18. A transmitter as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said modulator is arranged to modulate a corresponding plurality of carrier signals each having a different frequency, such that the band width of each carrier signal substantially overlaps.
19. Radio frequency ranging apparatus substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
20. Radio positioning apparatus substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
