<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0664616</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Phase-lock loop initialized by a calibrated oscillator-control value.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03L300	H03L300	H03L708	H03L710	H03L714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03L3	H03L3	H03L7	H03L7	H03L7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A phase-lock loop (FIG. 1) is initialized at power-up by an oscillator (14) control 
signal (28) that has previously been stored by a processor (20) in a non-volatile 

memory (27). The stored control signal is generated by the phase-lock loop's 
controller (12) in response to receipt of a calibrated reference input signal, as part of 

manufacturing of the phase-lock loop and occasionally thereafter during normal 
operation. Being stored in non-volatile memory, the control signal is not lost upon 

removal of power from the phase-lock loop. The stored control signal is then used to 
control the oscillator instead of the controller's output upon power-up and until the 

later one of (a) receipt by the phase-lock loop of a valid reference signal and (b) 
receipt of a directive for the controller to take over control of the oscillator. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORTOLINI JAMES ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMES GARY JOE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BORTOLINI, JAMES ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIMES, GARY JOE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to phase-lock loop circuits. Phase-lock loops (also sometimes referred to as phase-locked loops) are 
well-known circuits. Conventionally used as a clock-frequency generator in 
telecommunications systems, a phase-lock loop locally generates an output signal 
stream that is referenced to or locked to (i.e., that tracks) a remotely-supplied 
reference input signal stream, in both frequency and phase. Both analog and digital 
implementations of phase-lock loops are well known. The basic configuration of a phase-lock loop includes an oscillator that 
generates the local output signal. The oscillator output is fed as an input to a phase 
comparator, along with the remote reference signal. Output of the phase comparator, 
which is representative of the frequency and phase difference of its two inputs, is fed 
to a controller that converts this difference signal into a control signal for the 
oscillator. Under influence of the control signal, the output of the oscillator is 
adjusted to track the remotely-supplied reference input signal. Conventionally, upon power-up (start-up) of the phase-lock loop and 
before it has had time to lock onto the reference input signal, or upon loss of the 
reference input signal following the phase-lock loop having locked thereunto, the 
phase-lock loop has been operated in a "free running" mode. That is, the output 
signal generated by the phase-lock loop has been the output of the oscillator 
operating free of any adjustment to its operation being made by the controller. For 
the output of the phase-lock loop to be useful while "free running", it has been 
necessary to use a very precise and stable oscillator that could be depended upon to 
independently operate very precisely at the reference signal's frequency, and to not 
drift in frequency and phase over very long periods of time (e.g., years). However, 
such oscillators are very expensive. To avoid the use of a very expensive oscillator yet still ensure that the 
phase-lock loop output remains stable during temporary loss of the reference input 
signal, a capability known as "holdover" has been developed and is well-known in 
the art. This capability involves temporarily latching the control signal generated by 
the controller immediately prior to the loss of the reference input signal, and 
continuing to use the latched control signal to control the output of the oscillator 
during the time period when the reference input signal is not available. However, the  
 
"holdover" capability has done
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A phase-lock loop (FIG. 1) comprising 
   oscillator means (14) for generating an output signal under influence of 

a control signal; and 
   oscillator control means (11, 12) coupled to the oscillator means for 

generating the control signal under influence of a received reference signal; 
   CHARACTERISED BY 

   means (13, 17-29, 20:26) responsive to receipt by the oscillator control 
means of a predetermined said reference signal for storing the control signal, 

generated by the oscillator control means under the influence of the predetermined 
reference signal, in a non-volatile manner; and 

   means (13, 17-29, 20:29) responsive to power-up of the phase-lock loop, 
for supplying the stored control signal to the oscillator means to influence generation 

of the output signal at power-up instead of any said control signal that is generated at 
power-up by the oscillator control means. 
The phase-lock loop of claim 1 wherein: 
   the supplying means are responsive to the power-up for supplying 

(FIG. 3) the stored control signal to the oscillator means from power-up until a 
later-occurring one of (a) receipt by the oscillator control means of a reference 

signal and (b) receipt of an indication that the oscillator control means is to start 
controlling the output of the oscillator means. 
The phase-lock loop of claim 1 wherein: 
   the storing means comprise 

   non-volatile memory means (27), and 
   means (20:26) for selectively storing the control signal generated by the 

oscillator control means in the non-volatile memory means; and 
   the supplying means comprise 

   switching means (13) for selectively connecting and disconnecting the 
control signal generated by the oscillator control means to and from the oscillator 

means, and 
   means (20:29) for retrieving the stored control signal from the non-volatile 

memory means and supplying the retrieved control signal to the oscillator 
means while the oscillator control means is disconnected by the switching means 

from the oscillator means. 
The phase-lock loop of claim 3 wherein: 
   the means for selectively storing and the means for retrieving and 

supplying comprise 
   a digital processor (20) operating under stored program control. 
The phase-lock loop of claim 1 wherein: 
   the oscillator means is an oscillator (14); 

   the oscillator control means comprise 
   a controller (12) for generating the control signal in accordance with a 

phase difference signal, and 
   a phase comparator (11) for comparing a phase of a received reference 

signal with a phase of the output signal and generating the phase difference signal 
that is representative of their phase difference; and 

   the supplying means comprise 
   means (17-29) for supplying a calibrated said control signal to the 

oscillator at power-up of the phase-lock loop, and 
   switching means (13) interposed between the controller, the oscillator, 

and the supplying means for selectively connecting the control signal generated by 
the controller to both the oscillator and the supplying means and selectively 

connecting the calibrated control signal to the oscillator in place of the control signal 
generated by the controller, wherein 

   the means for supplying a calibrated said control signal comprise 
   a non-volatile memory (27), 

   means (20:26) for causing the switching means to connect the control 
signal generated by the controller to both the oscillator and the supplying means and 

responsive to receipt by the phase-comparator of a predetermined said reference 
signal for storing the control signal, that is generated by the controller in accordance 

with a phase difference signal representative of the phase difference of the output 
signal and the predetermined reference signal, in the non-volatile memory as the 

calibrated control signal, and 
   means (20:29) responsive to power-up of the phase-lock loop for 

retrieving the calibrated control signal from the non-volatile memory and causing the 
switching means to connect the retrieved calibrated control signal to the oscillator in 

place of any control signal generated by the controller. 
The phase-lock loop of claim 5 wherein:
 

   the retrieving and causing means comprise 
   means responsive, following power-up, to a later-occurring one of (a) 

receipt by the phase comparator of a reference signal and (b) receipt of an indication 
that the controller is to start controlling the oscillator, for causing (FIG. 3) the 

switching means to cease connecting the calibrated control signal to the oscillator in 
place of the control signal generated by the controller and to connect to the oscillator 

the control signal generated by the controller. 
The phase-lock loop of claim 6 wherein: 
   the means for supplying the calibrated control signal comprise
 
   a digital processor (20) operating under stored program control. 
A method of operating a phase-lock loop (FIG. 1) comprising an 
oscillator (14) for generating an output signal under influence of a control signal and 

an oscillator control (11, 12) coupled to the oscillator for generating the control 
signal under influence of a received reference signal, CHARACTERISED BY the 

steps of: 
   in response to receipt by the oscillator control of a predetermined said 

reference signal, storing (FIG. 2) the control signal, generated by the oscillator 
control under the influence of the predetermined reference signal, in a non-volatile 

manner; and 
   in response to power-up of the phase-lock loop, supplying (FIG. 3) the 

stored control signal to the oscillator to influence generation of the output signal at 
power-up instead of any said control signal that is generated at power-up by the 

oscillator control. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
