<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642156</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED ENCAPSULATED SEMICONDUCTOR CHIP MODULE AND METHOD OF FORMING THE SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	H01L2156	H01L2328	H01L2329	H01L2331	H01L2348	H01L23495	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	H01L21	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a method for forming an improved 
lead-on chip semiconductor module and an improved module of this 

type. In a lead-on chip semiconductor device (30), a semiconductor 
chip (12) which has a major surface having input and output bonding 

pads (18) thereon, is secured to a lead frame having a plurality of 
leads (14) adjacent the bonding pads by means of bonding wires 

connecting a respective one of the leads to a pad on the chip. A 
coating of dielectric material (28) having a Young's modulus in the 

range of about 10 psi to about 500 psi is disposed around the 
entire length of each of the wires and over the pads and over the 

portion of the respective leads to which the wires are connected to 
act as a stress buffer. This material preferably has a T
g
 of at 
least as low as -40°C. Also preferably this package is 

encapsulated with conventional encapsulant. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FROEBEL, FRANCIS EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARDELL, DAVID LEWIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IRISH, GARY HUGH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAIKH, MOHAMMED SIDDIQUE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an improved encapsulated 
semiconductor chip module of the "lead-on-chip" variety, and more 
particularly to such module which has improved resistance to wire 
bond failures and a method of forming such module. Lead-on-chip encapsulated modules such as those described in U.S. 
Patent 4,862,245, issued August 29, 1989 to Richard P. Pashby, et 
al. and assigned to the International Business Machines Corporation 
are well known in the art. These modules are comprised of a 
semiconductor chip having a plurality of bonding pads on one major 
surface, a dielectric layer joined to said surface and adjacent the 
bonding pads, and a plurality of lead frame conductors extending 
across the dielectric layer and ending immediately adjacent to the 
bonding pads. A gold wire is bonded to most of the bonding pads on 
the chip and extends from each respective pad to the bus bar or to 
each respective lead frame conductor. After bonding, the module is 
formed by the package encapsulation of the chips and leads in a 
hard plastic material. An improved lead-on-chip device is shown in U.S. Patent 5,151,559, 
dated September 29, 1992 and issued to H. Ward Conru, et al. and 
assigned to the International Business Machines Corporation. In 
this improved device, a second dielectric, comprised of a thermal 
setting plastic, is forced down over the wires after the wires are 
bonded to the chip pads and the lead frame conductors and before  
 
encapsulation of the package. Forces are applied to the second 
dielectric layer to cause the wires underneath to be crushed down 
and held against the respective pads and leads to which they are 
connected. This improves the contact between the wire and the leads 
and minimizes defects or failures in wire bonding junctions. This 
improved device is particularly advantageous when used in a stacked 
semiconductor arrangement. A problem of wire bond reliability occurs when lead-on-chip 
semiconductors are repeatedly exposed to a wide range of 
temperature variations. Such temperature cycling leads to expansion 
of the encapsulated materials. The resulting internal stress 
causes breaking of the wires or ruptures in the junctions between 
the wires and the lead frame or terminal pads. The present invention is an improved lead-on-chip semiconductor, as 
taught in U.S. Patent 4,862,245. It differs from the devices 
disclosed in this patent by placing a thin coat of material having 
a Young's modulus in the range of 10 psi to about 500 psi around 
not only the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor package comprising: 
a semiconductor chip having a major surface with input and 

output bonding pads thereon; 
a lead frame having a plurality of leads adjacent said first 

major surface of said chip; 
a respective bonding wire connecting a respective one of each 

of the leads to a respective pad on said chip; 
a coating of a dielectric material having a Young's modulus in 

the range of about 10 psi to about 500 psi disposed around the 
entire length of each of said wires, over said pads, and over 

that portion of the respective leads to which said wires are 
connected. 
A semiconductor package according to claim 1, further 
comprising an encapsulating material disposed over and 

enclosing said semiconductor chip, said coated bonding wires, 
said pads and at least that portion of the lead frame to which 

said wires are respectively bonded. 
A semiconductor package according to claim 2 wherein a portion 
of the lead frame conductor extends out of said 

encapsulating material. 
The semiconductor package according to claim 2 wherein said 
dielectric coating material has sufficient viscosity to retain 

its shape during encapsulation. 
The semiconductor package of claim 2 wherein said dielectric 
coating material has a glass transition temperature of at 

least as low as -40°C. 
The semiconductor package of claim 2 wherein said dielectric 
coating material has a glass transition temperature of at 

least as low as -50°C. 
The semiconductor package of claim 2 wherein said dielectric 
coating material has a glass transition temperature of at 

least as low as -65°C. 
The semiconductor package of claim 2 wherein said dielectric 
coating material has a glass transition temperature of at 

least as low as -100°C. 
The semiconductor package of claim 2 wherein said dielectric 
coating material has a coefficient of thermal expansion 

of from about 0 ppm/°F to about 1000 ppm/°F. 
The semiconductor package of claim 2 wherein said dielectric 
coating material is a silicone gel. 
The semiconductor package of claim 2 wherein the vertical loop 
height of said bonding wire is at least as low as 0.015 

inches. 
A semiconductor package comprising: 
a semiconductor chip having a major surface with input and 

output bonding pads thereon; 
an electrically insulating layer on said major surface of said 

conductor chip;
 

a lead frame having a plurality of leads; 
a portion of each lead in said lead frame being secured to the 

electrically insulating layer and a different portion of each 
lead frame extending beyond the insulating layer; 

a bus bar; 
a respective bonding wire connecting a respective bonding pad 

on the major surface of the chip to a respective lead frame 
conductor or to the bus bar; 

a dielectric material coating the entire length of each of 
said wires, said pads, that portion of the bus bar to which 

said wires are connected, and that portion of the respective 
leads to which said wires are connected, said dielectric 

coating material having a Young's modulus in the range of 
about 10 psi to about 500 psi. 
A semiconductor package of claim 12 further comprising an 
encapsulating material disposed over and enclosing said 

semiconductor chip, said coated bonding wires, said pads, said 
bus bar and that portion of the lead frame to which said wires 

are respectively bonded. 
A semiconductor package according to claim 13 wherein a 
portion of the lead frame conductor extends out of said 

encapsulating material. 
The semiconductor package of claim 13 wherein said dielectric 
film has a glass transition temperature of at least as low as 

-40°C. 
The semiconductor package of claim 13 wherein said dielectric 
coating material has a coefficient of thermal expansion of 0 

ppm/°F to 1000 ppm/°F. 
A semiconductor package comprising: 
a semiconductor chip having a major surface with input and 

output bonding pads thereon; 
a lead frame having a plurality of leads adjacent said major 

surface of said chip; 
wire bonds connecting a respective lead frame to a respective 

bonding pad 
a coating of a dielectric material around the entire length of 

each of said wires, over said pads, and over that portion of 
the respective leads to which said wires are connected, said 

dielectric film having a Young's modulus in the range of about 
10 psi to 500 psi, a glass transition temperature of at least 

as low as -40°C, and a coefficient of thermal expansion in the 
range of 0 ppm/°F to 1000 ppm/°F. 
A semiconductor package of claim 17 wherein said dielectric 
film has a Young's modulus of about 25 psi. 
A semiconductor package of claim 17 wherein said dielectric 
film has a coefficient of thermal expansion of no greater than 

300 ppm/° F. 
A semiconductor package of claim 17, further comprising an 
encapsulating material disposed over and enclosing said 

semiconductor chip, said coated bonding wires, pads and that 
portion of the lead frame to which said wires are respectively 

bonded, the remainder of said lead frame conductors extending 
out of said encapsulating material. 
A semiconductor package of claim 17 wherein the vertical loop 
height of said wires is at least as short as 0.015 inches. 
A method of forming a semiconductor package comprising the 
steps of: 

providing a semiconductor chip having first and second major 
surfaces with input and output bonding pads on the first major 

surface; 
providing a lead frame having a plurality of leads adjacent 

said chip; 
electrically connecting respective ones of the leads to 

respective ones of the bonding pads on the chip by conductive 
bonding wires therebetween; 

coating the entire length of each of said wires, said pads, 
and that portion of the respective leads to which said wires 

are connected with a dielectric material having a Young's 
modulus in the range of about 10 psi to about 500 psi. 
A method of forming a semiconductor package comprising the 
steps of: 

securing an electrically insulating layer on a major surface 
of a semiconductor chip having input and output bonding pads 

on the major surface; 
securing a lead frame having a plurality of leads on the 

insulating layer; 
electrically connecting respective ones of the leads to 

respective ones of the bonding pads on the chip by conductive 
bonding wires therebetween; 

applying a stress buffer, comprising a dielectric material 
having a Young's modulus in the range of about 10 psi to 500 

psi, a glass transition temperature of at least -40°C, and a 
coefficient of thermal expansion in the range of 0 ppm/°F to 

1000 ppm/°F.around the entire length of each of said wires, 
over said pads, and over that portion of the respective leads 

to which said wires are connected. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
