<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634666</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Receiving device for receiving and demodulating spectral diffusion-modulated GPS wave.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S100	G01S100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S1	G01S1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A receiving device for receiving spread spectrum-modulated 
GPS signal transmitted from GPS (Global 

Positioning System) satellites to the earth. Received GPS 
signals are converted into IF signals which are despread-demodulated 

on the basis of C/A codes, resulting in 
demodulated PSK signals. Carriers are reproduced from the 

IF signals and a clock signal for C/A code generator is 
produced from the reproduced carrier and a local 

oscillation signal. The PSK signal is demodulated on the 
basis of a reference frequency of a PLL circuit to obtain 

a navigation message. 
With this construction, it is possible to stably 
receive GPS signals from a plurality of GPS satellites 

with suitable timing by using a simple circuit 
construction. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VICTOR COMPANY OF JAPAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VICTOR COMPANY OF JAPAN, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIGAKI YUKINOBU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHIGAKI, YUKINOBU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a receiving device 
for receiving and demodulating GPS (Global Positioning 
System) waves which are spread spectrum-modulated and 
transmitted from GPS satellites to the earth. The GPS satellite which was developed originally for 
military use has been partially opened for public use for 
finding the position of an object on the ground or in the 
ocean. A position finder which utilizes GPS waves has 
been used in a ship or car navigation system and in a 
portable position finding system, etc. The position is 
measured with very high precision. Recently, portable 
position finding systems have found many more uses and a 
bright future for the development of such systems is 
foreseen. Electromagnetic waves transmitted from a GPS 
satellite include a carrier modulated with a spread-modulated 
signal obtained by spread-modulating a 
navigation message using two kinds of diffusion codes, C/A 
(Clear and Acquisition) code and P (precision) code which 
is for military purpose and is not open. There are a 
plurality of GPS satellites in the sky today and the C/A 
code and P code for each satellite is different. A current position can be obtained by simultaneously 
receiving electromagnetic waves from at least three of 
these GPS satellites and calculating the distances from 
these satellites on the basis of the times of propagation 
for the signal from these satellites to a receiver and the 
propagation speed of the electromagnetic wave.  Fig. 1 shows a transmitter on a GPS satellite. The 
transmitter transmits a signal whose spectrum is spread by 
two carriers, the so-called L1 carrier having a center 
frequency of 1.5754 GHz and the L2 carrier having a center 
frequency of 1.2276 GHz. A cesium atomic clock which vibrates very stably is 
used as an atomic clock 1. The atomic clock 1 oscillates 
at a reference frequency of 10.23 MHz and the carriers and 
the respective codes are produced from the reference 
frequency. The L1 carrier is obtained from an L1 carrier 
generator 3 after multiplying the reference frequency 
generated by the atomic clock 1 by 154 in a 154 frequency 
multiplier 2 (center frequency 1.57542 GHz = 10.23 MHz X 
154). The spread code (C/A code) of 1.023 Mbps and of 
period of 1023 chips is generated by dividing the 
reference frequency by 10 in a 1/10 frequency divider 4 to 
generate a clock of 1.023 MHz and supplying the clock to a 
C/A code generator 5. The navigation message inherent to the satellite is 
generated as data of 50 bps by dividing the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A receiving device for receiving and demodulating 
spread spectrum-modulated GPS electromagnetic waves from 

GPS satellites characterized by: 
   C/A code generator means (29; 135) for generating a 

C/A code corresponding to that of an aimed GPS satellite 
on a basis of a clock signal; 

   frequency conversion means (23-25; 124, 126, 127, 
129, 130) for converting said received GPS electromagnetic 

wave into at least one intermediate frequency signal by 
means of a local oscillation signal; 

   despread-demodulation means (28, 33; 133, 134) for 
obtaining a PSK signal by performing a despread-demodulation 

by multiplying said intermediate frequency 
signal with said C/A code; 

   carrier reproduction means (52; 136) for reproducing 
a carrier of the PSK signal from said PSK signal; 

clock signal generator means (30-32, 41-45, 138, 139, 140-145) 
for generating a clock signal from said reproduced 

carrier and said local oscillation signal and supplying 
said clock signal to said C/A code generator means; and 

   demodulation means (47, 48; 137, 146) for 
demodulating GPS data from a frequency of said reproduced 

carrier and said PSK signal. 
The receiving device as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in that said clock signal generator means 

(30-32, 41-45) comprises: 
   first frequency divider means (42) for dividing the 

frequency of said reproduced carrier to provide a first 
frequency divided signal; 

   second frequency divider means (41) for dividing the 
frequency of said local oscillation signal to provide a 

second frequency divided signal;
 

   operation means (43) for receiving said first and 
second frequency divided signals and producing an output 

signal; and 
   means (30-32) for producing a clock signal from said 

output of said operation means and supplying said produced 
clock signal to said C/A code generator means. 
The receiving device as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in that said frequency conversion means 

includes: 
   first frequency conversion means (124, 126, 127) for 

converting said received GPS electromagnetic wave into a 
first intermediate frequency signal by means of said local 

oscillation signal; 
   second frequency conversion means (127, 129, 130) for 

converting said first intermediate frequency signal 
obtained from said first frequency conversion means i
nto a 
second intermediate frequency signal by means of said 

local oscillation signal; and 
   said despread-demodulation means (133, 134) obtains 

said PSK signal by performing said despread-demodulation 
by multiplying said second intermediate frequency signal 

with said C/A code. 
The receiving device as claimed in any one of claims 
1-3, characterized in that said carrier reproducing means 

(52; 136) includes a phase locked loop circuit. 
The receiving device as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that 

   said first frequency conversion means (124, 126, 127 
includes first frequency multiplier means (126) for 

multiplying the frequency of said local oscillation signal 
by a first multiplier (N1); 

   said second frequency conversion means (127, 129, 
130) includes second frequency multiplier means (130) for 

 
multiplying the frequency of said local oscillation signal 

by a second multiplier (N2); 
   said clock signal producing means (138, 139, 140-145) 

includes frequency divider means (140) for dividing the 
frequency of said reproduced carrier; and in that 

   a multiplier (N) obtained by adding the first 
multiplier (N1) to the second multiplier (N2) and a 

frequency divisor of said frequency divider means are 
equal to a multiplier of a reference signal multiplier 

means for producing a carrier by multiplying a reference 
signal from a reference signal generator means in said GPS 

satellite, respectively. 
The receiving device as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that said clock signal generator means 

(138, 139, 140-145) comprises: 
   first frequency divider means (140) for dividing the 

frequency of said reproduced carrier to provide a first 
frequency divided signal; 

   operation means (141) for receiving said first 
frequency divided signal and said local oscillation signal 

and providing an output signal having a frequency equal to 
that of the reference signal from said reference signal 

generator means in said GPS satellite; 
   second frequency divider means (144) for dividing the 

frequency of said output signal of said signal operation 
means; and 

   means (138, 139, 145) for producing a clock signal 
from an output of said second frequency divider and 

supplying said produced clock signal to said C/A code 
generator means. 
The receiving device as claimed in any one of the 
previous claims characterized in that said operation means 

(43; 141) of said clock signal generator means includes an 
Ex-OR gate. 
The receiving device as claimed in any one of the 
previous claims characterized in that said operation means 

(43; 141) of said clock signal generator means includes a 
multiplier. 
A method of receiving and demodulating spread 
spectrum-modulated GPS electromagnetic waves from GPS 

satellites characterized by the steps of: 
   generating a C/A code corresponding to that of an 

aimed GPS satellite on a basis of a clock signal; 
   converting said received GPS electromagnetic wave 

into at least one intermediate frequency signal by means 
of a local oscillation signal; 

   obtaining a PSK signal by multiplying said 
intermediate frequency signal with said C/A code to 

perform a despread-demodulation; 
   reproducing a carrier of the PSK signal from said PSK 

signal; 
   producing a clock signal from said reproduced carrier 

and said local oscillation signal; and 
   demodulating GPS data from said reproduced carrier 

and said PSK signal. 
A method of receiving and demodulating spread 
spectrum-modulated GPS electromagnetic waves as claimed in 

claim 9 characterized in that said frequency conversion 
includes the steps of: 

   converting said received GPS electromagnetic wave 
into a first intermediate frequency signal by means of 

said local oscillation signal; 
   converting said first intermediate frequency signal 

into a second intermediate frequency signal by means of 
said local oscillation signal; and 

   obtaining said PSK signal by multiplying said second 
intermediate frequency signal with said C/A code to 

perform said despread-demodulation. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
