<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654157</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF SELECTING AMONG MULTIPLE DATA STREAMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F1300	A63F1300	G06F306	G06F306	G11B2010	G11B2010	G11B2700	G11B2700	G11B2710	G11B2710	H04N5765	H04N5765	H04N5926	H04N5926	H04N5937	H04N5937	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	G06F	G06F	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F13	A63F13	G06F3	G06F3	G11B20	G11B20	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method of selecting and switching among multiple sequential data streams operate without interruption in output. Elements of the data streams are stored in a buffer to cover seek times when switching among data streams, or to cover interleave gaps in embodiments employing interleave techniques. Alternative embodiments employ alternative techniques for loading the buffer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIGITAL PICTURES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIGITAL PICTURES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLNER CHARLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSMIAK EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOOHOO KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KELLNER, CHARLIE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUSMIAK, EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOOHOO, KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionSYSTEM AND METHOD OF SELECTING AMONG MULTIPLE DATA STREAMSBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to the processing and outputting of multiple data streams from computer data storage peripherals and, more particu- larly, to a system and method of selecting among multiple data streams in peripherals having greater access times for non-sequential data reads than for sequential data reads.2. Description of the Related ArtIn the field of computer data storage peripherals, "access time" is defined as the time it takes for a peripheral to access the storage medium and retrieve an element of data. For many peripherals, including compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM) drives, the access time of a non-se¬ quential read is greater than that of a sequential read. The difference in access time may occur for a variety of reasons; in a CD-ROM system it is primarily due to the additional time required for the lens to physically move across the surface of the medium in a non-sequential read. This additional time is called "seek time". During the seek time, no data may be read from the storage medium.For example, a typical CD-ROM drive can read a contiguous stream of data (in other words, a series of sequential reads), at a rate of approxi¬ mately 150 kilobytes per second. To perform a non-sequential read, how¬ ever, the drive's lens must stop and seek the location of the new data, which takes approximately 0.5 to 1.0 seconds.In many typical CD-ROM applications, a series of sequential reads is performed, followed by a seek performed in response to end-user inter¬ action. For example, the CD-ROM may contain data representing motion video (with associated sound channels), and at a certain point the user may have an opportunity to select from a number of "streams" of video. In response to the user's selection, the application may have to perform a 

seek to retrieve the selected stream. Conventionally, no data is trans¬ ferred during this seek, and the video display pauses until the seek is completed.For many applications, such as video games, this interruption in out- put is undesirable, as it interferes with the effective use or enjoyment of the application.Summary of the InventionIn accordance with the present invention, there is provided a sys¬ tem and method of selecting and switching among multiple data streams instantaneously and without interruption in the output to the end user. This is accomplished either by reading data stream elements from a buffer to cover a seek,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 What is claimed is:
1. A method of selecting and switching among a plurality of data streams, each data stream comprising a series of elements, comprising the steps of: (a) storing a first subset of the elements;
(b) selecting one of the data streams; and
(c) in response to seeking being necessary to access the selected data stream, sequentially outputting the stored first subset of elements while seeking access to the selected data stream.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first subset is sufficiently large to cover a period of time at least equal to the time needed to seek access to the selected data stream.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
(d) after performing step (c), reading successive elements of the selected data stream;
(e) sequentially outputting the successive elements of the selected data stream; and
(f) discarding stored elements not belonging to the selected data stream.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises the steps of:
(a. l) sequentially reading a first subset and a second subset of ele¬ ments from the data streams at a specified read rate, and storing each element of the first subset and the second subset; and (a.2) concurrently with step (a. l), sequentially outputting the stored elements of the first subset at a specified output rate, the out¬ put rate being slower than the read rate, to complete step (a. l) before step (a.2), and to retain the stored second subset after step (a.2) is completed.
5. A method of selecting and switching between a first data stream and at least one alternate data stream, each data stream comprising a se¬ ries of elements, comprising the steps of:
(a) sequentially reading a first subset of elements of the first data stream, at a specified read rate, and storing each element of the first subset; 


 (b) sequentially reading a second subset of elements, the second subset containing elements from both the first data stream and the alternate data stream, at the specified read rate, and stor¬ ing each element of the second subset; (c) concurrently with steps (a) and (b), sequentially outputting the stored elements of the first subset at a specified output rate, the output rate being slower than the read rate, to complete steps (a) and (b) before step (c), and to retain the second sub¬ set after step (c) is completed; (d) selecting one of the data streams; and
(e) responsive to the first data stream being selected, sequentially reading successive elements of the first data stream while se¬ quentially outputting stored elements of the second subset be¬ longing to the first data stream, otherwise, responsive to the alternate data stream being selected, seeking access to the al¬ ternate data stream while sequentially outputting stored ele¬ ments of the second subset belonging to the alternate data stream.
6. A method of selecting and switching between a first data stream and at least one alternate data stream, each data stream comprising a se¬ ries of elements, and each element having a low resolution version and a high resolution version, comprising the steps of:
(a) sequentially reading the high resolution versions of successive el¬ ements of the first data stream and the low resolution versions of successive elements of the alternate data stream, at a speci¬ fied read rate, and storing each version of each element;
(b) concurrently with step (a), sequentially outputting the stored high resolution versions of successive elements of the first data stream at a specified output rate, the output rate being slower than the read rate;
(c) selecting one of the data streams; and
(d) responsive to the alternate data stream being selected, perform¬ ing the following steps:
(d. l) responsive to there being an insufficient number of ele- ments in the buffer to cover a period of time equal to the time needed to seek access, performing the following steps: 


 (d. l.a) sequentially reading the high resolution versions of successive elements of the first data stream and the low resolution versions of successive elements of the alternate data stream, at the specified read rate and storing each version of each element;
(d. l.b) concurrently with step (d. l.a), sequentially ex¬ panding and outputting the stored low resolution versions of successive elements of the alternate data stream at a specified output rate, the output rate being slower than the read rate; and
(d. l.c) repeating steps (d. l.a) and (d. l.b) until the num¬ ber of stored elements is sufficient to cover the time needed to seek access; (d.2) seeking access to the high resolution versions of the ele- ments of the alternate data stream, while sequentially expanding and outputting the stored low resolution ver¬ sions of successive elements of the alternate data stream; (d.3) after seeking access, sequentially reading the high reso- lution versions of successive elements of the alternate data stream and the low resolution versions of successive elements of the first data stream, at the specified read rate, and storing each version of each element; and
(d.4) concurrently with step (d.3), sequentially outputting the stored high resolution versions of successive elements of the alternate data stream at the specified output rate.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the steps of:
(b') concurrently with step (b), sequentially outputting the stored low resolution versions of successive elements of the alternate data stream at the specified output rate;
(d. l.b') concurrently with step (d. l.b), sequentially reducing and outputting the stored high resolution versions of successive el¬ ements of the first data stream at the specified output rate;
(d.2') concurrently with step (d.2), sequentially reducing and out- putting the stored high resolution versions of successive ele¬ ments of the first data stream; and
(d.4') concurrently with step (d.4), sequentially outputting the 


 stored low resolution versions of successive elements of the first data stream at the specified output rate.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises the steps of: (a.l) reading a first subset of elements and storing each element of the first subset;
(a.2) after completion of step (a.l), sequentially reading successive elements and storing each element; and (a.3) concurrently with step (a.2), sequentially outputting the stored elements.
9. A method of selecting and switching between a first data stream and at least one alternate data stream, each data stream comprising a se¬ ries of elements, comprising the steps of:
(a) reading a first subset of elements from the first data stream and storing each element of the first subset; (b) performing the following steps repeatedly:
(b.1) outputting a previously stored element; (b.2) reading an element from the first data stream; and (b.3) storing the read element; (c) selecting one of the data streams; (d) responsive to selecting the alternate data stream, performing the following steps:
(d.l) seeking access to the alternate data stream; and (d.2) concurrently with step (d. l), sequentially outputting the stored elements from the buffer until step (d.l) is com- pleted; and
(d.3) after step (d.l) has been completed, sequentially reading and outputting successive elements from the alternate data stream.
10. A method of selecting and switching between a first data stream and at least one alternate data stream, each data stream comprising a se¬ ries of elements, comprising the steps of:
(a) reading a first subset of elements from the first data stream and storing each element of the first subset;
(b) performing the following steps repeatedly: (b. l) outputting a previously stored element;
(b.2) reading an element from the first data stream; and 


 (b.3) storing the read element;
(c) performing the following steps repeatedly:
(c l) outputting a previously stored element belonging to the first data stream; (c.2) reading an element from the alternate data stream; and
(c.3) storing the read element;
(d) selecting one of the data streams;
(e) responsive to selecting the alternate data stream, performing the following steps: (e.l) seeking access to the alternate data stream; and
(e.2) concurrently with step (e. l), sequentially outputting previously stored elements belonging to the alternate data stream until step (e. l) is completed; and
(f) sequentially reading and outputting successive elements from the selected data stream.
11. A method of selecting and switching between a first data stream and at least one alternate data stream, each data stream comprising a se¬ ries of elements, comprising the steps of:
(a) reading a first subset of elements from the alternate data stream and storing each element of the first subset;
(b) sequentially reading and outputting successive elements from the first data stream;
(c) selecting one of the data streams;
(d) responsive to selecting the alternate data stream, performing the following steps:
(d. l) seeking access to the alternate data stream; and (d.2) concurrently with step (d. l), sequentially outputting previously stored elements belonging to the alternate data stream from the buffer until step (d. l) is com- pleted; and
(e) sequentially reading and outputting successive elements from the selected data stream.
12. A method of selecting and switching among a plurality of data streams, each data stream comprising a series of elements, comprising the steps of:
(a) reading an element from each data stream;
(b) selecting one of the data streams; and 


 (c) outputting a previously read element corresponding to the se¬ lected data stream.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the steps are performed re¬ peatedly.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the data streams are stored in an interleaved fashion.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein steps (a) and (b) are per¬ formed concurrently with step (c).
16. A method of selecting and switching between a first data stream and at least one alternate data stream, each data stream comprising a se¬ ries of elements, comprising the steps of:
(a) sequentially reading a first subset of elements of the first data stream, at a specified read rate, and storing each element of the first subset; (b) sequentially reading a second subset of elements, the second subset containing elements from both the first data stream and the alternate data stream, at the specified read rate, and stor¬ ing each element of the second subset;
(c) concurrently with steps (a) and (b), sequentially outputting the stored elements of the first subset at a specified output rate, the output rate being slower than the read rate, to complete steps (a) and (b) before step (c), and to retain the second sub¬ set after step (c) is completed;
(d) selecting one of the data streams; (e) reading an element from each data stream; and
(f) outputting the element corresponding to the selected data stream.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein steps (d), (e), and (f) are per¬ formed repeatedly.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein portions of the data streams are stored in an interleaved fashion.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein steps (d) and (e) are per¬ formed concurrently with step (f). 


 20. A system for selecting and switching among a plurality of data streams, each data stream comprising a series of elements, comprising:
(a) means for selecting one of the data streams;
(b) a storage device for storing the data streams and for seeking ac- cess to the selected data stream;
(c) a buffer connected to receive and store data stream elements from the storage device; and
(d) an output device connected to read and output data stream ele¬ ments from the buffer while the storage device seeks access to the selected data stream.
21. A system for selecting and switching among a plurality of data streams, each data stream comprising a series of elements, comprising:
(a) a storage device for storing the data streams in interleaved for¬ mat; (b) means for selecting one of the data streams; and
(c) an output device connected to read and output data stream ele¬ ments belonging to the selected data stream from the storage device.
22. A system for selecting and switching among a plurality of data streams, each data stream comprising a series of elements, comprising:
(a) a storage device for storing the data streams, wherein a portion of the data streams is stored in interleaved format;
(b) a buffer connected to receive and store data stream elements from the storage device; (c) means for selecting one of the data streams; and
(d) an output device connected to read and output data stream ele¬ ments belonging to the selected data stream from the storage device. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
