<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616576</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ARRANGEMENT FOR CARRYING A CRAFT ON A VEHICLE ROOF
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60R908	B60P310	B60P306	B60R900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60R	B60P	B60P	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60R9	B60P3	B60P3	B60R9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An arrangement for transporting a craft on a vehicle roof (1), such as a kayak or the like, comprises a bracket device which is secured on a load rack (2) extending transversely across the vehicle roof (1) and which has support plates (5) and clamping straps (7, 8) for the kayak. The bracket device comprises two brackets (4) each with a support plate (5) and a fixing portion (15) which, in an activated position, lock the bracket (4) in an optional position on the load rack (2). The support plates (5) are, at their one ends, pivotally secured in the brackets (4) and, at their other ends, secured in pivotal arms (10) projecting from the brackets (4). Interiorly in the brackets (4), the arms (10) are connected to the fixing portions (15) such that, in the position of the arms pivoted downwardly to the load rack (2), the brackets (4) are free to be displaced along the load rack (2), while, in the upwardly pivoted position of the arms (10), the fixing portions (15) are located in their activated positions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THULE IND AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INDUSTRI AB THULE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARVIDSSON JAN-IVAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARVIDSSON, JAN-IVAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an arrangement for carrying 
a craft on a vehicle roof, such as for example a kayak, a 
surfboard or the like, according to the preamble of claim 1. For transporting, for example surfboards on a vehicle roof, 
brackets are previously known in the art which comprise an 
elongate support or padding section which is placed on both 
of the load carrier beams which are secured transversely 
across the vehicle roof. The surfboard is laid on this padding 
and is lashed in place with strap tighteners or other 
types of straps or webbing. In this design, lateral displacement 
protection is afforded in that the strap tightener is 
secured to the load carrier beam and the belt extends about 
this in a loop up over the surfboard. Arrangements are also previously known in the art for transporting 
canoes, kayaks and similar craft, these arrangements 
having obliquely directed support portions which are secured 
on the load carrier beam so that a craft resting thereon is 
prevented from being displaced in a lateral direction. Clamping 
straps are also employed here, these extending about the 
load carrier beam for lashing the craft in position. A further prior art arrangement is disclosed in DE-A1-29 40 
095. This arrangement is designed as a surfboard holder and 
comprises a carrier bar extending across a vehicle roof said 
cross bar having mounted thereon, in spaced relationship, 
support members having on their upper sides recesses for  
 
accomodating a mast or similar object. Rocker members are 
pivotably fastened to the upper sides of the support members 
and have at their adjacent ends pads for supporting the 
surfboard. At the laterally outer ends of the rockers there 
is fastened a strap extending above and around the surfboard 
thereby to clamp it onto the pads. By tightening the strap 
the rockers are pivoted so that the pads are lowered and the 
mast or similar object received in the recess below the pads 
are clamped. The present invention has for its object to devise an arrangement 
of the type mentioned by way of introduction, the 
arrangement being designed in such a manner as to permit 
simple adaptation to craft of different shapes, not only 
craft of different widths, but also craft having different 
arching or angles in the bottom of the hull. The present 
invention further has for its object to devise an arrangement 
which facilitates loading and unloading of the craft, which 
may readily and conveniently be mounted on conventional roof 
racks and which is simple
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Arrangement for carrying a craft such as a kayak, a 
surfboard or the like, on a carrier bar (2) extending across 

a vehicle roof (1), comprising two holders (4), from which 
at least one has fixing means for fixing the holder in a 

selected position along the carrier bar, said holders having 
support members (5) for the craft, at least one of said 

support members being pivotable about a shaft (6) extending 
lengthwise of the vehicle, and clamping means (7, 8) for 

clamping the craft onto the support members, 
characterised
 
in that the pivotable support member (5) 

is connected to an arm (10) pivotably fastened in the holder 
(4) the pivot axis (11) being oriented substantially lengthwise 

of the vehicle and horisontally, that the fixing means 
comprises a fixing member (15) provided movably in relation 

to the holder (4), said fixing member (15) being shiftable 
between a fixing position engaging the carrier bar (2) for 

fixing the holder (4) onto said bar and an open position in 
which the holder (4) is movable along the carrier bar (2), 

said fixing member (15) being shiftable between these positions 
under influence of the arm (10). 
Arrangement according to claim 1, 
characterised
 
in that the arm (10) extends out from the holder 

(4), that the free end (12) of the arm is connected with the 
support member (5) and that one end portion of the support 

member is pivotably fastened to the end portion of the holder 
facing away from the arm (10). 
Arrangement according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterised
 
in that the carrier bar (2) has, on its upper 

side, a longitudinal undercut groove (16) preferably a so-called 
T-groove, and that the holder (4) has an anchorage 

member (17) extending down into the groove with an enlarged 
portion (18).  

 
Arrangement according to claim 3, 
characterised
 
in that the fixing member (15) extends down into 

the groove (16) and has an enlarged portion (19), preferably 
with a T-shaped cross section, that the fixing member has a 

neck (20) extending into the holder (4) and being pivotably 
connected to the arm (10) and that the arm has a cam portion 

(24) cooperating with an abutment surface (21) provided in 
the holder (4) for transferring the fixing member (15) 

between the fixing position and the open position upon 
pivoting the arm (10). 
Arrangement according to any of claims 1-4, 
characterised
 
in that the arm (10) and the holder (4) 

have mutually engaging locking means (25) for locking the arm 
(10) in a number of pivoted positions. 
Arrangement according to claim 4 or 5, 
characterised
 
in that the cam portion (24) is designed so as 

to transfer the fixing member (15) to the open position when 
the arm (10) is pivoted to a lower position for the free end 

(12) thereof, and to transfer the fixing member (15) to the 
fixing position when the free end (12) of the arm is pivoted 

upwards. 
Arrangement according to either of claims 2-6, 
characterised
 
in that the support member (5) is
 somewhat 
flexible and that, in the unloaded state of the support 

member (5), the distance between its anchorages intended for 
cooperation with the holder (4) and the arm (10) is slightly 

greater than the distance between the corresponding anchorages 
(6, 14) thereof, whereby the support member (5) serves 

the function of a spring striving to pivot the arm (10) 
towards its lower position. 
Arrangement according to claim 4 or 5, 
characterised
 
in that the cam member (24) is designed so as 

to transfer the fixing member (15) to the fixing position 
when pivoting the arm (10) downwards.  

 
Arrangement according to any one of the preceeding 
claims, 
characterised
 in that the clamping 
means comprises a strap (7) fastened about the outer end (9) 

of the support member (5) and around the craft whereby, when 
tightening the strap the fixing member is transferred to the 

fixing position. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
