<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639227</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SEQUENCING OF OLIGOSACCHARIDES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12M134	C12M134	C12Q134	C12Q134	C12Q154	C12Q154	G01N3350	G01N3350	G01N3352	G01N3352	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12M	C12M	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12M1	C12M1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to the analysis of oligosaccharides and more particularly to the form of analysis known as sequencing of oligosaccharides. The invention provides apparatus suitable for use in the sequencing of an oligosaccharide which apparatus includes means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity. Also the invention provides a process suitable for use in the sequencing of an oligosaccharide. The sequencing agent may be, for example, an enzyme. The oligosaccharide entity may be, for example, an oligosaccharide, or a product of an oligosaccharide, or a species having an oligosaccharide portion.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OXFORD GLYCOSYSTEMS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OXFORD GLYCOSYSTEMS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAREKH RAJESH BHIKHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRIME SALLY BARBARA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PAREKH, RAJESH BHIKHU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PRIME, SALLY BARBARA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Sequencing of OligosaccharidesThe present invention relates to the analysis of oligosaccharides and more particularly to the form of analysis known as sequencing of oligosaccharides.According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided apparatus suitable for use in the sequencing of an oligosaccharide which apparatus includes means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity.According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a process suitable for use in the sequencing of an oligosaccharide which process includes the use of a means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity.The oligosaccharide entity may be, for example, an oligosaccharide, or a product of an oligosaccharide, or a species having an oligosaccharide portion. A product of an oligosaccharide may be, for example, a product produced by previously applying a sequencing agent to an oligosaccharide; by way of. example, the product may itself be an oligosaccharide.Oligosaccharides form a class of chemical compounds which are each made up of a number of monosaccharide units linked together by glycosidic bonds. Important sources of naturally occurring oligosaccharides are glycoproteins in which saccharides are found linked to a peptide chain either by an N-glycosidic bond or by an O- glycosidic bond; these oligosaccharides may vary from a few monosaccharide units to highly branched structures containing many (e.g. over 30) monosaccharide units. 

 The "sequencing" of an oligosaccharide involves deducing certain information concerning the structure of the oligosaccharide such as (i) the type of each monosaccharide unit in the oligosaccharide, (ii) the order in which the monosaccharide units are arranged in the oligosaccharide, (iii) the position of linkages between each of the monosaccharide units (e.g. 1-3, 1-4, etc.), and hence any branching pattern and/or (iv) the orientation of linkage between each of the monosaccharide units (i.e. whether a linkage is an linkage or a β linkage) .Where it is desired to obtain as much information as possible regarding the structure of an oligosaccharide then "sequencing" of the oligosaccharide may be carried out to obtain as much information as possible in relation to features (i) to (iv) inclusively immediately hereinbefore disclosed.An agent which assists in obtaining information in relation to some or all of features (i) to (iv) inclusively on being applied to an oligosaccharide entity may be regarded as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. Apparatus suitable for use in the sequencing of an oligosaccharide which apparatus includes means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity.
2. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the apparatus includes means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity and an analysing means for analysing for a component of the oligosaccharide entity, which component has been released from the oligosaccharide entity by means of a sequencing agent.
3. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the oligosaccharide entity is an oligosaccharide, or a product of an oligosaccharide, or a species having an oligosaccharide portion.
4. Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3 wherein the apparatus includes means for applying a sequencing agent to an oligosaccharide entity, analysing means for analysing products obtained by applying the sequencing agent to an oligosaccharide entity, means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity, and means for feeding analysis results from the analysing means to the means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity.
5. Apparatus as claimed in any one of Claims l to 4 wherein the apparatus includes means for applying to an oligosaccharide entity, a sequencing agent as selected by the means for selecting a sequencing agent. 


6. Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims wherein the apparatus includes a means for carrying out a preliminary analysis of an oligosaccharide entity.
7. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the apparatus includes means for feeding the results of a preliminary analysis to the means for selecting a sequencing agent.
8. Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims wherein the apparatus includes means for contacting together a sequencing agent and an oligosaccharide entity.
9. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8 wherein the apparatus includes a means for supplying a sequencing agent to a means for contacting together a sequencing agent and an oligosaccharide entity.
10. Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims wherein a support material is provided upon which may be immobilised an oligosaccharide entity to be subjected to sequencing.
11. Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims wherein the means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity is a unit capable of making logical choices.
12. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 11 wherein the unit is capable of interpreting results generated by an analysing means and capable of selecting a sequencing agent, or a combination of sequencing agents, to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity. 


 13. Apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding Claims wherein the apparatus comprises a means for applying a sequencing agent to an oligosaccharide entity, means for detecting products obtained by applying the sequencing agent to an oligosaccharide entity, and means for selecting a sequencing reagent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity, the arrangement being such that, in operation, an iterative cycle can be achieved whereby the results of applying a sequencing agent selected by the means for selecting a sequencing agent are fed back, via the means for detecting products, to the means for selecting a sequencing agent whereby the means for selecting a sequencing agent may cause a further sequencing agent to be applied to the oligosaccharide entity or product thereof.
14. A process suitable for use in the sequencing of an oligosaccharide which process includes the use of a means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity.
15. A process as claimed in Claim 14 wherein the process includes the use of a means for selecting a sequencing agent to be applied to an oligosaccharide entity and analysing for a component of the oligosaccharide entity, or a component of a product of an oligosaccharide entity, which component has been released from an oligosaccharide entity by means of a sequencing agent.
16. A process as claimed in Claim 14 or Claim 15 wherein the process includes applying a sequencing agent, or a combination of sequencing agents, to an oligosaccharide entity.
17. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 14 to 16 wherein the oligosaccharide entity is an oligosaccharide, 


a product thereof, or an oligosaccharide having an oligosaccharide portion.
18. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 14 to 17 wherein an iterative process is used whereby a cycle of analysis, application of a sequencing agent, or a combination of sequencing agents, and subsequent analysis, is repeated.
19. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 14 to 18 wherein the process includes the use of a support material upon which an oligosaccharide entity, to be subjected to sequencing, is immobilised.
20. A process as claimed in Claim 19 wherein the support material is a solid support material comprising 1,1' carbonyldiimidazole activated agarose.
21. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 14 to 18 wherein a sequencing agent is applied, or a combination or a plurality of sequencing agents is applied, whilst in free solution.
22. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 14 to 21 wherein the process includes analysing an oligosaccharide entity, applying a sequencing agent to an oligosaccharide entity, analysing products obtained by applying the sequencing agent to an oligosaccharide entity, feeding analysis results thus obtained to a means for selecting a sequencing agent to be contacted with an oligosaccharide entity.
23. A process as claimed in Claim 22 wherein the process additionally includes the step of applying a sequencing agent, as selected by the means for selecting a sequencing agent, to an oligosaccharide entity. 


 24. A process as claimed in any one of Claims 14 to 23 wherein the sequencing agent is a physical agent or a chemical agent.
25. A process as claimed in Claim 24 wherein the sequencing agent is an enzyme comprising an exoglycosidase or an endoglycosidase.
26. A process as claimed in Claim 25 wherein the enzyme is achatina fulica beta mannosidase, a.saitoi alpha mannosidase, jack bean alpha mannosidase, bovine testis beta galactosidase, jack bean beta galactosidase, c.lampas beta xylosidase, s.pneum beta N-acetyl hexosaminidase, jack bean beta n-acetyl hexosaminidase, bovine epididymis alpha fucosidase, c.lampas alpha fucosidase, coffee bean alpha galactosidase, or almond alpha fucosidase. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
