<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612766</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Suspension polyvinyl halide or polyvinylidene halide powder coating and molding resin, compounds and articles therefrom.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4104	B29C4104	B29C4118	B29C4118	C08F212	C08F220	C08F1400	C08F1400	C08F1406	C08F1408	C09D503	C09D503	C09D12700	C09D12700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C41	B29C41	B29C41	B29C41	C08F2	C08F2	C08F14	C08F14	C08F14	C08F14	C09D5	C09D5	C09D127	C09D127	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Powder coating and molding resins, compounds prepared 
from polyvinyl halide or polyvinylidene halide resin 

powders are disclosed. The resins are made by a particular 
suspension process, formulated and coated on articles or 

molded thereby exhibiting good fusion characteristics and 
low or no orange peel after application by conventional 

molding and coating methods. The powder resins have an 
average particle size in the range of from about 35 microns 

to about 150 microns, preferably 50 microns to 130 microns. 
The resins are polymerized in the presence of a protective 

colloidal system comprising an ion sensitive polymer which 
is disrupted during the early phase of the polymerization, 

before about 50%, preferably about 20% monomer conversion. 
The disruption is effected by introducing an ionic material 

which causes the colloidal layer to substantially separate 
from the growing resin particle, thereby removing all or 

substantially all of the protective colloidal residue from 
the suspended polymerizing particles. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEON CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE GEON COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLEDNA DAVID JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLEDNA, DAVID JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to polyvinyl halide and 
polyvinylidene halide powder resins adaptable for 
rotational molding, slush molding and powder coating of 
articles. Powder coating refers principally to the method 
of electrostatic spray coating or fluidized bed dipping. 
The powder coating compositions, and compounds are useful 
for providing durable and/or aesthetic finishes on the 
exteriors of products such as tubing, wires, fence posts, 
lawn furniture and bulk or sheet molding compound- based 
articles to name a few common examples. The slush or 
rotational molding of these resins and compounds yields 
hollow articles. Powder coating compositions are well known in the art 
and have been attractive in the replacement of solvent and 
water-based paints to coat a variety of different 
substrates. These powder coatings are applied by 
conventional fluid bed dipping or electrostatic spray 
techniques. Thermoplastic powder compounds are also well 
established for molding of hollow articles by the slush or 
rotational molding methods. Dispersion and bulk (mass) 
polymerized polyvinyl halide or polyvinylidene halide 
powder coatings are broadly used and well known as shown by 
Richardson U.S. Pat. No. 3,842,027 issued Oct. 15, 1974.  Many polymers including thermoplastic and 
thermosetting types are stable in powdered formulations 
used in the aforementioned powder coating and molding 
methods. Thermoplastic powder coatings are based on resins 
including polyethylene, polypropylene, nylon, polyvinyl 
chloride, polyvinyl fluoride, polyvinylidene chloride, 
polyvinylidene fluoride, acrylic, and thermoplastic 
polyester resins, to name a few. Other thermoplastic 
resins from which powder coatings are made include 
cellulose esters, ethylene-chlorotrifluoroethylene 
copolymer, and poly(phenylene sulfide). The present 
invention is based on thermoplastic particulate polyvinyl 
halide or polyvinylidene halide, including copolymers 
hereinafter sometimes termed VH or VDH resins. The thermosetting powder coatings are based on 
relatively low molecular weight resins which crosslink upon 
exposure to heat. The generic types of resins used in such 
thermosetting powder coatings include epoxy, polyester and 
acrylic resins. Thermosetting powder coatings may also be 
made with resin blends of epoxy and polyester resins, or 
epoxy and VH or VDH resin to provide powder coatings having 
properties not obtainable with individual resins alone. Powder resins are usually mechanically ground such as 
with a micromill
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A suspension polymerized polyvinyl halide or 
polyvinylidene halide resin, in powder form, used for 

powder molding and powder coating wherein said resin is 
polymerized in an aqueous suspension medium with the use of 

a dispersant system comprising an ion sensitive dispersant 
and wherein during polymerization of vinyl halide or 

vinylidene halide monomers, an ionic material is introduced 
into the polymerization medium before monomer conversion is 

greater than about 50%. 
The resin of claim 1 wherein said dispersant system 
further comprises a secondary dispersant means for 

providing enhanced particle porosity. 
The resin of claim 2 wherein said secondary dispersant 
is selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl acetate 

having less than 70% hydrolysis, sorbitan esters, 
glycolesters, glycerolesters, and polyglycerol esters. 
A process for preparing a suspension polymerized resin 
from polyvinyl halide or polyvinylidene halide monomer said 

resin used for powder coating or powder molding comprising 
the steps of 


(a) charging water and at least one ion sensitive 
primary dispersant(s) to a polymerization vessel 

equipped with agitation and cooling means; 
(b) agitating said water and said dispersant(s) 
(c) reducing or stopping said agitation such that 
non-turbulent flow is achieved, water layer is 

maintained; 
(d) charging at least one said monomer to the 
polymerization vessel such that there is formed 

 
two liquid layers in the polymerization vessel, 

one being an aqueous layer and a monomer layer; 
(e) optionally charging to the vinyl monomer layer at 
least one and at least one secondary dispersant; 
(f) allowing said catalyst to diffuse through the 
vinyl monomer top layer; 
(g) increasing the agitation such that the entire 
polymerization medium is an aqueous 

polymerisation suspension; 
(h) conducting the polymerization of the vinyl 
monomer to a conversion of from about 1% to about 

50%; 
(i) charging an monovalent inorganic or organic ionic 
compound to the polymerization medium in amounts 

sufficient to substantially desorb the ion 
sensitive dispersant off the monomer droplets; 
(j) continuing the polymerization of the vinyl 
monomer to form particles; and 
(k) removing the polymerized resin from the reaction 
vessel. 
A process of claim 4 wherein said vinyl monomer is 
vinyl chloride. 
A process of claim 4 wherein the ion sensitive primary 
dispersant is a lightly crosslinked interpolymer of acrylic 

acid. 
A process of claim 4 wherein said secondary dispersant 
is at least one dispersant selected from the group 

consisting of sorbitan ester and hydrolyzed polyvinyl 
acetate having a hydrolysis level less than about 70%. 
A process of claim 7 wherein said secondary dispersant 
is a hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate having a hydrolysis level 

less than about 60%. 
A process of claim 8 wherein said polyvinyl acetate 
has a hydrolysis level less than about 55%. 
A process of claim 4 wherein the level of said ion 
sensitive dispersant is from about 0.02 to about 0.06 part 

by weight per 100 parts by weight of vinyl monomer. 
A process of claim 10 wherein the level of said 
dispersant is from about 0.02 to about 0.06 part by weight 

per 100 parts by weight of vinyl monomer. 
A process of claim 4 wherein said ionic material is 
added to the polymerization medium at from 1% to 10% 

conversion of vinyl monomer to polymer. 
A process of claim 4 wherein the level of said 
secondary dispersant is present at from about 0.1 part by 

weight to about 0.4 part by weight per 100 parts by weight 
vinyl monomer. 
A process of claim 4 wherein said secondary dispersant 
is premixed with the vinyl monomer prior to being charged 

into the polymerization vessel. 
A process of claim 4 wherein in (a) the water and ion 
sensitive dispersant are premixed prior to being added to 

the polymerization vessel. 
A process of claim 4 wherein in (d) the catalyst is 
combined with at least one solvent at least one secondary 

 
dispersant is premixed with said vinyl monomer prior to 

being added to the polymerization vessel. 
A powder coating compound comprising a thermoplastic 
suspension polymerized resin, said resin comprising at 

least one polymerized monomer selected from the group 
consisting of vinyl chloride, polyvinyl fluoride, 

polyvinylidene chloride, and polyvinylidene chloride, 
wherein said at least one monomer is suspended in aqueous 

medium with a dispersant system comprising an ion sensitive 
dispersant, and wherein after initiation of polymerization, 

an ionic material is introduced to said medium prior to 
about 50% conversion of said at least one monomer, said 

compound further comprising a stabilizer and a plasticizer. 
The compound of claim 17 further comprising a pigment. 
The compound of claim 17 further comprising a 
dispersion polyvinyl halide resin having an average 

particle size of from about 0.5µ to 25µ. 
The compound of claim 19 wherein the amount of said 
dispersion resin is from 2 to 10 weight parts per 100 

weight parts of said suspension polymerized resin. 
A coated article containing adhered to a surface, the 
powder coating compound of claim 17. 
A hollow molded article comprising in the fused state, 
the resin of claim 1. 
A molded article of claim 22 made by slush molding. 
A molded article of claim 22 made by rotational 
molding. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
