<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651456</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Portable booster battery
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M1042	H01M1048	H01M220	H01M210	H02J700	H01M600	H01M1046	B60R1604	H02J700	H01M210	H01M220	B60R1604	H01M650	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H02J	H01M	H01M	B60R	H02J	H01M	H01M	B60R	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M10	H01M10	H01M2	H01M2	H02J7	H01M6	H01M10	B60R16	H02J7	H01M2	H01M2	B60R16	H01M6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a tool for boosting (jump starting) a vehicle, it is know that there is 
a battery as a power source and booster cables to bring the energy to the 

engine. In this invention, the battery and the cables are incorporated into one 
unit which includes the battery, the cables and protective holsters (housing) to 

lodge the cables. The holsters are an integral part of the unit and swivel at 
90° (degrees) to permit easy access. In this way, everything can be carried in 

one hand. Also, because the unit can be easily placed close to the engine, the 
cables can be much shorter than regular booster cables. It is easier to use 

since there are only two connections to make instead of four. Finally, the 
holsters, which house the booster clips protect the user from short circuits. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CENTURY MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CENTURY MFG. CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZON LUC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROZON, LUC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to batteries and more specifically to
batteries that are moved from location to location, to connect to different
devices, especially discharged or dead batteries of motor vehicles.Most automobiles are presently powered by an internal combustion
engine which must be spun up to speed externally before they can operate.
The engines are usually spun up to speed by an electric motor that is powered
by a battery. The battery is then charged by a generator connected to the
engine once the engine is operating or running. The battery is usually able to 
store enough charge for the periods that the engine is not running in order to
start the engine when needed.When the battery does not have sufficient charge to start the engine,
a way must be found to recharge the battery or bypass the battery with a
separate charge. Since very often a discharged battery is caused by an external
drain such as leaving the lights on or playing the radio, once the engine is
started by either recharging the battery or bypassing it by sending a separate
charge the automobile will continue to operate properly.Since there are many things that will temporally cause a battery to lose
its charge, the need to recharge or bypass batteries with separate charges is
common. Very often another or booster battery is brought to the vicinity of
the dead battery and electrical cables are used to connect the booster battery
to the dead battery in parallel in order to recharge and/or bypass the dead
battery. This often known as boosting or jump starting the dead battery or
engine.In this method of boosting, the cables are disconnected from the
batteries after each use so as to prevent short circuits. This method and
structure however, is cumbersome since there are at least two parts and they
demand great attention since there are 4 connections to make and a bad
connection in either one will result in a short circuit or failure to start the
engine. Some manufacturers have tried to resolve the problem by combining
the battery and cables in one unit. The problems that have arisen with these
units are that the cables which are permanently connected to the battery are
always live so they have to be protected as to not touch each other. The
amount of amperage available in these batteries is very large and if the cables
touch each other it would issue a short circuit and damage the cables and
batteries. To isolate the live cables, some manufacturers have used protective
pouches. These are not practical to use since they are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A portable automobile booster battery comprising:

a housing;
a sealed non-spillable battery located inside said housing; said battery

having a positive terminal and a negative terminal;
a first cable with one end permanently connected to said positive
terminal of said battery and said housing, said first cable extending outside

said housing;
a second cable with one end permanently connected to said negative
terminal of said battery and said housing, said second cable extending outside

said housing;
first clamp means connected to another end of said first cable and for
electrically connecting said first cable to positive terminal of an automobile

battery;
second clamp means connected to another end of said second cable and
for electrically connecting said second cable to one of a negative terminal of

said automobile battery and a ground of an automobile;
a first holster means connected to said housing, and for receiving and
covering said first clamp means, said first holster means blocking said first

clamp means from electrical contact with a surrounding environment when
said first clamp means is inside said first holster means; 
a second holster means connected to said housing, and for receiving
and covering said second clamp means, said second holster means blocking

said second clamp means from electrical contact with said surrounding
environment when said second clamp means is inside said second holster

means.
A battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein:

said first and second holster means each include a bit means positioned
inside respective said first and second holster means, said bit means being for

connecting with and holding respective said first and second clamp means
when said respective first and second clamp means are positioned inside said

respective first and second holster means.
A battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein:

said first and second holster means are pivotably connected to said
housing.
A battery in accordance with claim 1, further comprising:

cable retention means for holding said first and second cables to said
housing when said first and second clamp means are positioned inside

respective said first and second holster means.
A battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein:

said first and second holster means each include a cover which is
rounded and closed at one end, and flat and opened at another substantially

opposite end.
A battery in accordance with claim 5, wherein:

said housing and said cover are formed of nonconducting material;
said bit means has a shape to simulate said positive and negative
terminals of said automobile battery;
said first and second clamp means apply a clamping force to connect
to respective positive and negative terminals of said automobile battery and

said bit means;
said first and second holster means are positioned on substantially
opposite sides of said housing;
said housing includes a handle means for lifting and carrying said
housing;
said cable retention means is a groove defined by said housing.
A battery in accordance with claim 1, further comprising:

a recharging plug extending from said housing and electrically 
connected to said positive and negative terminals of said sealed nonspillable

battery.
A battery in accordance with claim 1, further comprising:

a female cigar lighter receptacle means electrically connected to said
sealed nonspillable battery and for powering accessories
A battery in accordance with claim 1, further comprising:

display means connected to said sealed nonspillable battery and for
indicating a charge condition of said sealed nonspillable battery.
A portable booster battery comprising:

a housing;
an electrical energy storage device positioned in said housing, said
electrical energy storage device having first terminal and a second terminal;
a first cable with one end permanently connected to said first terminal
of said electrical energy storage device and said housing;
a second cable with one end permanently connected to said second
terminal of said electrical energy storage device and said housing;
first clamp means connected to another end of said first cable and for
connecting to a first terminal of an electrical system; 
second clamp means connected to another end of said second cable and
for connecting to a second terminal of said electrical system;
a first holster means connected to said housing, and for receiving and
covering said first clamp means, said first holster means blocking said first

clamp means from electrical contact when said first clamp means is inside said
first holster means;
a second holster means connected to said housing, and for receiving
and covering said second clamp means, said second holster means blocking

said second clamp means from electrical contact when said second clamp
means is inside said second holster means.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
