<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612337</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYNTHETIC, MONODISPERSED COLOR PIGMENTS FOR THE COLORATION OF MEDIA SUCH AS PRINTING INKS, AND METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MAKING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09B6700	C09B6708	C09B6720	C09B6722	C09C100	C09C100	C09D712	C09D712	C09D1102	C09D1102	C09D20100	C09D20100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09B	C09B	C09B	C09B	C09C	C09C	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	C09D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09B67	C09B67	C09B67	C09B67	C09C1	C09C1	C09D7	C09D7	C09D11	C09D11	C09D201	C09D201	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of making synthetic color pigments comprises synthesizing monodispersed colloidal core particles (12) by precipitation from a solution and applying dye material (14) to the core particles either by adsorption directly into the core particles or by adsorption or incorporation into alumina fixation shells (16) at the surfaces of the core particles. Additional functional shells (18) may be applied to the dyed core particles for various reasons. The pigments are useful for the coloration of various media such as printing inks and paint compositions.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUEHNLE MANFRED R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KUEHNLE, MANFRED R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU WAN PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUEHNLE MANFRED K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATIJEVIC EGON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU, WAN, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUEHNLE, MANFRED, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATIJEVIC, EGON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYNTHETIC, MONODISPERSED COLOR FIGMENTS FOR THE COLORATION OF MEDIA SUCH AS PRINTING INKS, AND METHOD AND APPARATUSFOR MAKING SAMEThis invention relates to a method of making synthetic color pigments for the coloration of various media particularly printing inks. It also relates to the pigments resulting from the practice of the method.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn patent application Serial No. 07/804,220, of even date herewith, entitled Electrothermal Printing Ink with Monodispersed Synthetic Pigment Particles and Method and Apparatus For Electronic Printing Therewith, a correlated novel printing ink is disclosed which offers superior image reproduction characteristics. The printing ink described in that application, the contents of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference, consists of a solid block of thermoplastic polymeric carrier material within which myriads of synthetic, monodispersed color pigments are embedded. These pigments of varied colors share essentially identical surface, bulk, and morphological properties, particularly their colorimetric and electrokinetic properties, in order to attain superior reproducible color representation in the printing materials obtained by that printing process.The present invention concerns novel methods of controllably producing superior color pigments for that printing ink as well as for other coloration media through a series of manufacturing steps which lead to entirely predictable color values and surface charges for each and every pigment particle so as to achieve unprecedented manufacturing yield and quality of product. A variety of approaches to manufacturing these superior pigments is described by way of examples for the purpose of showing the broad basis of this 

 inven ion.Prior ArtColors are imparted to various media by dissolving and/or absorbing organic dyes in them, or by mixing insoluble inorganic pigments into the media during their manufacture. The colored media may be applied as in a surface coating, such as paint or ink.Printing is, of course, a method of selectively coloring a surface in accordance with a preconceived pattern. The inks used for this purpose consist of pigments, usually dissolved in an oil-based carrier which, together with all other ingredients, is "pressed" onto the media surface, such as paper, where it is dried to form an adherent deposit.Electrophoretic toners also consist of pigments dispersed in an oil-based low viscosity carrier. The pigments used there are, however, given electrical charges so they can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A method of making color pigment comprising the steps of preselecting the desired size, shape, and color value of a wanted pigment; precipitating monodispersed colloidal core particles having said desired size and shape from a first solution, and applying the exact amount of dye material to said core particles from a second solution to achieve said desired color value.
2. The method defined in claim 1 wherein the precipitating step comprises hydrolyzing TEOS in a solvent including alcohol, water and ammonia so as to precipitate core particles of silica.
3. The method defined in claim 2 wherein the dye material is selected to be cationic, and the dye material is applied by adsorbing the dye into said core particles.
4. The method defined in claim 2 including the steps of applying shells of inorganic fixation material to the core particles prior to applying said dye material, and applying an anionic dye material to the core particles by adsorbing or incorporating it into said shells.
5. The method defined in claim 4 wherein aluminum hydrous oxide is applied as the inorganic fixation material.
6. The method defined in claim 1 and including the additional step of applying an electric charge control agent to the surfaces of the pigment. 


 7. The method defined in claim 6 wherein a polyelectrolyte is applied to the pigment.
8. The method defined in claim 7 wherein the polyelectrolyte is polyacrylic acid or polymethacrylic acid.
9. The method defined in claim 1 wherein the precipitating step comprises mixing and aging a solution of yttrium nitrate and urea so as to produce core particles of yttrium basic carbonate.
10. The method defined in claim 9 wherein the dye material is selected from those having chelating properties, and the dye material is applied by adding it to the yttrium nitrate and urea during the precipitating step.
11. The method defined in claim 10 and including the additional step of applying a projective nonporous stabilizing barrier surface coating to the dyed core particles.
12. The method defined in claim 11 wherein the surface coating comprises an organic polymer.
13. The method defined in claim 11 including the additional step of applying an electric charge control agent to the surfaces of the pigment.
14. The method defined in claim 1 wherein the precipitating step comprises mixing and aging a solution of potash alum, aluminum nitrate and urea so as to produce core particles of aluminum hydrous oxide.
15. The method defined in claim 14 wherein the dye material is selected from those having chelating 


properties, and the dye material is applied by adding it to the potash alum and aluminum nitrate and urea during the precipitating step.
16. The method defined in claim 15 including the additional step of applying an electric charge control agent to the surfaces of the pigment.
17. The method defined in claim 1 wherein an organic dye material is applied to the core particles, and including the additional step of applying an electric charge control agent to the surfaces of the pigment.
18. The method defined in claim 1 including the additional step of applying a layer of high opacity material to the core particles prior to applying said dye material.
19. The method defined in claim 18 wherein the high opacity material applied is titania.
20. The method defined in claim 1 and including the additional step of dispersing the pigment in a clear polymer carrier medium having substantially the same index of refraction as the pigments enabling production of a highly transparent colored article.
21. The method defined in claim 13 and including the additinal step of dispersing the pigment in a clear polymer carrier medium having the same index of refraction as the pigment to form a coating supply from which a field strength-proportional amount of the supply can be extracted by an electric field emanating to the supply. 


 22. A method of making a synthetic color pigment of a selected color comprising the steps of synthesizing a multiplicity of core particles having substantially the same size, shape and composition; mixing a plurality of dyes to achieve said selected color, and applying said dye mix to the core particles whereby each of said core particles has the selected color.
23. The method defined in claim 22 wherein a cationic dye ink is applied to the core particles by adsorption.
24. The method defined in claim 23 and including the additional step of applying fixation material to the core particles before applying the dye mix thereto.
25. The method defined in claim 24 wherein dye mix is applied to the core particles by adsorbing an anionic dye mix into the fixation material.
26. The method defined in claim 24 wherein the dye mix is applied to the core particles by incorporating the dye mix into the fixation material as that is applied to the core particles.
27. The method defined in claim 22 and including the additional step of applying an electric charge control agent to the surfaces of the dyed core particles.
28. The method defined in claim 22 including the additional step of applying a layer of high opacity material to the core particles prior to applying said dye mix to the core particles.
29. The method defined in claim 28 wherein the high opacity material applied is titania. 


 30. A synthetic color pigment comprising myriad substantially identical monodispersed colloidal core particles, and color shells on the core particles consisting of dye material from the same dye batch.
31. The pigment defined in claim 30 and further including an electric charge control agent on the coated surfaces of the dyed particles.
32. The pigment defined in claim 30 wherein the core particles are substantially spherical and are of an inorganic material, and the color shells are of an organic dye material.
33. The pigment defined in claim 32 wherein the core particle material is selected from the group consisting of silica, ammonium hydrous oxide and yttrium basic carbonate.
34. The pigment defined in claim 32 wherein the dye material has chelating properties.
35. The pigment defined in claim 32 and further including nonporous stabilizing barrier surface coatings covering the color shells on the core particles.
36. The pigment defined in claim 30 and further including layers of opaque material on the core particles underneath the color shells.
37. The pigment defined in claim 36 wherein the opaque material is titania.
38. The pigment defined in claim 30 and further including a clear polymer carrier medium having the same index of refraction as the pigment and in which the pigment is dispersed 


 enabling production of a highly transparent colored article.
39. The pigment defined in claim 31 and further including a clear polymer carrier medium having the same index of refraction as the pigment and in which the pigment is dispersed to form a coating supply from which a field strength- proportional amount of the supply may be extracted by an electric field emanating to the supply.
40. A paint material comprising a carrier substance; and dispersed therein, a multiplicity of pigment particles having a selected color hue, each pigment particle comprising: a mechanically stable core; an opaque layer surrounding the core and having a high index of refraction different from that of the core; and a dye material surrounding the opaque layer.
41. The paint material of claim 40 wherein the opaque layer is selected from the group consisting of magnesium and titania.
42. The paint material of claim 40 wherein each particle further comprises a protective polymeric coating surrounding the dye material.
43. The paint material of claim 40 wherein each pigment particle further comprises an electrostatically charged layer.
44. The paint material of claim 40 wherein each particle core is spherical.
45. The paint material of claim 40 wherein each particle core is needle-like. 


46. The paint material of claim 40 wherein each particle core is platelet-like. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
