<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646336</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Harness retainer.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A44B1125	A44B1125	B60R2200	B60R2210	B60R2230	B60R2230	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A44B	A44B	B60R	B60R	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A44B11	A44B11	B60R22	B60R22	B60R22	B60R22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-piece harness retainer (30) includes a 
latch member (44) carrying a first harness strap (32) and a 

latch-retaining member (46) that carries a second harness 
strap (34) and is connectable to and disconnectable from 

latch member (44). Latch member (44) includes a first 
plate (48) and a latching post (58) appended to first plate 

(48). First plate (48) includes first strap guides (54, 
56) for slidably receiving a first harness strap (32) to 

enable latch member (44) to carry first harness strap (32). 
Latch-retaining member (46) includes a second plate (68) 

including second strap guides (74, 76) for slidably 
receiving a second harness strap (34) to enable latch-retaining 

member (46) to carry second harness strap (34). 
A post-retainer (78) releasably retains latching post (58) 

to couple first plate (48) to second plate (68) so that 
first and second strap guides (54, 56) and (74, 76) are 

positioned in spaced-apart relation on opposite sides of 
latching post (58). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COSCO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COSCO, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERKEN DONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERKEN, DONALD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to harness 
retainers and, in particular, to a harness retainer for use 
with a child car seat. More particularly, the present 
invention relates to a snap-together, two-piece harness 
retainer. Harness retainers hold shoulder straps together 
so that the straps lie properly on a person wearing a 
harness assembly including the shoulder straps. Typically, 
harness assemblies and harness retainers are used to 
restrain a child seated in a child car seat as a safety 
precaution. A conventional harness retainer 10 is illustrated 
in Fig. 1. Harness retainer 10 includes a single plate 12 
formed to include a first pair of slots 14, 16 for 
receiving a left-side shoulder strap 18 and a U-shaped slot 
20 for receiving a right-side shoulder strap 22. Although 
left-side shoulder strap 18 always remains connected to 
harness retainer 10, right-side shoulder strap 22 is 
typically disconnected from harness retainer 10 each time a 
child is removed from a child car seat (not shown) carrying 
shoulder straps 18, 22 by lifting up on the free end 24 of 
the cantilevered bendable strap-retaining lever 26 to 
"unlace" the right-side shoulder strap 22 to that it can be 
removed from the U-shaped slot 20. Later, when the child 
is returned to the child car seat and the shoulder straps 
18, 22 are placed about the child's shoulders, it is 
necessary to again lift up on lever 26 and insert the 
right-side shoulder strap into the U-shaped slot to lie 
under the resilient lever 26. It has been observed that the above-described 
strap lacing and unlacing activity is cumbersome and not 
always easily accomplished during the harnessing and  
 
unharnessing of an active child. What is needed is a 
harness retainer that is operable to hold two shoulder 
straps in side-by-side relation at a point adjacent to an 
upper body portion of the child without requiring a user to 
disconnect a shoulder strap from the harness retainer each 
time a child is unharnessed. According to the present invention, a harness 
retainer is a two-piece assembly and includes a latch 
member and a latch-retaining member that is connectable to 
and disconnectable from the latch member. The latch member 
carries a first harness strap and the latch-retaining 
member carries a second harness strap. The latch member includes a first plate and a 
latching post appended to the first plate. The first plate 
includes first strap guide means for slidably receiving a 
first harness strap to enable the latch member to carry the 
first
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A two-piece harness retainer for holding a 
pair of harness straps in side-by-side relation, the 

harness retainer comprising 
   a latch member including a first plate and a 

latching post appended to the first plate, the first plate 
including first strap guide means for slidably receiving a 

first harness strap, and 
   a latch-retaining member including a second 

plate, the second plate including second strap guide means 
for slidably receiving a second harness strap and means for 

releasably retaining the latching post to couple the first 
plate to the second plate so that the first and second 

strap guide means are positioned in spaced-apart relation 
on opposite sides of the latching post. 
The harness retainer of claim 1, wherein the 
latching post is T-shaped and includes an upright neck 

appended to the first plate and an enlarged head appended 
to the upright neck and positioned to lie in spaced-apart 

relation to the first plate. 
The harness retainer of claim 2, wherein the 
retaining means is a post-receiving aperture formed in the 

second plate. 
The harness retainer of claim 3, wherein the 
second plate is formed to include at least one elongated 

strap-receiving slot defining the second strap guide means 
and the post-receiving aperture is positioned in spaced-apart 

relation to the elongated strap-receiving slot. 
The harness retainer of claim 2, wherein the 
retaining means is a T-shaped aperture formed in the second 

plate. 
The harness retainer of claim 2, wherein the 
retaining means includes first aperture means for receiving 

the enlarged head of the T-shaped latching post during 
 

coupling of the first and second plates and second aperture 
means communicating with the first aperture means for 

receiving the upright neck of the T-shaped latching post 
following insertion of the enlarged head into the first 

aperture means so that the enlarged head engages the second 
plate while the upright neck is in the second aperture 

means to retain the first and second plates in coupled 
relation. 
The harness retainer of claim 6, wherein the 
second plate is formed to include at least one elongated 

slot defining the second strap guide means and the first 
aperture means is situated to lie between the at least one 

elongated slot and the second aperture means. 
The harness retainer of claim 1, wherein the 
first plate is formed to include at least one first 

elongated strap-receiving slot defining the first strap 
guide means and lying adjacent to the latching post and the 

second plate is formed to include at least one second 
elongated strap-receiving slot defining the second strap 

guide means and the retaining means is a post-receiving 
aperture formed in the second plate. 
The harness retainer of claim 8, wherein the 
post-receiving aperture is arranged to lie in spaced-apart 

relation to the at least one second elongated strap-receiving 
slot. 
The harness retainer of claim 8, wherein the 
post-receiving aperture is positioned to lie between the at 

least one first elongated strap-receiving slot and the at 
least one second elongated strap-receiving slot upon mating 

engagement of the latching post and the second plate. 
A two-piece harness retainer for holding a 
pair of harness straps in side-by-side relation, the 

harness retainer comprising 
   a latch member including a first plate and a T-shaped 

latching post appended to the first plate, the first 
 

plate being formed to include two spaced-apart first 
elongated strap-receiving slots, the T-shaped latching post 

including an upright neck appended to the first plate and 
an enlarged head appended to the upright neck and 

positioned to lie in spaced-apart relation to the first 
plate, and 

   a latch-retaining member including a second 
plate, the second plate being formed to include two spaced-apart 

second elongated strap-receiving slots, an enlarged 
head-receiving aperture lying in spaced-apart relation to 

the two second elongated strap-receiving slots, and an 
upright neck-receiving aperture communicating with the 

enlarged head-receiving aperture. 
The harness retainer of claim 11, wherein 
the enlarged head-receiving aperture is a third elongated 

slot lying in perpendicular relation to the two second 
elongated strap-receiving slots and the upright neck-receiving 

aperture is a fourth elongated slot lying in 
perpendicular relation to the third elongated slot. 
A harness assembly comprising 
   a first harness strap, 

   a second harness strap, 
   a latch member including a first plate and a 

latching post appended to the first plate, the first plate 
including first strap guide means for slidably receiving 

the first harness strap, and 
   a latch-retaining member including a second 

plate, the second plate including means for releasably 
retaining the latching post to couple the first plate to 

the second plate and second strap guide means for slidably 
receiving the second harness strap to hold the first and 

second harness straps in side-by-side spaced-apart relation 
on opposite sides of the latching post upon connection of 

the latching post on the first plate to the retaining means 
on the second plate. 
The harness assembly of claim 13, wherein 
the latching post is T-shaped and includes an upright neck 

appended to the first plate and an enlarged head appended 
to the upright neck and positioned to lie in spaced-apart 

relation to the first plate. 
The harness assembly of claim 14, wherein 
the retaining means is a post-receiving aperture formed in 

the second plate. 
The harness assembly of claim 15, wherein 
the second plate is formed to include at least one 

elongated strap-receiving slot defining the second strap 
guide means and the post-receiving aperture is positioned 

in spaced-apart relation to the elongated strap-receiving 
slot. 
The harness retainer of claim 14, wherein 
the retaining means is a T-shaped aperture formed in the 

second plate. 
The harness retainer of claim 14, wherein 
the retaining means includes first aperture means for 

receiving the enlarged head of the T-shaped latching post 
during coupling of the first and second plates and second 

aperture means communicating with the first aperture means 
for receiving the upright neck of the T-shaped latching 

post following insertion of the enlarged head into the 

first aperture means so that the enlarged head engages the 
second plate while the upright neck is in the second 

aperture means to retain the first and second plates in 
coupled relation. 
The harness retainer of claim 18, wherein 
the second plate is formed to include at least one 

elongated slot defining the second strap guide means and 
the first aperture means is situated to lie between the at 

least one elongated slot and the second aperture means. 
The harness retainer of claim 13, wherein 
the first plate is formed to include at least one first 

 
elongated strap-receiving slot defining the first strap 

guide means and lying adjacent to the latching post and the 
second plate is formed to include at least one second 

elongated strap-receiving slot defining the second strap 
guide means and the retaining means is a post-receiving 

aperture formed in the second plate. 
The harness retainer of claim 20, wherein 
the post-receiving aperture is arranged to lie in spaced-apart 

relation to the at least one second elongated strap-receiving 
slot. 
The harness retainer of claim 20, wherein 
the post-receiving aperture is positioned to lie between 

the at least one first elongated strap-receiving slot and 
the at least one second elongated strap-receiving slot upon 

mating engagement of the latching post and the second 
plate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
