<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616507</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THREE-DIMENSIONAL PANORAMIC DENTAL RADIOGRAPHY METHOD AND APPARATUS WHICH AVOIDS THE SUBJECT'S SPINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B614	A61B614	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B6	A61B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV WAKE FOREST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBBER RICHARD LYLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBBER, RICHARD, LYLE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 THREE-DIMENSIONAL PANORAMIC DENTAL RADIOGRAPHY METHODANDAPPARATUSWHICH AVOIDS THE SUBJECT'S SPINEField of the Invention This invention relates to radiographic imaging and more particularly to dental radiographic imaging.Background of the InventionTomography is an analog imaging process which is widely used for radiographic imaging. In tomography, an x-ray beam source and an x-ray film are moved in predetermined directions relative to one another, such that the fulcrum of relative movement between the source and the film defines a region of interest. Since relative movement at the fulcrum is zero, this region is projected unchanged onto the film. The radiographic projections of all tissues lying outside this region move during exposure, so that they appear more or less blurred depending on their distance from the fulcrum. The amount of blur is directly proportional to their distance from the fulcrum. Accordingly, the region or fulcrum is often referred to as the "focal plane".In summary, the tomographic process capitalizes on the angular disparity produced by relative motion between x-ray source and x-ray detector to selectively isolate a region, the location of which 

 can be varied by controlling motion relative to the tissues of interest. In tomographic imaging, linear motion of the source and detectors may be used ("linear tomography") or circular motion of the source and detector may be used ("circular tomography") .Depending upon the diagnostic task, other more complex motions may be used, such as hypercycloidal motion ("hypercycloidal tomography") .A related but computationally distinct imaging process for obtaining tomographic "slices" is computed tomography. In computed tomography, the projection geometry is characterized by a fan-shaped x- ray beam which lies in the same plane as a detector. This geometry renders details in one focal plane independent from those in another focal plane, but at the expense of having the plane of the source and detector motion coincident with the focal plane.Linear tomography has been used in dental radiography to obtain images of individual teeth or groups of teeth. Computed tomography also has been used in dental radiography to obtain a slice through a subject's head, parallel to the plane of the subject's teeth.In the above description, and in the description to follow, reference is made to the "plane of the teeth", which is defined as the plane formed by the intersection of a subject's upper and lower teeth. This plane, which is parallel to the plane of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS:
1. A dental radiography system comprising: radiographic source means, for simultaneously projecting a plurality of diverging, fan-shaped radiation beams through a subject's teeth, each fan- shaped beam lying in a plane which is orthogonal to the plane of the teeth, with each fan-shaped beam avoiding the subject's spine; radiographic detecting means, for detecting attenuated radiation which emerges through the teeth, the detected attenuated radiation being free of attenuation produced by the subject's spine; and means for synchronously rotating said radiographic source means and said radiographic detecting means about an axis which is orthogonal to the plane of the teeth, each of said fan-shaped beams avoiding the subject's spine during rotation thereof, such that the detected attenuated radiation produces a panoramic image of the teeth, which is free of image artifacts produced by irradiation of the spine.
2. The dental radiography system of Claim 1 wherein said plurality of diverging, fan-shaped beams are symmetrically projected about the subject's spine, and wherein each of said fan-shaped beams avoids the subject's spine.
3. The dental radiography system of Claim 1 further comprising means for positioning a subject's head such that said plurality of diverging fan-shaped beams pass through the subject's teeth, lie in a plane which is orthogonal to the plane of the subject's teeth, and avoid the subject's spine, and said radiographic source means and said radiographic detecting means synchronously rotate on opposite sides of the subject's head, about an axis which is orthogonal to the plane of the subject's teeth, with 


 each of said fan-shaped beams avoiding the subject's spine during rotation thereof, such that the detected radiation produces a panoramic image of the subject's teeth which is free of image artifacts produced by irradiation of the spine.
4. The dental radiography system of Claim 1 wherein said radiographic detecting means comprises a like plurality of linear radiation detectors, orthogonal to the plane of the teeth, a respective one of which is positioned to intercept a respective one of the fan-shaped beams which emerge through the teeth, free of attenuation produced by the subject's spine.
5. The dental radiography system of Claim 4 wherein each linear radiation detector comprises a linear array of solid state detectors, arranged in a single row orthogonal to the plane of the teeth.
6. The dental radiography system of Claim 4 wherein each linear radiation detector comprises a linear array of solid state detectors, arranged in a plurality of rows orthogonal to the plane of the teeth.
7. The dental radiography system of Claim 1 wherein said radiographic detecting means comprises a two-dimensional array of solid state detectors, for intercepting all of said fan-shaped beams which emerge through the teeth, free of attenuation produced by the subject's spine. 


 8. The dental radiography system of Claim 1 wherein said synchronous rotating means comprises means for synchronously rotating said radiographic source means and said radiographic detecting means about an axis which is orthogonal to the plane of the teeth and passes through the subject's spine.
9. The dental radiography system of Claim 1 further comprising electronic controlling means, electrically connected to said radiographic detecting means, for producing a representation of a panoramic dental image from the detected attenuated radiation which emerges through the teeth.
10. The dental radiography system of Claim 1 wherein at least one of said fan-shaped beams fails to pass through the teeth during a portion of its rotation about said axis, said dental radiography system further comprising means for selectively suppressing said at least one of said radiation beams during said portion of rotation thereof, to reduce the subject's radiation dosage.
11. The dental radiography system of Claim 10 wherein said selective suppressing means comprises a moveable radiation shield, for selectively blocking said at least one of said radiation beams during said portion of rotation thereof.
12. A dental radiography method comprising the steps of: simultaneously projecting a plurality of diverging, fan-shaped radiation beams through a subject's teeth, each fan-shaped beam lying in a plane which is orthogonal to the plane of the teeth and avoiding the subject's spine; 


 rotating said plurality of diverging, fan- shaped radiation beams about an axis which is orthogonal to the plane of the teeth, each of said fan- shaped beams avoiding the subject's spine during rotation thereof; and detecting attenuated radiation which emerges through the teeth, the detected attenuated radiation being free of attenuation produced by the subject's spine, to produce a panoramic image of the teeth which is free of image artifacts produced by irradiation of the spine.
13. The dental radiography method of Claim 12 wherein said simultaneously projecting step comprises the step of symmetrically projecting the plurality of diverging, fan-shaped beams about the subject's spine, with each of said fan-shaped beams avoiding the subject's spine.
14. The dental radiography method of Claim 12 wherein said detecting step comprises the step of individually detecting each of said plurality of fan- shaped radiation beams at an individual radiation detector.
15. The dental radiography method of Claim 12 wherein said rotating step comprises the step of rotating said radiographic beams about an axis which is orthogonal to the plane of the teeth and passes through the subject's spine.
16. The dental radiography method of Claim 12 further comprising the step of producing a representation of a panoramic dental image from the detected attenuated radiation which emerges through the teeth, free of attenuation produced by the subject's spine. 


 17. The dental radiography method of Claim 12 wherein at least one of said fan-shaped beams fails to pass through the teeth during a portion of its rotation about said axis, said method further comprising the step of selectively suppressing said at least one of said radiation beams during said portion of rotation thereof, to reduce the subject's radiation dosage.
18. The dental radiography method of Claim 17 wherein said selective suppressing step comprises the step of selectively blocking said at least one of said radiation beams during said portion of rotation thereof. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
