<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656836</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DECORATING ARTICLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B44C117	B44C117	B65C300	B65C310	B65C314	B65C316	B65C326	B65C900	B65C906	B65C908	B65C918	B65C924	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B44C	B44C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B44C1	B44C1	B65C3	B65C3	B65C3	B65C3	B65C3	B65C9	B65C9	B65C9	B65C9	B65C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus for applying heat transfer labels, disposed on a web, to containers. In one embodiment, the apparatus is intended for round, non-tapered containers and comprises a continuously rotating turret (13), a container transport system (15) for continuously delivering containers to and away from the turret (13) and a web transport system (17) for moving a web containing heat-transfer labels into position for label transferring. The turret (13) includes a rotatably driven shaft (19) and a plurality of cup assemblies (25) arranged in a circle around the shaft (19) and coupled thereto. Each cup assembly (25) includes a cup (29) used to hold a container, the cup being rotatably driven independently of the shaft (19) and in a required direction. A nozzle assembly (35) is associated with each cup assembly (25) and is used to secure a container within its respective cup (29) and, if necessary, to inflate the container to impart sufficient rigidity thereto for labelling.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVERY DENNISON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVERY DENNISON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASGHAR SYED A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CALLINAN JOSEPH F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASGHAR, SYED, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CALLINAN, JOSEPH, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DECORATING ARTICLESThe present application is a continuation-in-part of pending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/938,929, filed 31 August 1992, which application is incorporated herein by reference. TECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for decorating containers and the like and more particularly to a method and apparatus for decorating containers with heat-transfer labels transferred from a web.BACKGROUND ART Many types of methods and apparatuses are well known for decorating containers and the like, with heat-transfer labels disposed on a web. With virtually all such methods and apparatuses, a primary consideration has been to maximize the throughput of the containers being decorated in the apparatus. Other considerations have been to minimize the cost of equipment, to minimize maintenance difficulties with equipment and to maximize the quality of the decorating operation.In commonly-assigned U.S. Patent No. 4,735,664 to Asghar et al., there is disclosed a decorator controlled by a signal processor for applying heat transfer labels and the like to articles. Servo circuits accept processor commands and direct operation of label feed and transfer elements. A transfer roller moves in a continuously variable manner to follow the contour of the article surface. A position roller precisely matches web movement to article movement, or enables controlled stretching or shrinking of the labels as they are applied to articles. A turret loads, indexes, and unloads articles for label application at two decorating sites. Indexing of the articles takes place as the turret is rotated.The throughput of the aforementioned decorator is limited by the fact that movement of the turret must be stopped at the two decorating sites so that labels can be applied to the articles transported thereto.In commonly-assigned U.S. Patent No. 4,253,904 to Jodrey et al., there are disclosed a method and an apparatus for the decoration of bottles and the like at high speeds. Bottles are delivered by an input conveyor to a star wheel, which 

deposits them sequentially into a continuously rotating turret. The turret carries the bottles past a labelling site, where a label carrier strip is pressed into contact with a bottle surface and a label thereby transferred. The shape of the bottle is maintained during labelling by means of inflation of the bottles through an inserted nozzle. The raising and lowering of the inflating nozzle and the flow of inflating air is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for applying heat transfer labels, disposed on a web, to round containers comprising: a. a continuously rotating turret, said turret having thereon a plurality of decorating stations at which labels can be transferred from said web to said containers, each decorating station including an a container holding assembly having a continuously rotating cup and a label transfer assembly, b. means for moving said web along a path which passes through at least two of said plurality of decorating stations, and c. means for delivering containers to be decorated to said continuously rotating turret and carrying away containers from said continuously rotating turret after decoration.
2. Apparatus for applying heat transfer labels, disposed on a web, to round containers, comprising: a. means for moving the web along a web path, said web path having a label transfer portion, b. a plurality of container holding assemblies continuously movable along a container holding path adjacent the label transfer portion, each container holding assembly being adapted to hold a container to be decorated and being ratable, c. a plurality of label transfer assemblies disposed adjacent said label transfer portion of said web path, each label transfer assembly being adapted to contact the web and to cause a label to transfer from the web to a container in a container holding assembly, at least two of said containers in said container holders being decorated simultaneously, and d. means for delivering containers to be decorated to said container holders, sequentially and carrying away containers after decoration, sequentially.
3. Apparatus for applying heat transfer labels, disposed on a web, to round containers comprising: a. a turret, said turret having: i. a rotatable central shaft, 


 ii. a platform fixed to said rotatable central shaft, iii. a plurality of cup assemblies for receiving and holding containers to be decorated, each cup assembly including a base and a cup mounted on said base for rotation about its central axis, iv. means for mounting said cup assemblies in a circle about said central axis on said platform, v. a label transfer wheel, said label transfer wheel including a plurality of label transfer assemblies the number of label transfer assemblies being equal to the number of cup assemblies, the radius of the label transfer wheel being less than the radius of the circle of cup assemblies, vi. means for mounting said label transfer wheel on said platform about said central axis, b. a web transport assembly for moving said web at a predetermined speed and position along a web path which passes between at least some of said cup assemblies and at least some of said label transfer assemblies, c. means for delivering containers to be decorated to said turret and carrying away containers from turret after decoration.
4. Apparatus for applying heat transfer labels disposed on a web to containers comprising: a. a stationary circular base; b. a pair of label transfer assemblies circumferentially disposed on said base; c. a web transport system for transporting a web containing heat transfer labels along a path which passes around said pair of label transfer assemblies; and d. a container transport system for transporting containers to be decorated along a path which passes adjacent said pair of label transfer assemblies, said container transport system including a container turner for turning the container 180 degrees. 5. Apparatus for applying heat-transfer labels, disposed on a web, to containers comprising: 


 a. a chain conveyor system for positioning containers at conveying and decorating stations, said chain conveyor system including a closed loop continuously moving chain conveyor, b. at least two web modules for registration and application of said heat transfer labels at said decorating stations, and c. a continuously moving container transport system for transporting containers to and from said chain conveyor system.
6. A method of applying heat transfer labels, disposed on a web, to round containers, comprising: a. continuously moving the web along a web path, said web path having a label transfer portion, b. continuously moving a plurality of container holding assemblies along a container holding path adjacent the label transfer portion, each container holding assembly being adapted to hold a container to be decorated and being ratable, c. providing a plurality of label transfer assemblies disposed adjacent said label transfer portion of said web path, each label transfer assembly being adapted to contact the web and to cause a label to transfer from the web to a container in a container holding assembly, at least two of said containers in said container holders being decorated simultaneously, and d. delivering containers to be decorated to said container holders, sequentially and carrying away containers after decoration, sequentially.
7. A method of applying heat-transfer labels, disposed on a web, to containers comprising: a. providing a chain conveyor system for positioning containers at conveying and decorating stations, said chain conveyor system including a closed loop continuously moving chain conveyor, b. providing at least two web modules for registration and application of said heat transfer labels at said decorating stations, and c. continuously moving containers to and from said chain conveyor system. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
