<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627897</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASONIC TRANSMISSION APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1722	A61B1722	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1800	A61B1800	B06B300	B06B300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	B06B	B06B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	B06B3	B06B3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A horn (12) connectable to an energy source (88) to amplify ultrasound displacement is connected to a transmitter (14) formed of material having relatively high mechanical Q for transmitting ultrasonic energy therethrough at a frequency f, the transmitter having a horn-shaped configuration of length that is a multiple of a half-wavelength  lambda /2, and preferably this horn-shaped configuration is comprised of multiple horn segments (16a and 16b) each of a length substantially equal to a multiple of  lambda /2, where  lambda  = c/f (c is the speed of sound in the high Q material). The transmitter has a proximal end of cross-sectional diameter D1 connected to the horn and a distal end of cross-sectional diameter D2, where D1 
>
 D2. Ultrasonic energy transmitted through the transmitter drives a tip which is coupled to the transmitter by means of a flexible connector (20).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANGIOSONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ANGIOSONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCRIBNER ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WENG LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCRIBNER ROBERT M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WENG LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ULTRASONIC TRANSMISSION APPARATUS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to ultrasonic transmission apparatus and, more particularly, to such apparatus which transmits ultrasonic energy from a source to a distal tip with minimal loss, and which is particularly adaptable for medical applications.The field of balloon angioplasty provides an established technique for reducing vascular obstructions caused by thrombi and plaque deposits. Here, a catheter having an inflatable balloon at its distal end is inserted into a patient's blood vessel and then, by use of a guide wire, in cooperation with an observation system, the catheter is advanced until it reaches the obstruction (e.g. a thrombus) in question. Then, the balloon is inflated with the hope of reducing the obstruction. Unfortunately, balloon angioplasty, although offering a desirable alternative to arterial bypass surgery, suffers significant drawbacks. For example, the procedure is neither effective nor safe in cases of thrombus. Thrombus often is not destroyed by the inflated balloon, thus resulting in relatively quick re-occlusion. In addition, balloon angioplasty often is accompanied by significant damage to the blood vessel which further stimulates thrombus formation and re-occlusion.Other catheter-based procedures have been proposed as alternatives to bypass surgery, such as laser-type angioplasty, mechanical drills and, most recently, ultrasonic angioplasty. One example of ultrasonic angioplasty apparatus is described in copending application serial number 449,465, assigned to the same assignee as the present invention.In a typical ultrasonic angioplasty device, a long, thin ultrasonic transmitter connects a tip at its distal end to a power source at its proximal end. Using . standard angioplasty techniques, this transmitter is inserted into and guided through the patient's blood vessel until the distal tip arrives at the occlusion. Then, energization of the power source produces ultrasonic 

displacement that is transmitted to the tip, resulting in destruction of the thrombus. However, and as found in the ultrasonic angioplasty apparatus described in U.S. Patent 4,870,953, the transmission of ultrasonic energy through the ultrasonic transmitter could generate an inordinate amount of heat which, if not removed, could result in serious damage to the patient's blood vessels. Accordingly, the apparatus described in U.S. Patent 4,870,953 provides a cooling arrangement in which the ultrasonic transmitter is disposed in a cooling bath,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Ultrasonic transmission apparatus comprising: a horn connectable to an energy source for amplifying ultrasound displacement; transmission means formed of material having relatively high mechanical Q for transmitting ultrasonic energy therethrough at a frequency f and comprised of multiple horn segments distributed longitudinally along said transmission means, each horn segment having a length substantially equal to a multiple of λ/2, where λ = c/f (c is the speed of sound in said material) , the transmission means having a proximal end of cross-sectional diameter D
1
 connected to said horn and a distal end of cross-sectional diameter D
2
, where D
2
 
>
 D
2
; a tip driven by said ultrasonic energy; and flexible means for transmitting ultrasonic energy therethrough and having a first end connected to the distal end of said transmission means and a second end connected to said tip for transferring to said tip ultrasonic energy received from said transmission means.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said flexible means is comprised of plural wires, each of a diameter less than D
2
.
3. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said flexible means further includes means for isolating each of said plural wires.
4. The apparatus of Claim 3 further including a base member for coupling the first ends of said plural wires to said distal end of said transmission means.
5. The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein said base member has a length L
b
, said flexible connector means has a length L and said tip has a length L^. and L+L
j
-,+L
t
 = k λ'/2, where k is an integer, λ' = c'/f, c' is the effective speed of sound through said base member, said flexible connector means and said tip, and f is the frequency of said ultrasonic energy.
6. The apparatus of Claim 4 wherein said base member comprises a generally cylindrical housing having a central recess of diameter substantially equal to D
2
 open at 


one end of said housing for receiving said distal end of said transmission means, and plural recesses open at an opposite end of said housing for receiving the first ends of said plural wires.
7. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein each of the wires of said lexible means is formed of material having a tensile strength different than that of the material of said transmission means.
8. The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said means for isolating each of said plural wires comprises tubular channel means disposed about said wires.
9. The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said tubular channel means is comprised of plural flexible tubes, each disposed about a respective wire.
10. The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said transmission means is further comprised of straight segments interspersed with said horn segments, each straight segment having a length substantially equal to a multiple of λ/2.
11. The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said transmission means further comprises a sleeve disposed about at least those horn and straight segments expected to be inserted in a lumen with which said apparatus is used, said sleeve having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion secured to said tubular channel means.
12. The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said sleeve is formed of flexible material and has an inner diameter which, at any longitudinal location thereof, is greater than the diameter of said transmission means at the same longitudinal location.
13. The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said tubular channel means has a distal end spaced from said tip and open to permit fluid to flow through said tubular channel means.
14. The apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said sleeve has an inner diameter spaced from said transmission means to define a fluid channel; and further comprising fluid supply means for supplying fluid through said fluid channel to said tubular channel means to provide a lubricant for and to reduce the transverse vibration of said transmission means. 


 15. The apparatus of Claim 14 wherein said fluid supply means comprises an input conduit coupled to said sleeve in the vicinity of said proximal end portion thereof for coupling fluid thereto, and valve means in fluid communication with said proximal end portion of said sleeve to prevent backflow of fluid through said sleeve.
16. The apparatus of Claim 15 wherein said fluid supply means further includes a coupling channel for coupling said proximal end portion of said sleeve to said horn, and wherein said valve means comprises a manually tightened cap disposed over said coupling channel and said horn and operable to seal an O-ring at a node of longitudinal ultrasonic vibration.
17. The apparatus of Claim 16 wherein said horn is provided with a pair of annular shoulders at said node of longitudinal ultrasonic vibration to define the location of said O-ring.
18. The apparatus of Claim 14 further including a protective sheath coupled in fluid tight relation to said sleeve and disposed over at least one segment at the proximal end of said transmission means to enable a user to grasp said proximal end when guiding said transmission means into the lumen without substantially damping ultrasonic vibrations of said transmission means.
19. The apparatus of Claim 18 wherein said at least one segment over which said protective sheath is disposed is provided with plural annular shoulders located at nodes of ultrasonic vibration to contact said sheath in the event said sheath is deformed; said sheath having an inner diameter spaced from said transmission means to define a fluid conduit in fluid communication with the fluid channel of said sleeve.
20. The apparatus of Claim 19 wherein said means for supplying fluid to said channel is coupled to said protective sheath; and wherein said fluid additionally prevents backflow through said tubular channel means and said fluid channel to said fluid conduit. 



 21. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said horn segments are distributed substantially regularly along said transmission means.
22. The apparatus of Claim 21 wherein said transmission means includes straight segments each of a length that is a multiple of λ/2 and interspersed with said horn segments, the transmission means further including a protective sheath disposed over at least one segment at the proximal end of said transmission means and formed of relatively rigid material which, when grasped by a user, does not deform into contact with said transmission means and thereby damp ultrasonic vibrations thereof.
23. The apparatus of Claim 22 wherein the protective sheath has a distal end located substantially at a node of ultrasonic vibration in said transmission means.
24. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said transmission means is formed of aluminum and the wires of said flexible connection means are formed of titanium.
25. The apparatus of Claim 24 wherein said horn and transmission means are of unitary construction.
26. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said tip is configured to enhance cavitation in a fluid.
27. The apparatus of Claim 26 wherein said tip is comprised of proximal and distal portions having respective diameters and interconnected by an intermediate portion having a thickness less than the diameter of each of said proximal and distal portions, said proximal, intermediate and distal portions having a common longitudinal axis.
28. The apparatus of Claim 27 wherein said proximal, distal and intermediate portions are of unitary construction and said flexible connection means is secured to said proximal portion.
29. The apparatus of Claim 27 wherein said distal portion is of substantially truncated semi-spheroid shape and said proximal portion is of cylindrical shape.
30. The apparatus of Claim 27 wherein said distal and proximal portions both are of cylindrical shape.
31. The apparatus of Claim 30 wherein said distal portion has a concave-shaped face. 


 32. The apparatus of Claim 27 wherein said proximal, intermediate and distal portions have a common longitudinal channel to receive a guide wire for guiding said tip, and thereby said flexible means and said transmission means, through a lumen.
33. The apparatus of Claim 32 wherein said flexible means includes a center channel in communication with said common longitudinal channel for receiving said guide wire.
34. The apparatus of Claim 33 further comprising a central guide wire conduit disposed in said common longitudinal channel and said center channel for guiding said guide wire through said tip and through said flexible means.
35. The apparatus of Claim 27 wherein the diameter of the proximal portion is substantially equal to the diameter of the distal portion.
36. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said transmission means includes straight segments separating said horn segments, each straight segment having a length substantially equal to a multiple of λ/2.
37. The apparatus of Claim 36 wherein the length of a straight segment disposed between successive horn segments differs from the length of either of said successive horn segments.
38. The apparatus of Claim 36 wherein each horn segment has a distal end diameter less than its proximal end diameter.
39. The apparatus of Claim 36 wherein the horn segments are distributed substantially uniformly along said transmission means.
40. Ultrasonic transmission apparatus comprising: an input horn connectable to an energy source for amplifying ultrasound displacement; a horn-shaped transmitter formed of material having relatively high mechanical Q for transmitting ultrasonic energy therethrough at a frequency f and having a length substantially equal to a multiple of λ/2, where λ = c/f (c is the speed of sound in said material) , the horn- 


shaped transmitter having a proximal end of cross-sectional diameter D
x
, connected to said input horn and a distal end of cross-sectional diameter D
2
, wherein O 
>
 D
2
; a tip driven by said ultrasonic energy; and flexible means for transmitting ultrasonic energy therethrough and having a first end connected to the distal end of said horn-shaped transmitter and a second end connected to said tip for transferring to said tip ultrasonic energy received from said horn-shaped transmitter, said flexible means being comprised of plural wires, each of a diameter less than D
2
.
41. The apparatus of Claim 40 wherein said flexible means includes means for isolating each of said plural wires.
42. The apparatus of Claim 41 wherein each of said wires is formed of material having a tensile strength different than that of the material of said horn-shaped transmitter.
43. The apparatus of Claim 42 wherein said means for isolating each of said plural wires comprises tubular channel means disposed about said wires.
44. The apparatus of Claim 43 wherein said tubular channel means is comprised of plural flexible tubes, each disposed about a respective wire.
45. The apparatus of Claim 43 wherein at least a portion of said horn-shaped transmitter is disposed in a sleeve, the sleeve being formed of flexible material and having a distal end portion secured to said tubular channel means and a proximal end portion.
46. The apparatus of Claim 45 wherein said tubular channel means has a distal end spaced from said tip and open to permit fluid to flow through said tubular channel means.
47. The apparatus of Claim 46 further comprising fluid supply means for supplying fluid through said sleeve to said tubular channel means to provide a lubricant for and to reduce transverse vibration of said horn-shaped transmitter. 


 _- _-
48. The apparatus of Claim 47 further including a protective sheath coupled in fluid tight relation to said sleeve and disposed over a proximal portion of said horn- shaped transmitter to enable a user to grasp said proximal portion when guiding the transmitter into a lumen without substantially damping ultrasonic vibrations of said transmitter.
49. The apparatus of Claim 48 wherein said protective sheath, said sleeve and said tubular channel means comprise a fluid conduit from said fluid supply means to said tip; and wherein said fluid additionally prevents backflow through said fluid conduit.
50. The apparatus of Claim 40 wherein the horn- shaped transmitter is formed of aluminum and the wires of said flexible connector means are formed of titanium.
51. A tip for use in ultrasonic transmission apparatus driven for longitudinal, reciprocating displacement, comprising a proximal portion connectable to an ultrasonic transmitter, a distal portion and an intermediate portion for connecting said proximal and distal portions, the proximal and distal portions having respective diameters and the intermediate portion having a thickness less than the diameter of each of said proximal and distal portions, said proximal, distal and intermediate portions having a common longitudinal axis.
52. The tip of Claim 51 wherein said proximal, distal and intermediate portions are of unitary construction.
53. The tip of Claim 51 wherein said distal portion is of substantially truncated semi-spheroid shape and said proximal portion is of cylindrical shape.
54. The tip of Claim 51 wherein said distal and proximal portions both are of cylindrical shape.
55. The tip of Claim 54 wherein said distal portion has a concave-shaped front face.
56. The tip of Claim 51 wherein said proximal, intermediate and distal portions have a common longitudinal channel to receive a guide wire for guiding said tip through a lumen. 


 -4 , 
π
0_-
57. The tip of Claim 51 wherein the diameter of the proximal portion is substantially equal to the diameter of the distal portion.
58. The tip of Claim 51 wherein said distal portion is mushroom-shaped and said proximal portion is reverse mushroom-shaped.
59. The tip of Claim 51 further including a disk- shaped intermediate section secured to said intermediate portion and disposed between said distal and proximal portions. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 13 July 1993 
(
13.07.93
)
; original claims 51,52 and 54-57 cancelled; c
l
aims 53,58,an
d
 59 amended and renumbered as claims 51-53;other claims unchanged 
(
2
48. The apparatus of Claim 47 further including a protective sheath coupled in fluid tight relation to said sleeve and disposed over a proximal portion of said horn- shaped transmitter to enable a user to grasp said proximal
5 portion when guiding the transmitter into a lumen without substantially damping ultrasonic vibrations of said transmitter.
49. The apparatus of Claim 48 wherein said protective sheath, said sleeve and said tubular channel
10 means comprise a fluid conduit from said fluid supply means to said tip; and wherein said fluid additionally prevents backflow through said fluid conduit.
50. The apparatus of Claim 40 wherein the horn- shaped transmitter is formed of aluminum and the wires of
15 said flexible connector means are formed of titanium.
51. A tip for use in ultrasonic transmission apparatus driven for longitudinal, reciprocating displacement, comprising a proximal portion connectable to an ultrasonic transmitter, a distal portion and an
20 intermediate portion connecting said proximal and distal portions, the proximal and distal portions having respective diameters and the intermediate portion having a thickness less than the diameter of each of said proximal and distal portions, said proximal, distal and intermediate portions
25 having a common longitudinal axis, said distal portion being of substantially truncated semi-spheroid shape having a flat front face and said proximal portion being of cylindrical shape.
52. A tip for use in ultrasonic transmission 30 apparatus driven for longitudinal, reciprocating displacement, comprising a proximal portion connectable to an ultrasonic transmitter, a distal portion and an intermediate portion connecting said proximal and distal portions, the proximal and distal portions having respective 35 diameters and the intermediate portion having a thickness less than the diameter of each of said proximal and distal portions, said proximal, distal and intermediate portions having a common longitudinal axis, said distal portion being 


mushroom-shaped and said proximal portion being reverse mushroom-shaped.
53. A tip for use in ultrasonic transmission apparatus driven for longitudinal, reciprocating displacement, comprising a proximal portion connectable to an ultrasonic transmitter, a distal portion and an intermediate portion connecting said proximal and distal portions, the proximal and distal portions having respective diameters and the intermediate portion having a thickness less than the diameter of each of said proximal and distal portions, said proximal, distal and intermediate portions having a common longitudinal axis, and a disk-shaped intermediate section secured to said intermediate portion and disposed between said distal and proximal portions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
