<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653806</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Electrical wire connecting fixture
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M230	H01R450	H01R1112	H01M230	H01R1128	H01R450	H01R1111	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01R	H01R	H01M	H01R	H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M2	H01R4	H01R11	H01M2	H01R11	H01R4	H01R11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides an electrical wire 
connecting fixture which can simplify a work of 

fastening an electrode and be easily made. The 
electrical wire connecting fixture for a battery, 

comprises: an electrode holder (10) formed by bending 
a metal strip into a cylindrical body with open upper 

and lower ends; a pair of clamping pieces (11, 12) 
being extended in parallel to each other outwardly from 

the opposite ends of such electrode holder: a 
fastening bolt (16) screwed in a given position of a 

bolt support piece (13) adjustably in a vertical 
direction; and a slanting plate (18) for bearing a 

lower end of the fastening bolt so as to approach the 
clamping pieces to each other when the fastening belt 

is screwed down. The bolt support piece (13) is 
extended from one (11) of the clamping pieces. The 

slanting plate (18) is diagonally extended from the 
other (12) of the clamping pieces in a direction 

perpendicular to the extending direction of the 
clamping pieces. When the fastening bolt (16) is 

screwed down while the electrode holder engages with an 
electrode of a battery, the lower end of the bolt moves 

on the slanting plate (18). The other clamping 
piece (12) united to the slanting plate (18) approaches 

the one clamping piece (11) to decrease an inner 
diameter of the electrode holder, thereby clamping the 

electrode of the battery. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SUMITOMO WIRING SYSTEMS, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TABATA MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TABATA, MASAAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an electrical wire 
connecting fixture which couples an electrical wire to 
a battery to be mounted in motor vehicles and the like. For convenience of explanation, a conventional 
electrical wire connecting fixture for a battery will 
be described below by referring to FIG. 8. FIG. 8 is 
an exploded perspective view of a conventional electrical 
wire connecting fixture. The conventional electrical wire connecting fixture 
shown in FIG. 8 is disclosed in Japanese Patent Public 
Disclosure No. 4-118573 (1992). In the disclosed electrical wire connecting fixture, 
an electrode holder 1 is formed by bending a metal sheet 
to approach opposite ends thereof. The electrode holder 
1 is provided on its opposite ends with a first slanting 
projection piece 2 and a second slanting projection piece 
3. The pieces 2 and 3 are interconnected through their 
ramps. The slanting projecting pieces 2 and 3 are provided 
with elongate holes 4 and 5 along the ramps. In the case 
of fastening the pieces 2 and 3, a bolt 6 is inserted 
into the elongate holes 4 and 5 and then fastened by a 
nut 7. However, the ramps are relatively displaced in 
a slanting direction during fastening. Consequently, 
an inner diameter of the electrode holder 1 is decreased. The bolt 6 is screwed in the nut 7 to effect a 
clamping action in the electrode holder 1. Upon working, 
the nut 7 must be manually set under the pieces 2 and 3 in 
a narrow space. It is difficult to fit the nut 7 to the 
distal end of the bolt 6 in such a narrow space. Also, 
in the above construction, it is necessary to set ramps 
which contact with each other. Further, it is necessary 
to prepare the nut 7. The face contact of the ramps will 
impede a smooth fastening action. Accordingly, it is  
 
advantageous to simplify the construction. We are also aware of DE-C-4 138 547 in which is disclosed an 
electrical wire connecting fixture which forms the pre-characterising 
portion of independent Claim 1. An object of the present invention is to provide an electrical wire 
connecting fixture which enables simplified fastening of an electrode 
along with ease of manufacture. In order to achieve the above object, we provide an electrical wire 
connecting fixture for a battery, comprising: 
an electrode holder formed by bending a metal strip into a 
cylindrical body with open upper and lower ends; a pair of clamping pieces extended in parallel with each other 
outwardly from the opposite ends of said electrode holder; and a fastening bolt screwed in a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical wire connecting fixture for a battery, comprising: 

an electrode holder (10) formed by bending a metal strip into a 
cylindrical body with open upper and lower ends; 
a pair of clamping pieces (11, 12) extended in parallel with each 
other outwardly from the opposite ends of said electrode holder; and 
a fastening bolt (16) screwed in a given position of a bolt support 
piece (13), said bolt being adjustable in a vertical direction and said bolt 

support piece (13) being extended from one of said clamping pieces (11); 
and 
a slanting plate (18) to approach said clamping pieces toward each 
other when said fastening bolt is screwed down, said slanting plate being 

extended from the other (12) of said clamping pieces in a direction 
perpendicular to the extending direction of said clamping pieces, 
 
   characterised in that the slanting plate (18) bears against a lower 

end of the fastening bolt (16), and is diagonally extended from the other 
clamping piece (12). 
An electrical wire connecting fixture according to Claim 1, wherein 
an upper end of said one clamping piece (11) is bent outwardly and 

horizontally to form said bolt support piece (13), wherein said bolt 
support piece includes a slanting plate receiving piece which hangs down 

from said bolt support piece and is provided with a horizontal holding 
aperture (19), wherein said bolt support piece is provided with a female 

thread hole (15) adapted to receive said fastening bolt (16), wherein said 
clamping piece (11) is provided with an escape opening (17) adapted to 

allow displacement of said slanting plate, wherein said slanting plate 
extends upwardly from a lower end of said other clamping piece (12) 

through said escape opening (17), wherein said slanting plate (18) is  
 

provided on its distal end with a horizontal engaging piece adapted to be 
slidably inserted into said holding aperture, and wherein said slanting 

plate has an upper contacting face (18a) adapted to slidably contact with 
said bolt upon fastening of said bolt. 
An electrical wire connecting fixture according to Claim 2, wherein 
said electrode holder (10) is integrally provided on its outside opposite to 

said clamping pieces (11, 12) with an electrical wire holding portion (20) 
and wherein said holding portion is formed into a U-shape before being 

crimped around said wire (30) to clamp said wire. 
An electrical wire connecting fixture according to Claim 2, wherein 
said electrical wire holding portion (20) is integrally provided on its 

outside opposite to said clamping pieces with an electrical wire connecting 
base plate (21) on which a screw rod (22) stands. 
An electrical wire connecting fixture according to Claim 1 for use 
in combination with a battery of the kind having a battery box, at least 

one battery terminal and a stopper provided on an upper face of the 
battery box, in which an upper end of said one clamping piece (12) is bent 

outwardly and horizontally to form said bolt support piece (13) wherein 
said slanting plate (18) extends downwardly from an upper end of said 

other clamping piece, said slanting plate having sufficient stiffness to bear 
a pressing force exerted by said bolt, wherein said bolt support piece (13) 

is provided with a female thread hole (15) adapted to receive said 
fastening bolt (16), and wherein said slanting plate has an upper 

contacting face (18a) adapted to contact with said bolt upon fastening of 
said bolt, said fixture being constructed and arranged so that in use for 

coupling an electrical wire (30) to a terminal of the battery, the outside of  
 

clamping piece (12) contacts with the stopper to limit outward movement 
of said clamping piece (12). 
An electrical wire connecting fixture according to Claim 5, wherein 
said electrode holder (10) is integrally provided on its outside opposite to 

said clamping pieces with an electrical wire holding portion (20), and 
wherein said holding portion is formed into a U-shape before being 

crimped around said wire (30) to clamp said wire. 
An electrical wire connecting fixture according to Claim 5, wherein 
said electrical wire holding portion (20) is integrally provided on its 

outside opposite to said clamping pieces with an electrical wire connecting 
base plate (21) on which a screw rod (22) stands. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
