<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649527</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CAPILLARY REFERENCE HALF-CELL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2730	G01N2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is a reference half-cell electrode wherein intermingling of test fluid with reference fluid does not affect the performance of the reference half-cell over a long time. This intermingling reference half-cell may be used as a single or double junction submersible or surface reference electrode. The intermingling reference half-cell relies on a capillary tube having a first end open to reference fluid and a second end open to test fluid wherein the small diameter of the capillary tube limits free motion of fluid within the capillary to diffusion. The electrode is placed near the first end of the capillary in contact with the reference fluid. The method of operation of the present invention begins with filling the capillary tube with a reference solution. After closing the first end of the capillary, the capillary tube may be fully submerged or partially submerged with the second open end inserted into test fluid. Since the electrode is placed near the first end of the capillary, and since the test fluid may intermingle with the reference fluid through the second open end only by diffusion, this intermingling capillary reference half-cell provides a stable voltage potential for long time periods.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALL STEPHEN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HALL, STEPHEN, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CAPILLARY REFERENCE HALF-CELLThis invention was made with Government support under Contract DE-AC06-76RLO 1830 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for providing a reference half-cell or more specifically to a capillary type reference half- cell having a liquid reference solution constrained from free flow volume discharge.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONInvestigation of the chemistry of natural waters including but not limited to underground aquifers, and above ground lakes is usually accomplished by taking water samples and analyzing the samples in a laboratory. Many chemical species are detected and measured for var¬ ious purposes. For example, waste water discharge may be monitored for the presence of hazardous chemicals including but not limited to inorganic cations and anions, for example, sulfur compounds and metal com- pounds, and organic compounds. Another application is the detection and quantification of chemical tracers which are used for determining flow patterns. Chemical tracers include but are not limited to bromides, chlor¬ ides, sulfides, and pH. In addition, chemical analyses are routinely performed for chemical process flow stream monitoring of processes including but not limited to winemaking, electroplating, hydrometallurgy, 

papermaking, chemical manufacture, and many other industrial processes.Analysis for determining the presence and amount of particular chemical species may be carried out using an electrochemical cell wherein the voltage potential is related to a difference in chemical concentration between a known reference solution and the unknown sample test solution. The classic electrochemical cell is two beakers having solutions of differing concentrations or compositions with a salt bridge in contact with both solutions and electrodes in each solu¬ tion which are connected to a voltmeter. The classical electrochemical cell has the attributes of (1) physical isolation of the two solutions, and (2) electrical communication (via a salt bridge) between the two solu¬ tions, and is useable in a laboratory setting, but is inconvenient for field applications, especially sub¬ merged in-situ measurement applications.Various methods and devices relying on the phys- ical principles of the classic electrochemical cell have been used in field applications. In field applications, the beakers of the classic cell are replaced with a sensing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A capillary reference half-cell for immersion into a test solution liquid, comprising:
(a) a reference solution liquid within, (b) a capillary constraining said reference solution liquid from free flow volume discharge, having a first and second end, said first end closed, said second end open, thereby forming at least one liquid junction between said reference solution liquid and said test solution liquid, and permitting diffusion between said reference solution liquid and said test solution liquid, and
(c) an electrode element placed in contact with said reference solution liquid near said first end wherein a voltage potential is related to a chemical concentration of said reference solution liquid, said voltage potential is constant while diffusion occurs until the diffusion dilutes said reference solution liquid near said electrode element.
2. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein said capillary is initially filled with a first reference solution liquid, then a second non-interfering liquid solution is drawn into the second end with an interface between said first and second solutions between said first and second ends of said capillary, for providing a double junction reference half-cell.
3. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein said reference solution liquid is potassium chloride saturated with silver chloride and said elec- trode element is silver chloride on silver. 


 4. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein said reference solution liquid is saturated calomel and said electrode element is calomel on silver.
5. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein a deformable fluid reservoir is placed on said first end for use in admitting reference solution liquid into said capillary.
6. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein a fluid reservoir having a septum is placed on said first end for admitting reference solution liquid into said capillary.
7. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 6, wherein said electrode is mounted in said fluid reservoir.
8. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 2, wherein a fluid reservoir having a septum is placed on said first end for use of a syringe for admitting ref¬ erence solution fluid into said capillary.
9. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 8, wherein said electrode is mounted in said reservoir.
10. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein said capillary is a tube and further comprises: an enlarged section between said first end and said second end providing increased volume of said reference solution liquid.
11. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein said capillary is a tube. 


 12. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 1, wherein said capillary is formed by a mechanical interface between mating parts.
13. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 12, wherein said mating parts are a housing threadably engaged with a rod.
14. A reference half-cell as recited in claim 13, further comprising a signal conditioning circuit mounted in a housing extension.
15. A combination electrode, comprising:
(a) a reference solution liquid within;
(b) a capillary constraining said reference solution liquid from free flow volume discharge, having a first and second end, said first end closed, said second end open, thereby forming at least one liquid junction between said reference solution liquid and said test solution liquid, and permitting diffusion between said reference solution liquid and said test solution liquid; (c) an electrode element placed in contact with said reference solution liquid near said first end wherein a voltage potential is related to a chemical concentration of said reference solution liquid, said voltage potential is constant while diffusion occurs until the diffusion dilutes said reference solution liquid near said electrode element; and
(d) a sensing electrode mounted exterior to said capillary and in contact with said test solution liquid thereby forming a sensing half-cell.
16. A combination electrode as recited in claim 15, further comprising a signal conditioning circuit mounted in a housing extension. 


 17. A method of using a capillary reference half- cell, comprising the steps of:
(a) filling a capillary with a reference solution liquid, said capillary having a first and second end, said first end closed, said second end open,
(b) placing an electrode near said first end and in contact with said reference solution liquid,
(c) inserting said second end into a test solution liquid together with a second sensing half-cell for obtaining electrochemical measurements, and
(d) preventing free flow volume discharge of said reference solution liquid into said test solution liquid.
18. A method as recited in claim 17, further comprising: displacing an amount of said reference solution liquid with non-interfering liquid solution between from said second end to a length of said capillary and forming a double junction reference half-cell. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
