<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642277</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Secure telecommunications.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M124	H04M124	H04M300	H04M300	H04M316	H04M316	H04M322	H04M322	H04M342	H04M342	H04M1100	H04M1100	H04Q300	H04Q300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M11	H04M11	H04Q3	H04Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A security node disposed in the telecommunications network connecting
calling and called parties transforms information (which can be voice, data,

facsimile, video and other types of calls or messages) encrypted in a first format to
(a) encrypted information in a different format or to (b) non-encrypted information,

and vice-versa. The node is accessible from any location connected to the network.
By routing calls or messages originated by the calling party and destined for the

called party via the security node, and providing appropriate control signals to the
node, the information may be encrypted only over a portion of the transmission path

between the parties, and clear over the remainder of the transmission path.
Alternatively, the information may be encrypted in different portions of the path

using different encryption algorithms. This arrangement enables the parties to obtain
relatively secure communications even if only one party has a security device at the

originating or terminating end, or if the parties have security devices using different
handshaking protocols and encryption algorithms.


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAPLAN MICHAEL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERVOORT COX RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAPLAN, MICHAEL M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VANDERVOORT COX, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to secure telecommunications involving 
voice, data, facsimile, video and other information. Over the past several years, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on 
increasing the security of telecommunications systems, so that unauthorized persons 
cannot intercept and access voice, data, facsimile, video or other information not 
intended for them. Studies have shown that the commercial markets are well aware 
of the threats to their communications systems and have a clear sense of the business 
applications which are at risk because of potential breakdowns in security. The 
reasons for the heightened interest are many, including the increased use of cellular 
telephony in which a portion of the conversation is carried over the air and is thus 
more susceptible to attack, and the fact that other portions of the telecommunications 
network can be particularly susceptible to security breaches; i.e., wiring closets, 
junction boxes, manhole or telephone pole connections, facsimile machines, and 
especially cordless and cellular phones. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the present invention, 
secure communications between calling and called parties is accomplished with use 
of a secure telephone device (STD). An STD disposed between the handset and the 
base of each party's telephone converts a conventional non-secure telephone call to a 
secure call by encrypting speech to be transmitted to a party and by decrypting 
speech received from that party. Illustratively, each party's STD comprises a speech 
coder (and decoder) (codec), a cryptographic system, and a modem. Both the 
modem and the speech codec are suitably interfaced to the telephone base and 
handset of the party, respectively. In accordance with the illustrative embodiment, a secure telephone call 
between two parties having STDs is predicated on an existing non-secure call over a 
telephone network. Given an STD in combination with a telephone, a calling party 
establishes a non-secure telephone call in conventional fashion (for example, by 
generating DTMF signals with the keypad of the telephone base to identify the called 
party). At the outset of such a call, the STD of each party is in non-secure mode and 
therefore acts only as a conduit for speech signals to and from a telephone handset. 
Either party to the non-secure call may initiate a conversion of the call to a secure 
 
call by signalling for the initiation of training and cryptographic key exchange 
sequences between the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of establishing a secure communication path through a 
network, the path for coupling premise equipment of a calling party with premise 

equipment of a called party with use of a network node, the premise equipment of 
the calling party and the network node having a cryptographic system, premise 

equipment of the calling party coupled to the node by a clear communication path, 
the method comprising the steps of: 

   receiving at the network node first signals from the premise equipment 
of the calling party, the first signals for use in converting the clear communication 

path to a secure communication path; 
   receiving at the network node via the secure communication path second 

signals from the calling party's premise equipment, the second signals identifying 
the premise equipment of the called party; and 

   establishing a communications path between the network node and the 
premise equipment of the called party based on the second signals. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the calling party's premise equipment 
comprises a telephone base, a telephone microphone, and a secure telephone device 

coupled between the base and the microphone. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of converting comprises the 
step of performing a cryptographic key exchange between the calling party's premise 

equipment and the network node. 
The method of claim 3 wherein the step of performing a cryptographic 
key exchange is initiated by the network node. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the premise equipment of the called 
party includes a cryptographic system and wherein the communication path between 

the premise equipment of the called party and the network node is a secure 
communication path. 
A method of transmitting information signals to a first device over a 
communications network, the information signals transmitted from a secure 

telephone device coupled between a telephone base and telephone microphone, the 
secure telephone device having a keypad, the first device having a cryptographic 

 
system, the method comprising the steps of: 

   transmitting first signals to establish in the network a clear 
communication path between the secure telephone device and the first device; 

   transmitting second signals from the secure telephone device to the 
cryptographic system of the first device, the second signals for use in converting the 

clear communication path to a secure communication path; 
   generating information signals with use of the keypad of the secure 

telephone device; and 
   transmitting the information signals from the secure telephone device to 

the first device over the secure network communication path. 
The method of claim 6 wherein the second signals comprise a signal 
initiating the conversion of the clear communication path to a secure communication 

path. 
The method of claim 6 wherein the second signals comprise signals 
reflecting a cryptographic key. 
The method of claim 6 wherein the information signals comprise user 
identification signals. 
The method of claim 9 wherein the user identification signals 
comprise a personal identification number. 
The method of claim 9 wherein the user identification signals 
comprise a social security number. 
A method of receiving information signals by a first device, the first 
device having a cryptographic system, the information transmitted by a telephone 

having a telephone microphone and a telephone base and a secure telephone device 
coupled between the microphone and base, the first device coupled to the telephone 

by a clear communications path of a network, the method comprising the steps of: 
   transmitting first signals from the cryptographic system of the first 

device to the secure telephone device, the first signals for use in converting the clear 
communications path to a secure communications path; and

 
   receiving transmitted information signals from the secure 

communications path, the information signals transmitted by the secure telephone 
device. 
The method of claim 12 wherein the secure telephone device 
includes a keypad and wherein the information signals are generated with use of the 

keypad. 
A method of receiving a voice message at a voice messaging system, 
the voice messaging system having a cryptographic system, the voice message 

transmitted from a telephone having a microphone, a telephone base, and a secure 
telephone device coupled between the microphone and the base, the voice messaging 

system coupled to the telephone by a clear communications path of a network, the 
method comprising the steps of: 

   transmitting first signals from the cryptographic system of the voice 
messaging system to the secure telephone device, the first signals for use in 

converting the clear communications path to a secure communications path; and 
   receiving transmitted voice message signals from the secure 

communications path for recording by the voice messaging system, the voice 
message signals transmitted by the telephone. 
A method for secure transmission of a recorded voice message from 
a voice messaging system to a telephone over a communications network, the 

telephone including a telephone speaker and a base and having a secure telephone 
device coupled between the speaker and the base, the voice messaging system 

having a cryptographic system, the voice messaging system coupled to the telephone 
by a clear communications path of the network, the method comprising the steps of: 

   transmitting first signals from the cryptographic system of the voice 
messaging system to the secure telephone device, the first signals for use in 

converting the clear communications path to a secure communications path; and 
   transmitting recorded voice message signals over the secure 

communications path by the voice messaging system. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
