<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646416</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bipolar charged filter and method of using same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D4602	B01D4602	B03C300	B03C3017	B03C304	B03C3155	B03C340	B03C341	B03C366	B03C366	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B03C	B03C	B03C	B03C	B03C	B03C	B03C	B03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D46	B01D46	B03C3	B03C3	B03C3	B03C3	B03C3	B03C3	B03C3	B03C3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bipolar electrostatic filter system includes a 
negative high voltage source (4), a positive high voltage 

source (5), a filter (2) arranged at a downstream end of 
the system, and an ionizer (1) arranged upstream of the 

filter. The ionizer includes a first set of ionizing 
wires connected to the negative high voltage source, a 

second set of ionizing wires connected to the positive 
high voltage source, and a cycle time relay to 

alternatingly activate the first set of ionizing wires 
with the negative high voltage source and the second set 

of ionizing wires with the positive high voltage source. 
A method of filtering includes arranging a dielectric 

filter downstream of an ionizer, moving a fluid to be 
filtered sequentially through the ionizer and the filter, 

negatively charging particulate matter passing through the 
ionizer with a negative high voltage, positively charging 

particulate matter passing through the ionizer during a 
second cycle period by activating the ionizer with a 

positive high voltage, and repeatedly cycling back and 
forth between the first cycle period and the second cycle 

period. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRION INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRION INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO CHI PAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO, CHI PAI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to the 
collection of airborne particulates such as dust, 
pollen, fumes, or powders using filters. More 
particularly, the invention relates to the use of a 
bipolar charging device to enhance the collection 
efficiency and dust loading capacity of the media 
filters. Filters have been used in cleaning air for 
centuries. The collection efficiency of a filter 
depends on many parameters, such as the fiber 
diameter, the filter's packing density, filter 
thickness, particle diameter, air flow velocity, etc. In order to increase the efficiency in the 
removal of fine particles from the air at a given 
operating velocity, either smaller fiber diameter, 
thicker fiber bed, higher packing density, or a 
combination of the above approaches can be applied. 
All tend to increase the pressure drop across the 
filter. Thus, as a general rule in fibrous (and 
fabric) filtration, the higher the efficiency of the 
filter, the higher the pressure loss it has. Such a 
high pressure loss in turn means a more restrictive  
 
air flow, or a higher operation cost if a certain 
flow rate must be maintained. Electrically charged fibers can attract airborne 
particulates toward a fiber surface without altering 
any mechanical characteristics of the filter. Thus, 
electrical forces can enhance the filter efficiency 
without increasing the pressure drop across the 
filter. By charging a filter, higher efficiency at 
lower pressure drop, higher dust loading capacity, 
more air flow rate, and less maintenance can be 
achieved. Because of these advantages, many studies 
on electrical enhancement in filter performance have 
been made in the past several years. Electrical forces can be used to enhance the 
capture efficiency of fibrous filters in several 
ways. An electrical field can be produced in a 
filter by (1) charging the fiber elements, (2) 
charging the airborne particles, or (3) applying an 
electric field across the fiber elements. Examples 
of filters with charged fiber elements are the Hansen 
filters and Electret filters (U.S. Patent 4,178,157). 
As early as 1930, Hansen found a marked improvement 
in collecting submicron particles when a wool filter 
pad was powdered with ground colophony resins. The 
mechanisms are mainly electrical. Resin particles, 
about 1 micron in diameter, are scattered over the 
surface of the wool fibers of 20 microns in diameter.  
 
The particles, negatively charged by contact and 
friction, maintain the charge because of high 
resistivity of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrostatic filter system, comprising: 
   a filter (2) arranged at a downstream end of 

said system; 
   an ioniser (1) arranged upstream of said filter; 

   a high voltage source (45) connected to said 
ionizer; and 

   means for alternating back and forth between a 
first cycle wherein the ionizer is activated by a negative 

high voltage and a second cycle wherein the ionizer is 
activated by a positive high voltage. 
The filter system of claim 1, wherein: 
   said high voltage source includes a negative 

high voltage source (4) and a positive high voltage source 
(5); and 

   said ionizer includes a first ionizer that is 
connected to the negative high voltage source and a second 

ionizer that is connected to the positive high voltage 
source. 
The filter system of claim 2 wherein the first 
ionizer is a first set of ionizing wires (47) and the 

second ionizer is a second set of ionizing wires (48). 
The filter system of claim 1, wherein: 
   said high voltage source includes a negative 

 
high voltage source and a positive high voltage source; 

and 
   said alternating means includes means for 

alternatingly connecting the ionizer to the negative high 
voltage source and to the positive high voltage source. 
The filter system of claim 1, wherein said high 
voltage source includes a single power source that can 

alternatingly output a negative high voltage and a 
positive high voltage. 
A bipolar electrostatic filter system, 
comprising: 

   a negative high voltage source; 
   a positive high voltage source; 

   a filter arranged at a downstream end of said 
system; 

   an ionizer arranged upstream of said filter, 
said ionizer including a first set of ionizing wires 

connected to said negative high voltage source and a 
second set of ionizing wires connected to said positive 

high voltage source; and 
   a cycle time relay to alternatingly activate the 

first set of ionizing wires with the negative high voltage 
source and the second set of ionizing wires with the 

positive high voltage source. 
The filter system of claim 1 or 6, further 
comprising a prefilter (3) arranged upstream of the 

ionizer. 
The filter system of claim 1 or 6, wherein the 
filter is a pleated bag filter. 
The filter system of claim 1 or 6, wherein the 
filter is a dielectric filter. 
The filter system of claim 1 or 6, further 
comprising a blower for moving air through the ionizer and 

filter. 
A method of filtering, comprising the steps of: 
   moving a fluid to be filtered sequentially 

through an ionizer and a filter; and 
   repeatedly cycling back and forth between 

activating the ionizer with a negative high voltage for a 
first period of time and activating the ionizer with a 

positive high voltage for a second period of time 
following said first period of time. 
The method of claim 11, wherein the first period 
of time is substantially equal to the second period of 

time. 
The method of claim 11, wherein the first period 
of time is longer than the second period of time. 
A method of filtering, comprising the steps of: 
   arranging a dielectric filter downstream of an 

ionizer; 
   moving a fluid to be filtered sequentially 

through the ionizer and the filter; 
   negatively charging particulate matter passing 

through the ionizer during a first cycle period by 
activating the ionizer with a negative high voltage; 

   positively charging particulate matter passing 
through the ionizer during a second cycle period by 

activating the ionizer with a positive high voltage; and 
   repeatedly cycling back and forth between the 

first cycle period and the second cycle period. 
The method of claim 14, wherein the first cycle 
period is substantially equal to the second cycle period. 
The method of claim 14, wherein the first cycle 
period is longer than the second cycle period. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
