<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632777</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
POTATO CHIP PACKAGE VERTICAL PACKAGING MACHINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B506	B65B506	B65B6100	B65B6124	G01M302	G01M336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65B	B65B	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B5	B65B5	B65B61	B65B61	G01M3	G01M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROTOTYPE EQUIP CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROTOTYPE EQUIPMENT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN JAMES ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERDRICH FRED ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN JAMES ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HERDRICH FRED ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 POTATO CHIP PACKAGE VERTICAL PACKAGING MACHINEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to package handling apparatus for testing flexible packages and packing the acceptable packages vertically into cartons. The development of equipment that can test and package fragile snack food such as potato chips to ensure delivery to the retail customer in an undamaged condition is the principal objective of this invention. In packaging fragile foods the bag is often inflated so that the sealed bag is in the form of a pillow and the product occupies the space defined by the bubble of air confined within the bag. The pillow like packages facilitates protecting the product from being crushed. If such a properly inflated bag is compressed between two flat surfaces, the bag will resist being compressed beyond a certain depth. This is assuming that the product contained in the bag is evenly distributed over a layer having a depth less than said certain depth. However in the process of filing and sealing the bags the product is dropped into the bag through the open top. As a result the product often becomes clustered in the bottom of the bag. If this concentration of material in the bottom of the bag is thicker than the certain depth then the inflated bag does not protect the product from being crushed. In fact when the product is clumped together it can be crushed and damaged in the test to determine whether the bag is properly pneumatically sealed. Thus concentration of the product into clumps must be avoided and clumps that do exist must be untangled and spread out without damaging the product. 

 Since the inflated bag can best protect the product when the product is spread over a level layer it is important that all testing and processing of the filled and pneumatically sealed bag be accomplished with the bag in a horizontal orientation.Fragile foods packaged in inflated bags become vulnerable to being crushed when the bags are packaged in cartons with the longitudinal axis of the bag horizontal. This is particularly true when numerous layers of bags are involved. The weight from the upper bags exert pressure on lower bags which can result in the deflation of some lower bags. These deflated bags .have lost their protective cushion and the product can then be crushed. This can be avoided if instead of packaging the bags horizontally they are packaged in a single layer with the longitudinal axis of the bag extending vertically.A carton filled with vertically orientated bags can receive the maximum
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
We claim:
1. In a machine for packaging bags, that have been filled with product, inflated and pneumatically sealed, in cartons such that the bags are vertically orientated in the carton comprising: means for depositing the bags on a machine conveyor system such that the bags are conveyed in longitudinal alignment with all bag tops in the same direction, said means for depositing the bags comprising a
J-shaped chute adapted to receive the bags bottom first, said J-shaped chute having side guides that are adjustable to accommodate bags of varying widths, the hook portion of the J-shaped chute functions to change the direction of the bag movement from vertical to horizontal, said J-shaped chute further including a retainer located above the hook shape area to retain the bags in their bottom first orientation.
2. The invention as set forth in claim 1 wherein the invention further comprises: said J-shaped chute includes a product support surface, said side guides having product engaging surfaces, and said product engaging surfaces being substantially perpendicular to said product support surface and extend above and below said product support surface to prevent product packages and particularly edges of product packages from being lodged between said surfaces and causing ,a product jam.
3. The invention as set forth in claim 1 in which said retainer is adjustable to accommodate bag of different size. 


 4. In a machine for packaging bags, that have been filled with product, inflated and pneumatically sealed, in cartons such that the bags are vertically orientated in the carton comprising: a machine conveyor system, a index conveyor including drive means and having a first edge, said index conveyor being adapted to convey bags in a direction parallel to said first edge, pick-up means for picking up a bag from the machine conveyor system and depositing the bag horizontally on the index conveyor with the longitudinal axis of the bag transverse to the direction of movement of the index conveyor and the top of the bag adjacent the first edge of the index conveyor, a packaging head having a length substantially equal to a layer of bags to be packaged in the carton, means for controlling the drive means for the index conveyor such that the index conveyor is moved one bag width after a bag has been deposited thereon until the final bag in a layer of bags has been deposited thereon, at which time said means for controlling the drive means for the index conveyor causes the index conveyor to move the layer of bags to a packaging head pick-up station. 5. In a machine for packaging bags, that have been filled with product, inflated and pneumatically sealed, in cartons such that the bags are vertically orientated in the carton comprising: a index conveyor having a first edge, said index conveyor adapted to receive a layer of bags deposited thereon in adjacent side by side relationship with the longitudinal axis of the bags extending normal to the direction of travel of the index conveyor and the tops of all bags being adjacent the first edge of the index conveyor, a packaging head mounted for rotation between loading and discharge orientations, including an open 


bottom and a support surface that is substantially horizontal during the loading orientation, said open bottom being spaced from and generally parallel to said first edge, pick and place means for picking up entire layers of bags from the index conveyor, moving the layer of bags and placing the layer of bags in a stack on the support surface while maintaining the layers of bags in their horizontal orientation.
6. The invention as set forth in claim 5 wherein the invention further comprises: said pick and place means includes a vacuum pick up head that functions to pick up a layer of goods from the index conveyor and release the layer of goods when it has been placed in the packaging head.
7. In a machine for packaging bags, that have been filled with product, inflated and pneumatically sealed, in cartons such that the bags are vertically orientated in the carton comprising: a packaging head foundation, a packaging head support mounted on said foundation for vertical movement relative to said foundation; a packaging head, mounted for rotation on said packaging head support for movement through approximately 90° between a loading and a discharge attitude, said packaging head, when in the discharge attitude, having the general shape of a open bottomed box, said packaging head including, a top having a pair of generally parallel edges, two pivoting sides pivotally connected to the top along the generally parallel edges and two sides fixed to the other edges of the top and an open bottom, said open bottom lies in a generally vertical plane when the packaging head is in the loading attitude 


and in a generally horizontal plane when the packaging head is in the discharge attitude, the top being curved such that the open bottomed box has a generally concave-cylindrical internal top surface, pivoting sides actuating means supported by the top and connected to the pivoting sides for swinging the pivoting sides relative to the top, when the packaging head is in the loading attitude the lower pivoting side is inclined at a small angle to the horizontal and functions as a support surface and the upper pivoting side extends upwardly and approaches a vertical orientation to permit placing layers of bags on the support surface, the bags in the layer are orientated such that their longitudinal axes are generally horizontal and extend from the top of the packaging head to its open bottom with the tops of the bags being located adjacent the top of the packaging head, means for energizing said pivoting sides actuating means when a predetermined number of layers have been deposited in the packaging head, said pivoting sides actuating means function to close said pivoting sides such that they converge toward the open bottom and cause the tops of the bags to flare into engagement with the concave internal top surface and the full packaging head of bags assume a generally keystone shape which enables the packaging head to be pivoted to its discharge attitude and the bags retained within the packaging head.
8. The invention as set forth in claim 7 wherein the invention further comprises: with the packaging head fully loaded and in the loading attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprising first pneumatic means connected to said upper pivoting side and said top such that when energized, causes the 


upper pivoting side to swing down to a position where it is substantially parallel with the lower pivoting side and second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting sides to swing toward each other approximately 10° such that the pivoting sides converge.
9. The invention as set forth in claim 7 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides converging and the packaging head in the discharge attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprises second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting side to swing open to a location at which they are substantially parallel and the packaging head has released its full load of bags.
10. The invention as set forth in claim 9 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides parallel to each other and the packaging head empty and elevated out of the carton; when said first pneumatic means is energized it causes said upper pivoting side to swing up such that it approaches a vertical orientation thus placing the packaging head in the loading attitude.
11. The invention as set forth in claim 7 wherein the invention further comprises: rotating means carried by said packaging head support and operatively connected to said packaging head for rotating the packaging head relative to the packaging head support. 


 12. The invention as set forth in claim 11 wherein the invention further comprises: with the packaging head fully loaded and in the loading attitude; 5 said pivoting sides actuating means comprising first pneumatic means connected to said upper pivoting side and said top such that when energized, it causes the upper pivoting side to swing down to a position where it is substantially parallel with the lower pivoting side 10 and second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting sides to swing toward each other approximately 10° such that the pivoting sides converge.
15 13. The invention as set forth in claim 11 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides converging and the packaging head in the discharge attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprises
20 second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting side to swing open to a location at which they are substantially parallel and the packaging head has released its full load of bags.
25 14. The invention as set forth in claim 13 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides parallel to each other and the packaging head empty and elevated out of the carton; "30 when said first pneumatic means is energized it causes said upper pivoting side to swing up such that it approaches a vertical orientation thus placing the packaging head in the loading attitude. 


 15. The invention as set forth in claim 7 wherein the invention further comprises: reciprocating means supported on the foundation and operatively connected to the packaging head support for imparting vertical movement thereto.
16. The invention as set forth in claim 11 wherein the invention further comprises: reciprocating means supported on the foundation and operatively connected to the packaging head support for imparting vertical movement thereto.
17. The invention as set forth in claim 15 wherein the invention further comprises: with the packaging head fully loaded and in the loading attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprising first pneumatic means connected to said upper pivoting side and said top such that when energized, it causes the upper pivoting side to swing down to a position where it is substantially parallel with the lower pivoting side and second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting sides to swing toward each other approximately 10° such that the pivoting sides converge.
18. The invention as set forth in claim 15 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides converging and the packaging head in the, discharge attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprises second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting side to swing open to a location at which they are substantially parallel and the packaging head has released its full load of bags. 


 19. The invention as set forth in claim 18 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides parallel to each other and the packaging head empty and elevated out of the carton; when said first pneumatic means is energized it causes said upper pivoting side to swing up such that it approaches a vertical orientation thus placing the packaging head in the loading attitude.
20. A packaging apparatus for packing bags in cartons comprising; a packaging head foundation, a packaging head support mounted on said foundation for vertical movement relative to said foundation, a packaging head mounted for rotation on said packaging head support for movement through approximately 90° between a loading and a discharge attitude, said packaging head, when in the discharge attitude, having the general shape of a open bottomed box, said packaging head including, a top having a pair of generally parallel edges, two pivoting sides pivotally connected to the top along the generally parallel edges and two sides fixed to the other edges of the top and an open bottom, said open bottom lies in a generally vertical plane when the packaging head is in the loading attitude and in a generally horizontal plane when the packaging head is in the discharge attitude, the top being curved such that the open bottomed box has a generally concave-cylindrical internal top surface, pivoting sides actuating means supported by the top and connected to the pivoting sides for swinging the pivoting sides relative to the top, 


 with the packaging head is in the loading attitude the lower pivoting side is inclined at a small angle to the horizontal and functions as a support surface and the upper pivoting side extends upwardly and approaches a vertical orientation to permit placing layers of bags on the support surface, the bags in the layer are orientated such that their longitudinal axes are generally horizontal and extend from the top of the packaging head to its open bottom with the tops of the bags being located adjacent the top of the packaging head, means for energizing said pivoting sides actuating means when a predetermined number of layers have been deposited in the packaging head, said pivoting sides actuating means function to close said pivoting sides such that they converge toward the open bottom and cause the tops of the bags to flare into engagement with the concave internal top surface and the full packaging head of bags assume a generally keystone shape which enables the packaging head to be pivoted to its discharge attitude and the bags retained within the packaging head.
21. The invention as set forth in claim 20 wherein the invention further comprises: with the packaging head fully loaded and in the loading attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprising first pneumatic means connected to said upper pivoting side and said top such that when energized, causes the upper pivoting side to swing down to a position where it is substantially parallel with the lower pivoting side and second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting sides to swing toward each other approximately 10° such that the pivoting sides converge. 


 22. The invention as set forth in claim 20 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides converging and the packaging head in the discharge attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprises second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting side to swing open to a location at which they are substantially parallel and the packaging head has released its full load of bags.
23. The invention as set forth in claim 22 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides parallel to each other and the packaging head empty and elevated out of the carton; when said first pneumatic means is energized it causes said upper pivoting side to swing up such that it approaches a vertical orientation thus placing the packaging head in the loading attitude.
24. The invention as set forth in claim 20 wherein the invention further comprises: rotating means carried by said packaging head support and operatively connected to said packaging head for rotating the packaging head relative to the packaging head support.
25. The invention as set forth in claim 24 wherein the invention further comprises: with the packaging head fully loaded and in the loading attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprising first pneumatic means connected to said upper pivoting side and said top such that when energized, it causes the upper pivoting side to swing down to a position where it 


is substantially parallel with- the lower pivoting side and second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting sides to swing toward each other approximately 10° such that the pivoting sides converge.
26. The invention as set forth in claim 24 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides converging and the packaging head in the discharge attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprises second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting side to swing open to a location at which they are substantially parallel and the packaging head has released its full load of bags.
27. The invention as set forth in claim 26 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides parallel to each other and the packaging head empty and elevated out of the carton; when said first pneumatic means is energized it causes said upper pivoting side to swing up such that it approaches a vertical orientation thus placing the packaging head in the loading attitude.
28. The invention as set forth in claim 20 wherein the invention further comprises: reciprocating means supported on the foundation and operatively connected to the packaging head support for imparting vertical movement thereto.
29. The invention as set forth in claim 24 wherein the invention further comprises: 


 reciprocating means supported on the foundation and operatively connected to the packaging head support for imparting vertical movement thereto.
30. The invention as set forth in claim 28 wherein the invention further comprises: with the packaging head fully loaded and in the loading attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprising first pneumatic means connected to said upper pivoting side and said top such that when energized, it causes the upper pivoting side to swing down to a position where it is substantially parallel with the lower pivoting side and second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting sides to swing toward each other approximately 10° such that the pivoting sides converge.
31. The invention as set forth in claim 28 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides converging and the packaging head in the discharge attitude; said pivoting sides actuating means comprises second pneumatic means connected to said top and to both pivoting sides such that when energized it causes each pivoting side to swing open to a location at which they are substantially parallel and the packaging head has released its full load of bags.
32. The invention as set forth in claim 31 wherein the invention further comprises: with the pivoting sides parallel to each other and the packaging head empty and elevated out of the carton; when said first pneumatic means is energized it causing said upper pivoting side to swing up such that it 


 approaches a vertical orientation thus placing the packaging head in the loading attitude.
33. In a machine for packaging bags, that have been filled with product, inflated and pneumatically sealed,
5. in cartons such that the bags are vertically orientated in the carton comprising: means for conditioning the product including a conveyor upon which the bags are supported and move horizontally in longitudinal alignment, means for 0 accelerating and decelerating the forward speed of said conveyor such that the bag carried thereby change speed with the conveyor and the product in the bag attempts to maintain it's velocity resulting in relative movement between the bag and the product contained therein and 5 causing clusters of product to be broken up and spread over an even horizontal layer.
34. In a machine for conditioning product contained in a sealed bag comprising; a frame structure, 0 a conveyor having a substantially horizontal conveying surface upon which the bags are deposited mounted on said frame structure
"
, drive means for driving said conveyor at a constant rate of speed mounted on said frame structure, 5 means for accelerating and decelerating the constant rate of speed that has been imparted to the conveyor by said drive means, mounted on said frame structure, such that bags carried by the conveyor change speed with the conveyor and the product in the bag 0 attempts to maintain a constant velocity, resulting in relative movement between the bag and the product contained therein and causing any clusters of product to be broken up and the product spread over an even horizontal layer. 


 35. In a product conditioning conveyor comprising: a conveyor having a surface upon which sealed bags having product therein are deposited, drive means for imparting a continuous movement in one direction to said conveyor, means for accelerating and decelerating the speed of said drive means said conveyor surface being formed from material that will result in sufficient friction force, between the conveyor surface and the bag, to cause the sealed bags to move along with said conveyor surface during acceleration, deceleration and constant movement of the conveyor, the friction force between the product within the bag and the inner surface of the bag being insufficient to cause the product to move with the bag during acceleration and deceleration of the conveyor such that the product is dispersed within the confines of the bag as the bag proceeds along the conveyor.
36. The invention as set forth in claim 35, wherein the invention further comprises: said conveyor includes cylindrical drive rolls having grooves formed along their surface, and a plurality of continuous belts, lying in the grooves, and driven by the cylindrical drive rolls, and the surface of said continuous belts functioning as the conveyor surface.
37. A method of dispersing product within a sealed bag that has been compacted or segregated which comprises the steps of: a) depositing the sealed bag on a continuously moving conveyor such that the bag moves with the conveyor; b) accelerating the speed of the continuously moving conveyor such that the bag accelerates along 


 with the continuously moving conveyor but the product within the bag does not and consequently moves within the bag; c) decelerating the speed of the continuously moving conveyor such that the bag decelerates along with the continuously moving conveyor but the product within the bag does not and consequently moves within the bag.
38. The invention as set forth in claim 34 wherein the invention further comprises: adjustable width guide means extending along said conveyor and adjustable to the bag width for restricting the bags to be conveyed in the direction of their longitudinal axis.
39. The invention as set forth in claim 35 wherein the invention further comprises: adjustable width guide means extending along said conveyor and adjustable to the bag width for restricting the bags to be conveyed in the direction of their longitudinal axis.
40. The invention as set forth in claim 36 wherein the invention further comprises: adjustable width guide means extending along said conveyor and adjustable to the bag width for restricting the bags to be conveyed in the direction of their longitudinal axis.
41. The invention as set forth in claim 34 wherein the invention further comprises: said conveyor including a drive and a driven roller mounted for rotation on said frame structure, and a continuous conveyor wrapped around the rollers, said drive roller including a sprocket mounted thereon for imparting drive thereto; 


 said means for driving said conveyor at a constant rate of speed including a drive shaft mounted for rotation on said frame structure below said drive roller, said drive shaft having a sprocket mounted thereon in alignment with the drive roller sprocket; said means for accelerating and decelerating the constant rate of speed including a pair of fixed idler shafts mounted for rotation on said frame structure, sprockets mounted on said pair of fixed idler shafts, a pair of movable sprockets mounted for rotation on a change speed unit, said change speed unit mounted for reciprocating movement on said frame structure, means for reciprocating said change speed unit, a drive belt extending from said drive shaft sprocket around one of the movable idler sprockets, around the drive roller sprocket, around one of the fixed idler sprockets, around the other movable idler sprocket, around the other fixed idler sprocket and back to the drive shaft sprocket, means for energizing said means for reciprocating said change speed unit.
42. The invention as set forth in claim 34 wherein the invention further comprises: said conveyor being comprised of a plurality of continuous elastic bands spaced from each other to form said substantially horizontal conveying surface.
43. The invention as set forth in claim 41 wherein the invention further comprises: said conveyor being comprised of a plurality of continuous elastic bands spaced from each other to form said substantially horizontal conveying surface. 


 44. The invention as set forth in claim 35 wherein the invention further comprises: said conveyor being comprised of a plurality of continuous elastic bands spaced from each other to form said conveying surface.
45. In a machine for packing bags, that have been filled with product, inflated and pneumatically sealed, in cartons such that the bags are vertically orientated in the carton comprising: a packaging head mounted for rotation between loading and discharge orientations, said packaging head including an open bottom and a support surface that is substantially horizontal during the loading orientation, means for depositing filled and sealed bags horizontally on a machine conveyor system, such that the bags are conveyed in longitudinal alignment with all bag tops in the same direction, means for leveling the product in the bags such that the product is distributed over a substantially even horizontal layer, means for testing the bags to determine whether they are inflated and pneumatically sealed and rejecting those that are not, means for weighing each bag and rejecting bags that do not fall within a predetermined weight range, means for depositing bags, in horizontal layers through the open bottom of the packaging head such that the first layer of bags is supported on the substantially horizontal support surface of the packaging head and subsequent layers of ,bags are stacked above said first layer of bags, means for closing the packaging head to a retain configuration which permits rotation of the packaging head to the discharge orientation wherein the open bottom faces downward and the bags are retained in the packaging head, 


 means for moving the packaging head into a carton and opening it to a release configuration from which the packaging head can be withdrawn empty from the ■ carton, and the bags are retained in the carton in the desired vertical orientation.
46. In a machine for packaging bags, that have been filled with product, inflated and pneumatically sealed, in cartons such that the bags are vertically orientated in the carton comprising: means for testing the bags to determine whether they are pneumatically sealed and inflated comprising a conveyor system including a bottom conveyor upon which the bag is supported horizontally and conveyed in longitudinal alignment and a top conveyor that is adjustable vertically relative to the bottom conveyor to accommodate bags of different size, the top conveyor exerting a downward pressure on the bag and being capable of vertical movement in response to resistance or lack thereof, sensing means for determining whether the upper conveyor is at a predetermined level when a bag passes the sensing means thus indicating that the bag is properly inflated or below the predetermined level indicating that the bag is not properly inflated and means for diverting bags that are not properly inflated out of the packaging process.
47. The invention as set forth in claim 46 wherein the invention further comprises: means for weighing the bags, comparing the weight to a target weight, and rejecting any bags that do not meet the target weight from the packaging process.
48. In a machine for testing a bag, that has been processed to fill the bag with product, inflate and pneumatically seal the bag and distribute the product 


over an even horizontal layer, to assure that it is properly inflated comprising: a conveyor system including a bottom substantially horizontal conveyor upon which the bags are supported and conveyed in a horizontal attitude, a top conveyor mounted for vertical adjustment relative to the bottom conveyor to accommodate bags on different sizes, and means for driving the bottom and top conveyors at the same speed to assure that equal horizontal conveying forces are transmitted to the lower and upper surfaces of the bags being conveyed; sensing means associated with the top conveyor for determining whether a bag passing beneath the sensing means is properly inflated; said sensing means produces a signal indicating whether a sensed bag is acceptable; and and means for separating acceptable and unacceptable bags.
49. The invention as set forth in claim 48 wherein the invention further comprises: the top conveyor having upper and lower e:xpanses, the lower expanse including slack that is taken up by a series of rollers carried on the free ends of pivot arms, said sensing means being connected to one of said pivot arms such that the condition of the bag is sensed when it passes beneath the roller associated with said one of said pivot arms. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
