<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BLADED ENDOSCOPIC RETRACTOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B112	A61B112	A61B1702	A61B1702	A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1814	A61B1814	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B1	A61B1	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV LOMA LINDA MED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LOMA LINDA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRSCH WOLFF M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHU YONG H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRSCH, WOLFF, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZHU, YONG, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BIADED ENDOSCOPIC RETRACTORField of the Invention The present invention relates to retractors used in surgery. More specifically, the invention relates to a bladed, expandable endoscopic retractor by which tissue, internal organs, or other internal body parts may be retracted to provide visualization and surgical access during endoscopic procedures.Background of the Invention The field of endoscopic surgery has been advancing rapidly in recent years. In this form of surgery, procedures are performed inside of the body of a patient using instruments inserted through small endosurgical ports in the body. The surgery is performed with the aid of an endoscope, which is a thin, tube-like instrument featuring a light source, viewing lenses, and/or various other attachments such as irrigators, scissors, snares, brushes, or forceps. Endoscopes may be flexible or rigid, and normally utilize optic fibers to transmit light to the internal cavity. The surgery is normally viewed by the surgeon through an ocular. Lenses are placed near the tip of the endoscope and the image thereon is transmitted via optic fibers or other lens systems, to the ocular or viewer. Other types of endoscopes utilize optical fibers to transmit electronic signals representing the internal image from the distal lens to a video monitor which is viewed by the surgeon.This form of surgery allows internal visualization of the body structure without the necessity of excessive dissection of tissue. Typical endoscopes often are in the 5 to 12 mm diameter range and thus require only very small incisions to insert them into the body.This form of surgery has developed rapidly because of the numerous benefits arising in favor of the patient. Since there is only a small incision to permit entrance of the endoscope, endoscopic surgery results in less trauma to the body and faster patient recovery. For the benefits of endoscopic surgery to arise, however, all aspects of the 

surgery, such as the initial examination, retraction, and the surgical procedure itself, must be accomplished through small surgical incisions or ports.The obvious difficulty associatedwith endoscopic surgery is inadequate visualization of the internal structure required to properly complete the surgical procedure. Endoscopic surgery is thus difficult in areas which are typically difficult to reach, such as the gallbladder. In gallbladder surgery, (or "cholecystectomy") the tissue and organs surrounding the gallbladder are examined with the endoscope and retracted in order to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An endoscopic retractor, comprising: a body having a distal end and a proximal end, said distal end being inserted into a patient's body and said proximal end remaining outside the patient
,r
s
"
 body, said distal end defining a terminal plane for said body; a retracting member having distal and proximal ends, said proximal end of said retracting member being mounted for articulation on said distal end of said body, said distal end of said retracting member being adapted for retraction of tissues, organs, and the like; and an actuator connected to said retracting member at said distal end of said body and extending along said body to said proximal end thereof, said actuator being connected to said proximal end of said retracting member and being externally manipulable to cause said retracting member to assume a wide variety of angular positions with respect to the longitudinal axis of said body and achieve retraction in a wide variety of directions. 2. The endoscopic retractor of Claim 1, further comprising a control member rotatably mounted on said distal end of said body and engaging said proximal end of said retracting member
3. The endoscopic retractor of Claim 2 , wherein said control member is also mounted for movement in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of said body, said longitudinal movement occurring responsive to external manipulation of said actuator, whereby said retracting member may be adjusted to a variety of lateral positions. 4. The retractor of any of Claims l to 3 , wherein said retracting member comprises at least one blade having distal and proximal ends, said proximal end of said blade being mounted for articulation on said distal end of said body, said distal end of said blade extending proximally beyond said terminal plane of said body during retraction, so as to provide retraction in a direction away from said body with minimal interference from said body. 


 5. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein said distal end of said body is undercut to allow said blade to assume said variety of angular positions.
6. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 5, comprising at least two blades, each of said blades being mounted at the proximal end thereof for articulation on said distal end of said body, such that upon manipulation of said actuator, said blades are spaced apart from one another.
7.. The retractor of Claim 6, wherein said blades in their spaced position define an open area between them without obstruction, whereby other surgical procedures may be performed therein.
8. The retractor of any of Claims 6 or 7, wherein said blades are mounted such that said blades assume said angular, spaced position simultaneously and proportional to a single movement of said actuator.
9. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 8, wherein said blades are mounted such that their angular and spaced positions result from independent movements of said actuator. 10. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 9, wherein said actuator comprises dual mechanisms, a first mechanism for causing extension of said blades and a second mechanism for causing said blades to be spaced apart.
11. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 10, further comprising a plurality of control members, each of said control members engaging the proximal end of one of said blades, and wherein the retractor comprises a plurality of actuators, each of said actuators being connected to one of said control members, whereby said blades are independently manipulatable.
■ 12. The retractor of Claim 11, wherein the number of control members, blades and actuators is the same.
13. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 12, wherein said proximal ends of said blades comprises a lever and said control member engages said lever to manipulate said blades.
14. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 13, wherein said blades each have a distal end and a proximal end, said 


proximal end being mounted for rotation on said distal end of said body, said distal end extending proximally beyond said terminal plane of said body, said blades being closely aligned and conformed with one another to assume a longitudinal insertion position, and whereby movement of sSid actuator causes said control member to engage the proximal ends of said blades, whereby said blades are rotated to an extended position to provide retraction in a wide variety of angular positions with respect to the longitudinal axis of said body. 15. The retractor of any of Claims 2 to 14, wherein movement of said control member is in a proximal direction.
16. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 15, wherein said control member is biased in a distal direction to cause said blades to return to the insertion position. 17. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 16, wherein said control member engages one of said blades, causing both of said blades to rotate to the extended position.
18. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 17, wherein said control member further comprises a shaft inserted between said blades, whereby said movement of said control member simultaneously causes said distal ends of said blades to separate.
19. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 18, wherein said blades are biased toward their aligned insertion position. 20. The retractor of any of Claims 6 to 19, wherein said control member engages said blades at a point not along a line passing through a connection of said blades with said body and parallel to a longitudinal axis of said body, whereby movement of said actuator causes a moment about said control member whereby said blades are rotated.
21. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 20, further comprising means by which said blade may be extended from an insertion position in which said blade is substantially parallel to said longitudinal axis of said body, to a second position where said blade is extended proximally beyond said terminal plane of said body during retraction, so as to 


provide retraction in a direction away from said body, and is at an angle to said longitudinal axis.
22. The retractor of any of Claims 1 to 21, further comprising: a first control member mounted at said distal end of said body; a second control member mounted on said body proximally of said first control member; and an actuator connected to both the first control member and the second control member, whereby movement of said actuator causes said first control member to engage the proximal ends of said blades, whereby said blades are articulated so as to provide retraction in a wide variety of angular positions with respect to the longitudinal axis of said body, and whereby movement of said actuator causes said second control member to engage the proximal ends of said blades, whereby said blades are spaced apart from one another.
23. The retractor of Claim 22, further comprising: a first actuator connected to said first control member whereby movement of said first actuator causes said first control member to engage the proximal ends of said blades, whereby said blades are articulated so as to provide retraction in a wide variety of angular positions with respect to the longitudinal axis of said body; and a second actuator connected to said second control member whereby movement of said second actuator causes said second control member to engage the proximal ends of said blades, whereby said blades are spaced apart from one another.
24. A blade for an endoscopic retractor, comprising: a proximal end for mounting to said retractor; and a distal end for providing retraction, said distal end being substantially paddle-shaped and without sharp . edges in order to avoid damage to tissues and organs being retracted, said blade being concave in the 


 direction of retraction to increase the surface area of said retraction.
25. The retractor blade of Claim 24, wherein said blade is convex in the direction of retraction in order to minimize the surface area of contact between said blad'e and said tissues and organs being retracted, whereby damage to said tissues and organs is eliminated.
26. A method of providing retraction in endoscopic surgery, comprising: creating an opening in the body of a patient; inserting through said opening a retractor comprising a body having a distal and a proximal end, said distal end defining a terminal plane for said body, at least one blade having distal and proximal ends,.said distal end extending proximally beyond said terminal plane of said body, and an actuator, such that the distal end of said body is inside the patient and said proximal end remains outside the patient; positioning said blade to engage a selected internal organ or tissue within the patient's body; and manipulating said actuator, such that said blade assumes any of a wide variety of angular positions with respect to said body, such that said organ or tissue is displaced in any direction by said blade. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
