<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647367</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TRANSIENT-FREE SYNCHRONOUS ELECTRICAL POWER MACHINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02J906	H02J906	H02K118	H02K118	H02K500	H02K526	H02K700	H02K702	H02K710	H02K712	H02K1902	H02K1902	H02K1916	H02K1936	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02J	H02J	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02J9	H02J9	H02K1	H02K1	H02K5	H02K5	H02K7	H02K7	H02K7	H02K7	H02K19	H02K19	H02K19	H02K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Proximity switches and circumferentially movable stator windings allow a motor-generator (2) to simultaneously sense and switch from a synchronous motor position to a synchronous generator position. The mechanism replaces the conventional separate sensing and switching of motor-generator functions. Automatic rotational repositioning of the stator (21) maintains constant voltage and prevents the generation of transient voltages or harmonics. The stator flux leads the rotor magnetic flux slightly in a motor position. As the stator field weakens due to a failure of the normal power supply, the counter torque also weakens and the stator windings are biased to begin to turn with the rotor (27) until the rotor and stator fields are in step, i.e., when virtually no current is generated or consumed or until a generator position is reached. The dynamic stator may also be used in electric motors or generators to filter or cushion variations in the power supply or in the load.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FARKAS OTTO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FARKAS, OTTO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARKAS OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARKAS, OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
TRANSIENT-FREE SYNCHRONOUS ELECTRICAL POWER MACHINEField of the InventionThis invention relates to rotating electric machines and to electric power generation and use.More specifically the invention relates to a heavy- duty synchronous motors and synchronous generators.Background of the InventionHeavy duty electrical power motors and generators used to drive machinery as primary or back-up electrical power source, and particularly synchronous electrical motors and generators are subject to sudden variations in the magnetic flux between the rotor and stator windings every time there is a phase shift between the rotor armature flux and the stator armature flux. Such phase shift occurs upon sudden increase or decrease in the mechanical load or in the power fed to a synchronous motor, and sudden increase or decrease in the electrical load or the torque applied to a synchronous generator.The sudden phase shift can produce substantial voltage transients that cannot be tolerated by a 

critical load of a generator, or that can be fed back on the line power to a motor.Sensitive loads such as data processing equipment and medical instruments must nowadays be protected by heavy, cumbersome and costly filtering and regulating devices. Utilities must protect their installations against power surges fed back by a motor suddenly turned into a generator by use of circuit breakers and other safety devices which increase the risk of blackouts.The instant invention results from an attempt to limit these undesirable spurious lines transients by attacking the problem at its source, i.e. inside the synchronous power machinery.Uninterruptible power supply systems are provided for switching from a normal line supply of electric power to a standby or backup power supply in the event of interruption, failure or inadequacy of the normal power supply. For true uninterruptible power, the switching must be virtually instantaneous, and for cyclic power, without any change in phase, frequency or voltage. 

 Uninterruptible power supplies may require a transitional supply of power, such as a flywheel, to carry the load until the standby source of power can be brought up to speed and switched on-line. The flywheel may have to be combined with fast acting power loss sensors and solid state switches in order to keep flywheel weight and size reasonable. An example of a fast acting switch is shown in U.S. Patent Number 4,827,152.May of the current uninterruptible power supplies may accomplish the switching quickly, but not without a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS 1. In a synchronous electrical power machine comprising: a casing, having a base shaped to rest on a supporting surface; a rotating shaft having first and second ends protruding from opposite sides of said casing; a first rotating armature of N poles fixedly mounted on said shaft inside said casing; a stator concentrically surrounding said armature and fixed within said casing; an improvement which comprises: a first structure supporting said first end of the shaft; a second structure supporting said second end of the shaft; said first and second structures being dimensioned to hold said casing above and spaced- apart from said supporting surface, and to allow unrestrained rotational movement of said casing and stator around said shaft over an arc of at least 180/N degrees and no more than 350/N degrees. 



2. An improved synchronous electrical power machine which comprises: a casing resting over a supporting surface; a rotating shaft; a first rotating armature of N poles fixedly mounted on said shaft; and a stator concentrically surrounding said armature; means for rotatively supporting said stator within said casing and for allowing unrestrained rotational movement of said stator around said shaft over an arc of at least 180/N degrees and no more than 350/N degrees .
3 . The apparatus of Claim 1 , which furthe r comprises means for connecting and disconnecting an electrical power source applied to s aid power machine .
4. The apparatus of Claim 1, which further comprises means for connecting and disconnecting a mechanical power source applied to said machine.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1 in combination with a 


backup electrical power system for supplying a critical load, and including a generator driven by said power machine .
6 . The apparatus of Claim 5 , which comprises a thermal engine ; and means for selectively driving s aid power mac hine mechanical ly with s aid engine o r electrically from an electrical power source.
7 . The apparatus of C laim 6 , which further comprises means for sensing a rotational movement of said stator; and means for connecting and disconnecting said electrical power source and engine in response to said means for sensing.
8 . An apparatus for regulating an alternating electrical power source which comprises : a synchronous motor having a stator winding energized by said power source, an axial shaft and a rotor winding mounted on said shaft; a mechanical load driven by said shaft ; and. 


 means for allowing rotational movement of the stator winding around the shaft in response to variations of said power source.
9. The apparatus of Claim 8 , wherein said means for allowing comprises means for letting said stator windings rotate over an arc of no less than 180/N degrees and no more than 350/N degrees , where N is the number of poles of said motor windings . 

AMΘJDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 10 June 1993 (10.06.93); original claims 4 and 5 cancelled; original claims 1-3 amended; claims 6 and 8 amended and renumbered as claims 4 and 6; new claim 8 added; claims 7 and
9 unchanged but renumbered as claims 5 and 7
(4 pages)]
1. In an electrical alternating power unit wired to maintain supply of power to at least one load upon lapse of a utility power source, said unit including a synchronous electrical power machine comprising: a casing, having a base shaped to rest on a supporting surface; a rotating shaft having first and second ends supported along an rotational axis by said casing; a first rotating armature of N poles fixedly mounted on said shaft inside said casing; a stator concentrically surrounding said armature and fixed within said casing; an improvement which comprises: a structure supporting said casing; said structure being dimensioned to hold said casing above and spaced-apart from said supporting surface, and to allow unrestrained rotational movement of said casing and stator about said rotational axis over an arc of at 


 least 180/N degrees and no more than 350/N degrees .
2 . An improved synchronous electrical power machine which comprises : a c as ing res t ing over a s upport ing surface; a rotating shaft; a first rotating armature of N poles fixedly mounted on said shaft; and a stator concentrically surrounding said armature; means for rotatively supporting said stator within s aid casing and for allowing unrestrained rotational movement o f s aid stator about an axis coincident with said shaft over an arc of at least 180/N degrees and no more than 3 50 /N degree s during continuous , synchronous operation of said machine and in response to variations in torque between said rotating armature and said stator resulting from variations in electrical power and in loads applied to said machines . 


 3. The improvement of Claim 1, which further comprises means for connecting and disconnecting said electrical power source; and means for connecting and disconnecting a mechanical power source to and from said machine .
4. The apparatus of Claim 3, which comprises a thermal engine; and means for selectively driving said power machine mechanically with said engine or electrically from said electrical power source.
5. The apparatus of Claim 4, which further comprises means for sensing a rotational movement of said stator; and means for connecting and disconnecting said electrical power source and engine in response to said means for sensing.
6. A self-adjusting electrical load for regulating and filtering an alternating electrical power source which comprises : 


 a synchronous motor having a stator winding energized by said power source, an axial shaft and a rotor winding mounted on said shaft; a mechanical load driven by said shaft; and means f or al lowing unre s trained rotational movement of the stator winding around the shaft in response to variations of said power source , over an arc limited to maintain synchronous operation of said motor.
7 . The apparatus of Claim 6 , wherein said means for allowing comprises means for letting said stator windings rotate over an arc of no less than 180/N degrees and no more than 350/N degrees , where N is the number of poles of said motor windings .
8 . The apparatus o f C l aim 7 which f urther comprises an electrical generator driven by said synchronous motor. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
