<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647387</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIMMER ARRAYS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K720	H05B3900	H05K720	H05B3900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05B	H05K	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K7	H05B39	H05K7	H05B39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dimmer array comprises a plurality of dimmers (2), each of which includes at least one component, such as a thyristor, which generates heat. A support unit (4) defines an upwardly extending air duct (11) and removably supports the dimmers (2) one above the other. Each dimmer is of flat rectangular shape and defines an air passage which is inclined by typically 45  to the horizontal and whose lower end communicates with the air duct and whose upper end communicates with the atmosphere.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to dimmer arrays, that 
is to say a plurality of dimmers mounted together in a 
stack or array and forming a single structural unit. As 
is known, dimmers are electronic circuits used to control 
the intensity of lights and incorporate at least one 
electronic component, such as a thyristor or triac which, 
by adjustment of a low voltage circuit, controls the 
power in a high-voltage lighting circuit. The choke or 
inductance which is normally present also generates heat. It is increasingly common for large buildings or 
architectural complexes, such as shopping malls, offices 
and entertainment complexes to include a very large 
number of lights controlled by a complex control system 
including a number of dimmers which are arranged to 
control different lights and which in turn are controlled 
by a common control unit which controls the relative 
intensity of the various lights in accordance with a 
number of selectable predetermined light intensity 
programs or a time-dependent light intensity program. 
Such control systems thus necessitate the provision of a 
large number of dimmers which are generally arranged 
together in one or more stacks or arrays. However, the 
positioning of a large number of heat-generating 
electronic components, each of which may control up to 20 
amps, in close physical proximity poses considerable 
problems as regards dissipating the substantial amount of 
heat that is generated. Conventional dimmer arrays comprise a large number 
of dimmers supported in a skeletal metallic rack. Each 
dimmer is contained in an oversized metallic box in which 
holes are formed to permit the passage of air through it 
and on one of whose side surfaces heat dissipating fins  
 
are provided. Considerable importance is attached by 
architects and the owners and users of buildings to 
minimising both the floor area and volume occupied by 
dimmer arrays but the efficiency of heat dissipation in 
known dimmer arrays, which relies on diffuse and 
undirected convection air currents through the metallic 
boxes and over the heat-dissipating fins, is such that 
the size of the boxes can not be reduced and nor can the 
size of the fins which result in the boxes being 
laterally spaced apart by a considerable distance. 
Furthermore, while the dimmers in conventional arrays may 
be rated to control a 20A lighting current, the cooling 
efficiency is such that, if a significant number of 
dimmers in the same array is "on" at the same time it 
must be ensured that the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A dimmer array comprising a plurality of 
dimmers (2), each of which includes at least one component 

which, in use, generates heat, and a support unit (4) which 
defines an upwardly extending air duct (11) and removably 

supports the dimmers one above the other, each dimmer 
defining an air passage which is inclined by at least 20° 

to the horizontal and whose lower end communicates with 
the air duct, the air passage communicating with the 

atmosphere at one or more positions remote from its lower end. 
An array as claimed in Claim 1 in which the air 
passage is inclined by 40° to 50° to the horizontal. 
An array as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in 
which the upper end of each air passage communicates with 

the atmosphere. 
An array as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 
3 in which each dimmer (2) comprises a flat generally 

rectangular enclosure which contains the heat-generating 
component. 
An array as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the support unit (4) further supports a fan (13) 

whose inlet (15) communicates with the atmosphere and whose 
outlet communicates with the air duct (11). 
An array as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the support unit includes two side walls (6), 

each of which carries a plurality of projections (14) which 
support the dimmers (2) one above the other, an apertured  

 
partition (10) which engages the rear surfaces of the dimmers (2) 

and through which, in use, air passes from the air duct (11) 
into the dimmers, and a rear wall (8), the air duct being 

defined by the side and rear walls (6,8) and the partition. 
An array as claimed in Claim 5 or 6 in which 
the partition (10) carries a plurality of baffle plates (38) which 

project into the air duct (11) at positions arranged between 
respective pairs of adjacent dimmers (2), each baffle plate 

extending further into the air duct than the baffle plate 
beneath it. 
An array as claimed in Claim 5 or 6 including 
at least one spring-loaded restrictor flap (36) associated 

with each dimmer (2) which is normally pressed by the 
associated dimmer against an associated side wall but 

which is moved by the spring force when the associated 
dimmer is removed from the support unit (4) to a position in 

which it obscures a proportion of the area over which the 
air duct (11) communicates with the space vacated by the 

dimmer. 
An array as claimed in any one of Claims 6 to 
8 in which the support unit (4) carries a plurality of fixed 

plug connectors (42) which cooperate with respective plug 
connectors (24) on the dimmers (2) which are connected to the low 

voltage components of the dimmers. 
An array as claimed in Claim 9 in which the 
plug connectors (42) carried by the support unit (4) are all 

connected together by a flexible printed circuit board (44).  
 
An array as claimed in Claim 9 or Claim 10 in 
which the support unit (4) further supports a control unit (46) 

arranged to control all the dimmers (2), the control unit 
being connected to all the plug connectors (42) carried by the 

support unit. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
