<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648077</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TREATING GROUND ROASTED COFFEE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23F524	A23F526	B01D1102	B01D1102	B01D3500	B01D3502	B01F718	B01F718	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23F	A23F	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01F	B01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23F5	A23F5	B01D11	B01D11	B01D35	B01D35	B01F7	B01F7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for the continuous countercurrent treatment of roast and ground coffee particles in which a bed of the coffee particles is suspended in an aqueous liquid and the suspended bed is agitated in a manner which facilitates removal of evolved coffee gases from the bed to thereby effect complete, uniform wetting and/or extraction of the coffee grounds. The apparatus comprises a tank (10) in which water flows upward from the bottom and is removed from the top of the tank, with fresh coffee grounds being fed onto the liquid at the top of the tank. Two pairs of interleaved blade assemblies (24, 25) are mounted in the tank for relatively counter rotation to submerge coffee particles into the aqueous liquid and form a bed of suspended coffee particles. A submerging auger (41), mounted on a central shaft (21) in the tank, facilitates submerging the coffee grounds in the liquid. Both pairs of blade assemblies, which are arranged one above the other, have a set of downwardly extending blade members and an opposed set of upwardly extending blade members interleaved with the downwardly extending blades. One of the sets of blade members in each pair is stationary and the other set of blade members is mounted for rotation on the central shaft. A screw conveyor (47) is mounted on the side of the tank at the base of the suspended bed to remove grounds from the base of the suspended bed and thereby control the height of the bed in the tank. Coffee grounds which settle to the bottom of the tank are removed by suitable means.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NESTLE SA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SOCIETE DES PRODUITS NESTLE S.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU SHENG HSIUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSU, SHENG HSIUNG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TREATING GROUND ROASTED COFFEEThis invention relates to a method and apparatus for treating ground roasted coffee particles in the manufacture of soluble or "instant" coffee products. More particularly, the invention relates to a method and apparatus in which an aqueous liquid and ground roasted coffee particles are moved continuously and countercurrently through a treating zone in a manner which promotes contact between the liquid and the coffee particles to facilitate complete wetting of the coffee particles and, upon extended contact, extraction of soluble solids therefrom.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Soluble coffee products are produced by extracting soluble coffee solids from ground roasted coffee with hot water, e.g., 150° C. to 180° C. The resulting extract is concentrated and dried, such as by spray drying or freeze drying, to provide soluble coffee powder. Extraction efficiency in such a manufacturing operation is influenced by a number of factors including grind of coffee, temperature of extraction water, prewetting of the ground coffee, design of extraction equipment and flow rate of extraction liquid through ground coffee particles.Commercial production of soluble coffee products commonly is carried out in a counter-current cell extraction system in which hot water is introduced into one end of a plurality of extraction columns 

operated in series, with the water passing through one column to another and successively contacts progressively fresher coffee grounds. The last column contains the freshest (or least extracted) coffee grounds. Commercial cell extraction systems typically have from about 4 to 10 or more extraction columns, each one filled with a bed of roast and ground coffee. In such counter-current extraction systems, water entering the system at one end becomes progressively more concentrated with dissolved coffee solids as it contacts progressively fresher coffee grounds in successive columns. In commercial operations, roast and ground coffee, is filled into an extraction column and prewetted with extraction liquid, usually water or coffee extract. Prewetting of roast and ground coffee in an extraction system is known to provide a number of advantages, such as improving cup flavor and improving extraction efficiency. However, uniform prewetting of coffee particles is difficult to achieve using procedures which have been available heretofore. Non-uniform prewetting of the coffee particles causes large pressure drops across the extraction columns which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An apparatus for the continuous countercurrent treatment of roast and ground coffee particles which comprises a tank with an open top and a frusto-conical base having inlet means in said base for the introduction of aqueous liquid into said tank, hopper means for roast and ground coffee particles mounted above the tank and discharge means in communication with the hopper means for discharging roast and ground coffee particles onto the surface of the aqueous liquid in the tank, a vertically extending shaft, centrally located in said tank and adapted to be rotationally driven, a submerging auger mounted on the center shaft adjacent the top of the tank for submerging coffee grounds into the aqueous liquid, stirring means in said tank for stirring operation upon rotation of said shaft to form in the tank a bed of coffee particles suspended in the aqueous liquid and remove coffee gases from the surface of the coffee particles, said stirring means including two pairs of blade assemblies mounted for relatively counter rotation, with both pairs of blade assemblies having a set of downwardly extending blade members and an opposed set of upwardly extending blade members interleaved with the downwardly extending blades, one of the sets of blade members in both blade assemblies being rotationally fixed and 


the other set of blade members in said assembly being operatively mounted on the shaft for rotational movement therewith, and removal means at the base of the tank for removing coffee particles from the tank, conveyor means mounted on the tank intermediate the top and base of said tank for removing coffee particles from the base of the suspended bed to thereby control the height of the bed in the tank, and means for removing the aqueous liquid from the top of said tank.
2. The apparatus defined in claim 1 in which the two pairs of blade assemblies comprise a lower blade assembly and an upper blade assembly mounted above said lower blade assembly, with the downwardly extending blades in the upper blade assembly and the upwardly extending blades in the lower blade assembly being operatively mounted on the center shaft for rotational movement.
3. The apparatus defined in claim 1 in which the opposed sets of blades in both blade assemblies are arranged to pass through one another with clearance upon rotation.
4. The apparatus defined in claim 2 in which both blade assemblies include radial arms extending substantially across the diameter of the tank with the arms being rotationally mounted on the center shaft, and a plurality of blades mounted on said radial arms in a substantially symmetrical pattern on both side of the center shaft. 


 5. The apparatus defined in claim 1 in which the tank has a substantially cylindrical sidewall having an opening there through adjacent the base of the sidewall, with said conveyor means being in communication with the interior of the tank through said opening.
6. The apparatus defined in claim 1 in which said submerging auger is mounted within a vertically disposed, stationary casing.
7. The apparatus defined in claim 1 in which said means for removing aqueous liquid comprises channel means mounted around the top of the tank and filter means mounted around the periphery of the top of the tank.
8. A process for the continuous counter current treatment of roast and ground coffee which comprises continuously introducing an aqueous liquid into the base of a treating tank so as to fill said tank, with the liquid rising through the tank and being discharged from the open upper end of the tank, continuously introducing roast and ground coffee particles onto the surface of the aqueous liquid in said tank, submerging the coffee particles into the aqueous liquid to form a bed of coffee particles suspended in said aqueous liquid whereby the coffee particles are wetted and gases are evolved from the wetted coffee particles and adsorbed onto said particles, 


 subjecting the suspended bed of coffee particles to relative counter rotation to remove the evolved gases adsorbed on the coffee particles and form dynamic vertical channels through said suspended bed for the escape of the coffee gases removed from the coffee particles, controlling the height of the suspended bed by continuously removing a predetermined amount of coffee particles from the base of the suspended bed, continuously removing wetted coffee particles from the base of the treating tank, and recovering the aqueous liquid which overflows the upper end of the tank.
9. The process defined in claim 8 in which the height of the suspended bed is controlled by removing particles from the base of the bed so that the particles are maintained in contact with the liquid for a period of time sufficient to fully wet the particles, with the fully wetted coffee particles being recovered from the base of the tank.
10. The process defined in Claim 9 in which the height of the suspended bed is about 25 cm to 50 cm and the coffee particles are maintained in contact with the liquid in the tank for a period of about 4 to 10 minutes. 


 11. The process defined in claim 10 in which the feed rates of the coffee particles and aqueous liquid to the tank are controlled to provide a draw-off ratio of 0.2-0.25.
12. The process defined in claim 9 in which the fully wetted coffee particles recovered from the tank are transferred to the lead cell in a multi-cell coffee extraction system.
13. The process defined in claim 8 in which the height of the suspended bed is controlled to maintain the particles in contact with the liquid in the tank for a period of time sufficient to extract soluble coffee solids from the particles, with extracted coffee grounds being removed from the base of the tank and coffee extract being recovered from the upper end of the tank.
14. The process defined in claim 8 which includes passing the liquid being discharged from the tank through a screen having openings sufficiently small to retain substantially all of the coffee particles in the tank.
15. A multi-cell coffee extraction process characterized by the substantial absence of objectionable pressure drop across the cells which comprises providing substantially uniformly prewetted roast and ground coffee particles by forming a bed of coffee particles suspended in aqueous coffee extract whereby coffee gases are evolved and 


agitating the suspended bed to remove evolved coffee gases therefrom, with fully and uniformly wetted coffee particles settling out of the suspended bed loading a bed of said wetted coffee particles into the lead cell of a multi-cell coffee extraction system, and extracting said bed with an extract obtained by passing aqueous liquid through partially extracted roast and ground coffee.
16. The process defined in claim 15 in which the extract from said bed of wetted coffee particles is used to form the suspended bed of particles. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
