<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638097</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PREPARING CROSSLINKABLE POLYMERS EMPLOYING MACROMONOMER CHAIN TRANSFER AGENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08F22010	C08F238	C08F2018	C08F2054	C08F238	C08F29004	C08F29700	C08F2000	C08F22000	C08F29000	C08F29700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	C08F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08F220	C08F2	C08F20	C08F20	C08F2	C08F290	C08F297	C08F20	C08F220	C08F290	C08F297	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved method of free radical polymerization conducted in the presence of a relatively low molecular weight macromonomer such as can be made with a metal chelate chain transfer catalyst. This method has various uses, including reducing the molecular weight of a variety of crosslinkable polymers and copolymers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to polymerization to obtain a crosslinkable polymer. The invention is particularly useful for preparing polymers for coatings and other curable compositions. The invention employs ω-unsaturated macromonomers as a chain transfer agent. Such macromonomers have a variety of uses, including controlling the molecular weight of polymers.In any polymerization process, it is necessary to be able to control the molecular weight of the polymer produced so that it may be fitted to a particular use or need. For example, in unperturbed polymerization systems which fundamentally tend to produce high molecular weight polymers, it may be desirable or necessary to limit the molecular weight of the polymers produced, and this must be done in a fairly predictable and controllable fashion. Such molecular weight limitation may be desirable or necessary in the preparation of polymer solutions for use in paints and finishes which require high solids content to assure reduced solvent emission during application and yet which require low viscosity to facilitate ready application.In free radical polymerizations, there are a number of conventional means of effecting such molecular weight limitation. These, along with notable disadvantages or problems, include
(1) A high initiator/monomer ratio. However, this may be costly in terms of initiator consumption. Also, high initiator levels may also produce undesirable end groups on the polymers produced.(2) Polymerization at high temperatures. However, this may lead to undesirable depropagation, thermal initiation, and undesirable secondary reactions.(3) Adding stoichiometric amounts of thiol chain transfer agents to the polymerizing system. However, the attendant incorporation of sulfur-containing agents into the polymer may render it less durable than is desired. There may also be odor problems associated with the use of sulfur-coataining chain transfer agents.(4) Chain transfer agents employing cobalt (II) chelates such as disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,680,352 and U.S. Patent 4,694,054. However, a possible disadvantage of these is that some do not work in water and some are adversely affected or deactivated by low pH. They may cause color problems, especially if interaction with some monomers may require higher levels of the cobalt chelate.(5) Group transfer agents such as disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,417,034 and 4,414,372 or European patent application publication 0 248 596. However, they are specific to methacrylated polymers and relatively expensive. They are
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of free radical polymerization of unsaturated monomers to make a polymer having reactive functionality and a number average molecular weight per functional group of 70 to 6000, said method comprising:

polymerizing a reaction mixture, which comprises:

(a) for chain transfer, a macromonomer or a polydisperse mixture of macromonomers, having the following structure:


wherein n is, on average, 2 to 100 and X1 to Xn are independently -CONR2, -COOR, OR1, -OCOR, -OCOOR1, -NRCOOR1, halo, cyano, or a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl or aryl, wherein each R is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, silyl, or a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, alkyl ether, phenyl, benzyl, and aryl, wherein substituted means with a subtituent selected from the group consisting of epoxy, hydroxy, isocyanato, cyano, amino, silyl, carboxyl, halo, and acyl; and wherein R1 is the same as R except not H; and wherein each alkyl is independently selected from the group consisting of branched, unbranched and cyclical hydrocarbons having 1 to 12 carbon atoms; and wherein halo is.bromo, iodo, chloro or fluoro; excluding the use of a pure dimer when X1 to Xn is substituted or unsubstituted phenyl or aryl, and
(b) monomers, the same or different, at least a portion of which has said reactive functionality, said reactive functionality being capable of crosslinking with itself or another polymer, and is selected from the group consisting of hydroxyl, epoxy,
 anhydride, carboxyl, silyl, amide, amine, isocyanato functionalities, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 1, wherein the functionality in (b) is selected from the group consisting of hydroxyl, carboxyl, silyl, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 1, wherein X1 to Xn are independently -CONR2, -COOR or an unsubstituted or substituted phenyl or aryl.
The method of claim 1, wherein X1 to Xn are independently -COOR or phenyl and R is alkyl or phenyl, either of which may be unsubstituted or substituted with an epoxy, hydroxy, silyl or carboxyl.
The method of claim 1, wherein said polymerization is conducted in the presence of an effective amount of a macromonomer or a polydisperse mixture of macromonomers, having the following formula:


wherein n is, on average, 2 to 20 and R1 to Rn are each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, alkyl ether, phenyl, benzyl, and aryl, which substituent is being selected from the group consisting of epoxy, hydroxy, isocyanato, cyano, amino, silyl, carboxyl, anhydride, halo, and acyl; wherein halo is selected from the group consisting of bromo, iodo, chloro and fluoro; silyl is - SiR2(R3)(R4), wherein R2, R3 and R4 are independently alkyl, phenyl, alkyl ether or phenyl ether; and wherein each alkyl is independently selected from the group consisting of branched, unbranched, and cyclical hydrocarbons having 1 to 12 carbons.
The method of claim. 1, wherein the macromonomer or said polydisperse mixture of said macromonomers is the product of a metal chelate chain transfer process.
A copolymer made by the method of claim 1.
A coating composition for a substrate comprising the copolymer of claim 7.
A crosslinkable or curable composition comprising, by weight of (a) and (b) below, the following separate components:

(a) 5 to 60 percent of a crosslinking agent; and
(b) 40 to 95 percent of a crosslinkable functional polymer made according to the method of claim 1.
A method of free radical polymerization of claim 1, wherein the macromonomer also comprises a reactive functionality.
The method of claim 10, wherein the macromonomer is an epoxy or hydroxy functional oligomer.
The method of claim 10, wherein the polymer produced is a pseudo-telechelical polymer or macromolecule.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
