<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635876</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fabrication process for a self-aligned optical subassembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B613	H01S5026	H01L21306	G02B632	H01S500	G02B642	G02B613	G02B630	G02B632	G02B636	G02B642	G02B630	G02B636	H01L2102	H01L21308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	H01S	H01L	G02B	H01S	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B6	H01S5	H01L21	G02B6	H01S5	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is disclosed for forming a self-aligned optical subassembly 
for supporting an optical fiber and associated optical component(s). 

In particular, 
sequential masking layer/silicon substrate etch operations are 

performed so as to 
etch, in series, the largest opening first and the narrowest opening 

last. 
A series of mask/silicon etch operations may be performed to 
sequentially provide openings in the silicon of the desired thicknesses. 

That is, the thickness of masking layer (30) is now related (inversely) 
to the desired final depth of each opening. In particular, the masking 

layer comprises the greatest thickness (t₂) over the area 
associated with first groove (14), followed by a thickness of t₁ 
<
t₂ 
over the area associated with second groove (16), where the 

masking material has been completely removed from the area associated 
with the deepest opening (12). Advantageously, the above-described 

process ot tailoring the thickness of the masking layer with respect to 
the desired final depths of the features (i.e., opening (12) and groves 

(14,16)) eliminates the need to perform any further photolithography 
operations in the formation of the final fiber stub subassembly. 
A first silicon etch may now be performed to provide for opening (12) 

to comprise a predetermined depth of d₁, where the 
predetermined may 

be controlled by the material used to etch, as well as the time and 
temperature conditions. For example, the etch may be performed using 

ethylenediamine pyrochatecol (EDP) at a temperature of 115°C in a 
nitrogen atmosphere, where it is known that this particular material 

will etch silicon at a rate of 25µm/hour. 
Subsequent to this first EDP etch, a masking layer etch operation 
(using, for example a plasma or buffered oxide) is performed to blanket 

remove a predetermined thickness of masking layer (30) sufficient to 
expose suface (11) of substrate (10) in the area of opening (16). This 

etch thus also reduces the thickness of masking layer (30) covering area 
(14). A second EDP etch is then performed so as to provide an opening 

(16) with a predetermined depth of d₂. The second EDP etch will also 
further etch first opening (12), resulting in opening (12) having a 

depth of d₁+d₂. 
After the second EDP etch is completed, a final masking material etch 
is performed to remove an amount of masking layer (30) sufficient to 

expose surface (11) of substrate (10) in the area of opering (14). A 
third EDP etch is then performed so as to form opening (14) to comprise 

a third predetermined depth d₃. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAUTARTAS MINDAUGAS FERNAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG YIU-HUEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAUTARTAS, MINDAUGAS FERNAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WONG, YIU-HUEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a self-aligned optical subassembly and,
more particularly, to a method of processing a silicon substrate to form a self-aligned
optical subassembly.An exemplary utilization of silicon in the formation of a subassembly
for optoelectronic devices is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,945,400 (Blonder et al.)
issued July 31, 1990 and assigned to the assignee of record in this application. In
general, Blonder et al. disclose a subassembly including a semiconductor (e.g.,
silicon) base and lid including a variety of etched features (e.g., grooves, cavities,
alignment detents) and metallization patterns (e.g., contacts, reflectors) which enable
the optoelectronic device to be reliably and inexpensively mounted on the base and
coupled to a communicating optical fiber. In particular, Blonder et al. disclose an
arrangement wherein the optoelectronic device (e.g., LED) is disposed within a
cavity formed by a lid member and the communicating fiber is positioned along a
groove formed in a base member. A reflective metallization is utilized to optically
couple the device to the fiber. Therefore, positioning of the device over the reflector
is the only active alignment step required to provide coupling. Any remaining
alignments are accomplished utilizing fiducial features formed in the base and lid
members.Although the Blonder et al. subassembly represents a significant
advance in the field of silicon optical bench packaging, a need remains for providing
an arrangement which requires no active alignments to be performed. The provision
of a completely passive optical packaging arrangement being considered both more
reliable and less expensive than vinually any alternative requiring active alignment
between components. EP-A-0465230 shows a method of etching portions of a silicon substrate
to various depths in order to accommodate optical fibers and optical components.
EP-A-0331333 also shows a method for etching portions of a silicon substrate to
different depths to accommodate an optical fiber which has a bare portion and a
coated portion.In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a method as
defined in claim 1.The present invention relates to further advances in the field of silicon
optical bench technology and, more particularly, to a method of fabricating a self-aligned
optical subassembly for capturing an end section of an optical fiber (referred
to as a "fiber stub") and providing alignment of the optical fiber to an associated
optical component (either an active or a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of forming a fiber-supporting substrate (10) to provide for
passive optical alignment between an optical fiber (26) and an associated optical

component or components (24), the method comprising the steps of:

a) providing a silicon substrate including a top major surface;
b) forming a masking layer (30) on said silicon substrate top major surface;
c) patterning said masking layer such that different areas of said
masking layer comprise different thicknesses so that said thickness

is inversely related to the desired final depth of each opening
(12,14,16) to be etched in said substrate, said areas associated with the location

of said optical fiber and said associated optical component or components;
d) etching said masking layer until a first underlying surface portion of
said silicon substrate exposed:
e) etching said exposed silicon substrate to a predetermined depth;
f) etching said masking layer again until a second underlying surface
portion of the silicon substrate is also exposed;
g) etching the exposed first and second portions of the silicon substrate
to predetermined depths; and
h) repeating steps (f) and (g) if necessary to expose and etch additional
underlying surface portions until all openings required to support said optical fiber

and said associated optical component or components have been formed; said steps (d) - (h) being
performed without any additional masks formed over the areas of said masking

layer.
The method according to claim 1 wherein the optical fiber includes a
bare end section (28) and a coated following section, and the method comprises:


a) etching said exposed masking layer so as to remove essentially all
masking material in the region where said associated optical component will be

located, said etching step thus resulting in said masking layer having a first thickness
t
1
 in the area where said coated following section of said fiber will be located and a
second thickness t
2
 in the area where said bare end section of said fiber will be
located, wherein the areas are formed to be in axial optical alignment; 
b) etching said exposed silicon to a first depth d
1
;
c) etching said masking layer for a period of time sufficient to expose
the silicon surface in the area associated with said coated fiber section;
d) etching said exposed silicon for a period of time sufficient to form an
opening with a predetermined second depth d
2
 in the area where said coated fiber
will be supported;
e) etching said masking layer for a period of time sufficient to expose
the silicon surface in the area associated with the bare fiber end section; and
f) etching said exposed silicon for a period of time sufficient to form an
opening with a predetermined third depth d
3
 in the area where said bare fiber end
section will be supported.
The method according to either claim 1 wherein in performing step b),
a silicon dioxide layer is used as the masking layer.
The method according to claim 3 wherein the silicon dioxide layer is a
grown, thermal oxide.
The method according to claim 3 wherein in performing the steps
associated with etching the masking layer, a plasma etch operation is used.
The method according to claim 1 wherein in performing the steps
associated with the etching of silicon, ethylendiamine pyrochatecol, EDP, is used to

perform the etching.
The method according to claim 6 wherein in performing the etching
with EDP, the etch is performed at a temperature of approximately 115°C in a

nitrogen atmosphere.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
