<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636046</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
KINETIC POSTER DISPLAY AND ROAD RACING GAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A63F300	A63F300	A63F914	A63F914	A63H1800	A63H1812	A63H1816	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A63F	A63F	A63F	A63F	A63H	A63H	A63H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A63F3	A63F3	A63F9	A63F9	A63H18	A63H18	A63H18	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A combination decorative kinetic poster and vertical vehicle toy racing game includes a substrate (6) and (20) having colorful indicia for providing a decorative design. The substrate (6) and (20) is designed to be vertically hung on a wall and is capable of supporting complementary kinetic decorative mobiles (4) that extend from the substrate (6) and (20). A track member (24) extends across the substrate (6) and (20) to form a continuous path. Toy vehicles can be mounted for translating across the track member (24) and operatively interacting with the kinetic mobiles (4) to cause a kinetic movement. The operator can be provided with hand controls (14) and (16) for driving the toy vehicles to race across the track set.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JONES LAWRENCE T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JONES LAWRENCE T
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES LAWRENCE T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAY RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES LAWRENCE T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAY RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 KINETIC POSTER DISPLAY AND ROAD RACING GAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to a decorative kinetic poster display in combination with a vertical road racing game which animates kinetic mobile features of the poster display during the operation of toy vehicles.2. Description of Related ArtVarious forms of posters have become popular decorative items in children's and teenager's rooms. Frequently these posters have a particular fad theme or relate to a movie actor, rock star, sports star, or popular toy figure. Usually the poster assumes a static configuration and simulates a traditional wall picture hanging as far as its decorative purpose on a vertical wall or door of the occupant's room. The poster does not provide any additional play feature, and usually remains only a passive decorative item in the furnishing of the room.Children have frequently played with numerous forms of toy vehicle sets, including train sets and toy vehicle racing games. Usually a series of track segments are provided which can be subjectively put together by the child on the floor of his room or on a separate support member. The rails on the tracks are energized by a transformer and toy vehicles are mounted on the rails and guided by a single pin and slot arrangement. Individual 

hand controllers are frequently utilized to race the toy vehicles as a toy racing vehicle set. The racing set is usually dismantled or stored after use, since it can occupy a substantial portion of the horizontal surface of the room. Accordingly, a barrier to the enjoyment of a toy racing set has been the necessity to set up the tracks and reassemble the racing set when it is desired to be used.An example of a toy vehicle racing game can be seen in U.S. Patent No. 4,386,777, wherein toy vehicles are magnetically coupled by the armature of the electric motor to varying thicknesses of metal rails to enable the vehicles to race from a horizontal surface across a vertical loop that extends up the side of a wall. A slotted track racing system is disclosed inU.S. Patent No. 4,795,154, with the toy vehicles being held on a track by a guide beam.Other examples of slotted racing car apparatus can be seen in the following patents: U.S. Patent No. 2,631,853, U.S. Patent No. 3,367,657, U.S. Patent No. 3,510,223, U.S. Patent No. 3,411,783, U.S. Patent No. 4,066,211, U.S. Patent No. 4,163,555, U.S. Patent No. 4,697,812, U.S. Patent No. 4,728,104, and U.S. Patent No. 4,997,187. The German Auslegeschrift No.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is Claimed Is:
1. A combination decorative wall poster and vertical vehicle toy set, comprising: a substrate having colorful indicia for providing decorative designs for a child's room; means for hanging the substrate vertically on a wall as a decorative wall poster; a kinetic decorative mobile extending from the substrate; at least one track member extending across the substrate to form a continuous path; a toy vehicle, mounted for translating across the track member, the track member being arranged on the substrate to permit the toy vehicle to operatively interact with the mobile as it travels along the track member to cause a kinetic movement of the mobile; and means for driving the toy vehicle along the track member.
2. The invention of Claim 1, wherein: the track member includes two pairs of rails extending across the surface of the substrate adjacent the mobile, each pair of rails having an elongated opening with retention flanges forming the perimeters of the opening; and 


 the toy vehicle is mounted on one set of rails, and a second toy vehicle is mounted on the other set of rails, each toy vehicle including a retainer member that can interlock with the elongated opening to maintain the toy vehicle operative in a vertical plane; wherein each toy vehicle can interact with the mobile to cause a kinetic movement.
3. The invention of Claim 1, wherein the indicia is an action figure and the kinetic decorative mobile simulates a head of the action figure.
4. The invention of Claim 1, wherein the indicia is an action figure and the kinetic decorative mobile simulates the hands of the action figure.
5. The invention of Claim 1 wherein the means for driving the toy vehicle includes a hand-size controller and further support means are provided on the substrate to hang the controller from the substrate.
6. The invention of Claim 1, further including a slot in the track member and retention means on the toy vehicle including a retainer member that interlocks with the slot.
7. The invention of Claim 6, wherein the retainer member has a shaft that is removably connected to the vehicle at one end, and the other end of the shaft is configured to be captured by the slot. 


 8. A vertical road racing toy car apparatus comprising: a substrate member having a track set extending across the substrate member; a pair of toy vehicles capable of being mounted on the track set; means for providing a driving source of power for the respective toy vehicles; means for controlling the movement of the toy vehicles across the track set; means for mounting the substrate member to extend in a vertical plane so that the entire substrate member can be mounted on and parallel to a wall and the like; and retention means on the toy vehicles to interface with the track set for maintaining the toy vehicles in both a driving and a stationary position on the track set while suspended in a vertical plane with gravity pulling at the vehicles parallel to the plane of the substrate member.
9. The invention of Claim 8 wherein the means for controlling the movement of the toy vehicle includes a hand-size controller and further support means are provided on the substrate to hang the controller from the substrate.
10. The invention of Claim 8, wherein the track set includes a slot member having a central opening and a pair of supporting flanges and the retention means on the toy vehicles includes a retainer member that interlocks with the slot member. 


 11. The invention of Claim 8, wherein the retainer member has a shaft that is removably connected to the vehicle at one end, and the other end of the shaft is configured to be captured by the supporting flanges when the shaft is inserted in the central opening.
12. The invention of Claim 8, further including a movable member extending outward from a surface of the substrate member across at least one track, the movable member configured to contact a vehicle as it travels along the track and being displaced by the force of the contact, the movable member being movably connected to the substrate to enable a gravity force to restore the movable member to its original position after contact with the vehicle displaces the movable member.
13. The invention of Claim 8, further including a second substrate member having at least a second track set, means for mounting the second substrate member in a vertical plane, and means for interconnecting the first track set with the second track set to increase the respective track length available for each toy vehicle.
14. A combination decorative wall poster and vertical road racing toy car set, comprising: a substantially planar substrate having colorful indicia for providing decorative designs for a boy's room; means for hanging the substrate vertically on a wall as a decorative wall poster; a pair of rail members extending across the surface of the substrate, each pair of rail members having an elongated opening with retention flanges forming the perimeters of the opening; 


 a pair of toy vehicles capable of being mounted on each respective pair of rails, each toy vehicle including a retainer member that can interlock with an elongated opening to maintain the toy vehicle operative in a vertical plane; and means for driving the toy vehicles over the rail members.
15. The invention of Claim 14, further including a kinetic mobile extending from the substrate and across a pair of rail members, wherein a toy vehicle is capable of activating the kinetic mobile as it travels along its pair of rails.
16. The invention of Claim 14, further including a pair of magnetic traction members mounted on each toy vehicle to provide a magnetic force field linking with the pair of rails to assist in adhering the toy vehicle to the vertical substrate.
17. The invention of Claim 14, further including a second retainer member on each toy vehicle for interlocking with an elongated opening.
18. The invention of Claim 14, further including a second retainer member on each toy vehicle that extends into the elongated opening but does not interlock. 


 19. The invention of Claim 16, wherein the driving members further include an electrical motor with a magnetic field pieces in each toy vehicle, and the magnetic field pieces are positioned adjacent the magnetic traction members and close enough to the rails to magnetically link and assist in adhering the vehicle to the vertical substrate.
20. The invention of Claim 16, wherein the driving means includes a transformer and hand controllers connected to the transformer and the rails and means for vertically mounting the hand controllers to the substrate.
21. An improved road racing set that is oper¬ able on a vertical wall or ceiling of a room, comprising: a track set forming a closed continuous path, the track set including means for mounting on a wall or ceiling; a toy vehicle including a body member with a front and a rear portion and a lower surface, and a set of wheels rotatably connected to the body member; an electrical motor mounted on the toy vehicle body member to drive the set of wheels, including a magnetic field piece positioned adjacent the lower surface of the body member; a magnetic traction member mounted between _ the magnetic field piece and the driven wheel set adjacent the lower surface of the body member; and a first retention member having a shaft extending from the front lower surface having a retention head at its furthest end, the retention head extending further from the lower surface than the driven wheel set; the track set including a slotted elongated opening extending along the continuous path v/ith a pair of flanges 


 defining the perimeter of the slotted opening, and a pair of metal rails capable of magneti¬ cally coupling with the magnetic field piece and the magnetic traction member surrounding the slotted elongated opening, the retention head being wider than the slotted opening and being capable of interfacing with the pair of flanges to prevent the toy vehicle from releasing from the track set, the metal rails being spaced apart a sufficient distance to be aligned with the magnetic field piece and the magnetic traction member, the strength of the combined magnetic field of the magnetic field piece and the magnetic traction members being sufficient to operatively adhere the toy vehicle to the track set, when in a vertical or upside down arrangement, by magnetically coupling with the metal rails.
22. The invention of Claim 21, further including a second retention member having a shaft extending from the rear lower surface to extend into the slotted elongated opening.
23. The invention of Claim 21, further including a kinetic decorative mobile extending across the track set and movable upon contact with the toy vehicle translating along the track set.
24. The invention of Claim 21, wherein the track set includes a curved track segment with a notched opening extending from the slotted elongated opening towards the inside of the curve and having a width sufficient to insert the retention member head. 


 25. The invention of Claim 23, wherein the kinetic decorative mobile simulates a humanoid head configuration and a movable member simulates eyes that can be moved by contact with the toy vehicle.
26. The invention of Claim 23, wherein the kinetic decorative mobile simulates a rain cloud and includes flexible strips hanging across the track set for contact with the toy vehicle.
27. The invention of Claim 23, wherein the kinetic decorative mobile is a movable member that is pivotally attached adjacent the track member and includes a combination speaker and stylus and means for activating the stylus to produce sound when the speaker is operatively positioned adjacent the movable member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
