<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656747</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR ALTERING DNA SEQUENCES BY HOMOLOGOUS RECOMBINATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K4800	A61K4800	C07K14435	C07K1447	C12N1587	C12N1588	C12N1590	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K48	A61K48	C07K14	C07K14	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a composition and method for altering the sequence of a DNA fragment by homologous recombination. More particularly, this invention relates to a method for correcting genetic defects in mammals, particularly in man, by homologous recombination. This invention also relates to a gene therapy method for treating human genetic diseases, including cystic fibrosis, and other diseases, by homologous recombination.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV CALIFORNIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUENERT DIETER C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNZELMANN KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUENERT, DIETER, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNZELMANN, KARL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR ALTERING DNA SEQUENCES BY HOMOLOGOUS RECOMBINATIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention was developed at least partially with Government support under Grant Nos. DK39619 and HL42368 from the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government may have rights in this invention.Field of The InventionThis invention relates to a composition and method for altering the sequence of a DNA fragment by homologous recombination. More particularly, this invention relates to a method for correcting genetic defects in mammals, particularly in man, by homologous recombination. This invention further relates to a gene therapy method for treating human genetic diseases, including cystic fibrosis, and other diseases, by homologous recombination.Description of the BackgroundThe alteration of defective genes associated with specific diseases has long been envisioned as a means for curing human genetic diseases. The knowledge and techniques of molecular biology have been brought to bear for several decades in the hope of correcting specific DNA defects that cause, or are associated with, human diseases. To date only complementation with exogenous DNA has been effective in altering a disease phenotype produced by a genetic defect.Numerous defects in DNA sequences have been found in genes associated with human diseases such as thallassemias, sickle-cell anemia, cystic fibrosis, xeroderma pigmentosum, Fanconi's anemia, ataxia telangiectasia, and muscular distrophy. These deffects are inherited and persist through the generations.Cystic fibrosis (CF) , for instance, is an inherited disease afflicting about 1 in 2500 Caucasian live births. CF is characterized primarily by defective regulation of cAMP dependent chloride ion transport, most notably in 

epithelial cells". CF results in a debilitating loss of respiratory and pancreatic function, the primary cause of death being an opportunistic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection of the airways. The disease is associated with mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductive regulator (CFTR) gene, and the individuals afflicted with CF have a life expectancy of about 28 years.The CFTR gene spans approximately 250 Kb and encodes a 6.5 Kb messanger RNA (mRNA) with an open reading frame of 4.6 Kb. At present, 27 exons that span the open reading frame (ORF) and the 3' untranslated region have been identified. The CF gene product is a protein of 170 Kd molecular weight with 1480 amino acids, that has two hydrophobic transmembrane domains and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED AS NOVEL IN UNITED STATES LETTERS PATENT IS:
1. A composition for altering a DNA sequence flanked by first DNA sequences upstream and downstream thereto, comprising a substantially pure, isolated DNA fragment comprising an altering DNA sequence, two termini, and second flanking DNA sequences located upstream and downstream from the altering DNA sequence, the altering DNA sequence lacking complete homology to a DNA sequence to be altered, and each second flanking DNA sequence being subtantially homologous to the corresponding first flanking DNA sequence, encompassing one terminus of the isolated DNA fragment, and comprising at least a number of nucleotides effective to attain annealing to the corresponding first flanking DNA sequence under cellular metabolic conditions; and a biologically acceptable carrier.
2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the DNA fragment to be altered comprises an exon having one terminus at each end, wherein the exon comprises the DNA sequence to be altered; and each of the first flanking DNA sequences is provided with one inner terminus that is located at least 10 nucleotides outside the corresponding exon's terminus. 


 3. The composition of claim 1, wherein the second DNA fragment is selected from the group consisting of double-stranded DNA, single-stranded DNA and single-stranded complementary DNA fragments.
4. The composition of claim 1, further comprising a recombinase enzyme.
5. The composition of claim 1, wherein the second DNA fragment is enveloped by a lipid layer, encapsulated by a lipid and protein layer, and/or a DNA fragment-calcium/strontium/phosphate complex.
6. The composition of claim 1, wherein the DNA sequence to be altered comprises a defective DNA sequence encoding the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulatory protein; and the altering DNA sequence comprises a functional allele of the transmembrane regulatory protein.
7. A method for genetically altering a double-stranded DNA sequence in a mammalian cell, comprising obtaining a mammalian cell comprising a double-stranded DNA fragment that comprises a DNA sequence to be altered and first flanking DNA sequences upstream and downstream thereto; obtaining the composition of claim 1, wherein the isolated DNA fragment comprises a second DNA fragment; 


 delivering the composition comprising the second DNA fragment into the cell under conditions effective for the second DNA fragment to enter thereto and for the second flanking DNA sequences to locate the first flanking DNA sequences; and allowing the corresponding flanking DNA sequences to pair and anneal, and the second DNA fragment and the cellular
DNA fragment to undergo homologous recombination under cellular conditions to produce a genetically altered cell comprising the altering DNA sequence.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the DNA sequence to be altered is associated with a disease selected from the group consisting of Fanconi's anemia, cystic fibrosis, retinitis pigmentosa, xeroderma pigmentosa, ataxia telangiectasia, Bloom's syndrome, retinoblastoma, Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, and Tay-Sachs disease.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the mammalian cell comprises a human cell .
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the mammalian cell is selected from the group consisting of non-transformed and immortalized cells.
11. A genetically altered mammalian cell line obtained by the method of claim 7. 


 12. An ex vivo method for genetically altering a DNA sequence in a subject's target cells, comprising obtaining non-transformed or immortalized cells from a mammalian subject, the cells comprising a DNA fragment that comprises a DNA sequence to be altered and first flanking
DNA sequences upstream and downstream from the DNA sequence to be altered; obtaining the composition of claim 1, wherein the isolated DNA fragment comprises a second DNA fragment; delivering the composition comprising the second DNA fragment into the cell under conditions effective for the second DNA fragment to enter thereto and for the second flanking DNA sequences to locate the first flanking DNA sequences; and allowing the corresponding flanking DNA sequences to pair and anneal, and the second DNA fragment and the cellular DNA fragment to undergo homologous recombination under cellular conditions to produce a genetically altered cell comprising the altering DNA sequence; and returning the genetically altered non-transformed or immortalized cells to the subject.
13. An ex vivo method for gene therapy of a disease associated with a defective DNA fragment present in a mammalian subject's target cells, the DNA fragment comprising a defective DNA sequence, and first flanking DNA sequences upstream and downstream from the defective DNA sequence, the method comprising 


 obtaining target cells from a mammalian subject in need of the therapy, the cells comprising a DNA fragment that comprises a defective DNA sequence associated with the disease and first flanking DNA sequences upstream and downstream from the defective DNA sequence; obtaining the composition of claim 1, wherein the isolated DNA fragment comprises a second physiologically functional DNA fragment, and the DNA sequence to be altered comprises a defective DNA sequence; delivering the composition comprising the second DNA fragment into the cell under conditions effective for the
DNA fragment to enter thereto and for the second flanking
DNA sequences to locate the first flanking DNA sequences; allowing the corresponding flanking DNA sequences to pair and anneal and the second DNA fragment and the cellular DNA fragment to undergo homologous recombination under cellular conditions to produce a genetically altered cell comprising the altering DNA sequence of the second species; and returning to the subject the gene therapy treated target cells having the fuctnional DNA sequence and substantially ameliorating the disease.
14. A method of producing a transgenic, non-human, mammalian animal, comprising obtaining a germ cell or embryo cell of a non-human, mammalian animal of a first species, the cell comprising a DNA fragment that comprises a DNA sequence to be altered and first flanking DNA sequences upstream and downstream thereto; 


 obtaining the
"
composition of claim 1, wherein the isolated DNA fragment comprises an altering DNA sequence from a mammalian animal of a second species; delivering the composition comprising the second DNA fragment into the cell under conditions effective for the DNA fragment to enter thereto and for the second flanking DNA sequences to locate the first flanking DNA sequences; allowing the corresponding flanking DNA sequences to pair and anneal and the second DNA fragment and the cellular DNA fragment to undergo homologous recombination under cellular conditions to produce a genetically altered cell comprising the altering DNA sequence of the second species; replacing the genetically altered germ cell or embryo cell in a non-human, mammalian animal; and allowing gestation to proceed to term to thereby produce a non-human, mammalian transgenic animal of the first and second species.
15. A transgenic, non-human, mammalian animal produced by the method of claim 14.
16. An in vivo method for altering a DNA fragment present in a subject's target cells, the DNA fragment comprising a DNA sequence to be altered, and first flanking DNA sequences upstream and downstream from the DNA sequence to be altered, and the method comprising 


 obtaining the composition of claim 1, wherein the isolated DNA sequence comprises a second physiologically functional DNA sequence and the DNA sequence to be altered comprises a defective DNA sequence; administering to the subject the composition comprising the second DNA fragment under conditions effective for the second DNA fragment to reach the subject's target cells and allowing the DNA fragment to enter the subject's cells and the second flanking DNA sequences to locate the first flanking DNA sequences; and allowing the corresponding flanking DNA sequences to pair and anneal under cellular conditions, and the second DNA fragment and the cellular DNA fragment to undergo homologous recombination under cellular conditions to produce genetically altered target cells comprising the altering DNA sequence.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the DNA sequence to be altered is associated with a disease selected from the group consisting of Fanconi's anemia, cystic fibrosis, retinitis pigmentosa, xeroderma pigmentosa, ataxia telangiectasia, Bloom's syndrome, retinoblastoma, Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, and Tay-Sachs disease.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the DNA fragment to be altered comprises an exon having two termini, wherein the exon comprises the DNA sequence to be altered; and 


 each first flanking DNA sequence is provided with one inner terminus that is located at least 10 base pairs outside the corresponding exon's terminus.
19. A method for gene therapy for a disease associated with a defective DNA fragment in a subject's target cells, the DNA fragment comprising a defective DNA sequence and first flanking DNA sequences upstream and downstream from the defective DNA sequence, the method comprising obtaining the composition of claim 1, wherein the isolated DNA fragment comprises a second DNA fragment comprising a physiologically functional DNA sequence and the DNA sequence to be altered comprises a defective DNA sequence; administering to the subject the composition comprising the second DNA fragment under conditions effective for the second DNA fragment to reach the subject's target cells, and allowing the DNA fragment to enter the subject's cells and the second flanking DNA sequences to locate the first flanking DNA sequences; and allowing the corresponding flanking DNA sequences to pair and anneal, and the DNA fragment and the cellular DNA to undergo homologous recombination under cellular conditions to produce a physiologically functional target cells comprising the functional DNA sequence and substantially ameliorating the disease's symptoms.
20. An immortalized CF human cell line having ATCC Accession No. CRL 11151. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
