<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645727</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An X-ray image diagnosis system and method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05G100	G06Q5000	G06T550	G06F1900	G06T100	G06T300	H05G160	G06T100	A61B600	G06T550	A61B600	G06Q5000	G06F1900	G06T300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05G	G06Q	G06T	G06F	G06T	G06T	H05G	G06T	A61B	G06T	A61B	G06Q	G06F	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05G1	G06Q50	G06T5	G06F19	G06T1	G06T3	H05G1	G06T1	A61B6	G06T5	A61B6	G06Q50	G06F19	G06T3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
X-ray images are displayed at both high-resolution and high-illumination 
with annotation superimposed in registration 

therewith to point out suspected abnormalities identified 
through a process in which the x-ray images are digitized 

and the digitized information is subjected to feature 
extraction processing. For example, the x-ray images are 

displayed at high resolution and high illumination in the 
form of x-ray film images displayed on a light box while the 

annotation information is selectively superimposed on the 
same image by a separate imaging system co-acting with the 

light box. In this manner, the radiologist can view either 
the x-ray film alone, in the conventional manner, or the 

same x-ray film, at the same position and at the same high 
resolution and at the same or substantially the same 

illumination level but with annotation information 
superimposed and in registration therewith. In addition, 

alternative ways are disclosed for displaying the high 

resolution x-ray image and for selectively superimposing the 
annotation information thereon. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WANG SHIH PING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WANG, SHIH-PING
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG SHIH-PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, SHIH-PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is in the field of x-ray technologies and
specifically relates to displaying x-ray images in a manner
that is believed to assist in reading x-ray images. More
specifically, the invention relates to displaying x-ray
images together with annotation information derived by
computer-aided analysis of the images. Still more
specifically, the invention relates to a computer-aided
diagnosis system and method for the detection of
abnormalities from a digitized radiologic image and the
production of a separate annotated map of the location of
detected abnormalities for the purpose of annotating the
radiologic image in a manner enabling the observer to view
the film x-ray image, or an image of a comparable high
resolution, together with the annotated map without taking
his or her eyes off the x-ray film and at an illumination
level which is the same as or is comparable with that
provided by a conventional light box. More specifically,
the invention pertains to a computer-aided diagnosis system
and method which improve diagnostic efficiency and accuracy
by adding particularly convenient annotation to the original
radiologic image.The detection of abnormal anatomic regions in radiologic
images using a computer system using specialized software
and possibly hardware components has been reported by, e.g.,
Giger et al. in May 1993 issue of RadioGraphics, pages
647-656; Giger et al. in Proceedings of SPIE, Volume 1445
(1991), pages 101-103; Doi et al in U.S. Patent No.
4,907,156; and Giger et al. in U.S. Patent No. 5,133,020. These systems are generally
referred to as Computer-Aided Diagnosis systems, or CAD
systems, and are believed to be particularly useful to
radiologists in the diagnostic process and particularly in
screening radiologic procedures.In a screening radiologic procedure, such as screening
mammography, the patients typically are asymptomatic and
true abnormalities (e.g. cancers) are believed to occur at a
typical rate of about one case per one hundred patient
examinations. Reading the mammograms, when most of them are
negative, can be a tedious task that makes it difficult to
maintain a consistently high attention level. Some
detectable abnormalities can be missed or misdiagnosed,
which can result in delayed or more difficult or more costly
treatment, and can even result in a reduction of patient's
chance of survival. According to an article in the May 26,
1993 issue of JAMA, pages 2616-2617, the misdiagnosis rate
in mammograms can be in the range of 15 to 63%. It is
believed that the CAD
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system comprising:

a source of digitized image data representing an x-ray
film image of high spatial resolution;
a processor coupled with said source to receive said
digitized image data and to generate as a function thereof an

annotation map (55) identifying image portions meeting
selected criteria; 
characterised by
a display serving as a light box for illuminating and
displaying said x-ray film image at said high spatial

resolution and at a high brightness level while selectively
displaying said annotation map (55) in registration with said

x-ray film image.
A system as in claim 1 in which said source comprises a
digitizer (30) processing said x-ray film image to provide

said digitized image data.
A system as in claim 1 in which said display comprises a
monitor (100) having a spatial resolution lower than said x-ray

film image selectively displaying said annotation map
(55).
A system as in claim 3 in which said monitor (100)
comprises a switch under the control of an observer for

selectively superposing said annotation map (55).
A system as in claim 1 in which said display comprises
an x-ray film light box (300) selectively illuminating for

viewing an x-ray film (10) placed thereon and an annotation
map source co-acting with said light box selectively

superposing thereon said annotation map (55) in registration
with said x-ray film (10). 
A system as in claim 5 in which said annotation map
source comprises a CRT (420) displaying said annotation map

(55) and projection optics (440) coupling optically said CRT
(420) and said x-ray film image to selectively superpose said

annotation map (55) thereon.
A system as in claim 5 in which said x-ray film light
box (300) comprises a light source (380) illuminating said x-ray

film (10) and said annotation map source comprises a
display screen (340) displaying said annotation map (55)

positioned between said light source (380) and said x-ray
film (10) to project said annotation map (55) for selective

superposition on said x-ray film image.
A system as in claim 7 in which said display screen
(340) displaying said annotation map (55) serves as a

diffuser screen of said x-ray film light box (300).
A system as in claim 7 in which said display screen
comprises a liquid crystal display (LCD) screen.
A system as in claim 1 including a transparency printer
(160) coupled with said processor to receive said annotation

map (55) therefrom and to print transparencies thereof, and
said display comprises a display of composite, superposed

images each comprising an x-ray film image and a respective
annotation map transparency superposed thereon in

registration therewith.
A system as in claim 1 comprising a bank of display
units (600a, b, c)each comprising a respective display and

wherein said processor is coupled with said respective
displays to selectively display thereon respective annotation

maps (55) in registration with x-ray film images being viewed
thereon. 
A system as in claim 2 for computer-aided diagnosis
wherein:


said digitizer (30) digitizes radiologic images to a
resolution of 50 microns or less per pixel for mammographic

images or single screen techniques and 100 microns or less
per pixel for chest films or double screen techniques;
said image portions meeting selected criteria being
abnormal anatomic features; and further comprising:
a printer (160) coupled with said digitizer (30) and
said processor to print said digitized radiologic images and

said annotated map (55), on a single film medium (180).
A method comprising the steps of:

generating digitized image data representing an x-ray
film image of high spatial resolution;
computer-processing said digitized image data to
generate an annotation map identifying image portions meeting

selected criteria; 
characterised by
:
illuminating and displaying said x-ray film image at
said high spatial resolution and at a high brightness level

while selectively displaying said annotation map in
registration with said x-ray film image.
A method as in claim 13 in which said step of generating
said digitized image data comprises digitizing said x-ray

film image to generate said digitized image data at a spatial
resolution of 100 microns or less per pixel.
A method as in claim 14 in which said step of computer-processing
comprises generating said annotation map at a

lower spatial resolution than said spatial resolution of 100
microns or less per pixel. 
A method as in claim 13 in which said step of displaying
comprises illuminating said x-ray film image with a monitor

having a spatial resolution lower than said x-ray film image
which selectively displays said annotation map in

registration with said illuminated x-ray film image.
A method as in claim 13 in which said step of displaying
comprises selectively illuminating for viewing x-ray films

placed on a light box while selectively projecting said
annotation map on said x-ray film being viewed in

superposition on and in registration with said x-ray film.
A method as in claim 13 in which said step of displaying
comprises selectively illuminating x-ray films for viewing

while selectively overlaying said annotation map on said x-ray
film being viewed in registration with said x-ray film.
A method as in claim 13 in which said step of computer-processing
said digitized image data to generate an

annotation map identifying image portions meeting selected
criteria comprises generating measures of confidence levels

in identification of said image portions, and said step of
displaying comprises displaying indications of said measures

of confidence in said annotation map.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
