<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632637</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Facsimile user interface with touch-sensitive display and method of use.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F3048	G06F3048	G06F314	G06F314	H04N100	H04N100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	G06F3	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for controlling facsimile communications is 
disclosed. A facsimile machine contains a touch-sensitive display that displays a 

plurality of display screens containing step-by step instructions allowing a user to use 
complex facsimile functions. The facsimile machine displays a plurality of menus on 

the touch-sensitive display, and the user can select the desired option by touching the 
touch-sensitive display in the location corresponding to the desired option. The touch-sensitive 

display also displays a prompt that provides the user with instructions related 
to the particular screen display. The predetermined input locations on the touch-sensitive 

display are designed to appear like buttons and are labeled to correspond to 
their function. A button appears to be depressed when the user touches it. The 

facsimile machine indicates the selection of a button by displaying the button in a 
depressed position when the user touches the touch-sensitive display, and the 

facsimile machine performs the function associated with the button when the user 
removes his finger from the touch-sensitive display. This allows the user to slide his 

finger to a different button and perform a different function if so desired. An optional 
hardware keypad with a plurality of buttons, some of which correspond to buttons on 

the touch-sensitive display, can be used to enter commands into the facsimile 
machine. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELBENE KURT DAVIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCEAU RENEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REIFMAN JEFFREY BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOBEY CHRIS EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DELBENE, KURT DAVIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCEAU, RENEE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REIFMAN, JEFFREY BRIAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOBEY, CHRIS EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This application relates generally to a user interface for an 
intelligent facsimile machine (IFAX) and, more specifically, to a system and 
method for controlling user interaction with the IFAX. The modern workplace has become increasingly dependent on 
electronic devices. Machines such as photocopiers, computers, modems, and 
facsimiles are now considered essential tools for the office. Many of these tools 
are extremely sophisticated, which can make them difficult to use. The increased 
capability of these tools has often outpaced the ability of the average user to 
efficiently operate them. For example, an old style facsimile (FAX) machine had few 
options and was relatively easy to operate. Early FAX machines used an 
acoustical modem to couple the FAX signal to a standard telephone handset. 
The person sending a facsimile message simply dialed the FAX telephone 
number of the recipient and plugged the telephone handset into the acoustical 
modem when they heard an audible tone generated by the recipient's FAX 
machine over the handset. The FAX machine was easy to use, but had few or no 
options. More modern IFAX machines have direct telephone lines as well 
as a long list of sophisticated options. For example, the user can elect to send a 
facsimile message immediately, or delay transmission to a later time at which it 
is automatically sent, such as at nighttime when the telephone rates decrease. 
The facsimile message is read by the IFAX and a digital image of the message is 
stored in memory within the IFAX until the designated transmission time. With another option, the user may elect to send a facsimile 
message to a group of recipients that can be specified by a group identifier. The 
IFAX stores a list of facsimile telephone numbers, sometimes called addresses, 
and can be programmed to recognize various groups. The user need only, 
provide the IFAX with the instruction to send a facsimile message to a group, 
such as "Sales Managers", for example, and the IFAX will automatically send  
 
the facsimile message to each facsimile telephone number associated with the 
group of sales managers. Numerous other features such as speed dialing, automatic 
redialing, confidential facsimile transmission and reception, facsimile 
forwarding, facsimile relaying and facsimile polling are now available on 
modern IFAXs. One problem with the advanced technological features of the 
modern IFAX is that they are difficult for the average user utilize without 
extensive training. Further, once learned, if a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method in a facsimile machine for facsimile communication, 
the method comprising the steps of: 


(a) displaying a plurality of menu options on a touch-sensitive 
display, each of said menu options having a corresponding predetermined location on 

said display with each of said predetermined locations being sensitive to the touch of a 
user, each of said predetermined locations including a label corresponding to said 

menu option; 
(b) displaying an instruction to the user on a portion of said display; 
(c) sensing a user input in proximity with said display in one of said 
predetermined locations on said display in response to said instructions; and 
(d) in response to sensing said user input, activating a facsimile 
function corresponding to said user input. 
The method of claim 1 for use with a facsimile having a hardware 
keypad with a plurality of buttons, with at least one button corresponding to one of 

said predetermined locations, the method further including the step of sensing a user 
input on the hardware keypad, and in response to sensing said user input on the 

hardware keypad, activating a facsimile function corresponding to said user input. 
The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) of displaying said 
plurality of menu options is initially performed by displaying a main menu listing with 

a plurality of categories of said plurality of menu options, with each category having 
one of said predetermined locations on said display to permit the user to select one of 

said categories from said plurality of main menu categories. 
The method of claim 3 wherein said plurality of main menu 
categories comprises sending a facsimile message, examining received facsimile 

messages, changing parameters of the facsimile machine, selecting preprogrammed 
sequences of facsimile functions, and a sign in option to log in the user. 
The method of claim 4 wherein said step (d) of activating said 
facsimile function causes the display on said display of the ones of said plurality of 

menu options in said selected menu category. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of menu options are 
system parameters, said step (c) of sensing said user input senses a particular one of 

said system parameters selected by the user. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said particular system parameter 
is selected by touching a first time said predetermined location on said display 

corresponding to said system parameter and said particular system parameter is 
subsequently deselected by touching said predetermined location on said display 

corresponding to said system parameter a second time. 
The method of claim 1, further including displaying at least a first 
scrolling control on said display and a screen indicator movable on said display in a 

direction indicated by said label corresponding to said scrolling control, the method 
further including the steps of sensing said user input on said display in a 

predetermined location corresponding to the location of said scrolling control and 
moving said screen indicator in said direction to scroll through said plurality of 

displayed menu options and select a particular menu option using said scroll bar. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of menu options 
exceeds a display capacity of said display, the method further including the steps of: 


(1) displaying at least a first scrolling control on said display, said 
scrolling control having a label indicating a desired direction of scrolling movement of 

said plurality of menu options on said display; 
(2) sensing said user input on said display in a predetermined 
location corresponding to the location of said scrolling control; and 
(3) scrolling said plurality of menu options in a direction opposite to 
said direction to scroll through said plurality of displayed menu options. 
The method of claim 1 further includes storing a plurality of 
facsimile messages in storage locations within the facsimile machine, sensing said 

user input to select a particular one of said stored facsimile messages and selecting 
said user selected facsimile message i
n response to said user message selection input. 
The method of claim 10 wherein said plurality of menu options 
includes a display option, and the method further includes the step of displaying said 

user selected facsimile message on said display in response to said user message 
 

selection input and sensing said user input of said display option from said plurality of 
menu options. 
The method of claim 1 further includes storing a plurality of 
outgoing facsimile messages in storage locations within the facsimile machine, 

sensing said user input to select a particular one of said stored outgoing facsimile 
messages and selecting said user selected outgoing facsimile message in response to 

said user message selection input. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said plurality of menu options 
includes a transmit option, and the method further includes the step of transmitting 

said user selected outgoing facsimile message in response to sensing said user input of 
said transmit option. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said plurality of menu options 
includes a transmit later option, and the method further includes the step of selecting a 

transmission time for transmitting said user selected outgoing facsimile message, and 
transmitting said user selected outgoing facsimile message at said user selected 

transmission time in response to sensing a user input of said transmit later option. 
The method of claim 14 wherein said plurality of menu options 
includes a cancel option, and the method further includes the step of canceling said 

transmit later option of said user selected outgoing facsimile message in response to 
sensing a user input of said cancel option from said plurality of menu options, 

whereby said user selected outgoing facsimile message is not transmitted. 
The method of claim 12 wherein said plurality of menu options 
includes a transmission parameter option, and the method further includes the step of 

changing a transmission parameter of said user selected outgoing facsimile message in 
response to sensing a user input of said transmission parameter option from said 

plurality of menu options, whereby said user selected facsimile message is transmitted 
in accordance with said user selected transmission parameter. 
The method of claim 16 wherein said transmission parameter 
option is the time of transmission of said user selected outgoing facsimile message. 
The method of claim 1 wherein steps (c) and (d) of sensing said 
user input and activating said facsimile function comprises the steps of: 


(1) sensing the placement of a finger of the user in proximity with 
said display; 
(2) altering the display of said display to indicate the selection of 
said user selected facsimile function; 
(3) sensing the removal of the finger of the user from proximity with 
said display; and 
(4) activating said user selected facsimile function in response to step 
(3) of sensing the removal of the finger of the user. 
A system for facsimile communication, comprising: 
   a touch-sensitive display displaying a plurality of menu options, each of 

said menu options having a corresponding predetermined location on said display with 
each of said predetermined locations being sensitive to the touch of a user, each of 

said predetermined locations including a label corresponding to said menu option; 
   a prompt displaying operational instructions to the user on a portion of 

said display; 
   an input interface coupled to said display and sensing a user input in 

proximity with said display in one of said plurality of predetermined locations in 
response to said instructions; and 

   activation means for activating a facsimile function corresponding to 
said user input. 
The system of claim 19, further including a hardware keypad 
with a plurality of buttons, with at least one button corresponding to one of said 

predetermined locations, said input interface sensing user input on said hardware 
keypad, and in response to sensing said user input on said hardware keypad, said 

activation means activating said facsimile function corresponding to said user input. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
