<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610007</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High efficiency encoding
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B166	H04N726	H03M730	H03M730	H04B166	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04N	H03M	H03M	H04B	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04N7	H03M7	H03M7	H04B1	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a high efficiency encoding method in which pre-set 
bit allocation is made for digital information signals of 

plural channels and in which coded information signals are 
produced by the allocated bits, it is desirable to avoid 

sound quality deterioration produced by pre-echo during 
abrupt changes in the information signals as well as to 

suppress pre-echo to ensure aurally desirable bit 
allocation. To this end, in a high efficiency encoding 

method in which digital information signals (31, 41) of 
plural channels are normalized by normalizing units (37, 

47) and pre-set bit allocation is made by a bit allocation 
unit (38) to effect pre-set bit allocation, the amounts of 

bit allocation between channels are controlled on the basis 
of temporal changes of the information signals of the 

respective channels. Also, the amounts of bit allocation 
between channels are controlled based on temporal changes 

of the amplitude information of digital information signals 
of the respective channels. At least a part of the bits 

that may be used for bit allocation is preferentially 
allocated for channels having larger temporal changes of 

the information signals depending on the magnitude of 
temporal changes of the information signals among the 

plural channels. As a result, deterioration in the sound 
quality due to pre-echo during high efficiency encoding may 

be prevented in a system having plural audio signal 
channels. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKAGIRI KENZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKAGIRI, KENZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to high efficiency
encoding methods for encoding input
digital data by high efficiency encoding, whereupon
the encoded data may be transmitted or recorded.There are a variety of high efficiency encoding
methods for audio or voice signals. Typical of these
are: a sub-band coding (SBC) system, which is a
non-block forming frequency band dividing system which
comprises dividing the time-domain signals into
signals of plural frequency bands without dividing the
time-domain audio signals into plural blocks; and a
block-forming frequency band dividing system which
comprises dividing time-domain signals into plural
blocks, transforming the resulting blocks into
frequency-domain signals by orthogonal transformation,
and encoding the resulting frequency-domain signals
from one frequency band to another, also known as
transform coding. Also known is high efficiency
encoding comprising a combination of sub-band coding
and transform coding, in which the time-domain signals
are divided into signals of plural frequency bands by
sub-band coding, and the signals of the respective
bands are orthogonally transformed into frequency-domain
signals which are then encoded from one band to
another.A filter employed in the above methods may be
exemplified by a quadrature mirror filter (QMF) 
discussed in 1976 R.E. Crochiere, Digital Coding of
Speech in Sub-bands, Bell Syst. Tech. J., Vol. 55,
No.8, 1976. An equal-band filter dividing method
employing a polyphase quadrature filter is discussed
in ICASSP 83, Boston, Polyphase Quadrature Filter - A
New Sub-band Coding Technique, by Joseph H.
Rothweiler.The orthogonal transform may be enumerated by an
orthogonal transform consisting in forming input audio
signals into blocks at an interval of a pre-set unit
time period (frame), and processing the resulting
blocks by a fast Fourier transform (FFT), discrete
cosine transform (DCT) or modified DCT (MDCT) for
transforming time-domain signals into frequency-domain
signals. Regarding MDCT, reference is made to ICASSP
1987, Subband/Transform Coding Using Filter Band
Designs Based on Time Domain Aliasing Cancellation, J.
P. Princen, A. B. Bradley, Univ. of Surrey, Royal
Melbourne Inst. of Tech. Concrete techniques for MDCT
are discussed in detail in our co-pending US Patent
Application Serial No. 07/950 945 filed on 24
September 1992.In quantizing the frequency components, the
frequency bands are selected to take into account the
characteristics of the human aural sense. That is,
the audio signals are divided into a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high efficiency encoding method for digital information signals of plural
channels in which a totality of bits is allocated among the channels based on temporal

changes of the digital information signal in at least one of the plural channels, the
method being 
characterised in that
:

a respective number of bits is allocated (38) to each of the plural channels, from
the totality of bits, as a first bit allocation, each respective first bit allocation being

based upon an information signal spectrum of a respective channel; and
an additional number of bits is allocated (38) to at least one of the plural
channels, from the totality of bits, as a second bit allocation, each respective second bit

allocation being based upon temporal changes of an energy value of the digital
information signal in the respective channel.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said energy value is at least one of
amplitude information, a peak value and a mean value.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the amounts of the second bit
allocation among the channels are controlled depending on temporal changes of a scale

factor of the respective channels.
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the amounts of the second bit
allocation among the channels are controlled depending on temporal changes of the

scale factor of the respective channels and temporal changes of word lengths caused by
bit allocation among the channels.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the amounts of the second bit
allocation among the channels are controlled depending on temporal changes of

amplitude information of temporally neighbouring plural blocks for the respective
channels.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the totality of bits
employed for bit allocation is divided into the first bit allocation, which depends on a

pattern of indices indicating signal magnitude in small blocks obtained by sub-division 
with respect to time and frequency, and at least one second bit allocation for aural

effects, the second bit allocation being appended to said first bit allocation.
A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the ratio of distribution between said
first bit allocation and at least one second bit allocation is adaptively controlled

depending on the information signals.
A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said ratio of distribution is controlled
so that the larger the temporal changes in said information signals, the lesser becomes

the ratio of distribution for said first bit allocation.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein an output of non-block
forming frequency analysis is analyzed by block-forming frequency analysis,

such as orthogonal transform, after the non-block forming frequency analysis, for
producing samples in small blocks obtained by sub-division with respect to time and

frequency.
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the non-block forming frequency
analysis is performed by a filter (11, 12).
A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein said filter (11, 12) is a polyphase
quadrature filter.
A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein said filter (11, 12) is a quadrature
mirror filter.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein said block-forming
frequency analysis is effected by MDCT.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the block size for
said block-forming frequency analysis is adaptively changed depending on temporal

characteristics of input signals. 
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein said block size is changed
independently for each of at least two output bands of the non-block forming frequency

analysis.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the coded
information is recorded on a recording medium.
A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said recording medium is a cinefilm,
an optical disc, a magnetic tape or a magneto-optical disc.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the coded
information is transmitted on a digital information transmission channel.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
