<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647556</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Indicator for a bicycle.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62J9900	B62J9900	B62K2300	B62K2302	B62M2500	B62M2500	B62M2504	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62J	B62J	B62K	B62K	B62M	B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62J99	B62J99	B62K23	B62K23	B62M25	B62M25	B62M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A gear indicator (5,7) for use on a bicycle having an actuating member which 
extends from an actuator such as a shift lever (2,3) to a gear change 

mechanism such 
as a derailleur. Movement of the actuating member causes the gear change 

mechanism to change gears. The gear indicator includes a fixed member having 
a first indicator (5), and a second indicator (7) disposed on the 

actuating member (4,6). The 
actuating member uninterruptedly passes by the first indicator. The location of 

the first and second indicators relative to each other indicates a gear currently 
engaged by the gear change mechanism. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO SEIJI C O SHIMANO INC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YAMAMOTO, SEIJI, C/O SHIMANO INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an indicator for a bicycle which is operatively 
connected a speed changer such as a front derailleur or a rear derailleur to 
indicate speed stages of front gears or rear gears. A typical indicator of this type is disclosed in Japanese Utility Model 
Publication No. 48-33173. This indicator includes a speed indicating pointer 
attached to a takeup element for winding an inner wire of a speed control cable, 
and a speed stage panel attached to an indicator case to display speed stages 
indicated by the pointer. Thus, this indicator has a construction to actuate the 
pointer or speed stage panel by utilizing, as a drive source, movement of the 
takeup element for winding the inner wire. The construction noted above has a disadvantage of allowing only a limited 
range for selecting a mounting position of the indicator. That is, the takeup 
element usually is disposed adjacent a shift lever which naturally is located in a 
position where the rider can easily operate with a hand. In the conventional 
construction, therefore, the indicator is disposed adjacent a position to facilitate 
a manual operation by the rider. However, the indicator adjacent a position 
easy to operate with a hand is not necessarily easy to look at. This is true 
particularly where the bicycle has a dropped handlebar. U.S. Patent No. 5,178,033 to Kund discloses an indicator construction whose 
mounting position may be selected relatively freely. In this patent, an indicator 
body rotatably supporting a speed scale in form, of a rotary drum is attached to a 
downtube. The rotary drum is rotatable with a pinion meshed with a rack  
 
connected to a wire extending adjacent the downtube. Thus, the rotary drum 
reflects movement of the wire. The movement of the wire appears as amplified on the scale owing to a 
difference in diameter between the pinion in direct contact with the rack and the 
drum having the scale. This construction has the advantage of facilitating 
visual recognition of speed stages. However, this construction has a drawback of being bulky. Further, this 
construction requires, as essential components thereof, relatively heavy objects 
including the pinion and a plate supporting the rack for taking out movement of 
the wire, the drum connected to the pinion, and a guide for guiding the rack 
plate to the pinion. The indicator body must therefore be secured to the downtube 
reliably. This imposes a limitation to selection of a mounting position of the 
indicator. In addition, the wire
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A gear indicator for a bicycle having an actuating member which extends 
from an actuator to a gear change mechanism so that movement of the actuating 

member causes the gear change mechanism to change gears, said gear indicator 
comprising: 

   a fixed member having a first indicator, wherein the actuating member 
uninterrruptedly passes by the first indicator; and 

   a second indicator disposed on the actuating member, wherein the location 
of the first and second indicators relative to each other indicates a gear currently 

engaged by the gear change mechanism. 
A gear indicator according to claim 1, characterized in that the fixed member 
comprises an elongated member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 2, characterized in that the first indicator 
comprises indicia disposed along the elongated member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 2, characterized in that the first indicator 
comprises an indicating member attached to the elongated member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 2, characterized in that the second 
indicator comprises indicia disposed on the actuating member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 2, characterized in that the second 
indicator comprises an indicating member attached to the actuating member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 6, characterized in that the indicating 
member is attached to the actuating member and unconnected from any other 

structure. 
A gear indicator according to claim 2, characterized in that the first indicator 
comprises an indicating member attached to the actuating member, and wherein 

the second indicator comprises indicia disposed on the actuating member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 2, characterized in that the first indicator 
comprises indicia disposed on the elongated member, and wherein the second 

indicator comprises an indicating member attached to the actuating member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 1, characterized in that the fixed 
member comprises an elongated indicator housing having a portion surrounding 

the actuating member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 10, characterized in that the indicator 
housing has a first end surrounding the actuating member, and a second end 

also surrounding the actuating member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 11, characterized in that the indicator 
housing is formed as a tubular member having an opening through which the 

first and second indicators are visible. 
A gear indicator according to claim 12, further comprising a lens disposed 
in the opening for viewing the first and second indicators. 
A gear indicator according to claim 13, characterized in that the lens 
comprises a magnifying lens. 
A gear indicator according to claim 1, characterized in that the second 
indicator is movable relative to the first indicator substantially in the same 

direction and at the same speed as the actuating member. 
A gear indicator for a bicycle having a wire which extends from an actuator 
to a gear change mechanism so that movement of the wire causes the gear 

change mechanism to change gears, said gear indicator comprising: 
   a fixed member having a first indicator disposed thereon, wherein the wire 

uninterruptedly passes by the first indicator; and 
   a second indicator disposed on the wire, wherein the location of the first and 

second indicators relative to each other indicates a gear currently engaged by 
the gear change mechanism. 
A gear indicator according to claim 16, further comprising a guide disposed 
in close proximity to the wire for guiding the wire from the actuator to the gear 

change mechanism. 
A gear indicator according to claim 17, characterized in that the fixed 
member is coupled to the guide. 
A gear indicator according to claim 18, characterized in that the fixed 
member comprises an elongated indicator housing having a first end surrounding 

the actuating member, and a second end also surrounding the actuating member. 
A gear indicator according to claim 19, characterized in that the guide 
comprises a wire housing, the wire housing having a first end for engaging the 

first end of the indicator housing and a second end for engaging the second end 
of the indicator housing. 
A gear indicator according to claim 20, characterized in that a portion of 
the wire is exposed between the first end of the housing and the second end of 

the housing, and wherein the second indicator is disposed on the exposed portion 
of the wire. 
A gear indicator according to claim 21, characterized in that the wire is 
exposed along its entire length from the first end of the housing to the second 

end of the housing. 
A gear indicator for a bicycle having an actuating member which extends 
uninterruptedly from an actuator to a gear change mechanism so that movement 

of the actuating member causes the gear change mechanism to change gears, 
wherein the actuating member passes by a reference member so that the actuating 

member moves relative to the reference member when the gear change mechanism 
is changing gears, said gear indicator comprising: 

   a first indicator disposed on the actuating member; and 
   a second indicator disposed on the reference member so that the location of 

the first and second indicators relative to each other indicates a gear currently 
engaged by the gear change mechanism. 
A gear indicator according to claim 23, characterized in that the actuating 
member comprises a wire extending uninterrupted from the actuator to the gear 

 
change mechanism. 
A gear indicator for a bicycle having an actuating member which extends 
from an actuator to a gear change mechanism so that movement of the actuating 

member causes the gear change mechanism to change gears, said gear indicator 
comprising: 

   first and second guides disposed adjacent the actuating member and spaced 
apart from each other for guiding the actuating member past a first indicator, 

the first and second guides defining an axis, wherein the actuating member 
passes from the first guide to the second guide along the axis; and 

   a second indicator disposed on the actuating member, wherein the location 
of the first and second indicators relative to each other indicates a gear currently 

engaged by the gear change mechanism. 
In a bicycle having an actuating member which extends from an actuator to 
a gear change mechanism so that movement of the actuating member causes the 

gear change mechanism to change gears, a method of indicating a gear engaged 
by the gear change mechanism comprising the steps of: 

   disposing a first indicator on a fixed member; 
   uninterrupted passing the actuating member by the first indicator; 

   disposing a second indicator on the actuating member; and 
   indicating a gear currently engaged by the gear change mechanism by the 

location of the first and second indicators relative to each other. 
In a bicycle having an actuating member which extends from an actuator to 
a gear change mechanism so that movement of the actuating member causes the 

gear change mechanism to change gears, a method of indicating a gear engaged 
 

by the gear change mechanism comprising the steps of: 
   disposing first and second guides adjacent the actuating member and spaced 

apart from each other for guiding the actuating member past a first indicator, 
the first and second guides defining an axis; 

   passing the actuating member from the first guide to the second guide along 
the axis; 

   disposing a second indicator on the actuating member; and 
   indicating a gear currently engaged by the gear change mechanism by the 

location of the first and second indicators relative to each other. 
A speed indicator for a bicycle for indicating speed stages of a speed 
changer operable by a pulling force of an inner wire, comprising: 

   a fixed indicating member fixed to one of a bicycle frame and an outer wire 
and having a speed stage display surface; and 

   a movable indicating member connected to the inner wire for indicating a 
speed stage on the speed stage display surface, the movable indicating member 

being movable in response to movement of the inner wire by the pulling force, 
within a range at least corresponding to a moving distance of the inner wire 

necessary for a gear change operation. 
A speed indicator according to claim 28, characterized in that the movable 
indicating member has a position of connection to the inner wire, which is 

variable when the inner wire moves in excess of the moving distance necessary 
for the gear change operation. 
A speed indicator according to claim 29, characterized in that the fixed 
indicating member comprises stopper means for contacting the movable indicating 

 
member and varying the position of connection to the inner wire when the inner 

wire moves in excess of the moving distance necessary for the gear change 
operation. 
A speed indicator according to claim 28, characterized in that the movable 
indicating member has a position of connection to the inner wire, which is 

variable when the inner wire moves in excess of the moving distance necessary 
for the gear change operation, and wherein the fixed indicating member comprises 

stopper means for contacting the movable indicating member and limiting 
movement of the movable indicating member within the range corresponding to 

the moving distance of the inner wire necessary for the gear change operation, 
when the inner wire moves in excess of the moving distance necessary for the 

gear change operation. 
A speed indicator according to claim 29, characterized in that the movable 
indicating member comprises a ring mounted on the inner wire, the movable 

indicating member being connected to the inner wire through a bore defined in 
the ring, the bore having an inside diameter determined for allowing the inner 

wire to be press fit in the bore. 
A speed indicator according to claim 32, characterized in that the ring has a 
circumferentially discontinuous portion for mounting on the inner wire 

approaching radially of the ring. 
A speed indicator according to claim 32, characterized in that the ring 
defines inclined surfaces for guiding the inner wire to the bore. 
A speed indicator according to claim 32, characterized in that the ring is 
formed of an elastic material. 
A speed indicator according to claim 28, characterized in that the movable 
indicating member has an axis extending along a moving direction of the movable 

indicating member relative to the fixed indicating member, the movable indicating 
member having rotation symmetry with respect to the axis, and plane 
symmetry 
with respect to a plane perpendicular to the axis. 
A speed indicator according to claim 28, characterized in that the fixed 
indicating member has coupling means for fixing the indicator to one of the 

bicycle frame and the outer wire. 
A speed indicator according to claim 37, characterized in that the coupling 
means comprises recesses formed at opposite ends of the fixed indicating member 

for receiving and engaging ends of the outer wire. 
A speed indicator according to claim 37, characterized in that the fixed 
indicating member comprises a tubular member for slidably receiving the inner 

wire having the movable indicating member, the tubular member allowing visual 
recognition of at least a position of the movable indicating member. 
A speed indicator according to claim 37, characterized in that the fixed 
member comprises a case for slidably receiving the inner wire having the second 

indicator, the case allowing visual recognition of at least a position of the 
second indicator. 
A speed indicator according to claim 28, characterized in that the case 
comprises a window for viewing at least a position of the movable indicating 

member from outside. 
A speed indicator according to claim 41, characterized in that the case 
comprises two parts separable along a plane including the axis of the movable 

indicating member. 
A speed indicator according to claim 28, characterized in that the window 
of the case is covered by a shielding plate through which a case interior is 

visible. 
A speed indicator according to claim 43, characterized in that the shielding 
plate comprises a lens for viewing at least the movable indicating member in 

the case in magnification. 
A speed indicator according to claim 44, characterized in that the shielding 
plate is formed substantially entirely of the lens for viewing the case interior in 

magnification. 
A speed indicator according to claim 28, characterized in that the speed 
changer comprises gears of different diameters, and wherein the speed stage 

display surface graphically represents the diameters of the gears. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
