<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659666</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for manipulating film
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H308	B32B1710	B65H308	B32B1706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B32B	B65H	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H3	B32B17	B65H3	B32B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In releasing a film (2) from stacked films and transporting it to 
a predetermined position, film suction devices (110) hold the film at 

two opposite peripheral portions. The suction devices are then 
lifted together with the film so that the lifted portions approach a 

center of the film. Ends of the lifted portions is grasped by finger 
portions (123) while the other films are pressured by a pressuring 

mechanism. The film is further lifted to be released from the 
other films. The film is then transported and accurately put on a 

predetermined portion. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CENTRAL GLASS CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CENTRAL GLASS COMPANY, LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANE TATSUYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDA SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORISHITA TOMOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYORI HIDEICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HANE, TATSUYA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MAEDA, SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORISHITA, TOMOYUKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYORI, HIDEICHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus
for manipulating a film of stacked films, and more particularly to
a method and apparatus which functions effectively when it is
applied to stacked films which tend to block a release of a film
from others.Various apparatuses for manipulating a film of stacked
films have been proposed. For example, Japanese Patent
Publication No. 54-18028 discloses a film handling apparatus
which has a pair of arms having high-friction end surfaces. A
film suction device is disposed outside of each of the arms and
applied to an end portion of a film of stacked films. The arms are
contacted with and sandwich the film. The end portions of the
film are then lifted by the pair of film suction devices.Japanese Utility Model Publication No. 52-144 discloses a
film suction device which has a bottom suction surface and a
peripheral suction surface continuous to the bottom suction
surface. The peripheral suction surface is upwardly oblique
toward an outside of the suction device. Therefore, a film of a
first order in stacked films is attached to the film suction device
so that peripheral portions of the film is separated from the other
films.Japanese Utility Model Publication No. 55-11878 discloses a
film suction device where a pair of chucking devices hold two
end portions of a film of stacked films. Each chucking device is
rotated on an axis parallel to a film surface so as to separate the
chucked peripheral portions of the film from the others.Japanese Patent Provisional Publication No 1-145945
discloses a film manipulating apparatus where a film releasing
unit having a plurality of needles separates a film of stacked
films from the other films by sticking its needles to the film. Japanese Patent Publication No. 5-19496 discloses a film
installation apparatus which puts a film on an upper surface of a
curved glass sheet. This apparatus includes a pair of wrinkle
stretching devices which stretches wrinkles of the film and puts
the film on the curved glass sheet.However, each of these apparatuses has a drawback, such
as, it is difficult to be applicable to various types of films, such as
a film which changes its properties according to a temperature
and a humidity, by one apparatus, or it may injure a film during
a manipulating operation. EP-A-0 319 251 discloses a film manipulating apparatus comprising
the features of the preamble of claim 13 and a
method of manipulating stacked films comprising the following
steps: Attaching a peeling head to at least two opposite
periphe
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manipulating stacked films (2), comprising the
steps of:


attaching suction devices (200) to at least two opposite peripheral
portions of the film (2);
lifting the suction devices (200) so that the lifted portions
approach a center of the film (2);
grasping ends of the lifted portions of the film (2);
pressuring the other films;
further lifting the film (2) to release the film (2) from the
other films; and
transporting and putting the film (2) on a predetermined
portion,

wherein a compression and extension of the suction devices
(200) along a link (110), which is connected thereto, is enabled.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the film is
kept in a condition that a temperature and/or humidity

is controlled within a predetermined range.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the film is
applied as an intermediate film for a laminated glass

sheet.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the film is
made of synthetic resin and is formed in one of a

sheet, a film and a bag.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the film is
one of a glass sheet and a glass film whose thickness

is smaller than 1,5 mm. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the film includes
a banded-gradation portion and is formed in one

of a sector-shape and a trapezoid-shape.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein attached portions
of the film are corresponding to four corner

portions of the film, and the film is lifted by the
suction device along the direction of diagonal line of

the film.
A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a
step of adjusting a position of the film to the predetermined

position by obtaining image data of at least
two edge portions of the film, comparing the image

data with a preset standard value, and correcting the
position of the film according to a difference between

the image data and the preset standard vlaue.
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the correction
of the position of the film is executed by correcting

the position in -axis rotation, X-axis displacement
and Y-axis displacement.
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the film includes
a banded-gradation portion, the position adjusting

being executed by obtaining image data of at
least two intersections between a boundary of the

banded-gradation portion and edge portions of the
film.
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the film to be
moved is put on a table whose surface is covered with

a net-like member which generates a brightness different
from that of the film. 
A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the correction
of the position of the film is executed in the order

of the -axis rotation, X-axis displacement and Y-axis
displacement. 
A film manipulating apparatus, comprising:

a release mechanism (100) lifting the peripheral portions
of the film so that the lifted portions approach

a center of the film;
a grasping mechanism (180) grasping the lifted end
portions of the film;
a transporting mechanism (40, 47) reciprocatingly
transporting said elevating mechanism (46, 52) between

two predetermined positions,

characterized by
a suction mechanism (200) sucking at least two opposite
peripheral portions of a film of a plurality of

laminated films;
an elevating mechanism (46, 52) lifting and lowering
said suction mechanism (200), said release mechanism

(100) and said grasping mechanism (180);

wherein said film suction mechanism (200) is arranged
to be compressible and extensible along a link (110)

which is connected thereto.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising
a pressuring mechanism (150) which presses the

stacked films to keep the position of the other films.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said suction
mechanism (200) comprises a cup member (203), a

lip portion (201) connected to an outer periphery of
the cup member, a bottom wall (210) connected to a

bottom surface of the cup member (203), a plurality of
suction holes (211) installed to the bottom wall 

(210), the cup member (203) and the bottom wall defining
a plurality of vacuum chambers (206, 209) which

are respectively communicated with a vacuum source, a
plurality of partition members (213) being disposed to

partition the suction holes by each vacuum chamber.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein one of
the vacuum chambers (206) is disposed at a center of

the suction mechanism, and the other vacuum chamber
(209) is disposed to surround the one vacuum chamber

at the center of the suction mechanism.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein the cup
member (203) and the bottom wall (210) are connected

by screw connection, the lip portion (201) being connected
to the cup member by means of screw connection.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein a plurality
of plates (213) of resilient material are attached

on the bottom surface of the suction mechanism.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein said suction
mechanism comprises a ring member (218) which

loosely surround the cup member (203), the ring member
being swingably connected to the cup member (203) at

first two portions, the first two portions being located
on a first imaginary line which includes a center

of the cup member and is perpendicular to an axis
of the suction mechanism, the ring member (218) being

swingably connected to a bracket (219) at second two
portions, the second two portions being located on an

second imaginary line which is perpendicular to the
first imaginary line and to the axis of the suction

mechanism. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein the
bracket (219) is fixedly conn
ected to a base member
integral with a cylindrical member.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising
a film position adjusting mechanism (300) which

adjusts a position of the film to the predetermined
position by obtaining image data of at least two edge

portions of the film (2), comparing the image data
with a preset standard value, and correcting the position

of the film according to a difference between the
image data and the preset standard value.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein said film
position adjusting mechanism comprises a plurality of

cameras (304) for obtaining the image data of edge positions
of the film, a table (325, 327) to put the

film, a drive mechanism (324) for moving the table in
-axis rotation, X-axis displacement and Y-axis displacement,

and a control unit which controls to the
drive mechanism according to the obtained difference.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein the correction
of the position of the film is executed by

correcting the position in the -axis rotation, the X-axis
displacement and the Y-axis displacement.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein the film
includes a banded-gradation portion (20), the position

adjusting being executed by obtaining image data of at
least two intersections between a boundary of the

banded-gradation portion and edge portions (40) of the
film. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein the film
to be moved is put on a table (303) whose surface is

covered with a net-like member which generates a
brightness different from that of the film.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 22, wherein the correction
of the position of the film is executed in the

order of the -axis rotation, X-axis displacement and
Y-axis displacement.
An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said suction
mechanism (200) releases the film (2) on a table

after being transported by said transporting mechanism
(40, 47).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
