<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620396</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Pressure hardware for a modular inter-wall elastomer seal
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L502	F16L508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L5	F16L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Pressure hardware for a seal block assembly (50) used to form a 
modular, annular seal around a conduit passing through a wall, the 

assembly including elastomer seal blocks (21A-21D) joined in an annulus 
around the conduit, the seal blocks (21A-21D) having pressure bolt 

apertures (22) parallel to the conduit; the seal blocks are axially 
compressed and radially expanded to form the seal. The pressure hardware 

is in sets each including a bolt (23), a matching nut, and a first 
molded resin pressure plate having a recess large enough for freely 

rotatably seating the bolt head (25), with peripheral access for a 
wrench; a washer (65) is rotatably positioned in the bottom of the 

recess, which is deep enough so that the bolt head does not project 
substantially. The bolt rod (23A-23C) extends through a bolt-receiving 

aperture in the first pressure plate. A second molded resin pressure 
plate has a socket complementary to the nut, which seats in the socket 

non-rotatably relation and a bolt-receiving aperture allow the bolt rod 
to engage the nut; in one form, the socket has crush ribs to hold the 

nut firmly in place. In another embodiment, the second molded resin 
pressure plate has a threaded bolt-receiving aperture in which the bolt 

rod engages. Also disclosed are resin caps that inhibit corrosion of the 
metal parts of the assembly. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THUNDERLINE CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THUNDERLINE CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITHS CARL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRIFFITHS, CARL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
A modular seal assembly that has become a standard 
device for positive, hydrostatic sealing of the annular space 
between a pipe or other conduit and a passage or casing 
through which the conduit extends, usually traversing a wall, 
is described in Barton U.S. Patent No. 3,528,668 issued 
September 15, 1970. Variations of that modular seal 
construction are disclosed in Barton U.S. Patent No. 
3,649,034 issued March 14, 1972 and in Gignac U.S. Patent No. 
3,703,297 issued November 21, 1972. These annular seals are 
each made up of a plurality of individual elastomer seal 
blocks faced with two sets of pressure plates. Bolts that 
interconnect the pressure plates may also join the blocks in 
a ring structure surrounding the conduit where it passes 
through a wall. The bolts are utilized to pull the pressure 
plates toward each other, once the annular seal structure is 
in place, compressing the elastomer seal blocks in a 
direction parallel to the conduit and expanding the seal  
 
blocks radially outwardly in the space between the conduit 
and the wall passage or other passage. In this way a highly 
versatile and economical seal structure is formed with a 
single set of components that may be used for many different 
conduit sizes. Many years of rugged on-the-job use have 
demonstrated that this modular, annular conduit-to-wall-opening 
seal is far superior to most other seal structures. Despite their proven versatility and value, the modular, 
annular seals of the aforementioned Barton and Gignac 
patents, particularly U.S. No. 3,528,668, have demonstrated 
some technical difficulties. In large sizes, particularly, 
the weight of the overall assembly is substantial and may 
make it difficult for workmen to install, especially due to 
the use of relatively large and heavy metal components in the 
pressure hardware that joins and expands/contracts the 
elastomer seal blocks. The pressure hardware, particularly 
metal components, has used non-standard members, and costs 
tend to be higher than desirable. At the same time, the 
exposed metal, in some environments, is often susceptible to 
undesirable corrosion, particularly galvanic corrosion. The 
strength of the seal may be less than desirable in some 
instances. Metal parts, particularly nuts, are easily lost, 
again increasing costs. And perhaps the most important 
problem encountered with these seals pertains to consistency 
of the required expansion/contraction during installation. 
It has been difficult if not impossible to specify the  
 
tighteni
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Pressure hardware in a seal block assembly (50) for 
forming a modular, annular conduit-to-wall-opening seal of the 

kind comprising a plurality of elastomer seal blocks (21) joined 
to each other in an annulus around a conduit (24), each seal 

block (21) having at least one pressure bolt aperture (22) 
therethrough parallel to the conduit axis, the seal blocks (21) 

being axially compressed and radially expanded to form a seal 
between the conduit (24) and an external encompassing wall (28), 

the assembly including a plurality of pressure hardware 
for compressing and expanding the seal blocks (21), each 

pressure hardware comprising: 

a bolt (23) having a plural-facet head (25) of given size 
and shape integral with one end of a bolt rod, the bolt rod 

having a threaded portion (27) extending longitudinally from its 
other end (27A-27C) toward its bolt head end; 
a first molded resin pressure plate (59) having a recess 
(61) larger than the bolt head (25) so that the bolt head seats 

in freely rotatable relation in the recess (61), with peripheral 
access for a wrench around the bolt head (25) and with no metal-to-metal 

sliding contact when the bolt (23) is tightened; 
the recess (61) being deep enough so that the bolt 
head (25) does not project substantially out of the recess (61); 
a second molded resin pressure plate (69) having a 
stepped socket facing outwardly of the pressure plate (69), 
the socket having an inner plural-facet socket portion 
(71) of predetermined depth and given maximum transverse  

 
dimension and an outer socket portion (72) having a transverse 

dimension greater than the maximum transverse dimension of the 
inner socket portion (71), with a shelf at the outer edge of the 

inner socket portion (71) affording an annular bottom surface for 
the outer socket portion; 
and a plural-facet nut (73) of predetermined size and 
shape, complementary to the inner socket portion (71) so that 

the nut (73) seats entirely therein in non-rotatable relation, 
the nut (73) having an internal aperture threaded to engage 

the threaded portion of the bolt rod, 
the nut having an integral flange (75) on its outer side, 
engaging the bottom surface of the outer socket portion (72) to 

distribute stress from the bolt (23) and nut (73) to the second 
pressure plate; 
the second pressure plate (69) further having a second 
bolt-receiving aperture (77) therethrough, smaller than the 

nut (73), aligned with the socket to admit the other end of the 
bolt rod into engagement with the nut (73). 
Pressure hardware in a seal block assembly (50) for 
forming a modular, annular conduit-to-wall-opening seal of the 

kind comprising a plurality of elastomer seal blocks (21) joined 
to each other in an annulus around a conduit (24), each seal 

block (21) having at least one pressure bolt aperture (22) 
therethrough parallel to the conduit axis, the seal blocks (21) 

being axially compressed and radially expanded to form a seal  
 

between the conduit (24) and an external encompassing wall (28), 
the assembly including a plurality of pressure hardware 

for compressing and expanding the seal blocks (21), each 
pressure hardware comprising: 


a bolt (23) having a plural-facet head (25) of given size 
and shape integral with one end of a bolt rod, the bolt rod 

having an externally threaded portion (27) extending longitudinally 
from its other end (27A-27C) toward its bolt head end; 
a first molded resin pressure plate (59) having a 
recess (61) larger than the bolt head (25) so that the bolt head 

seats in freely rotatable relation in the recess (61), with 
peripheral access for a wrench around the bolt head (25) and with 

no metal-to-metal sliding contact when the bolt (23) is 
tightened; 
the recess (61) being deep enough so that the bolt 
head (25) does not project substantially out of the recess (61); 
the first pressure plate (59) further having a first bolt 
receiving aperture (67) therethrough, aligned with the recess 

(61), the first bolt-receiving aperture (67) being large enough 
to admit the bolt rod therethrough but small enough so that the 

bolt head (25) cannot enter; and 
a second molded resin pressure plate (109) having a 
second bolt-receiving aperture (111) therethrough, that second 

bolt-receiving aperture (111) having an internal thread to 
receive the threaded other end (27) of the bolt rod into positive 

engagement therewith. 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block assembly, 
according to Claim 1 or 2, which further comprises:
 
   a washer (65) adapted to be rotatably positioned in the 

recess (61) between the bolt head (25) and the bottom of the 
recess (61). 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block assembly, 
according to any preceding Claim, in which the bolt (23) in the 

pressure hardware is a hexagonal head steel bolt. 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block assembly, 
according to Claim 1, in which the nut (73) is a 

hexagonal seal nut having an integral annular flange (75) on one 
side thereof. 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block assembly, 
according to any preceding Claim, in which the pressure plates 

(59,69) are molded of 6-6 nylon with 30% glass fiber filling. 
Pressure hardware according to claim 1,
 
   the first pressure plate (59) further having a 

bolt-receiving aperture (67) therethrough, aligned with the 
recess (61), said bolt-receiving aperture (67) being large 

enough to admit the bolt rod therethrough but small enough 
so that the bolt head (25) cannot enter.  

 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block 
assembly according to any preceding claim in which each pressure 

plate (59,69) includes a plurality of lateral depressions (63, 79) 
in the outer surface to reduce the weight of the pressure plate. 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block 
assembly, according to Claim 1, in which at least one of the 

facets of the plural-facet socket (91) for receiving the nut (93) 
in the second pressure plate (89) has an axially extending 

integral rib (101) protruding into the socket (91) for engagement 
with the nut (93) whereby insertion of the nut (93) fully into 

the socket (91) crushes the rib (101) to afford a firm mechanical 
connection between the pressure plate (89) and the nut (93). 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block assembly, 
according to Claim 1, and further comprising a resin bolt thread 

cap (123) for covering the threaded portion (27) of the bolt 
rod which extends beyond the nut (73), the bolt thread cap (123) 

having a base portion (131) that mounts firmly in the socket of 
the second pressure plate (69). 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block assembly, 
according to Claim 1, in which the nut (73) has been welded into 

the second pressure plate socket by ultrasonic welding.  
 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block assembly, 
according to Claim 2, and further comprising a resin bolt thread 

cap (173) for covering the threaded portion (27) of the bolt 

rod which extends beyond the bolt-receiving aperture (171) of 
the second pressure plate (169). 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block 
assembly, according to Claim 10 or 12, in which the bolt thread 

cap (123, 173) is of molded elastomer resin. 
Pressure hardware for an elastomeric seal block 
assembly, according to Claim 12, in which the bolt thread 

cap (173) is integrally connected about its complete peripheral 
engagement with the pressure plate (169) and further comprises 

an internal thread (175) to receive the other end of the bolt 
rod into positive engagement therewith. 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block 
assembly, according to any preceding Claim, and further 

comprising a resin bolt head cap (135) for covering the bolt 
head (25), the bolt head cap (135) having a base portion (141) 

that mounts firmly in the socket (61) of the first pressure 
plate (59). 
Pressure hardware for an elastomer seal block 
assembly, according to Claim 15, in which the bolt head cap (135) 

is of molded elastomer resin. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
