<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655386</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bicycle derailleur
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62M91248	B62M900	B62M91242	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62M	B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62M9	B62M9	B62M9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A bicycle derailleur operable by a control cable (15A) to shift a 
chain (10) between a 

large gear and a small gear, includes a parallelogram link mechanism 
having a 

base member (6) connectable to a bicycle frame (14), 
a support member (4), and a pair of 

pivotal links (7,8) extending between the support member (4) and the base 
 member (6), and 

a return spring (20) for biasing the support member (4) in one direction. 
A shift control 

member (19) connectable to the control cable (15A) is supported by the 
parallelogram link 

mechanism to be displaceable relative thereto between a first 
position for 

contacting the parallelogram link mechanism and a second position 
separated 

therefrom. The return spring (20) is a tension coil type spring connected 
at one end 

thereof to the shift control member (19) and at the other end to the 
parallelogram 

link mechanism. The return spring (20) biases the support member (4) in 
one direction 

through the shift control member (19). The shift control member (19) is 
operable, by an 

operating force applied through the control cable (15A), to displace 
the support member (4) 

through the return spring (20) in a direction opposite to the direction 
in which the 

support member (4) is biased by the return spring (20). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a bicycle derailleur
according to the preamble of claim 1.A conventional bicycle derailleur as noted above is disclosed in Japanese
Patent Publication Kokai No. 61-12486
or FR-A-2 566 867 respectivelly,
for example. This derailleur includes a
control member pivotally connected to one of a pair of pivotal links, and a
torsion spring mounted on a support axis supporting the control member. The
torsion spring has one leg thereof engaged with the control member, and the
other leg engaged through a pivotal member with the other pivotal link opposed
to the pivotal link pivotally supporting the control member. When a control
cable connected to the control member is pulled, its pulling force is transmitted
to the pivotal links through the torsion spring. Then, the pivotal links pivot
relative to the base member toward a larger gear, with the support member
moving relative to the base member at the same time. As a result, a guide
wheel moves relative to the base member to shift a chain to a larger one of a
plurality of gears. Conversely, when the control cable is relaxed, the pivotal
links pivot relative to the base member toward a smaller gear under the elastic
restoring force of the torsion spring, with the support member moving relative 
to the base member at the same time. As a result, the guide wheel moves
relative to the base member to shift the chain to a smaller one of the gears.When a shifting operation is carried out to shift the chain to a larger gear
staying still, a resistance stronger than usual is applied to the chain shifting.
Consequently, when the torsion spring is elastically deformed by the pulling
force of the control cable, only the control member pivots relative to the pivotal
links, with the support member remaining still. Subsequently, when the gears
begin rotating, the resistance to the chain shifting falls to a normal value. Only
then, the pivotal member moves to a position opposed to the control member,
which is due to an operating force of the torsion spring stored therein by its
preceding elastic deformation. With the resultant movement of the support
member, the guide wheel moves relative to the base member to shift the chain
to a selected larger gear.That is, the torsion spring acts as a return spring to effect an operation to
shift the chain to a smaller gear. During an operation to shift the chain to a
larger gear, depending on the degree of a resistance to the operation, the torsion
spring acts as a saver spring to store the operating force.In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A bicycle derailleur operable by a control cable (15a) to shift a chain
between a large gear and a small gear, comprising:


a parallelogram link mechanism including
a base member (6) connectable to a bicycle frame,
a support member (4), and
a pair of pivotal links (7, 8) extending between said support member (4) and
said base member;
a chain shifting member (1) fixed to said support member (4) to be
displaceable through a displacement of said parallelogram link mechanism;

and
a shift control member (19) connectable to said control cable (15a), and
rotatably supported by said parallelogram link mechanism between a first

position and a second position,
a return spring (20) connected at one end thereof to a first engaging portion
(19a) of said shift control member (19a) and at the other end to a second

engaging portion (4a) of said support member (4) to bias said support
member (4) in one direction along a lateral direction with respect to said

bicycle when said shift control member (19) is in said first position,
characterized in that
said shift control member (19) has a contact portion (19c) for contacting one
of said pair of pivotal links, and that said contact portion (19c) is in contact

with said one of said pair of pivotal links when said shift control member
(19) is in said first position and said contact portion (19c) is away from said

one of said pair of pivotal links when said shift control member (19) is in
said second position; and that
said return spring (20) is a tension coil type return spring, and a distance
between said first engaging portion (19a) and said second engaging portion 

(4a) when said shift control member (19) is in said second position is greater
than said distance between said first engaging portion (19a) and said second

engaging portion (4a) when said shift control member is in said first
position whereby said return spring (20) is stretched along an axial

direction thereof to bias said support member (4) in an opposite direction to
said one direction when said shift control member (19) is in said second

position.
A bicycle derailleur as defined in claim 1, characterized in that said shift
control member (19) is supported by said parallelogram link mechanism to be

pivotable relative thereto. 
A bicycle derailleur as defined in claim 2, characterized in that said shift
control member (19) is pivotable in a plane extending substantially along said

displacement of said parallelogram link mechanism.
A bicycle derailleur as defined in claim 2 or 3, characterized in that said shift
control member (19) is supported by one of said pivotal links (7, 8) to be

pivotable relative thereto, and includes a contact portion (19c) for contacting
said one of said pivotal links (7, 8), said other end of said return spring (20)

being connected to said support member (4).
A bicycle derailleur as defined in any one of claims 2 through 4 characterized
in that said shift control member (19) is supported by an outer one of said

pivotal links (7), said return spring (20) biasing said support member (4) toward
said small gear.
A bicycle derailleur as defined in claim 2, characterized in that said shift
control member (19) is pivotable about an axis through which one of said

pivotal links (7, 8) is pivotally connected to said base member (6).
A bicycle derailleur as defined in any one of the pieceding claims, characterized
in that said return spring (20) is supported by said shift control member (19) to

be substantially contained in a space defined by said pair of pivotal links (7, 8).
A bicycle derailleur as defined in any one of the preceding claims, characterized
in that said shift control member (19) includes an upper plate portion and a

lower plate portion vertically spaced from each other, said return spring (20) 
being connected to said upper plate portion, said connection (19b) being formed

on said lower plate portion.
A bicycle derailleur as defined in claim 1, characterized in that said operation
of said control cable, in presence of a resistance exceeding a predetermined

amount applied to said displacement of said parallelogram link mechanism,
displaces only said shift control member relative to said parallelogram link

mechanism without substantially displacing said parallelogram link mechanism.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
