<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647087</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Double-layer pellet, method of manufacturing the same, and apparatus for manufacturing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21B105	H05H122	G21B105	H05H102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21B	H05H	G21B	H05H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21B1	H05H1	G21B1	H05H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pellet carrier disc (15) is movably held between 
two cooling blocks (9 and 10). The disc (15) is vertically 

moved, setting its through hole (31) into axial 
alignment with a first hole (25) of the block (10). 

Deuterium gas is supplied into the through hole (31) 
through the hole (25), and cooled and solidified, forming 

a deuterium cylinder (33). Then, the disc (15) is 
moved, axially aligning the hole (31) with a second hole 

(26) of the block (10). A shaft (35) is thrust into a 
first end of the deuterium cylinder (33) through the 

hole (26), thereby forming a hole in the end of the 
cylinder (33). Next, the disc (15) is moved, axially 

aligning the hole (31) with a third hole (27) of the 
block (10). Tritium gas is introduced into the hole of 

the cylinder (33) through the hole (27), and cooled and 
solidified, forming a tritium core. Further, the disc 

(15) is moved, axially aligning the hole (31) with a 
fourth hole (28) of the block (10). A shaft (41) is 

moved through the hole (28), causing the second end portion 
of the deuterium cylinder (33) to project from the 

hole (31). The second end portion of the cylinder (33) 
is cut off. An additional amount of deuterium gas is 

applied on to the first end of the cylinder (33), and 
cooled and solidified, forming a layer covering the 

tritium core. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT INST FUSION SCIENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR FUSION SCIENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUDO SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUDO, SHIGERU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to method and an apparatus for manufacturing a double-layer 
pellet which is to be placed in the high-temperature 
plasma generated in a fusion reactor or an experimental 
fusion apparatus, in order to refuel the reactor or the 
apparatus, to analyze particle transport, to improve 
plasma heating and to serve a similar purpose. Fossil fuel, which is the main energy source we 
use today, will be exhausted in the future. Energy-acquiring 
technology utilizing nuclear fusion is being 
developed in various regions over the world, such as 
EC, Japan, the U.S. and Russia. The progress in this 
development is accompanied by two things. The first is 
an increase in the size of the experimental apparatuses 
employed. The second is an increase in the size of 
the plasma generated therein. Of the fusion reactors 
hitherto known, a D-T type fusion reactor fueled with 
deuterium and tritium is most promising in view of its 
reaction efficiency. Generally known as a method of refueling the D-T 
type fusion reactor is gas puff method, in which deuterium 
gas and tritium gas are injected into plasma. The gas puff method is, however, disadvantageous 
in some respects. First, the fuel particles can hardly  
 
reach the core of the plasma, particularly when the 
plasma is large. Second, it is quite probable that the 
fuel particles are repelled back by the peripheral part 
of the plasma, known as "divertor layer," before they 
are injected into the plasma. To render the gas puff method more efficient, 
experiments have been conducted in which single-layer 
pellets made by solidifying tritium gas or a mixture 
of deuterium gas and tritium gas are injected into 
plasma. Such single-layer pellets are manufactured by an 
apparatus generally known in the art in such a manner 
that liquid helium is supplied to the cryo portion cooling 
metal pipes or a metal plate having holes to an 
extremely low temperature; hydrogen isotope gas is supplied 
into the metal pipes or the holes of the cooled 
metal plate, and then the gas is solided in the pipes or 
the holes, thus forming single-layer pellets. New technique 
of manufacturing single-layer pellets has recently 
been developed, as is disclosed in Jpn. Pat. Appln. 
KOKAI Publication No. 4-240102. This technique consists 
in forming a core of another hydrogen isotope within a 
single-layer pellet, thereby rendering the isotope-mixing 
ratio in the outer layer different from the 
isotope-mixing ratio in the core. The apparatus produces pellets in which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a double-layer 
pellet, comprising: 


a first step of supplying a first material for 
forming an outer layer, into a space (31, 50a) provided 

in a pellet carrier body (15, 50); 
a second step of cooling and solidifying the first 
material in said space, thereby forming a block (33) of 

the first material; 
a third step of forming a hole in a first end of 
the block (33); 
a fourth step of supplying a second material for 
forming a core, into the hole formed in the first end of 

the block (33); 
a fifth step of cooling and solidifying the second 
material in said hole, thereby forming a core; 
a sixth step of scraping a second end of said block 
(33), which is opposite to the first end; and 
a seventh step of supplying an additional amount of 
the first material onto the first end of said block 

(33), cooling and solidifying the additional amount of 
the first material, thereby forming a layer covering the 

core of the second material. 
The method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said second material is tritium or helium when 

said first material is deuterium, said second material 
is deuterium when said first material is hydrogen, and 

said second material is deuterium when said first 
material is a helium chip. 
The method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said fourth step is performed after said third 

step. 
The method according to claim 1, characterized 
in that said third and fourth steps are performed 

simultaneously. 
An apparatus for manufacturing a double-layer  
 

pellet, comprising: 

a pellet carrier body (15, 50) having a through 
hole (31, 50a) and movable in one direction; 
cooling means (7 to 14) for cooling at least the 
through hole in said pellet carrier body; 
first material-supplying means (25, 32) opposing 
said pellet carrier body, for supplying a first material 

for forming an outer layer, into the through hole of 
said pellet carrier body, thereby solidifying the first 

material in the through hole cooled by the cooling means 
and forming a block (33) of the first material; 
hole-forming means (26, 35, 36) opposing said 
pellet carrier body and located downstream of said first 

material-supplying means, for forming a hole in a first 
end of the block of the first material set in the 

through hole of said pellet carrier body; 
second material-supplying means (27, 37) opposing 
said pellet carrier body and located downstream of said 

first material-supplying means, for supplying a second 
material for forming a core, into the hole formed in the 

first end of the block, thereby forming a core; 
material-removing means (9, 28, 40, 41, 42) opposing 
said pellet carrier body and located downstream of 

said second material-supplying means, for removing a 
second end portion of the block; and 
third material-supplying means (29, 43) opposing said pellet 
carrier body and located downstream of said material-removing 

means, for supplying an additional amount of 
the first material onto the first end of the block, 

thereby forming a layer covering the core of the second 
material. 
The apparatus according to claim 5, characterized 
in that said material-removing means comprises 

pushing means (40) opposing said pellet carrier body and 
located downstream of said second material-supplying 

means, for pushing the block such that the second end 
portion of the block projects from the through hole of  

 
said pellet carrier body, and cutting means (9, 42) 

opposing said pellet carrier body, for cutting the 
second end portion of the block which projects from the 

through hole of said pellet carrier body. 
The apparatus according to claim 5, characterized 
in that said pellet carrier body (15) is movable 

along a straight line, and said first material-supplying 
means, said hole-forming means, said second material-supplying 

means, said material-removing means and said 
third material-supplying means are arranged along the 

straight line in the order these means are mentioned. 
The apparatus according to claim 5, characterized 
in that said pellet carrier body (50) is rotatable 

so that said through hole move in a circle, and said 
first material-supplying means, said hole-forming means, 

said second material-supplying means, said material-removing 
means and said third material-supplying means 

are arranged in the circle in the order these means are 
mentioned. 
A method of manufacturing a double-layer 
pellet, comprising: 


a first step of supplying a first material for 
forming an outer layer, into a space (31, 73a) provided 

in a pellet carrier body (15, 73); 
a second step of cooling and solidifying the first 
material in said space, thereby forming a block (33) of 

the first material; 
a third step of inserting a chip (52) into a first 

end of the block (33); 
a fourth step of scraping a second end of said 
block (33), which is opposite to the first end; and 
a fifth step of supplying an additional amount of 
the first material onto the first end of said block 

(33), cooling and solidifying the additional amount of 
the first material, thereby forming a layer covering the 

chip. 
An apparatus for manufacturing a double-layer  
 

pellet, comprising: 

a pellet carrier body (15, 73) having a through 
hole (31, 73a) and movable; 
cooling means (7 to 14) for cooling at least the 
through hole portion of said pellet carrier body; 
first material-supplying means (25, 32) opposing 
said pellet carrier body, for supplying a first material 

for forming an outer layer, into the through hole of 
said pellet carrier body, thereby cooling and solidifying 

the first material in the through hole and forming a 
block (33) of the first material; 
chip-inserting means (51, 53, 54) opposing said 
pellet carrier body and located downstream of said first 

material-supplying means, for inserting a chip (52) into 
a first end of the block formed in the through hole of 

said pellet carrier body; 
material-removing means (28, 31, 33, 41, 42) opposing 
said pellet carrier body and located downstream of 

said chip-inserting means, for removing a second end 
portion of the block; and 
second material-supplying means 29, 43 opposing said pellet 
carrier body and located downstream of said 

material-removing means, for supplying an additional 
amount of the first material onto the first end of the 

block, thereby forming a layer covering the core of the 
second material. 
The apparatus according to claim 10, characterized 
in that said chip-inserting means has a rod-shaped 

member (53) movable to and away from the through hole of 
said pellet carrier body. 
The apparatus according to claim 11, characterized 
by further comprising a chip-forming device (61) 

which comprises first and second clamping members having 
mutually aligned holes, for clamping a sheet (68), and a 

pushing rod (64) movably inserted in the through hole of 
the first clamping member, for pushing a portion of the 

sheet into the through hole of the second clamping  
 

member, thereby forming a chip (52), and for supporting 
the chip (52). 
The apparatus according to claim 10, characterized 
in that said material-removing means comprises 

pushing means (41) opposing said pellet carrier body and 
located downstream of said chip-inserting means, for 

pushing the block such that the second end portion of 
the cylinder projects from the through hole of said 

pellet carrier body, and cutting means (9, 42) opposing 
said pellet carrier body, for cutting the second end 

portion of the block which projects from the through 
hole of said pellet carrier body. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
