<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615596</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO PIPELINE INSULATION AND ANTICORROSION PROTECTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16L5902	F16L5802	F16L5810	F16L5902	F16L5910	F16L5910	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	F16L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16L59	F16L58	F16L58	F16L59	F16L59	F16L59	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Improvements in thermal insulation and anti-corrosion protection for pipelines are described. A composite coating essentially comprises an inner elastomeric layer (64) typically of polyurethane, a thermally insulating layer (66) of closed cell foam, typically PVC, in the form of striated strips wrapped around the pipe (60), and an outer elastomeric layer (68), typically polyurethane. A predetermined gap is left between adjacent wraps of the insulating layer (66), allowing the elastomeric material of the outer layer (68) to penetrate such gaps so as to encapsulate the insulating layer (66). Also described are a method of applying aggregate to the exterior surface of the outer layer, and improved impact resistance obtained by forming the inner layer (64) as a composite layer comprising inner and outer layers (70, 74) of material (suitably high performance polyurethane) having a higher tensile strength then that of a middle layer (72) (suitably standard polyurethane). Other variations and refinements are also described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARNOTT THOMAS CRISTOPHER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARNOTT, THOMAS CRISTOPHER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNOTT THOMAS CRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNOTT, THOMAS CRISTOPHER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the coating of pipelines and 
the like, particularly subsea pipelines and risers, but 
also other forms of ducting and piping, for the purpose 
of providing relatively high level thermal insulation 
and anticorrosion protection. The invention provides 
an improved coating method and an improved coated 
pipeline formed thereby. Oil and gas are transported by steel pipes from subsea 
wells to fixed platforms or moored floating platforms. 
The oil and gas temperature at the wellhead is in the 
range of temperatures between 70°C and 130°C. The sea 
temperature at seabed level of the North Sea is in the 
range of temperatures of between 4°C and 8°C. Over a 
relatively short distance the oil and gas temperature 
is reduced to the surrounding sea temperature. This in 
turn increases oil viscosity and solidifies any waxes 
present, and in the case of gas will produce hydrate 
formation, drastically reducing flow and possibly 
causing blockage of the line. Methods of overcoming these problems in the past have 
included:  
 
a The injection of chemicals at the wellhead to 
prevent waxes forming. This method is expensive 
and not always effective, and is environmentally 
unacceptable as chemicals are entrained in the 
water which is present in oil wells and which is 
separated and dumped into the sea. b The "pipe in a pipe" method consists of placing 
the oil pipe into a larger diameter pipe 
concentrically. The annulus formed is filled with 
a polyurethane foam. Polyurethane foam produces 
good insulating values but is low in mechanical 
strength and unable to resist seawater, therefore 
an outer steel pipe is required to provide 
resistance to hydrostatic forces and produce a 
waterproof barrier. This method of construction 
restricts the way a pipeline can be installed and 
is most suited to shallow water and short lengths 
of lines. c Syntactic insulation is achieved by dispersing 
microspheres or insulating material particles into 
a matrix of elastomer plastic or epoxy. The 
introduction of microspheres or insulation 
particles into such a matrix greatly reduces the 
physical properties of the matrix material. The 
maximum amount normally considered acceptable is 
approximately 40% which improves the thermal 
insulation property of the matrix but in many 
instances not significantly enough to meet common 
insulation requirements. d Laminated systems consist of a first layer of 
elastomer, normally extruded onto the pipe, a  
 
layer of insulation material, such as PVC foam or 
a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of applying a thermally insulating 
anticorrosion coating to a pipe, comprising the steps 

of: applying a first, inner elastomeric, anticorrosion 
layer (34) to the pipe (30); applying a layer of thermally 

insulating material (20) over said first elastomeric layer 
in the form of striated, rigid, closed-cell, foamed 

material wrapped around said pipe; 
and applying a second, outer elastomeric, protective 

layer (40) over said insulating layer, characterised in that a 
predetermined gap (38) is formed between sections of said 

wrapped insulating material sufficient to ensure 
penetration by said second layer (40) of elastomeric 

material into said gaps so as to encapsulate said 
insulating material (20). 
A method as claimed in Claim 1, where in said 
thermally insulating material (20) is PVC. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein 
said first and second elastomeric layers (34, 40) are formed 

from polyurethane or epoxy. 
A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein 
said first elastomeric layer (34) is formed from a thermally 

insulating material resistant to temperatures exceeding 
95°C. 
A method as claimed in Claim 4, wherein said 
thermally insulating material (20) is syntactic 

polyurethane. 
A method as Claimed in any preceding Claim, wherein  
 

said thermally insulating layer (20) is applied before 
cross-linking of said first elastomeric layer is 

completed. 
A method as claimed in any preceding Claim, wherein 
said second elastomeric layer (40) is applied by pouring or 

spraying, so as to fill said gaps (38) and seal the ends of 
said striations. 
A method as claimed in any preceding Claim, wherein 
a thin adhesive anticorrosion layer (32) is applied to said 

pipe prior to the application of said first elastomeric 
layer. 
A method as claimed in Claim 8, wherein said 
adhesive layer (32) is epoxy or polyurethane adhesive. 
A method as claimed in Claim 8 or Claim 9, wherein 
said adhesive layer (32) extends to within a first 

predetermined distance of the ends of said pipe and 
said elastomeric layers (34, 40) extend to within a second 

predetermined distance of the ends of said pipe, said 
second distance being greater than said first distance. 
A method as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein an aggregate material (44) is applied to the outer 

surface of said second elastomeric layer (40) prior to 
curing thereof. 
A method as claimed in any preceding Claim, 
wherein said striated insulation (20) is applied as a 

continuous, helically wound strip, said gap being 
formed at the helical interface between successive 

turns thereof. 
A method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 11,  
 

wherein said striated insulation (20) is applied in 
discrete, annular sections, said gaps being formed 

between adjacent sections. 
A method as claimed in any preceding Claim 
wherein said first and second elastomeric layers (34, 40) are 

applied whilst the pipe is being rotated, by a 
traversing pour or traversing spray method in one or 

more passes. 
A thermally insulated and corrosion protected 
pipe (30), said insulation and corrosion protection being 

provided by a coating applied in accordance with the 
method as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 14. 
A pipe as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said 
thermally insulating material (20) is PVC. 
A pipe as claimed in Claim 15 or Claim 16, 
wherein, said elastomeric material (34, 40) is polyurethane or 

epoxy. 
A pipe as claimed in Claim 17, wherein said first 
elastomeric layer (34) is formed from a thermally insulating 

material resistant to temperatures exceeding 95°C. 
A pipe as claimed in Claim 18, wherein said 
thermally insulating material (20) is syntactic 

polyurethane. 
A pipe as claimed in any one of Claims 15 to 19, 
wherein said pipe is further provided with an  

 
innermost, thin, anticorrosion layer of adhesive (32) 

intermediate the outer pipe surface and the inner 
surface of said elastomeric material. 
A pipe as claimed in Claim 20, wherein said 
adhesive (32) is epoxy or polyurethane adhesive. 
A pipe as claimed in Claim 20 or 21, wherein said 
adhesive layer (32) terminates at a first distance from each 

end of each length of pipe, and said elastomeric 
material (34, 40) terminates at a second distance from each end 

of each length of pipe, said second distance being 
greater than said first distance. 
A pipe as claimed in any one of Claims 15 to 22, 
wherein said pipe is further provided with aggregate 

material (44) embedded in the outer surface of said 
elastomeric material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
