<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654927</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radio telephone apparatus and peripheral device, wherein the keys of the peripheral device can be associated with functionality of the radio telephone
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M172	H04M102	H04M102	H04Q732	H04M172	H04M1247	H04M1725	H04Q732	H04M1247	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04Q7	H04M1	H04M1	H04M1	H04Q7	H04M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method and an arrangement for determining 
the function of a press-button switch. A press-button switch (3; 31,32, ..., 3N) 

has been arranged in a peripheral (2) connected detachably to a mobile phone 
(1). According to the method, a press-button switch (e.g. 31) is pressed when 

the mobile phone (1) and the peripheral (2) are electrically coupled. Thereafter, 
the detection data of said pressed press-button switch (31) are transmitted from 

the peripheral (2) to the mobile phone (1), to the data processing unit (13) 
thereof. The function of the pressed press-button switch (31) is determined with 

the aid of the key pad (7), the data processing unit (13) of the mobile phone (1), 
and the data and the instructions stored in the memory unit (15) thereof. The 

function of the press-button switch of the peripheral thus determined is stored in 
the memory unit (15) of the mobile phone (1), whereafter the press-button 

switch is available for use. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NOKIA CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIEMI PEKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NIEMI, PEKKA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to radio telephone apparatus and a method
therefor, in particular to an apparatus and method for assigning to keys of a
peripheral device respective functions corresponding to functions of a radio
telephone removably coupled thereto.In recent years there has been a proliferation of different types of radio
telephone network. Some networks being cellular, others cordless, whilst some
are analogue systems and others digital systems. Examples of such systems
being the JDC, GSM, PCN, DAMPS, NMT AND TACS networks. The design of
a radio telephone varies dependent upon the network for which it is intended to
be used. Each radio telephone for respective networks, may have different
configurations, software and circuitry for implementing the various functions
assigned to the keys normally disposed on the radio telephone as part of the
user interface provided. Consequently, when the radio telephone is mounted in
a peripheral device such as a charger, desk stand or in-car holder, that peripheral
must have its keypad designed to operate with the particular type of radio
telephone. Typically, the functions which it is desired to be available from the
keypad of a peripheral are, for example muting (MUTE) of the microphone,
enquiry call, unloading of a phone message, transfer of the call, an emergency
call, etc. The peripheral can be provided with expanded auxiliary and/or call
functions.Heretofore, it has been necessary to provide such peripheral devices which are
adapted for use with radio telephones for one, or a limited number of like, radio
telephone systems. This has meant that a large number of different peripherals
for each type radio telephone have had to be provided. This increases
manufacturing costs, storage costs and requires greater shelf space of the point
of sale on which to display the various peripherals. Additionally, there has been
the risk that customers might be confused and inadvertently purchase the wrong 
peripheral for their radio telephone.Also, it is known in the computer art, to have a keyboard with keys whose
function is determined by software running on the computer to which the
keyboard is attached. These keys are commonly known as "soft keys", and the
software could be menu driven. Thus, the user of the computer is able to select
among a plurality of optional functions those that are desired to be used as the
function of a given key.Document EP-0360725 discloses a method for defining various functions (or data) for
selected keys of a standard telephone
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for assigning a function of a radio telephone (1) to a switch means (31, 32... 3N)
disposed on a peripheral device (2) detachably coupled to the radio telephone (1), 
characterized in

the steps of:

activating the switch means (31, 32...3N);
detecting the activated switch means in the peripheral device (2);
transmitting the detection data of the activated switch means to the radio telephone (1);
detecting in the radio telephone the identity of the activated switching means;
selecting a function for the activated switch means by means of a user interface of the radio
telephone (1); and
storing the selected function in correspondence with the identity of the activated switch
means (31, 32...3N) to the radio telephone (1), whereafter the selected function is executed

when switch means (31, 32...3N) is activated.
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized in that
 the function for the activated switch means
is selected from a menu availabl
e on the radio telephone (1).
A method according to claim 1 or 2, 
characterized in that
 data identifying the peripheral device
(2) is stored in the radio telephone (1), said data being utilized to detect the peripheral device (2)

when the radio telephone (1) and peripheral device (2) are coupled together.
A method according to any of claims 1 to 3, 
characterized in that
 a first data processing unit (9)
and a first memory unit (11) are included in the peripheral device (2) in which memory unit data

corresponding to the peripheral device (2) and the detection data of the activated switch means (31,
32...3N) are stored, and which data is transmitted to a second data processing unit (13) of the radio

telephone (1), said peripheral device and the activated switch means being detected in the second
data processing unit (13) when the radio telephone (1) and the peripheral device (2) are coupled

together.
A method according to any preceding claim, 
characterized in that
 a data processing unit (9) of
the peripheral device (2) and a data processing unit (13) of the radio telephone (1) are coupled via a

data bus (12) when the peripheral device (2) and the radio telephone (1) are coupled together.
An assembly for assigning a function of a radio telephone (1) to a switch means (31, 32... 3N)
disposed on a peripheral device (2) comprising the radio telephone (1) detachably coupled to the

peripheral device (2), 
characterized in that
 the peripheral device (2) includes:

switch detection means for determining detection data corresponding to activation of the
switch means (31, 32...3N); and
means for transferring the detection data of the activated switch means to the radio telephone
(1)

and the radio telephone (1) includes:

means for receiving the detection data and means for identifying the activated switching
means;
means for selecting a function for the activated switch means by means of a user interface of
the radio telephone (1); and
a memory means (15) for storing the selected function in correspondence with the identity of
the activated switch means (31, 32...3N) to the radio telephone (1) such that activation of the

switch means (31, 32...3N) executes said function.
An assembly according to claim 6, 
characterized in that
 the user interface of the radio telephone
(1) is a scrolling menu.
An assembly according to claim 6 or 7, 
characterized in that
 data identifying the peripheral
device (2) is stored in the radio telephone (1), said data being utilized to detect the peripheral device

(2) when the radio telephone (1) and peripheral device (2) are coupled together.
An assembly according to any of claims 6 to 8, 
characterized in that
 a first data processing unit
(9) and a first memory unit (11) are included in the peripheral device (2) in which memory unit data

corresponding to the peripheral device (2) and the detection data of the activated switch means (31,
32...3N) are stored, and which data is transmitted to a second data processing unit (13) of the radio

telephone (1), said peripheral device and the activated switch means being detected in the second
data processing unit (13) when the radio telephone (1) and the peripheral device (2) are coupled

together.
An assembly according to any of claims 6 to 9, 
characterized in that
 a first data processing unit
(9) of the peripheral device (2) and a second data processing unit (13) of the radio telephone (1) are

coupled via a data bus (12) when the radio telephone (1) and peripheral device (2) are coupled
together.
An assembly according to any of claims 6 to 10, 
characterized in that
 switch means (31,
32...3N) is a reversible on/off switch.
An assembly according to any of claims 6 to 11, 
characterized in that
 the peripheral device (2)
is a charger, desk stand or hands free unit.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
