<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655167</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HYDROGEN POWER CELL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M802	H01M802	H01M804	H01M804	H01M810	H01M810	H01M824	H01M824	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	H01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	H01M8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A hydrogen fuel cell (10) comprises a cathode (18), an anode (14) supplied with hydrogen, an electrolyte member (16) disposed therebetween, and a porous carbonaceous distribution plate (22) through which the cathode is supplied with oxygen. The carbonaceous member is oxidized sufficiently to render it hydrophilic, while retaining good mechanical strength and electrical properties, enabling water generated by the cell to be removed without impeding oxygen distribution to the cathode.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
H POWER CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAUFMAN ARTHUR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
H POWER CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KAUFMAN, ARTHUR
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN, ARTHUR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HYDROGEN POWER CELLTECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to hydrogen power cells of the type which receive hydrogen fuel and produce electri¬ city.BACKGROUNDEver since the political vulnerability of this nation's largely foreign controlled petroleum sources became painfully obvious in the early 1970's, there has been an intensive effort devoted to the development of alternative energy sources and conservation of existing resources. In more recent years, the acute nature of the energy problem has been underscored by a growing public awareness of the related environmental questions. 

To a large extent, efforts aimed at energy conservation and alternative energy generation have met with a large degree of success in such areas as the heating and cooling of structures, automobile efficiency and the like. More particularly, large advances have been made by designing hotter running gasoline engines, use of reflective glazing, impermeable construction barriers, solar heating and the like. However, one technology which has largely failed to live up to its very promising expectations is the use of hydrogen for the generation of electricity. Generally, this technology involves the utilization of hydrogen in electrochemical combustion for the purpose of generating electricity. A device in which such a process is carried out is generally referred to as a fuel cell. Because the electricity is generated by the combustion of hydrogen with oxygen, the only combustion product involved is water vapor which is completely harmless to the environment. This may be compared to gasoline combustion which involves the release of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and complex chemical species into the environment (along with the primary emissions, carbon dioxide and water vapor) .While it has been known that fuel cells offer many advantages as compared to other power sources, particularly in supplying power at remote locations (such as outer space or the like) and offer at least, in principle, limited service and maintenance requirements, various problems are presented by existing fuel cell technology. Nevertheless, perhaps the most advantageous fuel cell systems presently available (for certain applications, at least) are those which utilize a so- called ion-exchange membrane (IEM) electrolyte. Generally, in systems such as this, the electrolyte is embodied in the form of a synthetic polymeric material which acts as an electrolyte while still having the characteristic of being a solid body. 

This type of system offers
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
Claim 1. An ion-exchange membrane electrolyte, water- producing, fuel cell for generating electricity by catalytic combustion of a gaseous hydrogenous fuel with gaseous oxygen leading to formation of water at the cathode which comprises: a) an anode; b) means to supply a gaseous hydrogenous fuel to the anode; c) an oxygen-gas-pervious cathode; and d) an electrolyte disposed between the anode and the cathode; characterized in that said fuel cell further comprises e) a water-pervious, electrically conductive, graphitic, oxygen-distribution member positioned adjacent the cathode to supply oxygen thereto and remove water therefrom which oxygen-distribution member has oxygen-distribution passages communicating with the cathode for the supply of oxygen thereto; wherein the graphitic oxygen-distribution member is composed of a graphite material chemically activated to be hydrophilic, mechanically strong and electrically conductive, whereby water formed at the cathode is transported through the graphitic oxygen-distribution member with the oxygen-distribution passages remaining open for the distribution of oxygen to the cathode.
Claim 2. A fuel cell according to claim 1 characterized in that the oxygen-distribution member has a high hydrophilicity compared with untreated graphitic material, the hydrophilicity being determined by observed rates of dispersion of water droplets introduced onto a surface of the graphitic material before and after chemical activation. 


Claim 3. A fuel cell according to claim 1 characterized in that the oxygen-distribution member is composed of a fibrous graphite material surface-treated to have oxygenated species chemically bound to the fibrous graphite material wherein the hydrophilic moieties include polar moieties being the product of oxidation of the fibrous graphite material.
Claim 4. A fuel cell according to claim 1 characterized in that the oxygen-distribution member is composed of a fibrous graphite material surface-treated to have carbon black material bound to the graphite material.
Claim 5. A fuel cell according to claim 1 characterized in that the anode comprises a graphitic member and the electrolyte comprises a proton-exchange membrane.
Claim 6. A fuel cell according to claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 characterized in that the oxygen-distribution plate has a cathode-engaging face pressed into firm engagement with the cathode and the oxygen-distribution passages comprise grooves on the cathode-engaging face of the oxygen- distribution plate, the grooves defining ridges in the oxygen-distribution member, product water being transported through the grooves away from the cathode.
Claim 7. A fuel cell assembly comprising a plurality of fuel cells each being a fuel cell according to claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 characterized in that, in each fuel cell, the anode, the cathode and the oxygen-distribution member constitute plates, the fuel cells are arranged face-to- face, in an extended stack with series connections between cells in a stack being made by a conductive separator secured to the oxygen-distribution member of one fuel cell and secured to a conductive hydrogenous- fuel distribution member of an adjacent fuel cell. 


Claim 8. A method of producing an oxygen-distribution member for an ion-exchange membrane electrolyte, water- producing, fuel cell, the oxygen distribution member being electrically conductive and pervious to water and having oxygen-distribution passages for supply of oxygen to a cathode, the method being characterized by: forming said oxygen-distribution member by chemically surface-treating a graphitic member to be hydrophilic, mechanically strong and electrically conductive, the hydrophilic treatment being effective for transport of water through the graphitic oxygen-distribution member away from a cathode to which the oxygen distribution member is adjacent in the fuel cell.
Claim 9. A method according to claim 8 characterized in that the chemical surface treatment comprises oxidation of a fibrous graphitic sheet member to produce oxygenated species chemically bound to the fibrous graphitic sheet member wherein the oxidation comprises exposure of the graphitic member to air at an elevated temperature of from 400 °C to 600 °C for from 15 seconds to 15 minutes.
Claim 10. A method according to claim 8 characterized in that the chemical surface treatment comprises oxidation of a fibrous graphitic sheet member to produce oxygenated species chemically bound to the fibrous graphitic sheet member wherein the oxidation comprises exposure of the graphitic member to steam at an elevated temperature of from 500 °C to 750 °C for from 15 seconds to 15 minutes.
Claim 11. A method according to claim 8 characterized in that the chemical surface treatment comprises oxidation of a fibrous graphitic sheet member to produce oxygenated species chemically bound to the fibrous graphitic sheet member wherein oxidation is effected by evacuating air from the graphitic member and subjecting the graphitic member to electrochemical oxidation with an aqueous acid. 


Clai 12. A method according to claim 8 characterized by treating the oxygen-distribution member to have a high hydrophilicity compared with untreated graphitic material, the hydrophilicity being determined by observing rates of dispersion of water droplets introduced onto a surface of the graphitic material before and after chemical activation.
Claim 13. A method according to claim 8 characterized in that the chemical surface treatment comprises high- temperature deposition of a carbonaceous layer on the surface structure of the fibrous graphitic member.
Claim 14. A method according to claim 13 characterized in that the high-temperature deposition of a carbonaceous layer is effectived by deposition of carbon black from a material selected from the group consisting of liquid hydrocarbons, alcohols and gaseous hydrocarbons at a temperature above about 800 °C in an inert atmosphere or a substoichiometric oxygen-containing atmosphere.
Claim 15. An oxygen-distribution member for an ion- exchange membrane electrolyte, water-producing, fuel cell, characterised by being the product of a method according to claim 8. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
