<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634486</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Prevention of dye deposition in fabric finishing processes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C11D300	C11D300	C11D337	C11D337	C11D1100	C11D1100	D06P144	D06P152	D06P502	D06P508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	C11D	D06P	D06P	D06P	D06P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C11D3	C11D3	C11D3	C11D3	C11D11	C11D11	D06P1	D06P1	D06P5	D06P5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention provides a process for preventing dye from depositing onto fabric, and 
fabric finishing compositions useful in the dye deposition inhibiting process of this 

invention. Specifically, a process is provided where 1) an aqueous bath is formed comprising 
a) water, b) dyed fabric, and c) a dye deposition inhibiting agent, 2) the dyed fabric is treated 

in the aqueous bath and the fabric releases a portion of the dye from the dyed fabric into the 
bath, and 3) the dye inhibiting agent is maintained in contact with the dyed fabric for the 

duration of the treating step. The dye deposition inhibiting agent comprises 

i) an aqueous system thickener, 
ii) an aryl sulfonic acid condensate, 
iii) a polycarboxylic dispersant, or 
iv) an acrylamide containing polymer. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROHM 
&
 HAAS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROHM AND HAAS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRK THOMAS CLEVELAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARTZ CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINSTEIN BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIRK, THOMAS CLEVELAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHWARTZ, CURTIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEINSTEIN, BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to fabric finishing compositions and a process for preventing 
dye from depositing onto fabric. More specifically, this invention relates to adding one or 
more water soluble or water dispersible compounds to stonewashing and prewashing 
processes to prevent dyes from depositing on the fabric. Clothing made from cellulosic fabrics such as cotton and in particular indigo dyed 
denim have been common for many years. Recently, consumers have preferred the denim 
to look preworn and feel softer. This preworn look and softer feel can be accomplished by 
fabric finishing processes such as prewashing or stonewashing where the fabric is treated to 
release dye from the fabric. In this invention, we define a "fabric finishing process" as any 
process which includes one or more steps where dye is released from fabric or clothing. The most common dye used to dye denim is indigo blue which is classified as a vat 
dye. Indigo blue is the most common dye that is released in a stonewashing or prewashing 
process. Other dyes, such as sulfur black are also used to colour denim and could also be 
released in a fabric finishing process. Prewashing the fabric can accomplish one or more of the following effects: 1) uniform 
fading of the fabric by bleeding excess dye, 2) softening the fabric by removing sizing, a 
stiffening agent used to facilitate cutting the fabric, 3) preshrinking the fabric, and 4) 
improving the hand of the fabric. A typical fabric prewashing process, for example, may begin with a 15 to 20 minute 
wash cycle using a conventional alkaline laundry detergent formula, followed by a souring 
rinse to remove alkalinity developed by the detergent, a fresh water rinse, a fabric softening 
rinse, and a water extraction cycle. A typical laundry detergent may contain, for example, 
nonionic and ionic surfactants, builders, soil anti-redeposition agents, optical brighteners, 
and fillers. Several variations in this prewashing process have been made. For example, US 
4,388,077 describes the use of an amphoteric surfactant and builder in a detergent 
composition to improve preshinking, dye-bleeding, and fabric softening results. 
Alternatively, US 4,218,220 adds an additional bleaching step after the wash cycle. 
Specifically, this additional step consists of contacting the fabric or clothing with an aqueous 
solution containing bleach and fabric softener to produce a more uniform fade. In the 
present invention, we define the term "prewashing" to include those processes which 
uniformly fade
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fabric finishing composition comprising as a dye deposition inhibiting agent at least 
0.1 weight percent of one or more of: 


i) an aqueous system thickener, 
ii) an aryl sulfonic acid condensate, 
iii) a polycarboxylic dispersant, or 
iv) an acrylamide containing polymer, 
 
and optionally one or more of water, solvent, builder, buffering agent, cellulase enzyme or 

surfactant. 
Fabric finishing composition according to claim 1 comprising up to 45 weight percent 
of the dye deposition inhibiting agent. 
Fabric finishing composition according to claim 1 or 2 where the dye deposition 
inhibiting agent comprises an aqueous system thickener which itself comprises a 

polyethoxylated urethane or an acrylic carboxylate emulsion polymer. 
Fabric finishing composition according to claim 3 wherein the polyethoxylated 
urethane comprises: 


(1) a reaction product of at least one water soluble polyether alcohol containing at least 

one functional hydroxyl group reactant (a), a water insoluble organic 
polyisocyanate reactant (b) , and an organic monoisocyanate reactant (c); or 
(2) a reaction product of the reactant (a), wherein the water soluble polyether alcohol 
contains at least one functional hydroxyl group, and the organic monoisocyanate 

reactant (c); or 
(3) a reaction product of the reactant (a), the reactant (b), the organic monoisocyanate 
reactant (c) , and a reactant (d) which comprises at least one polyhydric alcohol and 

polyhydric alcohol ether; or 
(4) a reaction product of the reactant (a), the water insoluble organic polyisocyanate 
reactant (b) containing two isocyanate groups, and an monofunctional active 

hydrogen containing compound; or 
(5) a reaction product of the reactant (a), the water insoluble organic polyisocyanate 
reactant (b) containing at least three isocyanate groups, and the monofunctional 

active hydrogen containing compound. 
Fabric finishing composition according to claim 4, wherein the polyethoxylated 
urethane comprises a reaction product of (a) pentaerythritol, (b) toluene 2,4 diisocyanate, and 

(c) polyethylene glycol monomethyl ether. 
Fabric finishing composition according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the acrylic 
carboxylate emulsion polymer is formed from: 
(1) about 20 to about 50 weight percent of at least one monoethylenically unsaturated 
carboxylic acid selected from (meth)acrylic acid, itaconic acid, and aryloxypropionic acid and 

salts thereof; 
(2) about 0.5 to about 25 weight percent at least one (meth)acrylic acid ester of an 
ethoxylated alkyl, alkylaryl or polycyclic hydrocarbyl alcohol of the formula: 

 
wherein 

R₁is H or CH₃, nis from 2 to 60, and R₂is a hydrophobic group comprising alkyl, alkylaryl or polycyclic alkyl group, wherein 
each alkyl group contains from 8 to 30 carbon atoms; and 
(3) about 40 to about 60 weight percent of at least one C₁ to C₄ alkyl (meth)acrylate; 
 
or said polymer is formed from: 


(1) 20 to 75 weight percent of at least one of (meth)acrylic acid, itaconic acid or 
aryloxypropionic acid or salts thereof; and 
(2) 25 to 80 weight percent of at least one C₁ to C₄ alkyl (meth)acrylate. 
Fabric finishing composition according to any preceding claim wherein the aryl 
sulfonic acid condensate comprises the reaction product of formaldehyde with at least one of 

benzene, naphthalene or anthracene, or substituted aromatic containing compounds thereof. 
Fabric finishing composition according to any preceding claim wherein the 
poly(carboxylic acid) dispersant is either a poly(amino acid) or is formed from: 


(1) 70 to 98 weight percent of at least one of (meth)acrylic acid, itaconic acid or 
aryloxypropionic acid, or salts thereof, and 
(2) from 2 to 30 weight percent of at least one C₁ to C₄ alkyl (meth)acrylate 
monomer. 
Fabric finishing composition according to any preceding claim wherein the acrylamide 
polymer has a molecular weight from 2,000 to 500,000, and is formed from 


(1) 50 to 100 weight percent of at least one acrylamide or N-substituted acrylamide having 
the structural formula: 

 
wherein 

   R₁ is H or a C₁ to C₄ alkyl group, 
   R₂ and R₃ are either each independently hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, 

butyl, t-butyl or isobutyl; or together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form 
a three to seven membered nonaromatic nitrogen heterocycle; and 
(2) from 0 to 50 weight percent of at least one vinyl monomer whic comprises a C₁ to C₆ 
alkyl (meth)acrylate, hydroxyalkyl (meth)acrylate, hydroxyaryl (meth)acrylate, alkoxyalkyl 

(meth)acrylate, polyalkoxyalkyl (meth)acrylate, styrene, vinyltoluene, alkyl vinyl ether, 
amino-substituted alkyl (meth)acrylate, amino-alkyl vinyl ethers, maleic anhydride, maleic 

acid, fumaric acid, itaconic acid or (meth)acrylic acid; or the salts of maleic acid, fumaric acid, 
itaconic acid or (meth)acrylic acid. 
A process for preventing the deposition of a dye onto a fabric comprising: 

1) forming an aqueous bath comprising 

a) water, 
b) dyed fabric, and 
c) a dye deposition inhibiting agent, 
2) treating the dyed fabric in said aqueous bath such that a portion of the dye from the 
dyed fabric is released into the bath, and 
3) maintaining said dye inhibiting agent in contact with said dyed fabric and released dye 
for the duration of the treating step, said dye deposition inhibiting agent in the 

aqueous bath being maintained at a concentration of between 25 and 2000 ppm based 
on the total weight of the aqueous bath excluding the weight of the dyed fabric. 
Process according to claim 10, wherein the dye deposition inhibiting agent is 

i) an aqueous system thickener, 
ii) an aryl sulfonic acid condensate, 
iii) a polycarboxylic dispersant, or 
iv) an acrylamide containing polymer, 
 
preferably each as defined in any of claims 3 to 10. 
Process according to claim 11 where the treating step comprises stonewashing or 
prewashing. 
Use of 

i) an aqueous system thickener, 
ii) an aryl sulfonic acid condensate, 
iii) a polycarboxylic dispersant, or 
iv) an acrylamide containing polymer, 
 
preferably each as defined in any of claims 3 to 10, 

as a dye deposition inhibiting agent in fabric treatment. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
