<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649556</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DISPLAY ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING THE DISPLAY OF A CURSOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09G508	G09G508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09G5	G09G5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
It is known to display a cursor field of variable magnitude notably for accentuating text segments on a display screen. No separate symbol is reproduced in this cursor field. On the other hand, it is also known to display a cursor symbol in a cursor field, where the areas of the cursor field outside the symbol are generally suppressed. The position of this field can be controlled, but the magnitude is always fixed. The shape of the cursor symbol is often stored in a random access memory so that it can be readily modified. For the display of also a cursor symbol of variable magnitude, the invention proposes to address the cursor memory by means of a separate addressing device which operates only during display of the cursor field. The organization of the memory for the cursor symbol, customarily constructed as a matrix memory, then becomes fully independent of the rows and columns of the cursor field, i.e. to the cursor symbol the memory appears as a pure linear memory. As a result, this memory can be utilized in a substantially improved manner and the display of even large cursor symbols requires only a limited storage capacity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS PATENTVERWALTUNG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PHILIPS PATENTVERWALTUNG GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUHR WOLFGANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUHR, WOLFGANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a circuit arrangement for controlling the display of a
cursor in a raster-like image, and more specifically for controlling the display of a
cursor field of various size.A circuit arrangement of this kind is known from US 4,354,184 and allows
for display of a cursor field of selectable magnitude. This cursor field serves to
accentuate an image area in a displayed image, consisting notably of a text to be
processed, accentuation being realised, for example by brighter display. No cursor
symbol is then displayed in the cursor field.Another circuit arrangement of this kind is known from GB 2 252 224 A.
This document describes a system which provides an overlay, e.g. a cursor for a
computer display. Only a single scan line of the overlay information is stored in a
overlay memory. The whole overlay information is stored in the empty space of a
frame buffer. A control circuit determines if the overlay information covers a
portion of the scan line during the horizontal blanking period. Comparators compare
the value of the start and the end of vertical and horizontal positions of the overlay
in each scan line. Each pixel of the scan lines is counted and compared to control
the output of the display.Another method and system to generate and display a cursor is described in
US 5,097,256. This system uses the non-displayed area of video RAM to generate
the cursor. During the vertical blanking time the lines that will contain the cursor
are transferred from the active display area to the special buffer in a non-displayed
area of the memory. Then the cursor is written into the special internal buffer at a
proper location thus destroying the underlying image in the special internal buffer at
this location, where the cursor is located. When the frame reaches the band that
contains the cursor the columns are loaded from the special internal buffer. After 
each display has been generated the new band containing the cursor is created in the
non-displayed area.Also known are circuit arrangements whereby a cursor symbol, for example,
an arrow, can be displayed in the cursor field, the parts of the cursor field outside
the cursor symbol generally not being visible. The shape of the cursor symbol is
determined by the contents of a storage field whose magnitude is defined by the
circuitry. In many cases the image presents not only the cursor but also characters,
i.e. letters and digits whose shape is also determined in storage sections of a
memory which may be the same as that for the cursor and which
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A display arrangement comprising image generating means for generating an
image in a raster scan format of pixels and comprising cursor generating means for

cursor generating and mixing means fed by said cursor generating means for mixing
said cursor into said raster scan format for displaying, said cursor generating means

comprising

input means (13, 23) for receiving recurrent scanning control signals
comprising a pixel clock signal (PCL),
indicator means (10, 12, 20, 22) for indicating the position of a cursor field
in the image,
a cursor memory (44) having a plurality of locations for each storing a data
word, all stored data words indicating at least one cursor pattern,
first switch means (14, 16, 24, 26, 30) being arranged to supply in
response to said input means (13, 23) and said indicator means (10, 12, 20,

22) a binary switching signal (31) indicating with a first value that the
instantaneously displayed pixel is situated within the desired cursor field

characterized by

said first switch means (14, 16, 24, 26, 30) being further arranged to supply a pixel
clock signal (PCL) to an addressing means (40, 42) for addressing the cursor

memory (44) if said binary switching signal (31) assumes said first value
said addressing means (40,42) being arranged to access successive locations
of said cursor memory (44) for outputting data words in parallel, thereby

advancing to each next location after a predetermined number of said pixel
clock signals (PCL) which corresponds to the number of bits of each data

word divided by a first number of bits used for the display of each cursor
pixel
parallel-serial converter means (46) for receiving at the parallel input (45)
each data word output by said cursor memory (44) and for supplying said 

first number of different consecutive bits of the received data word at each
pixel clock signal which occurs during the first value of said switching signal

(31) so as to serially output the data word taken over from the cursor
memory (44),
second switch means (48) controlled by said switching signal (31) and fed by
the parallel-serial converter (46) and by a main image generator for

combining signals from said parallel-serial converter (46) with signals from
said main image generator only in the cursor field.
A display arrangement as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the
addressing means (40, 42) is advanced to the next location in response to a new

raster line.
A display arrangement as claimed in Claim 1 and 2, comprising first
registers (12, 22) for storing position data determining the position of the cursor in

the image, a second register (10) for storing the number of pixels per line of the cursor, and a
third register (20) for storing the numer of lines of the cursor, a first

counter (16) for repeated counting of a number of
pixels corresponding to the contents of the second register (10) for each new line, and a second counter (26) for counting a number of lines which corresponds to the contents of the

third register (20),
wherein the first registers (12, 22) comprise a first sub-register (12) for

storing the position of the cursor in the horizontal direction in the image and a
second sub-register (22) for storing the position of the cursor in the vertical

direction in the image, that there is provided a comparator (14) which generates a
first start signal when the horizontal control signals equal the contents of the first

sub-register (12) in order to set the first counter (16) to a position corresponding to
the contents of the second register (10) and, subsequently, to make the first counter

(16) count at a pixel frequency until it reaches an initial position and to make it
output a horizontal window signal (19) for the duration of the counting, and that a 

comparator (24) generates a second start signal when the vertical control signals
equal the contents of the second sub-register (22) in order to set the second counter

(26) to a position corresponding to the contents of the third register (20) and,
subsequently, to make the second counter (26) count at a line frequency until it

reaches an initial position and to make it output a vertical window signal (29) for the
duration of counting, the combination of the two window signals (19, 29)

determining the binary switching signal (31).
A display arrangement as claimed in Claim 1,2 and 3, characterized in that
there is provided a logic element (30) for generating said binary switching signal

(31) from the two window signals (19, 29) serving to control a switch (48) which
applies the data output (47) by the parallel-serial-converter (46) to a display device

(8).
A display arrangement as claimed in Claim 1, 2, 3 and 4, characterized in
that the first counter (16) serves to count the pixels only during the counting by

the second counter (26) and generates during counting said binary switching signal (31)
serving to control a second switch means (48) which applies the data output (47) by

the parallel-serial converter (46) to a display device (8).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
