<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645816</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Semiconductor device comprising a plurality of semiconductor elements
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2507	H01L2507	H01L25065	H01L25065	H01L2518	H01L2518	H01L2348	H01L2348	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L25	H01L23	H01L23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plurality of semiconductor elements (1, 2) are 
accommodated in one container. The top electrode surfaces (3, 4) of 

the elements (1, 2) are brought into contact with a top terminal 
board (16) under pressure, so that the elements and the terminal 

boards are connected together. Heat is dissipated from both surfaces 
of the container. If the height of the top electrode surface (3, 4) 

differs among different kinds of semiconductor elements, or if the 
height is not uniform in the elements of the same type, then uniform 

contact under pressure will not be achieved. The present invention 
solves this problem in that intermediate terminal boards (81, 82) are 

inserted between a top terminal board (16) of a container and the top 
electrode surfaces of semiconductor elements (1, 2). The 

intermediate terminal boards (81, 82) have a protruding portion or 
portions (83, 84) on the sides facing the semiconductor elements. 

The heights of the protruding portions (83, 84) have been previously 
polished according to the heights of the top electrode surfaces 

measured from the bottom surface of the bottom terminal board (12). 
When pressure is applied to the top terminal board (16), the 

intermediate terminal board (81, 82) is brought into uniform contact 
with the top electrode surfaces of the semiconductor elements (1, 2). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI ELECTRIC CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI ELECTRIC CO. LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TAKAHASHI, YOSHIKAZU
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a semiconductor device
comprising a plurality of semiconductor elements such as
insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs) received in one container
and also to a method of fabricating the semiconductor device.Receiving plural semiconductor elements of one or more kinds
in one container and modularising them have found wide acceptance
because the capacity is increased and because the labour needed to
make wire connections can be reduced. For example, what is presently
known as an IGBT module comprises one container in which plural IGBT
chips and a flywheel diode chip are received. Numerous aluminium
bonding wires are brought out from main electrodes (such as emitter
and cathode electrodes on the top surfaces of the element chips) and
from control electrodes (such as gate electrodes) to make
connections. Accordingly, in this IGBT module, cooling is done only
from the collector side on the bottom of each chip.As described above, connections of the emitters of the IGBT
module depends on the aluminium wire bonding having a diameter of
about 300 µm. Therefore, heat dissipation from the collector side is
possible but heat dissipation from the emitter side can be hardly
expected. Consequently, the current capacity is limited.In recent years, more compact IGBT modules having greater
capacity than conventional modules have been required in industrial
and vehicular applications. As the capacity of a module is
increased, more IGBT chips must be integrated in the module. Hence,
it is inevitable that the module itself is increased in size. Also,
the number of aluminium wires bonded inside the module is inevitably
increased and may reach several tens or several hundreds. Therefore,
the reliability in the presence of vibrations presents great
problems. In addition, the aluminium wires, and the terminals to
which the aluminium wires are connected, are lengthened. As a
result, their inductances increase. When a large current is turned
off, the resulting voltage surge increases. This is disadvantageous 
in the design of an apparatus. On the other hand, in one conceivable
method, wire bonding is not used for emitter connections, but instead
top emitter electrodes are in contact with an emitter terminal board
in a plane as used in a flat type semiconductor device such as a GTO
thyristor. However, where plural IGBT chips and a flywheel diode are
connected in parallel and brought into contact with each other under
pressure by a common terminal board, if the distance between the
bottom surface
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor device characterised in that
it comprises:


a container having an insulating side wall (11) and top
and bottom conductive terminal boards (16,12) having

their outer peripheral portions coupled to top and bottom
ends of the side wall (11);
a plurality of semiconductor elements (1,2) contained in
the container having electrodes (3,4) on their top surfaces and

electrodes on their bottom surfaces;
the electrodes on the bottom surfaces of the
semiconductor elements (1,2) being

rigidly fixed to the bottom terminal board (12);
and
the top terminal board (16) disposed opposite to
the electrodes (3,4) on the top surfaces with intermediate terminal boards (81,82) interposed

therebetween, said intermediate terminal boards having individually
height adjusted contact elements (83,84), each making

contact to respective electrodes (3,4) on the top surfaces of the
semiconductor elements.
A semiconductor device according to claim 1,

characterised in that each of the intermediate terminal
boards (81,82) comprises a flat portion of a given thickness

and protruding portions (83,84) forming said contact elements, said
protruding portions having a surface capable of

making contact with the electrode surfaces (3,4) on the top
surfaces of the semiconductor elements (1,2).
A method of fabricating a semiconductor device
characterised in that it comprises the steps of:


coupling an insulating side wall (11) of a container to
an outer peripheral portion of a conductive bottom terminal board

(12);
rigidly securing electrodes formed on the
respective bottom surfaces of a plurality of semiconductor

elements (1,2) to the inner surface of the conductive bottom
terminal board (12);
measuring the heights of the top surface of electrodes (3,4)
formed on the top surfaces (3,4) of the

secured semiconductor elements (1,2) from the outer surface
of the bottom terminal board (12);
providing one intermediate terminal board (81,82) for each
semiconductor element, said intermediate terminal boards

having on their bottom surface protrudering portions
(83,84) forming contact elements;
polishing the heights of the protruding portions (83,84)
of the intermediate terminal boards (81,82) so that 

when the intermediate terminal boards are placed on
the respective semiconductor elements the heights from

the outer surface of the bottom terminal board to the top
surface of said intermediate terminal boards is uniform;
placing the intermediate terminal boards (81,82) having
the polished protruding portions (83,84) on the respective

electrodes formed on the top surfaces of the
semiconductor elements (1,2); and
coupling the insulating side wall (11) to the outer

peripheral portion of a conductive top terminal board (16).
A method of fabricating a semiconductor device according
to claim 3, characterised in that the intermediate terminal

boards (81,82) are made to correspond in contour to the
semiconductor elements (1,2), and the intermediate terminal

boards (81,82) are placed in a position relative to the
semiconductor elements (1,2) and placed on the semiconductor

elements (1,2) using a jig (15).
A method of fabricating a semiconductor device according
to claim 4, characterised in that the jig (15) is located

relative to the device by engaging the bottom terminal
board (12).
A method of fabricating a semiconductor device according
to claim 5, characterised in that the bottom terminal

board (12) is formed with a recess 14 into which a
cooperating element of the jig (15) engages.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
