<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619766</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SKULL-MELTING DEPTH MEASUREMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C22B916	C22B916	C22B922	C22B3400	C22B3412	C22C102	C22C102	G01F23296	G01F23296	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C22B	C22B	C22B	C22B	C22B	C22C	C22C	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C22B9	C22B9	C22B9	C22B34	C22B34	C22C1	C22C1	G01F23	G01F23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARTIN MARIETTA ENERGY SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEESTAND RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUF ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEESTAND, RICHARD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAUF, ROBERT J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SKUIl^MELΗNG DEPTH MEASUREMENTThe United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to contract no. DE- AC05-84OR21400 between the United States Department of Energy and Martin Marietta Energy Systems, Inc.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to devices and methods for controlling the process of skull-melting materials, especially metals, and more particularly to devices and methods for measuring the depth of molten metal above a skull of solid material in a hearth during a skull-melting process.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn the field of metal processing, it is well known that certain metals such as titanium are highly reactive in the molten state, and are conducive to refinement by remelting in crucibles. To prevent undesirable reactions with the crucible material, the well known "skull-melting" method was developed, in which the liquid working metal is contained in a solid shell or "skull" of the same metal, which in turn is surrounded by a water-cooled hearth. Heating is provided by a plasma torch disposed above the working metal surface, the plasma torch being moved about the surface area to provide uniform transfer of heat to the working metal.For many processes, such as the continuous or semicontinuous plasma remelting of titanium, it is important to know the volume of molten working metal in the hearth. A certain minimum residence time in the liquid state must be maintained in order to decompose low-density inclusions, which would limit the strength of the metal. To determine the volume of working metal in the molten state, it is necessary to know both the level of the molten pool and the thickness of the solid skull underneath. Access to the top surface of the pool of molten working metal is limited by the moving plasma torch above the surface. Therefore, ultrasonic devices have been placed on the underside of the hearth to obtain measurements indicative of liquid depth and skull thickness.At the same time, however, in order to minimize heat loss to the hearth, a rough, low density, low heat conductivity interface is intentionally created between the hearth and the skull. Ultrasonic devices placed under the hearth are thus rendered ineffective because the interface prevents sonic coupling to the skull. A means. for coupling a transducer directly to the skull is thus required for successful transmission of the ultrasonic signal for accurate, precise liquid depth 

 measurement.OBJECTS OF THE INVENTIONAccordingly, it is an object of the present
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. Apparatus for skull-melting comprising: v a vessel adapted for a skull-melting process, said vessel containing a skull of working material; a signal energy transducer; and, a waveguide disposed in communication with said skull and said signal energy transducer for transmitting signal energy between said skull and said signal energy transducer.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said vessel has an orifice through which said waveguide is disposed.
3. An apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said orifice is tapered toward the exterior of said vessel, and wherein said waveguide is sealably disposed therein.
4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said signal energy transducer comprises means for generating shear sonic waves and longitudinal sonic waves.
5. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said signal energy transducer comprises means for receiving shear sonic waves and longitudinal sonic waves.
6. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said waveguide comprises a plug of material that is essentially identical to said working material.
7. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said vessel further comprises a cooling means for cooling said vessel.
8. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said working material comprises a reactive metal.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said reactive metal comprises titanium or . a titanium alloy.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 10. An apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a control system for controlling at least one process variable utilizing information derived from said transmitted signal energy.
11. Apparatus for skull-melting comprising: a vessel adapted for a skull-melting process, said vessel having an interior for receiving a charge of working material, said vessel having an underside, said vessel having an orifice in commumcation with said interior and said underside; and, a waveguide disposed in said orifice.
12. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said orifice is tapered toward said underside, and wherein said waveguide is sealably disposed therein.
13. An apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising a signal energy transducer for generating shear sonic waves and longitudinal sonic waves.
14. An apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said signal energy transducer further comprises means for receiving shear sonic waves and longitudinal sonic waves.
15. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said waveguide comprises a plug of material that is essentially identical to said working material.
16. An apparatus according to claim 15 further comprising a skull of solidified working material within said vessel, said skull and said vessel having an interface therebetween, said skull being fused to said waveguide so that signal energy can be transmitted through said waveguide and said skull without interference from said interface.
17. An apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said interface is characterized by low density and low conductivity.
18. Apparatus for skull-melting comprising: a vessel adapted for a skull-melting process, said vessel having an interior for receiving a charge of working material, said vessel having an underside, said vessel having an orifice in communication with said interior and said underside; a waveguide disposed in said orifice, said waveguide comprising a plug of material that is 


 essentially identical to said working material; a solidified skull of said working material, said skull containing a charge of molten working material, said skull and said vessel having an interface therebetween, said skull being fused to said waveguide so that signal energy can be transmitted through said waveguide and said skull without interference from said interface; and, a signal energy transducer in signal communication with said waveguide, said signal energy transducer comprising means for generating and receiving shear sonic waves and longitudinal sonic waves.
19. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said orifice is tapered toward said underside, and wherein said waveguide is sealably disposed therein.
20. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said vessel further comprises a cooling means for cooling said vessel.
21. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said working material comprises a reactive metal.
22. An apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said reactive metal comprises titanium or a titanium alloy.
23. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said interface is characterized by low density and low conductivity.
24. A method of skull-melting comprising the steps of: a. providing a vessel adapted for a skull-melting process, said vessel having an interior, said vessel having an underside, said vessel having an orifice in communication with said interior and said underside; b. disposing a waveguide in said orifice so that said waveguide protrudes sufficiently into said interior to interact with said skull-melting process; c. providing a signal energy transducer in signal communication with said waveguide; d. introducing into said vessel a molten working material; e. carrying out said skull-melting process so that a solidified skull of said working material is formed, said skull and said vessel having an interface therebetween, said skull becoming fused 


 to said waveguide so that signal energy can be transmitted through said waveguide and said skull without interference from said interface; f. activating said signal energy transducer so that a signal is propagated through said waveguide; and, g. controlling at least one variable of said skull-melting process utilizing feedback information derived from said propagated signal energy.
25. A method according to claim 24 wherein said orifice is tapered toward said underside, and wherein said waveguide is sealably disposed therein.
26. A method according to claim 24 wherein said vessel further comprises a cooling means for cooling said vessel.
27. A method according to claim 24 wherein said working material comprises a reactive metal.
28. A method according to claim 27 wherein said reactive metal comprises titanium or a titanium alloy.
29. A method according to claim 24 wherein said interface is characterized by low density and low conductivity.
10 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
