<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626097</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIRECT MOUNT PRESSURE CONTROL WITH A FIELD ADJUSTABLE TRIP POINT AND RESET POINT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01H3524	H01H3526	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01H	H01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01H35	H01H35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pressure control for use in applications such as refrigeration, air conditioning and ice generating machinery includes a highly accurate snap acting switch (100, 102), field adjustable trip points and reset points and a reference scale (33). The trip point is adjusted by means of an adjustment screw (26), while the reset point is adjusted by changing the differential, or the difference between the trip point and reset point. The differential is adjusted by adjusting the amount of "lost motion" within the control by employing an actuator (71) which includes a cam surface (82) and a set screw (27) for changing the position of the cam surface (82).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON SERVICE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON SERVICE CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOHERTY ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DOHERTY ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DIRECT MOUNT PRESSURE CONTROL WITH A FIELD ADJUSTABLE TRIP POINT AND RESET POINTCross-References to Related Applications, If Any: None.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to the field of pressure controls and, more particularly, to the field of compact, direct mount pressure controls for use on machinery such as that used for refrigeration, air conditioning and ice generation. Still more particularly, the invention relates to a positive action switch, wherein the switch is thrown to a first position when an actuator is moved to a first position and is returned to its initial position when the actuating plunger moves to a second position different from the first position. Still more specifically, the present invention relates to adjustment of the set and return points, including simplified control of the lost motion aspect of the invention. 

Description of the Prior ArtOn refrigeration, air conditioning and ice generation equipment, a variety of pressure controls have been used in the past to cycle the compressor, cycle the condenser fan, prevent system overload, etc. In the past, these controls have generally fallen into two categories. In the first, highly accurate controls which had easily accessible trip points and reset points were used and were adapted to various applications and field conditions. These controls normally relied on extensive lever mechanisms and multiple springs to make adjustments. These components made them unsuitable for mounting directly to the equipment due to the high vibration levels usually associated with such equipment. This necessitated mounting the control remotely from the equipment and connecting the control with a hose or capillary. Breakage or leakage in the hose or capillary would result in a loss of refrigerant charge.The second type of prior art controls have been direct mount controls, which were usually constructed in a rugged manner to take the compressor vibration. However, these controls were usually less accurate than the type described above. The majority of the direct mount controls have trip points and reset points which are factory set and are not field adjustable. Even on those controls where field adjustment is possible, it has been very difficult and usually requires that the control be removed from the equipment to make the adjustment.Also, in the latter case, it has been a typical practice to adjust the differential by varying the contact gap, which in turn severely limits the load which the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A pressure switch comprising: a body having an opening communicating with the pressure to be sensed; a blade within the body being normally biased to a first position; an actuator within the body for moving the blade from its first to a second position when the sensed pressure exceeds a first preselected level; means for changing the first preselected level; means for returning the blade to its first position from the second position when the sensed pressure falls below a second preset level; a cam surface on the actuator, the returning means contacting the cam surface; and means for moving the cam surface for changing the second preselected level.
2. The switch of Claim 1 wherein the returning means comprises a spring, the blade includes a hole and the return spring includes a point passing through the hole and contacting the cam surface.
3. The switch of Claim 1 wherein the actuator is generally circular, disk-shaped and the cam surface is an arcuate cam surface on a face of the actuator and wherein the switch includes means for rotating the actuator to change the position of the cam surface.
4. The switch of Claim 1 further comprising an indicator scale within the body and viewable from the exterior thereof. 


 5. The switch of Claim 1 further including a main spring acting on the actuator and wherein the means for charging the first preselected level comprises means for changing the pressure of the main spring against the actuator.
6. The switch of Claim 1 wherein the body further includes a diaphragm adjacent the opening, a plunger contacting the diaphragm and movable in response to changes in the sensed pressure, the plunger also contacting the actuator and a main spring biasing the actuator away from the blade.
7. The switch of Claim 1 further comprising set screws for changing each of the first and second preselected levels.
8. The switch of Claim 1 wherein the returning means comprises an elongate element extending through the blade and having an abutment thereon, the element contacting the actuator on the opposite side of the blade from the abutment, whereby varying amounts of lost motion are provided in the switch depending on the position of the cam surface with respect to the element.
9. The switch of Claim 1 further including a pair of contacts on the blade and a terminal pair arranged with respect to the contacts so that one contact abuts one terminal when the blade is in its first position and the other contact abuts the second terminal when the blade is in its second position. 


 10. A pressure switch having a cylindrical housing and an opening to the pressure to be sensed, a resilient diaphragm adjacent the opening, an actuator movable in response to the sensed pressure, an elongate switch blade with a first end normally biased to a first position, the first end having contacts on opposed sides, the blade being movable to a second position when the actuator moves in response to a sensed pressure above a first predetermined level, terminals for contacting one of the blade contacts when the blade is in each of its first and second positions, and a main spring in the body, the switch further comprising: means for varying the pressure of the main spring against the diaphragm; a blade return spring having a sliding portion passing through the blade and biased for contacting the actuator, and an abutment on the portion; cam means on the actuator for receiving an end of the portion of the blade return spring and for varying the penetration of the portion and the abutment dependent upon the position of the cam surface; and means for moving the cam surface to adjust the relationship of the portion end along the cam surface.
11. The switch of Claim 10 wherein the actuator is a generally cylindrical disk adapted to be rotated about an axis which is coaxial with the axis of the housing, the actuator including the cam surface arranged in an arc on a face thereof and the moving means includes means for rotating the disk.
12. The switch of Claim 10 further including a set screw with a threaded portion arranged to interact with a nut slidingly contained within the housing, the nut contacting the main spring. 


 13. The switch of Claim 10 wherein the actuator also includes an indicator point which rotates when the actuator is rotated.
14. A differential pressure switch comprising a housing having a scale mounted therein which is viewable from the outside of the housing, the switch being of the type which includes a blade adapted to snap from a first position to a second position when a first preselected pressure is sensed by the switch and which is adapted to return to its first position when the sensed pressure falls below a second predetermined pressure, the switch further comprising: means for changing the first preselected level and indicating the changed position on the scale; and means for changing the second preselected level and indicating the changed position thereof on the scale, the means for changing the first and second levels operating independently of one another. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
