<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Automatic packaging machine.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B906	B65B906	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B9	B65B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The supporting structure of the machine (1) comprises a 
generally flat, load-bearing frame (20) which extends 

transverse the direction of advance of the articles (A) 
being packaged. At least two operative units (4, 8) of 

the machine are mounted on the frame (20) in a generally 
bracket-like configuration on opposite sides of the frame 

(20) itself. Preferred application is to continuous-flow 
horizontal packaging machines, 

where the two operative units are constituted by a unit (4) for forming 
the longitudinal closure and a unit (8) for forming the transverse 

closure of the tubular wrapping. 
 
The transverse closure unit (8) may be height adjustable. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAVANNA SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAVANNA S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANCIONI RENZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRANCIONI, RENZO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to automatic packaging 
machines including at least two operative units which can 
act in succession on articles being packaged which 
advance in a direction in which the at least two units 
are aligned. Packaging machines of the type specified above are well 
known in the art as is shown, for example, by U.S. 
Patents US-A-4,761,937, US-A-4,862,673, US-A-4,914,889, 
US-A-4,955,184 and US-A-5,067,307, all assigned to the 
assignee of the present application. More specifically, the documents listed above relate to 
horizontal packaging (wrapping) machines which operate 
continuously, or substantially continuously, of the type 
generally called "flow-pack" or "form-fill-seal" machines 
(in brief FFS). Usually, packaging machines of this type include, in 
cascade with each other and possibly with the 
interposition of auxiliary operative units : 
an input conveyor on which an ordered, regular flow 
of articles to be packaged is advanced,  a longitudinal closure unit in which a sheet of 
wrapping paper which unwinds from a roll located in the  
 
upper part of the machine is closed on itself by the 
bringing together of the two outer edge portions of the 
sheet; these outer edge portions are then sealed together 
to form a continuous tubular wrapper into which the 
articles being packaged are inserted in order, and  a transverse closure unit comprising, for example, 
one or more groups of counter-rotating jaws which squeeze 
the portions of the continuous tubular wrapper left free 
between successive articles or groups of articles, and 
which seal these regions of the wrapper brought into 
contact with each other as a result of the squeezing and 
then effect the longitudinal cutting of the continuous 
tubular wrapper in these regions so as to form the 
individual packages. This example is, of course, one of the many possible 
configurations of a machine of the type specified above. 
As already stated, the operative units described above 
may have associated units or auxiliary operative elements 
which carry out different functions (for example: packing 
together, accumulating, aligning and orienting of the 
articles treated, prior discarding of articles with 
irregular positions or dimensions, discarding of wrappers 
which contain a different number of articles from that 
intended, discarding of wrappers which remain 
accidentally connected together even after the separating 
action, etc).  In each case, as will become clear from the description 
below, the specific
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An automatic packaging machine (1) including at 
least two operative units (4, 8) which can act in 

succession on articles (A) being packaged which advance 
in the direction in which the at least two units (4, 8) 

are aligned, characterised in that it includes a 
generally flat, load-bearing frame (20) which extends 

transverse the direction of alignment and in that the at 
least two operative units (2, 8) are mounted so as to be 

supported by the frame (20) on respective opposite sides 
of the frame (20) itself. 
A machine according to Claim 1, characterised in 
that the frame (20) has at least one aperture (22) which, 

in use, can be traversed by the articles (A) being 
packaged. 
A machine according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, 
characterised in that the load-bearing frame (20) is in 

the form of a plate. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that each of the at least two 

operative units (4, 8) is mounted on the frame (20) in a 
generally symmetrical position relative to a vertical 

median plane through the machine (1) itself. 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the frame (20) has an 

associated, generally horizontal leg (52) for supporting 
 

it on the floor. 
A machine according to Claim 5, characterised in 
that the leg (52) extends generally perpendicular to the 

frame (20) in a generally L-shaped configuration (in plan 
as observed from above). 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that the at least two operative 

units (4, 8) have respective associated motor drives (12) 
and in that the motor drives are also supported by the 

frame (20). 
A machine according to Claim 5 and Claim 7, characterised 
in that it includes an electronic control unit (15) for 

controlling the motor drives and in that the control unit 
(15) is mounted in a position generally overlying the leg 

(52). 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that at least one (8) of the 

operative units is mounted on the frame (20) so as to be 
able to slide vertically in order to effect a selective 

adjustment. 
A machine according to Claim 9, characterised in 
that further drive means (36 to 46) are interposed 

between the frame (20) and the at least one operative 
unit (8), the operation of which drives the sliding 

movement of the at least one operative unit (8) relative 
to the frame (20). 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
 

claims, characterised in that the machine is a 
continuous-flow horizontal packaging machine in which the 

articles (A) are inserted in a tubular wrapping having a 
longitudinal closure which is subsequently closed in a 

transverse direction and in that the at least two 
operative units are constituted respectively by a unit 

(2) for forming the longitudinal closure and a unit (8) 
for forming the transverse closure of the tubular 

wrapping. 
A machine according to Claim 9 and Claim 11, 
characterised in that the at least one operative unit (8) 

is mounted on the frame (20) so as to be able to slide 
and is constituted by the transverse closure unit (8) 

whereby the height of the region in which the transverse 
closure unit (8) operates may be adjusted selectively 

relative to the path of advance of the articles (A). 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that at least one further 

operative unit (11) is mounted on the load-bearing frame 
(20) in a generally bracket-like arrangement. 
A machine according to Claim 11 and Claim 13, 
characterised in that the at least one further operative 

unit is constituted by a motor-driven conveyor located 
downstream of the transverse closure unit (8). 
A machine according to any one of the preceding 
claims, characterised in that at least one (2) of the two 

operative units (2, 8) is associated in a supporting 
 

relationship and in a generally balanced configuration 
with at least one respective further operative unit (2). 
A machine according to Claim 11 and Claim 15, 
characterised in that the respective further operative 

unit is constituted by a conveyor (2) for feeding the 
articles (A) to the unit (4) for forming the longitudinal 

closure (2). 
A machine according to Claim 11, characterised in 
that it includes a supply unit (6) for supplying the unit 

(4) for forming the longitudinal closure (2) with sheet 
material (F) for forming the tubular wrapper and in that 

the supply unit (6) has an associated support structure 
connected to the frame (20). 
A machine according to any one of claims 5 or 6 and 
claim 17, characterised in that the support structure is 

connected to the leg (52). 
A machine according to claim 18, characterised in 
that the support structure includes a foot element (56) 

connected to the leg (52). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
