<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629296</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF DETERMINING THE HUMIDITY AND TEMPERATURE OF ATMOSPHERIC AIR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01J345	G01J3453	G01J500	G01J500	G01J560	G01J560	G01N2100	G01N2100	G01W100	G01W102	G01W106	G01W110	G01W110	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01J	G01N	G01N	G01W	G01W	G01W	G01W	G01W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01J3	G01J3	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01J5	G01N21	G01N21	G01W1	G01W1	G01W1	G01W1	G01W1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AAI CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AAI CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVEN-TOV ORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
EVEN-TOV ORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OP DETERMINING THE HUMIDITY AND TEMPERATURE OF ATMOSPHERIC AIRThe present invention relates to a method of determining the humidity and temperature of atmospheric air at different distances from a point of observation along elevations above ground level by passive IR spectrometry. More particularly, the invention relates to such determinations over large volumes of atmosphere with resolution and accuracy sufficient for weather analysis, weather prediction, and mapping of local weather instabilities and disturbances and the like. For example, forest fires, areas of pollution, and unstable weather conditions, particularly such unstable weather conditions which can form hazards, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wind shears, and the like, may be determined.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe art has long sought to determine atmospheric disturbances which might adversely affect persons and property in or along the path of that disturbance. For example, the U. S. Forest Service has attempted to determine disturbances in the atmosphere which indicate the presence of a forest fire at some distant location. The U. S. Weather Service has attempted to detect the presence and movement of discontinuities in the atmosphere which indicate the presence or the likelihood of some hazardous condition, such as heavy rainfalls, hurricanes, tornadoes and the like. The U. S. Federal Aeronautics Administration has attempted to detect the presence or likelihood of discontinuities in the atmosphere in and around airports, which discontinuities indicate the presence or 

likelihood of weather conditions hazardous to aircraft landing or taking off from an airport, such as squall lines, wind shears and the like.A number of different approaches for detection of such disturbances has been proposed in the art, but each of the approaches has its own advantages and disadvantages. For example, satellite pictures are useful in determining such hazards, but those pictures show only developed hazards and cannot show the likelihood of those hazards developing, especially in connection with transitory or very localized disturbances, such as tornadoes. Ground-observed or balloon-observed disturbances are detected, but in order to accurately detect and map the progress of such disturbances, a great number of such observations are required, and in many locations, such number of observations is simply not practical.These difficulties in detecting such disturbances are particularly disadvantageous where the disturbances present imminent danger to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1. A method of determining the humidity and temperature of atmospheric air at selected distances along a field of view by passive IR spectrometry, comprising:
(1) providing an IR spectrometer;
(2) measuring the values of a plurality of IR power densities received by the spectrometer along the field of view at a plurality of discrete, selected IR wavelengths;
(3) providing a set of equations which equate the measured IR power density to functions of temperature and humidity at the selected wavelengths; and (4) calculating from the set of equations the temperature and humidity of the atmospheric air along the field of view at selected range segments along the field of view.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least 5 discrete wavelengths are used to provide- respective values of the power density.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein at least 10 discrete wavelengths are used.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein at least 20 discrete wavelengths are used.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the calculation is made with at least one set of a
'
 plurality of simultaneous equations, and the set of equations is solved by iteration. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the equations are non-linear equations which provide IR power density as a function of temperature and humidity at a selected wavelength.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the set of equations is solved by iteration of the equations using 


approximated values of temperature and humidity along the field of view.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the temperature and humidity are calculated for a plurality of fields of view with the approximated values for a succeeding field of view being values of temperature and humidity determined for an adjacent preceding field of view.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein some of the plurality of fields of view are disposed in selected azimuths and some in selected elevations such that a combined display of the calculated values provides at least a two-dimensional display thereof.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the spectrometer is caused to repetitively scan the selective azimuths and elevations such that real time weather mapping at selected distances from the spectrometer is provided in a three-dimensional display.
11. A method of determining the humidity and temperature of atmospheric air at selected distances along a field of view by passive IR spectrometry, comprising:
(1) providing an IR spectrometer;
(2) measuring the values of temperature and humidity of air at about ground level at each of a series of positions spaced along a generally radial path extending from near the spectrometer;
(3) directing the spectrometer to a reference field of view extending near said path; (4) measuring the values of IR power density received by the spectrometer along the reference field of view at a plurality of discrete, selected wavelengths;
(5) providing a set of equations which equate the measured IR power density to functions of 


 temperature and humidity at the selected wavelengths; and
(6) calculating from the set of equations the temperature and humidity of the atmospheric air along the reference field of view at selected range segments using the values of temperature and humidity measured along said path as first approximations for solution of the set of equations.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein at least 5 discrete wavelengths are used to provide respective values of the power density.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein at least 10 discrete wavelengths are used.
14. The method of claim 12 wherein at least 20 discrete wavelengths are used.
15. The method of claim 11 wherein the temperature and humidity are calculated for a plurality of fields of view and the set of equations for each field of view is solved using the values of temperature and humidity calculated for an adjacent preceding field of view as first approximations.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein some of the plurality of fields of view are disposed in selected azimuths and some in selected elevations such that a - combined display of calculated values provides at least a two-dimensional display thereof.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the spectrometer is caused to repetitively scan selected azimuths and elevations such that real time weather mapping at selected distances from the spectrometer is provided in a three-dimensional display.
1'8. The method of claim 11 wherein the discrete wavelengths are provided by passing the IR radiation received from each field of view through a Fourier Transform IR spectrometer. 


 19. The method of claim 11 wherein
'
 the equations are non-linear equations.
20. The method of claim 11 wherein the set of equations is solved to an accuracy of convergency such that the solution of each equation provides a value within 15% of the values of the solutions of all other equations in the set.
21. The method of claim 11 wherein the length of the path is at least 5 km. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the length of the path is at least 10 km.
23. The method of claim 15 wherein the power density for each field of view is received by scanning a predetermined angle of azimuth and predetermined angle of elevation.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the scanning is up to 360° in azimuth and up to 45° in elevation.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the scanning is temporarily locked into an angle-of azimuth of less than 360° and an angle of elevation less than 45° for temporary sector scanning of a selected span of azimuth and elevation.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein the azimuth and elevation of said sector scanning are determined by selected limits .of humidity and temperature.
27. The method of claim 23 wherein when one preceding scan of 360° azimuth is completed, a succeeding scan of 360° azimuth is completed at a different elevation from the preceding scan.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein said different elevation is no more than about 5°.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein said different elevation is no more than about 3°. 


 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said different elevation is about 1°.
31. The method of claim 23 wherein the said scanning is continuously conducted until a significant temperature or humidity discontinuity is detected within a determinable angle of azimuth and angle of elevation and scanning is thereafter temporarily conducted within that determinable angle of azimuth and angle of elevation. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 06 July 1993 (06.07.93); original claims 1,2,3,5,7-9,10,11 and 17 amended; other claims unchanged '(5 pages)
1. A method of determining the humidity and temperature of atmospheric air at selected distances along a field of view in atmospheric air by passive IR spectrometry, comprising:
(1) providing an IR spectrometer disposed in atmospheric air;
(2) measuring the values of a plurality of IR power densities received by the spectrometer along a single field of view at a plurality of at least five discrete, selected IR wavelengths;
(3) providing a set of equations which equate the measured IR power density to functions of temperature and humidity at the selected wavelengths; and
(4) calculating from the set of equations the temperature and humidity of the atmospheric air along the field of view at selected range segments along the field of view using approximated values of temperature and humidity along the field of view. -
2. The method of claim 1 wherein at
"'
 least 5 discrete wavelengths are used to provide respective values of the power density along each field of view.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein at least 10 discrete wavelengths are used.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein at least 20 discrete wavelengths are used.
•
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the set of equations is a set of a plurality of simultaneous equations, and the set of equations is solved by iteration.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the equations are non-linear equations which provide IR power density as a function of temperature and humidity at a selected wavelength. 


 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the set of equations is solved for each field of view by iteration of the equations using approximated values of temperature and humidity along the field of view. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the temperature and humidity are calculated for a plurality of fields of view and the approximated values for a succeeding field of view are values of temperature and humidity.determined for an adjacent preceding field of 
'
 view.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein some of the plurality of fields of view are disposed in selected azimuths and some in selected elevations and the calculated values are displayed in at least two dimensions.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the spectrometer is caused to repetitively scan 
•
 the selective azimuths and elevations such that real time weather mapping at said selected distances from the spectrometer is provided and the calculated values are displayed in three dimensions.
11. A method of determining the humidity and temperature of atmospheric air at selected distances along a field of view in atmospheric air by passive IR spectrometry, comprising:
(1) providing an IR spectrometer disposed in atmospheric air;
(2) measuring the values of temperature and humidity of air at about ground level at each of a series of positions spaced along a generally radial path extending from near the spectrometer;
(3) directing the spectrometer to a reference field of view extending near said path;
(4) measuring the values of IR power density received by the spectrometer along the reference field 


 of view at a plurality of discrete, selected wavelengths;
(5) providing a set of equations which equate the measured IR power density to functions of
5 temperature and humidity at the selected wavelengths; and
(6) calculating from the set of equations the temperature and humidity of the atmospheric air along the reference field of view at selected range segments
10 
'
 using the values of temperature and humidity measured along said path as first approximations for solution of the set of equations.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein at least 5 discrete wavelengths are used to provide respective
15 values of the power density.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein at least 10 discrete wavelengths are used.
14. The method of claim 12 wherein at least 20 discrete wavelengths are used.
20 15. The method of claim 
^
 11 wherein the temperature and humidity are calculated for a plurality of fields of view and the set of equations for each field of view is solved using the values of temperature and humidity calculated for an adjacent preceding field
25 of view as first approximations.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein some of the plurality of fields of view are disposed in selected azimuths and some in selected elevations such that a combined display of calculated values provides at least
^30 a two-dimensional display thereof.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the spectrometer is caused to repetitively scan selected azimuths and elevations such that real time weather mapping at said selected distances from the spectrometer
35 is provided in a three-dimensional display. 


 18. The method 
•
 of claim 11 wherein the discrete wavelengths are provided by passing the IR radiation received from each field of view through a Fourier Transform IR spectrometer. 19. The method of claim 11 wherein the equations are non-linear equations.
20. The method of claim 11 wherein the set of equations is solved to an accuracy of convergency such that the solution of each equation provides a value within 15% of the values of the solutions of all other equations in the set.
21. The method of claim 11 wherein the length of the path is at least 5 km.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the length of the path is at least 10 km.
23. The method of claim 15 wherein the power density for each field of view is received by scanning a predetermined angle of azimuth and predetermined angle of elevation. 24. The method of claim 
^
 23 wherein the scanning is up to 360° in azimuth and up to 45° in elevation.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein the scanning is temporarily locked into an angle of azimuth of less than 360° and an angle of elevation less than 45° for temporary sector scanning of a selected span of azimuth and elevation.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein the azimuth and elevation of said sector scanning are determined by selected limits of humidity and temperature.
27. The method of claim 23 wherein when one preceding scan of 360° azimuth is completed, a succeeding scan of 360° azimuth is completed at a different elevation from the preceding scan. 


 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said different elevation is no more than about 5°.
29. The method of claim 28 wherein said different elevation is no more than about 3° . 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said different elevation is about 1° .
31. The method of claim 23 wherein the said scanning is continuously conducted until a significant temperature or humidity discontinuity is detected within a determinable angle of azimuth and angle of elevation and scanning is thereafter temporarily conducted within that determinable angle of azimuth and angle of elevation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
