<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633596</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for crackoff and neck sealing of cathode ray tube funnels
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03B2300	H01J926	H01J952	H01J950	H01J926	C03B3300	C03B23217	H01J900	C03B33095	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03B	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	C03B	C03B	H01J	C03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03B23	H01J9	H01J9	H01J9	H01J9	C03B33	C03B23	H01J9	C03B33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to a method and apparatus for 
cracking off glass attached to, or comprising a portion of, 

the constricted end (neck) of the glass funnel component of 
a glass cathode ray tube and thereafter sealing a 

replacement glass neck component to the funnel component. 
A gauge and sensor mechanism are used to produce a signal 

representative of the location of a defined plane through 
the funnel. This signal is sent to a central processing 

unit which controls the apparatus so that the cracking off 
of the old neck and subsequent sealing of the new neck take 

place at that defined plane. In this way, the individual 
method steps are integrated into an automated process. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CORNING INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUIR LANCE PATRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUIR, LANCE PATRICK
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and 
apparatus used for assembling or repairing cathode ray 
tubes, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for 
cracking old necks off and sealing new necks onto funnels 
of cathode ray tubes. During the manufacture of cathode ray tubes (CRTs), 
after a face-plate has been sealed to the outspread end of 
the funnel and the neck has been sealed to the constricted 
end of the funnel to form a complete envelope, the 
electronic gun is inserted into the neck and sealed 
thereto. This operation frequently leads to rejects 
resulting from such defects as cracking, chipping, 
misalignment, and poor seals. Because of the relatively 
high costs of envelopes, the CRT manufacturer, in an effort 
to reduce costs, will commonly remove the seal between the 
faceplate and the funnel, crack off the portion of the neck 
having the electronic assembly therewithin, and either 
repair the funnel in-house or return the funnel with the 
remainder of the attached neck to the glass component 
manufacturer to be repaired. The repair activity removes 
the old neck and attaches the seals a new replacement neck  
 
thereon, which must be done with great precision, 
especially with straight ended necks, where the electronic 
gun is sealed near the distal end, and often involving the 
repair of a random sequence of tubes of various sizes. US-A-3746419 describes an apparatus for repairing 
cathode ray tubes which comprises a frame and a support 
means attached to the frame for supporting a glass funnel. 
More particularly, US-A-3746419 describes an apparatus 
according to the prior art portion of claim 8 and 
method for repairing a cathode ray tube by removing a neck 
portion and electron gun, and sealing in a replacement. 
The tube is supported in a vacuum pump evacuated chamber 
during the operation. Control means extending through an 
end wall of the vacuum chamber are employed to manually 
remove the cutoff neck portion, and position and seal the 
replacement neck in place. To meet the stringent yoke-to-end-of-neck dimensions 
required by manufacturers, it is critically important that, 
before attaching the necks, an extremely precise crackoff 
plane be defined. Because of the random shape and size 
encountered from funnel to funnel, it is difficult to 
consistently obtain such a precise crackoff plane location. 
In addition, after the crackoff procedure, the replacement 
neck must be sealed to the funnel at the plane of glass 
crackoff while still complying with these critical
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for repairing and/or assembling cathode ray 
tubes, including the steps of cracking off a portion of the 

neck (22) of a defective glass funnel component (18) of a 
glass cathode ray tube at a specifically defined plane, and 

attaching a replacement neck component (32) to said funnel 
component comprising the steps of: 


determining the location of a reference plane; 
supplying information received from said determining 
step to a system controller; 
cracking off the constricted end of said glass from 
said funnel component at a crackoff plane; and 
controlling said cracking off step by the system 
controller using information received from said determining 

step. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said reference plane is 
the same as said crackoff plane, or said reference plane is 

utilized to determine said crackoff plane. 
The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said 
determining step comprises: 


contacting said funnel component (18) with a gauge 
(14); and 
sensing movement of said gauge with a sensor (43), 
said sensor producing a signal when said movement occurs; 
and said system controller uses said signal to 
determine the location of said crackoff plane. 
The method of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said cracking 
off step comprises scoring said funnel (18) at said 

crackoff plane, and optionally applying a heat source (58) 
at said crackoff plane of said funnel. 
The method of any preceding claim, further comprising: 

attaching said replacement neck component (32) to said  
 

glass funnel component (18) at said defined plane; 
said step being controlled by said computer control 
system using information from the determination of the 

location of said reference plane. 
The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein said 
determining step comprises utilizing an electronic sensor 

(43), a gauge (14), and a computer cooperatively. 
The method of claim 1, wherein said determining step 
comprises gauging said funnel component (18) to determine 

the location of said reference plane, optionally by 
utilization of a laser. 
An apparatus (8) for carrying out the method of any 
one of claims 1-7, comprising: 


a frame (9) and a support means (16) attached to said 
frame for supporting a glass funnel component (18) and 
crackoff means (50, 58) for cracking off said funnel 
at a defined plane; 
 
   characterized by: 


a gauging means (14) attached to said frame (9) for 
determining a reference location on said funnel component 

(18), at least one of said gauging means (14) or said 
support means (16) being movable toward the other, said 

gauging means providing a signal representative of said 
location; and 
control means for receiving said signal and using said 
signal to control movement of at least one moving part on 

said apparatus. 
An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the gauging 
means (14) includes a sensor (43) for providing a signal, 

and the control means is a system controller. 
The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising at least 
one drive assembly (30, 36) attached to said frame (9) for  

 
raising or lowering at least one of said gauge (14) and 

said support means (16), and said system controller 
controls said drive assembly. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said system 
controller includes a stored program responsive to said 

signal. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said system 
controller determines the location of a defined plane 

through said funnel at which a replacement neck (32) will 
be attached. 
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9, further comprising a 
chuck (34) attached to said frame (9) for supporting a 

glass neck component (32), at least one of said support means 
(16) and said chuck (34) being movable along a path towards 

and away from the other. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said sensor (43) 
comprises a low voltage displacement sensor. 
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9, wherein said control 
means uses said signal to locate said defined plane. 
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9, wherein said gauging 
means (14) comprises a laser. 
The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said crackoff means 
(50, 58) comprises scoring means (51) for scoring said 

funnel component (18) at said defined plane. 
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9, further comprising: 

a chuck (34) attached to said frame (9) for supporting 
a replacement glass neck component (22), at least one of 

said support means (16) and said chuck (34) being movable along 
a path towards and away from the other, and/or  

 
at least one burner means (58) attached to said frame 
(9) for cracking off the neck end (22) of said funnel 

component (18) at said defined plane after said scoring, 
and sealing together said replacement glass neck component 

(32) and said glass funnel component (18) at said defined 
plane after crackoff of the neck portion (22) of said 

funnel. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
