<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633857</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FREESTANDING PLASTIC CONTAINER FOR PRESSURIZED FLUIDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D102	B65D102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D1	B65D1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A freestanding container base having an improved combination of properties in regard to creep resistance, stress crack resistance, impact strength, weight, standing stability and formability. The container base (18) has a substantially hemispherical bottom wall (21) which includes four radiating ribs (26), and four legs (22) extending downwardkly from the bottom wall between the ribs and each of which terminates in a foot (24). Each rib has a rib wall forming part of the substantially hemispherical bottom wall and having an angular extent of from about 15 DEG  to about 30 DEG  for enhanced strength, with the leg occupying the remaining 75 DEG  to 60 DEG angular extent for enhanced formability. The outer edge and angular extent of the foot are predetermined for enhanced stability and ease of formability. Preferably, the creep resistance is further enhanced by straightening the upper rib portion or providing an enlarged-diameter truncated bottom wall. The base is particularly suited for a blown PET carbonated beverage bottle.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONTINENTAL PET TECHNOLOGIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CONTINENTAL PET TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLETTE WAYNE N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISHNAKUMAR SUPPAYAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COLLETTE, WAYNE, N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRISHNAKUMAR, SUPPAYAN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to freestanding 
containers, and more particularly to a freestanding 
carbonated beverage bottle having a footed base 
which provides an improved balance of properties in 
regard to creep resistance, stress crack resistance, 
impact strength, weight, standing stability and 
formability. Over the last twenty years, the container 
industry for carbonated soft drinks has converted 
almost in its entirety from glass bottles to 
lightweight plastic bottles. The evolution of these 
plastic bottles during that time period has been 
significant, and a review thereof highlights the 
critical balance of properties required for 
producing a commercially successful bottle today. The 1960's initiated an era of 
diversification for metal and glass container 
suppliers into the relatively new, but promising 
flexible and semi-rigid plastic container market. 
Through development and/or acquisition, companies 
like Continental Can Company, Owens Illinois, and 
Sewell developed extrusion blow molding operations 
to produce high density polyethylene, polypropylene 
and polyvinyl chloride containers for the growing 
consumer food and household chemical markets.  
 At this time enormous growth was occurring 
in the carbonated soft drink (CSD) industry and was 
being met exclusively by glass (in larger container 
sizes) and metal (in smaller container sizes) 
suppliers because the commercially-available 
polymers of the period did not offer the critical 
balance of properties required for carbonated 
beverages. As such, chemical companies, equipment 
suppliers and container manufacturers initiated 
plastic CSD development programs in the late 1960's 
and identified the following basic criteria as 
necessary elements in large (i.e., 1, 2 and 3 liter) 
plastic containers for the soft drink market: 
glasslike clarity adequate CO2 barrier retention resistance to volume expansion (i.e., 
creep) under pressure no adverse influence on product taste 
and/or additive migration into the 
soft drink significantly improved impact shatter 
resistance vs. glass overall economics to permit delivered 
selling prices equal to or preferably 
lower than glass. Two polymer material candidates were 
developed in the early 1970's. Monsanto focused on 
polyacrylonitrile/styrene copolymer (ANS) containers 
produced via a two-stage parison extrusion blow and 
subsequent reheat stretch blow mold process. DuPont 
focused on polyethylene terephthalate (PET) 
containers produced via a two-stage preform 
injection molding and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A freestanding container (10) having an 
improved combination of strength, stability and 

formability, the container being a hollow molded 
plastic body including a substantially cylindrical 

sidewall (16) defined by a vertical centerline and 
having a radius R, and an integral base, the base 

(18) including a bottom wall (21) with a plurality 
of radial ribs (26), and legs (22) extending 

downwardly from the bottom wall between the ribs and 
each terminating in a lowermost supporting foot 

(24), the improvement comprising: 

the bottom wall (21) being a continuous 
smooth surface free of stress concentrations and 

being substantially hemispherical with four 
radial ribs (26) symmetrically positioned about 

the vertical centerline, each rib having a rib 
wall (26) which is part of the substantially 

hemispherical bottom wall (21) and which rib 
wall has an average angular extent of from about 

15° to about 30°; 
each leg (22) occupying the remaining 
angular extent between each rib wall of from 

about 75° to about 60°; 
each foot (24) having an outer edge 
radially disposed a distance L
F
 from the 
vertical center line and an angular extent D
F
 
of from about 12° to about 40°;  

 
each leg (22) having an inner leg wall (34) 
extending between an innermost radial edge of
 
the foot and a central portion of the bottom 

wall, the inner leg wall being a continuous and 
substantially smooth surface which is at an 

acute angle to a common plane on which the feet 
reside; and 
each leg having an outer leg wall (35) 
extending between the outer edge of the foot and 

the sidewall, and including a radiused portion 
of radius R
G
 adjacent the outer edge of the 
foot, and wherein the radius R
G
 intersects the 
foot at the distance L
F
 from the vertical 
centerline, wherein L
F
 is of from about 0.60R 
to about 0.80R and R
G
 is of from about 0.10R 
to about 0.20R. 
The container of claim 1, wherein the 
average angular extent of each rib wall (26) is from 

about 20° to about 25°. 
The container of any one of claims 1 and 2, 
wherein the acute angle is of from about 10° to 

about 60°. 
The container of claim 3, wherein the acute 
angle is of from about 15° to about 30°.  

 
The container of any one of claims 1 and 2, 
wherein the substantially hemispherical bottom wall 

(21) has a lowermost central dome point (D) disposed 
at a distance H
D
 above a common plane on which the 
feet reside and where H
D
 is of from about 0.08R to 
about 0.20R. 
The container of any one of claims 1, 2 and 
5, wherein each foot (24) has a radial width W
F
 
between an amount sufficient to establish line 

contact and up to about 0.35R. 
The container of any one of claims 1, 2, 5 
and 6, wherein D
F
 is from about 18° to about 33°. 
The container of claim 1, wherein the 
container (10) is a carbonated beverage container. 
The container of any one of claims 1 and 2, 
wherein the container body is made of a biaxially-oriented 

plastic. 
The container of claim 9, wherein the 
plastic is selected from the group consisting of 

polyester, and acrylonitrile.  
 
The container of claim 10, wherein the 
plastic is polyester. 
The container of claim 11, wherein the 
plastic is a homopolymer or copolymer of 

polyethylene terephthalate. 
The container of claim 12, wherein the 
container body has a two-liter volume and weighs no 

more than about 54 grams. 
The container of claim 1, therein the rib 
wall (26) in radial cross section is a substantially 

straight line. 
The container of claim 14, wherein the rib 
wall (26) in radial cross section is slightly bowed 

outwardly. 
The container of claim 14, wherein the rib 
wall (26) in radial cross section is slightly bowed 

inwardly. 
The container of any one of claims 1 and 2, 
wherein the substantially hemispherical bottom wall 

(21) provides a reduced base height compared to a 
pure hemispherical bottom wall.  

 
The container of claim 17, wherein the 
substantially hemispherical bottom wall (21) 

includes a lower pure hemispherical portion (95) and 
an upper substantially straight line portion (96) in 

vertical cross section. 
The container of claim 18, wherein the 
cylindrical sidewall (16) has a radius R of no 

greater than about 1.5 inches, and the substantially 
straight line portion (96) begins at an angle  of 

about 35° to about 70° from the vertical centerline. 
The container of claim 18, wherein the 
cylindrical sidewall (16) has a radius R of at least 

about 1.5 inches, and the substantially straight 
line portion (96) begins at an angle  of about 

50° to about 70° from the vertical centerline. 
The container of claim 18 adapted for 
holding a carbonated beverage which is carbonated to 

at least 4 atm, and wherein the substantially 
straight line portion (96) begins at an angle  of 

least abort 70° from the vertical centerline. 
The container of claim 1, wherein the 
substantially hemispherical bottom wall (21) is a 

truncated hemisphere (102) having a radius KR where 
K 
>
 1, in order to reduce the height of the base 
compared to a purely hemispherical bottom wall.  

 
The container of claim 22, wherein R is no 
greater than about 1.5 inches and the truncated 

hemisphere (102) extends from the vertical centerline 
to an angle  of from about 50° to about 80°. 
The container of claim 22, wherein R is at 
least about 1.5 inches and the truncated hemisphere 

(102) extends upwardly from the vertical centerline 
to an angle  of about 65° to about 80°. 
A method of determining a base configuration 
and placement of a plurality of logs (22) in a 

freestanding container base (18) to provide an 
improved combination of strength, stability and 

formability, the container (10) being a hollow molded 
plastic body including a substantially cylindrical 

sidewall (16) defined by a vertical centerline and 
having a radius R, and an integral base, the base 

(18) including a bottom wall (21) with a plurality 
of radial ribs (26), and legs (22) extending 

downwardly from the bottom wall between the ribs and 
each terminating in a lowermost supporting foot 

(24), the method comprising the steps of: 

selecting a substantially hemispherical 
bottom wall (21), the bottom wall being a 

continuous smooth surface free of stress 
concentrations;  

 
selecting four ribs (26) and placing each 
of the four ribs in a separate quadrant of the 

bottom wall to form four symmetrical ribs about 
the vertical centerline, each rib having a rib 

wall (26) which is part of the substantially 
hemispherical bottom wall (21) and which rib 

wall has an average angular extent of from about 
15° to about 30° to provide enhanced strength; 

and 
providing enhanced formality and stability 
by: 


placing a leg (22) between each rib 
wall to occupy the remaining angular extent 

of from about 75° to about 60°; 
selecting a foot (24) having an outer 
edge radially disposed a distance L
F
 from 
the vertical centerline and having an 

angular extent D
F
 of from about 12° to 
about 40°; 
providing each leg (22) with an inner 
leg wall (34) extending between an innermost 

radial edge of the foot and a central 
portion of the bottom wall, the inner leg 

wall being a continuous and substantially 
smooth surface which is at an acute angle 

to a common plane on which the feet reside; 
and  

 
providing each leg (22) with an outer 
leg wall (35) extending between the outer 

edge of the foot and the sidewall, and 
including a radiused portion of radius R
G
 
adjacent the outer edge of the foot, and 

wherein the radius R
G
 intersects the foot 
at the distance L
F
 from the vertical 
centerline, and wherein L
F
 is of from 
about 0.60R to about 0.80R and R
G
 is of 
from about 0.10R to about 0.20R. 
The method of claim 25, further comprising: 

selecting a distance H
D
, of from about 
0.08R to about 0.20R,
 as the distance between a 
lowermost central dome point (D) of the 

substantially hemispherical bottom wall and a 
common plane on which the feet reside. 
The method of claim 25 or 26, 
further comprising: 


selecting a radial foot width W
F
 between 
an amount sufficient to establish line contact and 

up to about 0.35R. 
The method of any one of claims 25 to 27, 
further comprising: 


providing a reduced base height, compared 
to a pure hemispherical base of radius R, by 

providing a lower pure hemispherical portion 
(95) and selecting an upper substantially 

straight line portion (96) extending from an 
angle  of at least about 35° from the 

vertical centerline to the sidewall. 
The method of any one of claims 25 to 28, 
further comprising: 


providing a reduced base height compared 
to a pure hemispherical base of radius R, by 

providing a truncated hemispherical surface 
(102) of radius KR where K 
>
 1. 
The method of any one of claims 25 to 29, 
further comprising: 


selecting a plastic for the container body 
from the group consisting of polyester and 

acrylonitrile. 
The method of claim 30 

wherein the material selected is a 
polyester selected from the group consisting of 

homopolymer and copolymers of polyethylene 
terephthalate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
