<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615117</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Engine torque-detecting method and an apparatus therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L300	G01L300	G01L324	G01M1504	G01M1508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	G01L	G01L	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L3	G01L3	G01L3	G01M15	G01M15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for measuring the instantaneous torque 
of an engine by measuring the change in pressure in the 

combustion chamber at two crank angles. The crank angles are 
chosen to approximate the time when the change in pressure is 

the greatest and when the pressure is the greatest and the 
change in pressure is zero. These crank angles may be either 

determined by measuring the values or by approximately the 
crank angles at which the values will exist. In some 

instances, the torque is measured by summing the change in 
pressures during the time interval and in other methods the 

torque is measured by determining the pressure difference at 
the two crank angles. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMAHA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YAMAHA MOTOR CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANO TAKETOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SANO TAKETOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an engine torque-detecting method 
and apparatus therefor, and more particularly to an improved 
method and apparatus for measuring engine torque during 
running. It is well known to attempt to improve the efficiency and 
exhaust emission control of an internal combustion engine to 
operate it in such a manner as to accurately control the 
amount of fuel supplied to the engine. Also, other engine 
parameters are controlled in order to maintain good 
combustion with the minimum amount of fuel for environmental 
and efficiency reasons. In order to ensure stable running, 
however, it is necessary to ensure that adequate amounts of 
fuel are provided to the engine and that other running 
conditions are accurately controlled. Therefore, there is a 
need to measure the actual engine output so as to ensure 
stability in its operation. For example, it is known that fuel economy and exhaust 
emission control may be achieved by operating the engine on 
a so-called "lean burn" system at least at low and partial 
lows. With lean burn running the fuel-air mixture supplied 
to the combustion chamber is less than stoichiometric. 
However, it is also known that the limits of lean burn may 
be readily determined by measuring the output torque of the 
engine. When the output torque falls below a predetermined 
value it is known that the stability and engine running 
speed will deteriorate significantly. Therefore, it is 
desirable to be able to measure the output torque of the 
engine during its running so as to permit optimization of 
the lean burn running.  Obviously, it is not possible to measure the engine output 
in the form of torque through the use of normal measuring 
apparatus employed for engine testing. That is, the 
torque-measuring devices used to determine the performance 
of the engine cannot be incorporated feasibly in a motor 
vehicle. There have, therefore, been proposed methods for attempting 
to measure the engine output torque during its running by 
measuring some other parameter of the engine. It has been 
found that pressure in the combustion chamber can be 
utilized to project engine output torque and ensure 
stability in running. One method for measuring the engine 
output torque has been to sample the pressure readings at a 
number of output shaft angles during a single cycle of 
operation beginning near the end of the compression stroke 
and ending during the power or expansion stroke and then 
predict the engine torque from these readings. However, the 
necessity of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for measuring the output torque of an internal 
combustion engine during a cycle of operation wherein 

the engine comprises a combustion chamber and an output 
shaft driven by combustion ocurring in the combustion 

chamber said method comprising the steps of measuring the 
pressure in the combustion chamber between two 

output-shaft angles during a cycle of operation and 
computing the torque of the engine from such 

measurements. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the change in 
pressure in the combustion chamber is measured. 
A method as claimed in claims 1 or 2, wherein the torque 
is computed by summing the changes in pressure during the 

time period between the two output shaft angles. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 1 to 3, wherein one of the output shaft angles is 

the angle when the change in pressure is the greatest. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 1 to 4, wherein the other output shaft angle is 

the output shaft angle where the maximum pressure exists 
and the rate of change of pressure is zero. 
A method as set forth in at least one of the preceding 
claims 1 to 5, wherein one of the output shaft angles, 

preferrably the first output shaft angle is computed from 
known data. 
A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the computed 
angle is computed by determining the speed of rotation of 

the output shaft. 
A method as set forth in claim 7, wherein the speed of 
rotation of the output shaft is measured from a sensor 

that provides a single pulse during one rotation of the 
shaft. 
A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the speed is 
calculated by measuring the angular rotational speed of 

the output shaft for less than one complete revolution by 
sensing the change of the pulse and determining the angle 

which the shaft rotates for the pulse to change. 
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the actual 
pressure in the combustion chamber is measured. 
The method as set forth in claim 10, wherein the torque 
is determined by measuring the differences in pressure in 

the combustion chamber at the two output shaft angles. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 1, 10 or 11, wherein the two output shaft angles 

are selected as an angle immediately before top dead 
centre and another angle in the range of 10째 to 20째 after 

top dead centre. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 1 to 12, wherein the selected output shaft angles 

are varied depending upon the speed of the engine. 
A method as set forth in claim 13, wherein the engine is 
a spark ignited engine and the spark timing is also 

varied with engine speed. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 9 to 14 measuring instantaneous engine speed for a 

portion of rotation of an output shaft of an engine 
comprising a shaft driven by the engine and an associated 

fixed component of the engine juxtaposed to a portion of 
the shaft, a permanent magnet fixed to one of the shaft 

and the component and an electrical coil fixed to the 
other of the shaft and the component and adapted to 

output a pulse upon passage of the coil and the permanent 
magnet upon rotation of the shaft for indicating the 

angular position of the shaft, said method comprising the 
further steps of determining the shaft angle when the 

maximum positive pulse is generated by the coil, 
determining the shaft angle when the maximum negative 

pulse is generated by the coil, and measuring the time 
interval between the maximum positive and negative pulses 

to determine instantaneous shaft rotational speed. 
A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the engine is a 
four-cycle engine. 
A method as claimed in claims 15 or 16, wherein the shaft 
comprises a cam shaft driven by the engine crankshaft and 

rotating at one-half crankshaft speed. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 15 to 17, wherein the coil and permanent magnet 

are disposed to provide an indication of top dead centre. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 15 to 18, further comprising determining the 

actual shaft angle from the output pulse and summing the 
output pulses for a given time period to determine 

average shaft rotational speed. 
A method as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 1 to 19, characterised by sensing both absolute 

pressure in an engine combustion chamber and its 
instantaneous change of pressure comprising a 

piezoelectric device adapted to be exposed to combustion 
chamber pressure and outputting a first electrical signal 

indicative of the change in pressure in the combustion 
chamber, and an amplifier circuit receiving the first 

electrical signal and transforming the first electrical 
signal into a second electrical signal indicative of the 

pressure in the combustion chamber, said method 
comprising the further step of selecting which of said 

electrical signals is read to provide either a change in 
pressure signal or an absolute pressure signal. 
A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein the method 
further comprises summing the first electrical signals 

for a given time period to determine engine torque. 
A method as claimed in claims 20 or 21, wherein the time 
period is selected to begin at the time when the change 

in pressure is at a maximum and end the summing when the 
change in pressure is zero. 
An apparatus for measuring the torque of an internal 
combustion engine specifically for performing the method 

according to claim 1, comprising a combustion chamber, an 
output shaft driven by combustion in the combustion 

chamber, means for measuring pressure in said combustion 
chamber from said pressure sensor between two distinct 

output shaft angles during a cycle of operation and 
computing the engine output torque from said pressure 

measurements. 
An apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein the change 
in pressure in the combustion chamber is measured. 
An apparatus as claimed in claims 23 and 24, wherein the 
torque is computed by an integrator that integrates the 

changes in pressure during the time period between the 
two output shaft angles. 
An apparatus as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 23 to 25, wherein one of the output shaft angles 

is the angle when the change in pressure is the greatest. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the other 
output shaft angle is the output shaft angle where the 

maximum pressure exists and the rate of change of 
pressure is zero. 
The apparatus as set forth in claim 27, wherein the speed 
sensor provides a single pulse during one rotation of the 

shaft. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein the speed 
is calculated by measuring the angular rotational speed 

of the shaft for less than one complete revolution by 
sensing the change of the pulse and determing the angle 

which the shaft rotates for the pulse to change. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein the actual 
pressure in the combustion chamber at the two output 

shaft angles. 
The apparatus as claimed in claim 30, wherein the torque 
is determined by measuring the differences in pressure in 

the combustion chamber at the two output shaft angles. 
The apparatus as claimed in at least one of the preceding 
claims 23 to 31, wherein the two output shaft angles are 

selected as an angle immediately before top dead centre 
and another angle in the range of 10째 to 20째 after top 

dead centre. 
The apparatus as set forth in at least one of the 
preceding claims 27 to 32, wherein the selected output 

shaft angles are varied depending upon the speed of the 
engine. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
