<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654917</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
High-density optical wavelength division multiplexing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J1402	G02B642	G02B634	H04J1402	H04J1400	G02B634	G02B642	H04J1400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	G02B	G02B	H04J	H04J	G02B	G02B	H04J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J14	G02B6	G02B6	H04J14	H04J14	G02B6	G02B6	H04J14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for high-density optical wavelength division multiplexing 
(WDM) uses a single optical source (11) providing an optical pulse signal. A 

wavelength splitter (18) separates the optical pulse signal spectrum into a plurality of 
channel signals at different wavelengths such that each channel signal may be 

separately modulated (by 27) or otherwise processed. A wavelength combiner (18) 
then recombines the separately modulated channel signals to provide a high-density 

WDM optical signal (30) particularly well-suited for use in optical circuit 
interconnection and optical communication network applications. The high-density 

single-source multiplexer may also be conveniently adjusted to align channel signal 
wavelengths or to compensate for optical fiber dispersion. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOX WAYNE H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER DAVID A B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUSS MARTIN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNOX, WAYNE H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MILLER, DAVID A.B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NUSS, MARTIN C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to optical wavelength division
multiplexers, and to methods of wavelength division
multiplexing optical signals.The transmission capacity of optical communication
systems is presently limited by the optical source
modulation bandwidth. Although optical fiber has a very
broad transmission bandwidth, on the order of 10 to 20
THz, the system data rates transmitted over the fiber are
presently limited to about 2.5 Gbits/sec for single-channel
communication using typical optical sources such
as wavelength-tuned distributed feedback (DFB) lasers.
Wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) generally increases
optical system capacity by simultaneously transmitting
data on several optical carrier signals at different
wavelengths. With simultaneous data transmission on each
channel, the total system capacity is increased by a
factor equivalent to the number of different wavelength
channels.As used herein, the term "WDM system" will generally
refer to a system capable of simultaneously transmitting
data on several wavelength channels. Other optical
systems may utilize a single optical source to transmit
data over several different wavelength channels at
different times. Since usually only a single channel
signal is transmitted at a given time in these other
systems, the overall system capacity is not increased
relative to that of a single-channel system. Thus,
although certain optical sources may be tuned over a broad
bandwidth, such that a single source could be used to
transmit on several wavelength channels, the modulation 
bandwidth of the source still limits the total transmitted
data rate.Prior art WDM systems, which simultaneously transmit
data signals on several channels, therefore generally
include a separate optical signal source for each channel.
For example, an array of laser diode signal sources may be
used in a WDM system, with each laser diode source
individually modulated by a different data stream. The
modulated optical carrier signal wavelengths provided by
the laser diode array are typically spaced evenly apart
within the bandwidth of the optical fiber. The
individually-modulated channel signals may be combined in
an optical coupler or combiner and then supplied to one
end of an optical fiber transmission path. At the other
end of the fiber, a separate optical receiver is generally
used for each of the wavelength channels. Each receiver
typically includes an input filter tuned to a particular
channel signal carrier wavelength, and a photodetector for
demodulating the carrier
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An optical wavelength division multiplexer including:

an optical source (11) for providing an optical pulse signal
spectrum;
a wavelength splitter (18) for separating said spectrum into a
plurality of channel signals each of said channel signals including a plurality of

operating modes of said optical source;
at least one modulator (26) for modulating a data signal onto at

least one of said channel signals; and
a wavelength combiner (18) for recombining said channel signals
of said optical pulse signal, at least one of said channel signals having said data signal

modulated thereon, to provide a wavelength division multiplexed optical signal, the
multiplexer being 
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT
said optical source is adapted to generate all of the discrete
longitudinal mode frequencies of a broad bandwidth spectrum optical signal, for said

plurality of channel signals, by only controlling a duration of an optical pulse signal
from said optical source and wherein the spacing of the channel signals of said

wavelength splitter is selected based on the pulse rate of said optical source so that each
of said channel signals includes at least one discrete longitudinal mode frequency.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 wherein said wavelength splitter and said
wavelength combiner are diffraction gratings.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 wherein said wavelength splitter and
said wavelength combiner, together include a single diffraction grating.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 wherein said optical source is a pulsed
laser.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 wherein said optical pulse signal has a
pulse duration of less than 1.0 picosecond.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 wherein said optical pulse signal has a
pulse repetition rate of about 100 MHz to 2.5 GHz.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 including an array of modulators, each
modulator being adapted to separately modulate one of said channel signals.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 wherein said modulator is a reflection-mode
optical modulator. 
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 1 including a plurality of optical
modulators for receiving said channel signals from said first wavelength splitter and

modulating each of said channel signals with a data signal from a first circuit (28) to
provide a plurality of modulated channel signals.
A multiplexer as claimed in claim 9 including:

a second wavelength splitter (40) for separating said wave-length
division multiplexed optical signal, after transmission through an optical transmission

medium (34), into said plurality of modulated channel signals; and
a plurality of optical detectors (45) for receiving said modulated channel
signals from said second wavelength splitter and demodulating each of said modulated

channel signals to provide said data signals from said first circuit to a second circuit.
A method of wavelength division multiplexing optical signals,
including the steps of:


providing, from an optical source (11), an optical pulse signal having a
spectrum (7);
splitting (18) said spectrum of said optical pulse signal into a plurality of
channel signals (9);
separately modulating (27) a data signal onto at least one of said plurality
of channel signals; and
recombining (18) said channel signals of said optical pulse signal to
provide a wavelength division multiplexed optical signal, the method being
CHARACTERIZED IN THAT

   the providing step generates all of the discrete longitudinal mode
frequencies of a broad bandwidth spectrum optical signal, for said plurality of channel

signals, by only controlling a duration of the optical pulse signal from said optical
source, and wherein in the splitting step, the spacing of the channel signals is selected

based on the pulse rate of said optical source so that each of said channel signals
includes at least one discrete longitudinal mode frequency.
A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said step of providing an optical
pulse signal includes providing a pulse signal having a pulse duration of less than 1.0

picoseconds.
A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said step of modulating said
channel signal is performed using a reflection-mode optical modulator.  
A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said steps of splitting and
combining are performed using a single diffraction grating.
A method as claimed in claim 11 including the steps of:

providing a first circuit (28) having data signals to be connected to a
second circuit (46);
providing a plurality of modulators (26) for modulating said data signals
from said first circuit onto said plurality of channel signals, as part of said step of

separately modulating at least one of said plurality of channel signals;
transmitting said wavelength division multiplexed optical signal through
a transmission medium (34) between said first and said second circuits;
splitting (40) said wavelength division multiplexed optical signal into
said plurality of channel signals;
supplying at least one of said modulated channel signals to at least one
optical detector (45) for demodulating said modulated channel signal to recover said

data signal modulated thereon; and
supplying said data signals demodulated from said channel signal to said
second circuit.
A method as claimed in claim 15 including the step of synchronizing said
optical source to a clock signal of said first circuit.
A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the modulating step modulates
predetermined logic levels onto at least a subset of said plurality of channel signals in a

first array (26) including a plurality of optical modulators; and

   the method includes the steps of:

applying (82, 83, 84) said wavelength division multiplexed optical signal
to a second array (85) in a receiver; and
adjusting a position of an apparatus component (83, 84, or 85) of the
receiver, to align a given channel signal with a corresponding element of the second

array, while said predetermined logic levels are modulated on said channel signals.
A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said adjusting step includes the
step of adjusting a position of said second array until a power level of a harmonic of

said wavelength division multiplexed optical signal, detected (92) in said receiver,
reaches a desired value. 
A method as claimed in claim 17 including the step of detecting a second
harmonic power level of said wavelength division multiplexed optical signal in a second

harmonic detector (92) of said receiver.
A method as claimed in claim 17 including the step of adjusting a position
of said second array in a direction substantially parallel to a propagation direction of

said channel signals incident on said second array, in order to compensate for chromatic
dispersion in an optical transmission medium.
A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said adjusting step
includes the step of adjusting a position of said second array in a direction substantially

perpendicular to a propagation direction of said channel signals incident on said second
array.
A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein the step of modulating
predetermined logic levels further includes the step of modulating each of said channel

signals with a constant modulation signal level during said adjusting step.
A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said step of modulating
predetermined logic levels on said channel signals includes the step of modulating a

pseudo-random code sequence on said channel signals.
A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said adjusting step
includes the step of adjusting a position of at least one of a wavelength splitter in said

receiver, a wavelength combiner in said receiver, or a lens located between said second
array and one of said receiver splitter and said receiver combiner until a power level of a

harmonic of said wavelength division multiplexed signal, detected (92) in said receiver,
reaches a desired value.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
