<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636477</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for producing dot size modulated ink jet printing
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J221	B41J2015	B41J2015	B41J2205	B41J2045	B41J2055	B41J2055	B41J2045	B41J221	B41J2205	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS RONALD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURR RONALD F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE HUE P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUTTON JON C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TENCE DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, RONALD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURR, RONALD F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LE, HUE P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUTTON, JON C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TENCE, DAVID A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to ink jet printing and
more particularly to a method and an apparatus for
ejecting ink drops of differing volumes from an ink jet
print head.Prior drop-on-demand ink jet print heads
typically eject ink drops of a single volume that produce
on a print medium dots of ink sized to provide "solid
fill" printing at a given resolution, such as 12 dots per
millimeter. Single dot size printing is acceptable for
most text and graphics printing applications not requiring
"photographic" image quality. Photographic image quality
normally requires a combination of high dot-resolution and
an ability to modulate a reflectance (i.e. gray scale) of
dots forming the image.In single dot size printing, average reflectance
of a region of an image is typically modulated by a
process referred to as "dithering" in which the perceived
intensity of an array of dots is modulated by selectively 
printing the array at a predetermined dot density. For
example, if a 50 percent local average reflectance is
desired, half of the dots in the array are printed. A
"checker-board" pattern provides the most uniform
appearing 50 percent local average reflectance. Multiple
dither pattern dot densities are possible to provide a
wide range of reflectance levels. For a two-by-two dot
array, four reflectance level patterns are possible. An
eight-by-eight dot array can produce 256 reflectance
levels. An usable gray scale image is achieved by
distributing a myriad of appropriately dithered arrays
across a print medium in a predetermined arrangement.However, with dithering, there is a trade-off
between the number of possible reflectance levels and the
dot array area required to achieve those levels. Eight-by-eight
dot array dithering in a printer having 12 dot
per millimeter (300 dots per inch) resolution results in
an effective gray scale resolution as low as 1.5 dots per
millimeter (75 dots per inch). Gray scale images printed
with such dither array patterns, however, suffer from
image quality.An alternative to dithering is ink dot size
modulation that entails controlling the volume of each
drop of ink ejected by the ink jet head. Ink dot size
modulation (hereafter referred to as "gray scale
printing") maintains full printer resolution by
eliminating the need for dithering. Moreover, gray scale
printing provides greater effective printing resolution.
For example, an image printed with two dot sizes at 12
dots per millimeter (300 dots per inch) resolution may
have a better appearance than the same image printed with
one dot
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for ejecting a fluid from an orifice, the
apparatus comprising a pressure chamber fluidically coupled to the orifice,

the fluid forming a meniscus in the orifice; and a transducer driver
generating a first energy input that actuates a transducer to excite in the

meniscus a first mode shape in response to the first energy input,
whereby the first energy input is of such a character and amplitude that

the meniscus is sufficiently excited to eject a first drop of the fluid from
the orifice; and wherein the transducer driver is also arranged to generate

at least a second energy input that actuates the transducer to excite in
the meniscus at least a second mode shape in response to the second

energy input, whereby the second energy input is of such a character and
amplitude that the meniscus is sufficiently excited to eject at least a

second drop of the fluid from the orifice, the second drop having a drop
diameter different from that of the first drop and less than the diameter of

the orifice.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the first
energy input is a first electrical waveform and the second energy input is

a second electrical waveform.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in
which the second mode shape is a mode one, two or three mode shape

and the first energy input is a first electrical waveform whose character is
established by a unipolar or bipolar group of pulses.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 in
which the second mode shape is a mode zero shape and the character of 

the second electrical waveform is established by a unipolar or bipolar pair
of pulses that are spaced apart by a wait period.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in
which the first and second mode shapes are selected from modes zero,

one, two and three.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in
which the transducer driver includes a processor that causes selective

generation of first and second electrical waveforms forming first and
second energy inputs to the transducer such that the ejected drop

diameter is selectable from drop to drop at a drop ejection rate having a
range of zero to at least about 20,000 drops per second.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in
which each energy input to the transducer is an electrical waveform

whose character is such that a spectral energy content of the electrical
waveforms is concentrated around a desired orifice resonant frequency

and suppressed at an undesired orifice resonant frequency.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in
which each energy input to the transducer is an electrical waveform and

each electrical waveform has an adjustable amplitude that causes ejection
of first and second drops of fluid from the orifice at a substantially equal

drop ejection velocity.
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in
which the transducer is a piezoelectric transducer. 
An apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim in
which the orifice is an ink jet orifice.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 10 in which the
orifice diameter is in a range of from 25 to 150 microns.
An apparatus as claimed in Claim 10 or Claim 11 and
including an ink manifold, the ink manifold, the pressure chamber, and the

ink jet orifice being fluidically coupled by channels that are sized to avoid
a parasitic resonance at an orifice mode shape exciting frequency.
A method for ejecting a fluid from an orifice the
method comprising forming a meniscus in the orifice; generating a first

energy input; exciting in the meniscus a first mode shape in response to
the first energy input; and shaping the first energy input such that the

meniscus is sufficiently excited to eject a first drop of the fluid from the
orifice; and further generating at least a second energy input; exciting in

the meniscus at least a second mode shape in response to the second
energy input; and shaping the second energy input such that the meniscus

is sufficiently excited to eject at least a second drop of the fluid from the
orifice, the second drop having a drop diameter different from that of the

first drop and less than the diameter of the orifice.
A method as claimed in Claim 13 in which the first
energy input is a first electrical waveform.
A method as claimed in Claim 14 in which the exciting
in the meniscus of the first mode shape is of a mode one, two or three

mode shape. 
A method as claimed in Claim 15 in which the shaping
of the first mode of the meniscus includes forming the first electrical

waveform with a unipolar or bipolar group of pulses.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 14 to 16 in
which the shaping includes concentrating a spectral energy of the first

electrical waveform around a frequency that excites the first mode shape;
and suppressing the spectral energy of the first electrical waveform at

frequencies that excite other than the first mode shape.
A method as claimed in any of claims 13 to 17 in
which the second energy input is a second electrical waveform.
A method as claimed in Claim 18 in which the second
mode shape is a mode zero mode shape and the shaping step entails

forming the second electrical waveform with a bipolar pair of pulses that
are spaced apart by a wait period.
A method as claimed in any of claims 13 to 19 in

which the first and second mode shapes are selected from modes zero,
one, two and three.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 18 to 20 in
which the shaping of the second electrical waveform includes adjusting an

amplitude of the second electrical waveform to cause ejection of the
second drop of fluid at an ejection velocity substantially the same as an

ejection velocity of the first drop of fluid. 
A method of determining a desired oscillation mode for
exciting a meniscus of liquid ink in a liquid ink jet orifice, the method

comprising the steps of:

(a) selecting an energy input form communicable to the
liquid ink to concentrate spectral energy distribution at frequencies near

the natural frequency of the orifice and near the natural frequency of the
orifice and the meniscus at the desired oscillation mode; and
(b) suppressing energy at the natural frequency of other
oscillation modes and parasitic resonant frequencies that compete with

the desired oscillation mode for energy.
A method as claimed in Claim 22 in which the energy
input is a waveform.
A method as claimed in Claim 23 in which the
waveform is an electrical waveform.
A method as claimed in Claim 23 or Claim 24 in which
the waveform modulates the volume of liquid in the meniscus forming an

ejected liquid ink drop.
A method as claimed in Claim 25 in which the
waveform drives a transducer, inducing pressure waves in the liquid ink to

excite ink fluid flow resonances in the orifice and at the meniscus.
A method as claimed in Claim 26 in which each
selected waveform excites a different resonance frequency and ejects a

different ink drop volume from the orifice. 
A method as claimed in any of Claims 13 to 27 in
which each orifice has a selected diameter.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 13 to 28 in
which the ink drop ejected from the orifice is smaller than the diameter of

the orifice.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 13 to 29
wherein grey scale printing is achieved by exciting the meniscus of liquid

ink to eject the ink from the orifice a plurality of times to impact on a
receiving surface at a plurality of locations.
A method of controlling the volume of an ink drop
ejected from the orifice of a liquid ink jet printer, the method comprising:-


(a) selecting an energy input form communicable to the
liquid ink via a transducer to induce pressure waves in the ink that excite

ink fluid flow resonances in the orifice and at a corresponding ink surface
meniscus; and
(b) ejecting a liquid ink drop from the orifice in response to
each resonance, the ink drop having a separate and distinct volume in

response to each resonance.
A method as claimed in Claim 31 in which the energy
input is a waveform.
A method as claimed in Claim 32 in which the
waveform is an electrical waveform.
A method as claimed in Claim 33 in which the
electrical waveform induces resonances by concentrating spectral energy 

distribution at frequencies near the natural frequency of the orifice and the
meniscus.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 31 to 34 in
which each orifice has a selected diameter.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 31 to 35 in
which the ink drop ejected from the orifice is smaller than the diameter of

the orifice.
A method as claimed in any of Claims 31 to 36 in
which a plurality of ink drops are ejected to impact on a receiving surface

at a plurality of locations to achieve grey scale printing.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
