<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632257</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Stem torque sensor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K3700	F16K3700	G01L310	G01L310	G01L500	G01L500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	G01L	G01L	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K37	F16K37	G01L3	G01L3	G01L5	G01L5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A strain sensor device is attached to a cylindrical 
structural member for measuring the amount of twist of the 

member about an axis of rotation and includes a central beam, 
which is aligned parallel to the axis of rotation of the 

structural member and is fastened in between two mounting 
members which are themselves fixedly secured to the structural 

member. When torsion occurs in the structural member, the one 
mounting member will move in a relative direction parallel to 

the other mounting member but offset by the length of the 
central beam. The central beam is significantly less rigid than 

the mounting blocks and bends to accommodate the movement. Four 
strain gauges are secured to the central beam in a bridge 

circuit to measure bending of the beam. The bridge circuit 
generates electrical signals proportional to the angle of twist 

and the torsional load on the structural member. Additional 
strain gauges can be provided on a second beam, perpendicular to 

the central beam, to measure bending of the second beam 
proportional to axial loads on the structural member. Shaped 

blocks, which are adhered to the structural member, or clamps 
may be used as mounting members. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIBERTY TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LIBERTY TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIMAN STEPHEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HEIMAN STEPHEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to torque 
sensors and, more particularly, to a system and method for 
sensing and measuring the torque in an existing valve stem or 
other transmission component for which the geometric and 
material properties are known. Numerous sensor devices are currently available for 
measuring the torque in either a rotating or fixed shaft or 
other torque transmission component. Most employ some type of 
strain gauged bridge mounted directly to the surface of a well 
defined geometric volume and aligned for maximum output. A 
typical example of this configuration is a solid circular shaft 
with four strain gauges aligned at 45° to the axis of rotation. Such strain gauged shaft sections must have some type 
of flange or other means for connection to the component in 
which the torque is to be measured. This is because this type 
of torque sensor device is designed to operate in series with 
the load it measures and all the load that normally causes the 
torque must go through the torque sensor. Because of that 
requirement, provisions must be made to allow for proper and 
matching bolt hole locations, keyways, and other sizing 
requirements in the component in which the torque is to be 
measured. This requirement can preclude the use of such a  
 
torque sensor in many instances. A single and relatively simple 
drivetrain component such as a 1 inch diameter shaft must be cut 
and flanged or keyed to allow for the torque sensor. In 
addition the torque sensor will often have a profile larger than 
the member it is attached to, which can create interferences 
with other components. One technique being employed to overcome the 
difficulties of the above mentioned strain gauged, cylindrical 
section torque sensor is to apply strain gauges in a bridge 
directly to the member in which the torque is to be measured. 
Then, knowing the characteristics of the strain gauged bridge 
and gauge factor of the strain gauges, the strain can be 
determined. The strain is related to torque by geometric and 
material properties. The direct mounting of strain gauges on existing 
operating equipment in field locations can be difficult. 
Mounting surfaces must be clean and smooth, and alignment of 
gauges is critical. In addition, curing of the epoxies or other 
adhesives used in the process can vary. The main problem with field installation of directly 
mounted strain gauges is calibration -- the measuring and 
relating of the electrical signal from the strain gauges to a 
known input covering
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for determining torsional loading on a 
generally cylindrical member comprising: 

   mounting means for removable attachment to a 
portion of a cylindrical member and for moving in response to 

torsional deformations in the portion of the cylindrical member; 
and 

   sensor means connected with the mounting means 
for sensing rotational movement of the mounting means resulting 

from torsional deformations in the portion of the cylindrical 
member and for generating proportional related to the sensed 

movement. 
The system of claim 1 wherein the mounting means 
comprises: 

   a set of opposing clamping surfaces; 
   a hinged member coupling together the set of 

opposing clamping surfaces; and 
   a compressive member securing the opposing 

clamping surfaces to the cylindrical member. 
The system of claim 2 wherein at least one of the 
clamping surfaces has an included angle of between about 70° and 

150°. 
The system of claim 2 wherein the at least one 
of the opposing clamping surfaces can independently rotate 

relative to the clamp means. 
The system of claim 2 further comprising 
threaded adjustment means for selectively applying a 

predetermined compressive force on the portion of the generally 
cylindrical member. 
The system of claim 1 wherein the sensor means 
comprises at least one strain gauge mounted to a separate strain 

member which is rigidly secured to the mounting means. 
The system of claim 6 wherein the strain member 
is removable and interchangeable among different clamping means 
The system of claim 6 wherein there are four 
strain gauges positioned to bend with strain in the strain 

member, two of the strain gauges under compressive strain and 
two of the strain gauges under tensile strain, outputs of the 

strain gauges being generally equal and opposite to each other 
and forming a strain gauge bridge circuit so as to generate 

electrical signals proportional to strains sensed by the gauges 
in the cylindrical member. 
The system of claim 1 wherein the generally 
cylindrical member is a generally cylindrical valve stem and 

 
further in combination with a motor operated valve assembly 

comprising, in addition to the valve stem, a valve including a 
valve housing containing a movable valve member cou
pled with one 
end of the valve stem, an actuator coupled with another end of 

the valve stem, and yoke extending partially around the valve 
stem coupling the valve housing and the actuator, a portion of 

the valve stem receiving the clamping means being exposed 
through the yoke. 
The system of claim 1 wherein the mounting means 
comprises: a pair of mounting blocks adhesively attached to a 

portion of a cylindrical member and moving in response to 
torsional deformations in the portion of the cylindrical member. 
The system of claim 10 wherein each mounting 
block comprises a radial surface matching an outer surface of 

the cylindrical member. 
The system of claim 10 further comprising a 
screw driven member expandable through at least one of the 

mounting blocks against the cylindrical member to break the 
adhesive attachment. 
The system of claim 6 wherein the strain member 
contains an accommodation for relieving forces in the axial 

direction. 
The system of claim 13 wherein the accommodation 
in the strain member contains four strain gauges which 

experience bending strain in the accommodation of the strain 
member, two of the strain gauges under compressive strain and 

the other two under tensile strain generally equal and opposite 
to each other in a strain gauge bridge circuit configured to 

generate electrical signals proportional to axial strains sensed 
in the cylindrical member. 
The system of claim 2 wherein the clamp means 
comprises a second set of clamping surfaces, centerlines of the 

set of clamping surfaces and the second set of clamping surfaces 
being axially spaced an integer multiple of one inch apart 

specifically for use on threaded stems. 
The system of claim 15 wherein the clamp means 
comprises a compliant spring member specifically for reacting 

against the corner of the mounted thread and centering both 
mounting blocks on the threads. 
A stem torque sensor device comprising: 
   first and second mounting members, each having an 

at least generally concave surface for attachment to an outer 
surface portion of a cylindrical member; and 

   a torsion sensor fixedly coupled with each of the 
first and second mounting members, between the first and second 

mounting members, spacing the first and second mounting members 
 

apart from one another in an axial direction of the device with 
the at least generally concave surfaces of the first and second 

mounting members at least generally coincident in the axial 
direction so as to permit the concave surfaces to be applied 

simultaneously to an outer surface portion of a cylindrical 
member, the torsional sensor being oriented between the mounting 

members to respond to slight movements of the first and second 
mounting members with respect to one another. 
The device of claim 17 wherein the first and 
second mounting members are and second removable cylinder 

clamps, each clamp being generally annular with a central 
opening to receive a cylindrical member and wherein the 

torsional strain sensor is oriented with respect to the first 
and second clamps so as to respond to relative rotational 

movement of the clamps with respect to one another about a 
central axis of any cylindrical member simultaneously received 

in the central opening of each of the first and second removable 
clamps and fixedly coupled with the clamps. 
The device of claim 18 wherein at least one of 
the first and second clamps comprises: 

   first and second clamp members, each clamp member 
having at least one corresponding clamping surface; 

   a rotatable coupling between first sides of the 
first and second clamp members, the rotatable coupling 

 
permitting the clamping surfaces of the first and second clamp 

members to be rotated towards and away from one another; and 
   an adjustable fastener releasably coupling 

together to a selectable degree, second sides of the first and 
second clamp members. 
The device of claim 19 wherein the at least one 
clamping surface of one of the first and second clamp members is 

generally V-shaped with an included angle of between about 140° 
and 160°. 
The device of claim 20 wherein the V-shaped 
clamping surface is pivotally coupled to the one clamp member. 
The device of claim 21 wherein at least part of 
the clamping surface of a remaining one of the first and second 

clamp members is generally V-shaped with an included angle of 
between about 140° and 160°. 
The device of claim 19 wherein the releasable 
fastener is threaded to provide a continuously varying degree of 

adjustment of the second sides of the first and second clamp 
members with respect to one another. 
The device of claim 17 wherein the sensor 
comprises a strain member fixedly secured with each of the first 

 
and second mounting members and at least one strain gauge 

mounted to the strain member in an orientation to sense a 
deformation in the strain member. 
The device of claim 24 wherein the strain member 
is releasably and immovably secured with each of the first and 

second mounting members. 
The device of claim 25 including a total of at 
least four separate strain gauges mounted on the strain member 

in a bridge circuit. 
The device of claim 26 in combination with a 
conditioner coupled in a bridge circuit with the at least four 

strain gauges, the conditioner providing excitation signals to 
the strain gauge bridge and removing response signals from the 

bridge. 
The device of claim 24 wherein the strain member 
comprises a first beam oriented at least generally parallel to 

a central axis of a cylindrical member simultaneously received 
in the first and second clamps. 
The device of claim 28 wherein the strain member 
comprises a second beam integrally coupled with the first beam 

perpendicular to the first beam; and
 

   at least a second strain gauge mounted to the 
second beam in an orientation to respond to bending of the 

second beam from axial deformations of a cylindrical member 
fixedly coupled with the first and second mounting members. 
The device of claim 24 wherein the strain member 
comprises first and second perpendicularly oriented beams, the 

first beam extending in a direction generally parallel and the 
second beam extending in a direction to a central axis of any 

cylindrical member on which the first and second clamps are 
clamped generally perpendicular to the direction of the first 

beam; 
   a first plurality of strain gauges mounted to the 

first beam in an orientation to respond to bending of the first 
beam from relative rotational movement of the first and second 

clamps with respect to one another; and 
   a second plurality of strain gauges mounted to 

the second beam in an orientation to respond to bending of the 
second beam from relative axial movement of the first and second 

clamps with respect to one another. 
The device of claim 24 in combination with a 
cylindrical member with threads, the first and second mounting 

members each being fixedly attached to lobes of the threads. 
The device of claim 17 in combination with a 

cylindrical member with threads, the first and second mounting 
members each being fixedly attached to lobes of the threads. 
The device of claim 31 wherein the generally 
concave surface of each mounting member is the only surface 

provided on each mounting member to contact and engage with a 
cylindrical member and wherein all concave surface of each 

mounting member collectively extends in an arc of less than 
180°. 
The device of claim 24 wherein the generally 
concave surface of each mounting member is the only surface 

provided on each mounting member to contact and engage with a 
cylindrical member and wherein all concave surface of each 

mounting member collectively extends in an arc of less than 
180°. 
The device of claim 17 wherein the generally 
concave surface of each mounting member is the only surface 

provided on each mounting member to contact and engage with a 
cylindrical member and wherein all concave surface of each 

mounting member collectively extends in an arc of less than 
180°. 
A method of measuring torsional strain in a 
cylindrical member comprising the steps of:

 
   immovably affixing to an outer surface of the 

cylindrical member, first and second mounting members spaced 
apart axially from one another on the cylindrical member; 

   fixedly securing with each of the first and 
second mounting members, between the mounting members, a sensor 

responsive to slight relative movements of the first and second 
mounting members with respect to one another; 

   loading the cylindrical member at least across 
the first and second members; and 

   generating a signal with the sensor proportional 
to strain on the cylindrical member from the loading step. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
