<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626016</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CHEMILUMINESCENT ENHANCERS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N33532	C09K1107	C12Q128	G01N33532	G01N2177	C09K1107	G01N2177	C12Q128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	C09K	C12Q	G01N	G01N	C09K	G01N	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N33	C09K11	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N21	C09K11	G01N21	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of increasing the light output and/or signal: background ratio of light output from a chemiluminescent reaction of a dihydrophthalazinedione (DPD), a peroxidase enzyme catalyst and an oxidant, by carrying out this reaction in the presence of an enhancer, "signal" being in the presence of the peroxidase, "background" in its absence, characterised in that the enhancer includes compounds of formula (I) in which R, W, X, Y and Z have the following meanings: R is selected from hydrogen, n-butyl, O,O-propylene (a cyclic ether), 4'-chlorophenyl and 3',5'-dichlorophenyl, W is selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, methyl, methoxy and chloro, X is selected from hydrogen, methyl, chloro, amino and nitro, Y is selected from hydrogen, methyl, carboxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, phenyl, phenoxy, 4'-chloroanilino, 4'-boronylphenyl, 4'-bromophenyl, 2'-carboxyethenyl and trimethylsilyl, Z is selected from hydrogen, 5-chloro, 5-bromo, 5-(3'-trifluoromethyl)phenylazo, or 6-chloro, W and X together may represent a fused benzene ring and X and Y together may represent a fused benzene ring substituted by hydroxy in the 6-position of the naphthalene ring numbering, provided that when R is hydrogen, W, X, Y, Z are each separately hydrogen; when R, W, X and Z are each hydrogen Y is selected from iodo, bromo, chloro, trimethylsilyl, phenoxy, phenyl, 4'-chloroanilino, methyl, 4'-boronylphenyl, 2'-carboxyethenyl; when Y is hydrogen and the Rs together represent O,O-propylene (a cyclic ether), X is hydrogen; when R, W and Z are each hydrogen, X and Y together represent a fused benzene ring substituted by hydroxy in the 6-position of the naphthalene ring numbering; when W, X and Z are each hydrogen, R is n-butyl and Y is bromo or 4'-bromophenyl; when W, X and Z are each hydrogen, R is 4'-chlorophenyl and Y is chloro; when W and Y are each hydrogen, R is 3', 5'-dichlorophenyl, Y is chloro and Z is 5-chloro; when W is methoxy, Z is 5-bromo; when W is hydroxy, Z is 5-(3'-trifluoromethyl)phenylazo; when W is chloro, X is chloro when Y is chloro, X is nitro or chloro; when Y is carboxy, X is nitro; when W and Y are each chloro and X is amino, Z is 6-chloro; and the compounds bis(catechol)borate, boroglycine, pentaerythritol borate, 4-(3'-borono-4'-hydroxyphenylazo)benzoic acid, diphenylisobutoxyborane, diphenylboronic anhydride, dimethylphenylboronic acid (substitution pattern not established) and the sodium salt of 3-nitrophenylboronic acid.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECH GROUP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH TECHNOLOGY GROUP LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRICKA LARRY JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRICKA, LARRY, JAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an enhanced
chemiluminescent reaction especially for use in a diagnostic
assay, particularly immunoassay, and to a diagnostic kit for use
in the assay. A chemiluminescent reaction is a chemical
reaction which results in the emission of light. The
luminescent emission is generally of sufficient duration to
enable the light emitted to be detected or measured, and thereby
to allow the detection or quantification of an analyte. The
chemiluminescent reaction with which this invention is concerned
is that between a 2,3-dihydro-1,4-phthalazinedione (DPD),
especially luminol, with an oxidant, especially hydrogen
peroxide, and a peroxidase enzyme, especially horseradish
peroxidase, which catalyses the oxidation of the DPD by the
oxidant. The oxidation is accompanied by emission of light.Luminescent assays making use of the above-mentioned
peroxidase-catalysed oxidation of a DPD include several types.
This invention is concerned primarily with those in which the
presence or amount of peroxidase is determined. It includes
predominantly assays wherein horseradish peroxidase is
conjugated to a ligand in order to label it and a luminescent
reaction is used to detect or quantitate the label. This
category includes ELISAs, competitive EIAs and nucleic acid
hybridization assays, based on peroxidase labels. However,
assays for measurement of free peroxidase, e.g. for analytical
purposes, are also included.A review of luminescent assays has been published by
L. J. Kricka, Clinical Chemistry 37, 1472-1481 (1991). The sensitivity of the peroxidase-catalysed chemiluminescent
oxidation of DPDs can be enhanced by including in the reagents
an enhancer, namely a 6-hydroxybenzothiazole (European Patent
No. 87959B), a phenol selected from a narrowly defined class
(European Patent No. 116454B or U.S. Patent No. 4,598,044), or
an aromatic amine selected from a narrowly defined class
(U.K. Patent No. 2162946B or U.S. Patent No. 4,729,950).
A further class of substituted phenols that enhance
chemiluminescent reactions of this type are phenols substituted
in ortho and/or para positions by imidazolyl or benzimidazolyl
(U.K. Patent No. 2205945B, European Patent No. 296752B). These
patents are owned by National Research Development Corporation.
European Patent Application Publication No. 219352A
(Minnesota Mining and Mfg. Co.) describes various aromatic
amines, including some of those previously mentioned in
U.K. Application 2162946A, as enhancers. It is an object of the
invention to extend the range of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of increasing the light output and/or signal: background ratio of light
output from a chemiluminescent reaction of a dihydrophthalazinedione (DPD), a peroxidase

enzyme catalyst and an oxidant, by carrying out this reaction in the presence of an
enhancer, "signal" being in the presence of the peroxidase, "background" in its absence,

characterised in that the enhancer comprises a compound of formula (I)


in which the R groups are the same and each is selected from hydrogen, n-butyl, 4'-chlorophenyl
and 3',5'-dichlorophenyl; or the Rs together are O,O-propylene (thereby

forming with the boron atom, a cyclic ether);

W is selected from hydrogen methyl, methoxy, hydroxy and chloro;
X is selected from hydrogen, chloro, amino and nitro;
Y is selected from hydrogen, methyl, carboxy, chloro, bromo, iodo, phenyl,
phenoxy, 4'-chloroanilino, 4'-boronylphenyl, 4'-bromophenyl, 2'-carboxyethenyl

and trimethylsilyl;
Z is selected from hydrogen, 5-chloro, 5-bromo, 5-(3'-trifluoromethyl)phenylazo
and 6-chloro; or
W and X together may represent a fused benzene ring and X and Y together may
represent a fused benzene ring substituted by hydroxy in the 6-position of the naphthalene

ring numbering, provided that
(1) when each R is hydrogen:

(a) W, X, Y, Z are each hydrogen; or
(b) W, X and Z are each hydrogen and Y is selected from iodo, bromo, chloro,
trimethylsilyl, phenoxy, phenyl, 4'-chloroanilino, methyl, 4'-boronylphenyl and 2'-carboxyethenyl;

or 
(c) W and Z are each hydrogen and:

(i) X and Y together represent a fused benzene ring substituted by hydroxy in
the 6-position of the naphthalene ring numbering; or
(ii) X is either nitro or chloro and Y is chloro; or
(iii) X is nitro and Y is carboxy; or
(d) W, Y and Z are each hydrogen and X is amino, chloro or nitro; or
(e) W and X together represent a fused benzene ring and Y and Z are each
hydrogen; or
(f) X and Y are each hydrogen and :

(i) W is methoxy and Z is 5-bromo; or
(ii) W is hydroxy and Z is 5-(3'-trifluoromethyl)phenylazo; or
(iii) W is methyl and Z is hydrogen; or
(g) W is chloro, X is chloro and Y and Z are each hydrogen; or
(h) W and Y are each chloro, X is amino and Z is 6-chloro;
(2) when each R is n-butyl, W, X and Z are each hydrogen and Y is bromo or
4'-bromophenyl;
(3) when each R is 4'-chlorophenyl, W, X and Z are each hydrogen and Y is chloro;
(4) when each R is 3',5'-dichlorophenyl, W and Y are each hydrogen, X is chloro and
Z is 5-chloro; and
(5) when the Rs together represent O,O-propylene, X, Y and Z are each hydrogen;

or a compound selected from bis(catechol) borate, boroglycine, pentaerythritol borate, 4-(3'-borono-4'-hydroxyphenylazo)
benzoic acid, diphenylisobutoxyborane, diphenylboronic

anhydride and dimethylphenylboronic acid. 
A method according to Claim 1, wherein enhancer is para-iodophenylboronic acid,
para-bromophenylboronic acid, 4-biphenylboronic acid, 4-(trimethylsilyl)benzeneboronic

acid, 2-hydroxy-5-[(3'-trifluoromethyl)phenylazo]benzeneboronic acid, boroglycine, 4-chloro-3-nitrophenylboronic

acid, 4-chlorophenylboronic acid, 4-(2'-carboxyethenyl)phenylboronic
acid, 4-(4'-bromophenyl)phenyl-di-n-butoxyborane, 4-chlorophenyl-di(4'-chlorophenoxy)borane,

4,4'-bis(phenylboronic acid), diphenylboronic
anhydride, 4-(4'-chloroanilino)phenylboronic acid or 4-bromophenyl-di-n-butoxyborane.
A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the peroxidase enzyme is free or
conjugated to a ligand and the presence or amount of the peroxidase is determined from

the presence or amount of light output.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the peroxidase is horseradish
peroxidase.
A method according to Claim 4, wherein the horseradish peroxidase is in the form
of the basic isoenzyme.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the oxidant is hydrogen
peroxide.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the DPD is luminol.
A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the chemiluminescent reaction
is carried out at a pH of from 7.5 to 9.
A method according to any preceding claim for use in diagnostic assay for
peroxidase.
A kit for use in diagnostic assay comprising in separate containers:

a chemiluminescent dihydrophthalazinedione (DPD);
a peroxidase enzyme catalyst; and
an enhancer which increases the signal : background ratio of light output, "signal"
being in the presence of the peroxidase, "background" in its absence, wherein the enhancer

is any one of the enhancers in Claim 1.
A kit according to Claim 10, wherein the enhancer is para-iodophenylboronic acid,
para-bromophenylboronic acid, 4-biphenylboronic acid, 4-(trimethylsilyl)benzeneboronic

acid, 2-hydroxy-5-[(3'-trifluoromethyl)phenylazo]benzeneboronic acid, boroglycine, 4-chloro-3-nitrophenylboronic

acid, 4-chlorophenyl-boronic acid, 4-(2'-carboxyethenyl)phenylboronic
acid, 4,4'-(bromophenyl)phenyl-di-n-butoxyborane, 4-chlorophenyl-di-(4'-chlorophenoxy)borane,

4,4'-bis(phenylboronic acid), diphenylboronic
anhydride, 4-(4'-chloroanilino)phenylboronic acid and 4-bromophenyl-di-n-butoxyborane.
A kit according to Claim 10 or 11, wherein the peroxidase is conjugated to a ligand.
A kit according to Claim 10, 11 or 12, wherein the peroxidase is horseradish
peroxidase.
A kit according to Claim 13, wherein the horseradish peroxidase is in the form of
the basic isoenzyme.
A kit according to any one of Claims 10 to 14, which further comprises an oxidant.
A kit according to Claim 15, wherein the oxidant is hydrogen peroxide.
A kit according to any one of Claims 10 to 16, wherein the DPD is luminol.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
