<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650677</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Carrying device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A45F300	A45F314	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A45F	A45F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A45F3	A45F3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The shoulder straps (11, 12) of the article carrier 
define an independent shoulder strap unit (10) in which they 

extend in an arc between two initial points (A, B) in which they 
are joined at their ends, crossing in a crossing point located on 

the wearer's back. Adjacent each attachment point (A, B) is a 
means (13, 14) provided for releasable attachment of the first 

end of a carrying means (20) which comprises one or two flexible 
carrying elements (201, 202) in the form of a cord, a strip or a 

chain. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEGEBJER PETER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEGEBJER, PETER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEGEBJER PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEGEBJER, PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention refers to an article carrier for carrying 
loads. In a known article carrier according to US-A-4,962,873 
are shoulder straps in the manner of braces affixed to a waist 
belt and kept together on the wearer's chest by a tie means embodied 
by a strip attached to one of the shoulder straps spacedly 
from the strap's initial point at the waist belt and by a co-operating 
belt buckle attached to the other shoulder strap. The 
shoulder straps cross loosely in a crossing point on the wearer's 
back, and the carrying means is embodied by a hook mounted on the 
waist belt. In another known article carrier according to US-A-2,651,441, 
provided for carrying plate-shaped loads, is the 
carrying means embodied by a strap element which defines an immediate 
extension of the shoulder straps and which at its free end 
is provided with a rigid gripping means which has a reactangular, 
L-shaped profile with an outwardly inclined edge at the end of 
the horizontal leg of the L-shape. In yet another known article carrier according to US-A-1,727,873, 
provided for carrying two loads, are the shoulder 
straps extended beneath the wearer's waist, and are provided with 
U-shaped hooks at their free ends for carrying e.g. suitcases. 
The shoulder straps are on the wearer's chest, closely under the 
shoulders, interconnected by a tie means embodied by a flexible 
strip. It is further known to use for stretcher transport 
artivle carriers embodied by a loop on each side of the wearer 
into which the two handles of the stretcher may be introduced. It occurs often in practice, e.g. in the removal or 
building lines, that an operator has to carry objects of varying 
nature during a working period, and he is then forced to change 
an article carrier of one type, e.g. for plate-shaped objects, 
for an article carrier of another type. It is a primary object of the present invention to 
provide an ergonomically expedient article carrier which readily 
can be adapted for carrying various loads. This object is achieved 
in the manner evident from the enclosed claims. Due to the fact that the flexible carrying element, in  
 
a preferred embodiment, is with one its end fastened to the 
shoulder strap unit and with the other end to the waist belt 
unit, the weight of a load (which possibly may be supported with 
the aid of an additional carrying element) is divided between the 
shoulder strap unit and the waist belt unit. The carrying element is to at least one of the two 
units preferably attached in a readily
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Article carrier with two shoulder straps (11, 12) 
and a carrying means (20, 20', 20'') for bearing a load, characterized 

by the shoulder straps (11, 12) embodying an independent 
shoulder strap unit (10, 10', 10'') in which they in an arc extend 

between two initial points (A, B) in which they are joined, crossing 
in a crossing point (C) located on the wearer's back, adjacent 

each initial point (A, B) being mounted a means (13, 14, 
13', 14') for releasable attachment of a first end of the carrying 

means (20, 20''), which means comprises one or two flexible 
carrying elements (201, 202) in the form of a cord, a strip, or a 

chain. 
The article carrier of Claim 1, characterized by 
further comprising an independent waist belt unit (300) not associated 

to the shoulder strap unit (10, 10', 10'') and provided 
with means (300A, 300B) for releasable attachment of said carrying 

elements (201, 202) on their other end or ends, so that the 
weight of a load (L), which possibly is carried with the aid of 

an additional carrying element (203, 20'''), is divided between 
the shoulder strap unit and the waist belt unit. 
The article carrier of Claim 1 or 2, characterized 
by the two initial points (A, B) on the shoulder strap unit (10'') 

being releasably interconnected by means of a hook-and-eye connection 
(13', 14) defining a tie means of the shoulder strap unit 

(10'') located in the wearer's chest or waist region, the carrying 
means (20'') being with the aid of at least one hook (21) releasably 

connectable to said eye (14) so that this eye at the same time 
embodies a coupling means of the shoulder
 strap unit (10''). 
Article carrier according to one of claims 1 to 3, 
characterized by the shoulder straps (11, 12) in the shoulder 

strap unit (10') being in the crossing point so interconnected 
that they can be adjusted to and maintained in a selected mutual 

position, e.g. by each passing with friction through a pair of 
slots in a disc (15). 
Article carrier with two shoulder straps (11, 12) 
and a carrying means (20a'') for carrying plate-shaped loads (L), 

comprising a flexible carrying element (203) defined by a cord, a 
strip or a chain, and to which the first end of a gripping means 

 
(25) is affixed, according to one of the claims 1 to 4, characterized 

by the gripping means having substantially the shape of 
an arc (26) in the order of magnitude of 180°, a gripping element 

(28') which projects inwardly into the arc being mounted at least 
at the free second end of the arc, so that self-locking of a carried 

load is obtained. 
The article carrier of Claim 6, characterized by the 
gripping elements being defined by a rod or a tube (28, 28') extending 

transversely the plane of the arc shape. 
The article carrier of Claim 5 or 6, characterized 
by the gripping means, in order to increase the self-locking effect, 

being attached to the carrying element (203) by means of an 
eye (27) projecting outwardly from the arc shape. 
Article carrier with two shoulder straps (11, 12) 
and a carrying means (20''') for carrying two loads, and comprising 

one or two flexible carrying elements (204, 205) defined by 
a cord, a strip or a chain, according to one of the claims 1 to 

7, characterized by the attachment point for the two carrying 
elements, or two such attachment points spaced by a distance (a) 

defined by the wearer's waist measurement, being located in the 
region of the wearers waist on the shoulder strap unit (10, 10', 

10''') and/or on the waist belt unit (300), the two carrying elements 
(204, 205) extending from their respective attachment 

points to one end of a rigid, horizontally extending side-spacer 
(29, 30) whose length (b) is greater than said waist measurement 

(a), and at whose said ends means (29', 29'') for bearing a load 
are attached, so that the carrying elements (204, 205) diverge 

from the wearer's waist outwardly and the loads are carried laterally 
spaced from the wearer's body. 
The article carrier of Claim 8, characterized by the 
side-spacer (30), in order to adjust the spacing of the two 

loads, being length adjustable by comprising at least two telescoped 
parts (30b', 30c') affixable in a selected mutual position. 
The article carrier of Claim 9, characterized by 
the side-spacer (30) comprising at least two side parts (30a, 

30c) of which at least one (30c) is tube-shaped, so that the 
other part (30a) may be directly, or by means of an intermediate 

part (30b), comprised therein. 
Article carrier according to one of the claims 8 to 
10, characterized by the side-spacer (30) being dismountable so 

that it may be brought into a space-saving transport and/or storage 
condition, and preferably being provided with an element 

(206) joining its parts (30a, 30c) when dismounted and not being 
in the way in the assembled condition of the side-spacer, e.g. a 

cord (206) and/or a tension spring (207) mounted inside a tube-shaped 
side part and having a length which allows disassembly of 

the parts. 
Article carrier according to one of the claims 8 to 
11, characterized by the side-spacer having a plan view shape in 

which its end parts (30d, 30d') are retracted relative to the 
central portion (30e), so that the side-spacer (30) optionally 

can be carried in front or behind the body. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
