<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614157</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Neural net with spatially distributed functionalities
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06N3063	G06N300	G06N9900	G06N9900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06N	G06N	G06N	G06N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06N3	G06N3	G06N99	G06N99	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An information processing system comprises a neural net with fully 
distributed neuron and synapse functionalities in a spatially inhomogeneous medium to 

propagate a response field from an input to an output. The response field is a reaction 
of the medium to a plurality of input signals and depends non-linearly on the input 

signals. The response field is also determined by the inhomogeneities. The value of the 
field at one or more particular locations is indicative of one or more output signals of 

the neural net. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an information processing system with a neural
net comprising neurons interconnected by synapses. The network has an
input means to receive a plurality of input signals, an output means to provide at least
one output signal, and an arrangement between the input means and the output means to
implement a neural transformation of the plurality of input signals for generating the
output signal.Over the last decade, neural networks have gained an ever increasing
interest as signal processors, whose essential characteristics reside in the non-linear
mapping of input signals onto output signals using spatially distributed elements and
massively parallel information processing in a densely interconnected structure. Such a
processor is a robust and fault-tolerant processing device. Furthermore, neural networks
can be programmed by means of training on the basis of examples rather than by means
of prescribing algorithmic instructions such as in the field of conventional
microprocessors. Training can be accomplished with or without a supervisor, the latter
version being called "self-learning". Neural networks are expected to play an important
role, especially in the fields of associative memories, classifiers, pattern recognition and
optimization problems. For a general introduction, see: "An Introduction to Computing
with Neural Nets", R.P. Lippmann, IEEE ASSP Magazine, April 1987, pp. 4-22.Although some of the mathematical algorithms created for neural network
control or neural network simulation appear to be useful in seeking software solutions to
particular problems, the real benefit of the neural network approach is believed to be
obtainable only by way of dedicated hardware. A variety of electronic and optical
hardware implementations of neural networks have seen the light over the last decade.
For example, the Laboratoires d'Électronique de Philips has developed the first
commercially electronic, fully digitally operating, trainable neural chip for modular 
neural network architectures, see U.S. Patent 4,994,982. An electronic implementation
of an analog neural net is known from, for instance, U.S. Patent 4,866,645. Optical
neural nets are dealt with in: "Optical Neural Computers", Y.S. Abu-Mostafa and D.
Psaltis, Scientific American 256, March 1987, pp. 66-73.Often, spatially tight designs are required to realize a sufficiently large
number of the neurons and synapses in a confined space. A trainable neural net requires
additional circuitry to individually and accurately modify the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information processing system with a neural net (100) with neuron and interconnected synapse functionalities,
the net comprising an input means (104) to

receive a plurality of input signals (X
i
); an output means (106) to provide at least one output
signal (I
j
) of the neural net; and an arrangement (102) between said input means and said output means to implement
a neural transformation of the plurality of said input signals for generating said at least one output signal;

said information processing system being characterized in that the arrangement comprises a medium (500) operative to propagate a
response field throughout the medium in response to the plurality of input signals, the

response field being non-linearly dependent on at least one of the input signals, and in
that the medium has at least one spatially distributed inhomogeneity operative to affect the spatial

dependence of the response field, the medium being operative to produce the output
signal upon coupling at least a first response, representative of the response field

occurring at a first location in the medium, to the output means.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the arrangement comprises encoding
means coupling the physical medium to the output means for producing the output

signal upon mutually correlating the first response and a second response.
The system of Claim 2, wherein the encoding means is operative to
perform at least one of following correlations:


to produce a respective output signal involving a difference between a respective pair
of responses;
to produce a respective output signal involving a ratio of a respective response and a
sum of responses;
to produce a respective output signal involving a change of a respective response
brought about by a change of a particular one of the input signals.
The system of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein a first one of the input signals
has a first physical dimensionality and a second one of the input signals has a second

physical dimensionality different from the first physical dimensionality.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the arrangement comprises a connection
means between at least a second location and a third location in the medium operative to 

enable an interaction between the response field at the second location and the response
field at the third location.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the arrangement comprises a control
means operative to selectively modify the at least one inhomogeneity with regard to at

least position, size or strength.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the arrangement comprises an a
semiconductor substrate, wherein the inhomogeneity includes at least one depletion

region or an inversion region.
The system of Claim 7, wherein the arrangement comprises a charge
trapping region operative to induce the depletion region or the inversion region.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the arrangement comprises a control
means operative to selectively modify the at least one inhomogeneity with regard to at

least position, size or strength; wherein the arrangement comprises a charge trapping
region operative to induce the depletion region or the inversion region; and wherein the

control means include a piezoelectric layer for providing a location dependent electric
field upon propagating stress waves through the piezoelectric layer and for thereupon

selectively determining a tunnelling threshold for electrical charges to or from the
charge trapping region.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the arrangement comprises a control
means operative to selectively modify the at least one inhomogeneity with regard to at

least position, size or strength; wherein the arrangement comprises a charge trapping
region operative to induce the depletion region or the inversion region; and wherein the

control means includes a photoelectric element for providing a light-dependent voltage
and for thereupon selectively determining a tunnelling threshold for electrical charges to

or from the charge trapping region.
The system of Claim 1, wherein the arrangement comprises a control
means operative to selectively modify the at least one inhomogeneity with regard to at

least position, size or strength; wherein the arrangement comprises an a semiconductor
substrate, wherein the inhomogeneity includes at least one depletion region or an

inversion region; and wherein the control means include a ferroelectric layer operative
to provide a location dependent electric field by way of selectively determining a

polarization rotation of a ferroelectric domain in the ferroelectric layer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
