<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649117</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for providing medical images.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B5055	A61B5055	A61B603	A61B603	G06T100	G06T100	G06T1100	G06T1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B6	A61B6	G06T1	G06T1	G06T11	G06T11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A technique for integrating voxelly-assigned 
information regarding a portion of anatomy derived 

from a number of sources into an accurate, single two 
dimensional pixel-based representation of a view of 

that anatomy is disclosed. Empirical relationships 
between known properties are used to infer values for 

unknown properties. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN GEORGE S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALLEN, GEORGE S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN GEORGE S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ALLEN, GEORGE S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is directed to the problem of 
providing images of anatomy that reflect at least one 
physical property of interest characteristic of the 
anatomy. It is also directed to the problem of 
inferring information regarding an unknown property 
of an interior region of anatomy from known 
properties of that and adjacent regions. Clinicians have long sought ways of visualizing 
interior portions of the human body without having to 
expose those portions to light for direct visual 
inspection. The first technology which enabled the 
clinician to see an image of an interior portion of 
anatomy was the X-ray, which was utilized to form 
images of bone within months of the discovery of X-rays 
by Roentgen in 1895. These images were essentially 2-dimensional 
views taken of a three dimensional volume of space. 
Of course, anatomy exists in three dimensional space 
and, in the 1970's, devices were developed that 
permitted the acquisition of information concerning 
the anatomy on a three dimensional basis (e.g., the 
work of Hounsfield in developing scanners that  
 
measured the density of an anatomical volume, which 
he displayed as slices). Subsequent developments have further advanced 
the state of the art to where the clinician has at 
his disposal a variety of tools for obtaining 
information regarding each volumetric element within 
a volume of anatomy. In each of these techniques, 
the region of anatomy in question may be thought of 
as consisting of a very large number of small 
elemental units of volume called voxels. A voxel has 
length, width, and depth. The size of a voxel is 
generally limited by the inherent resolution of the 
scanner apparatus and technique utilized, as well as 
the underlying computational power with which the 
technique is practiced. Ideally, a voxel is small 
enough to depict an area of generally uniform 
attributes with respect to a property of interest. A number of imaging techniques using a variety 
of types of imaging apparatus subdivide a volume of 
space into voxels. For example, in Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (MRI), a "slice" of a patient's 
anatomy, or the like, having a finite thickness is 
excited with a predetermined pulsing signal. This 
pulsing signal causes protons (e.g., Hydrogen 
protons) in the slice to resonate giving off a 
signal, the intensity of which varies directly with 
proton density. Different properties can be the 
focus of the scan by varying the excitation energy, 
relaxation time parameters etc. employed in the scan, 
as well as by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for inferring a physical property 
associated with the discrete spatial locations of a 

three dimensional object, wherein each spatial 
location of the three dimensional object has a unique 

address, and wherein the three dimensional object is 
composed of a plurality of types of matter, each type 

of matter having at least two properties, comprising 
the steps of: 

   generating a first set of data reflective of at 
least one physical property accessible by a first 

imaging technique for each spatial location of the 
area of interest; 

   generating a second set of data reflective of at 
least one physical property accessible by a second 

imaging technique for each spatial location of the 
area of interest; 

   storing the data generated by the first and 
second imaging techniques in a memory storage device 

along with the address of each spatial location; and 
   assigning to each address a first value based on 

the correlation between a property of interest with 
the measures of the physical properties obtained in 

the imaging scans taken. 
The method of claim 1, further comprising 
the step of assigning to each address a pixel display 

value defining the physical appearance that the pixel 
is to have upon its display. 
The method of claim 2, further comprising 
the step of 

   displaying an image based on the pixels so 
defined. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the first 
set of data is generated by a CT scan. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the first 
set of data is generated by a PET scan. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the first 
set of data is generated by a particular type of MRI 

scan. 
The method of claim 1, further comprising 
the steps of 

   generating additional sets of data 
reflective of at least one additional physical 

property accessible by additional imaging techniques 
for each spatial location of the area of interest, 

wherein each spatial location has an address; and 
   storing the additional sets of data so generated 

in a computer memory along with the address of each 
spatial location. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the three 
dimensional object includes a portion of human 

anatomy. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the physical 
properties being inferred relate to the appearance of 

the region when exposed to visible light. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the second 
set of data is generated by a CT scan. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the second 
set of data is generated by a PET scan. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the second 
set of data is generated by a particular type of MRI 

scan. 
The method of claim 1, wherein the 
correlation between the property of interest and the 

measure of at least one of the physical properties 
measured in at least one of the generated data sets 

is determined empirically. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generated sets of data is reflective of 

density. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generate
d sets of data is reflective of 
the position of known features in relation to each 

other. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generated sets of data is reflective of 

the presence of hydrogen. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generated sets of data is reflective of 

sound transmissibility. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generated sets of data is indicative of 

the manner in which light is absorbed or reflected. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generated sets of data is reflective of 

temperature. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generated sets of data is reflective of 

electrical activity. 
The method of claim 1, wherein at least 
one of the generated sets of data is reflective of 

energy usage. 
A method for generating images of a 3-dimensional 
object having several different types of 

matter wherein each type of matter has properties 
which distinguish it from other types of matter in 

the same object comprising: 
   assigning an address to each area of interest 

within the object; 
   identifying properties that correspond to each 

type of matter and distinguishing them from 
properties of other types of matter of the same 

object; 
   measuring said identified properties; and 

   converting the measures of said identified 
properties of each type of matter to a display such 

that the image is displayed in a fashion that 
distinguishes each type of matter identified from 

other types of matter. 
The method according to Claim 22 wherein 
said 3-dimensional object includes a portion of the 

human anatomy. 
The method according to Claim 22 wherein 
said different types of matter include tissue, fluid 

and gasses. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
