<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653127</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RAKE RECEIVER COMBINING ALL THE USEFUL MULTIPATH COMPONENTS OF A SPREAD SPECTRUM SIGNAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B169	H04B1707	H04B1707	H04B1713	H04B7005	H04B7005	H04B726	H04B726	H04L2701	H04L2701	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Conventional Rake receivers for spread spectrum signals are typically restricted in the number of multipath components they can usefully combine. The present invention provides apparatus for combining all the useful multipath components in a received signal with modest complexity. Digital correlators are provided over the multipath delay spread of the signal at predetermined intervals and their outputs are maximal ratio combined. With close to rectangular transmission received filters, almost all the entire signal energy can be recovered at the output of the combiner even though no attempt is made to accurately align any of the correlators onto a specific multipath component.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROKE MANOR RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROKE MANOR RESEARCH LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANDLER DAVID PETER STAPLEFOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HULBERT ANTHONY PETER HANLEY R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHANDLER, DAVID, PETER 50 STAPLEFORD CLOSE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HULBERT, ANTHONY, PETER 6 HANLEY ROAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 RAKE Recei ver Combi n i ng al l the Useful Mul ti path Components of a Spread Spectrum Si gnalThe present invention relates to apparatus for use in equipment providing a digital radio link using direct sequence spread spectrum between a fixed and mobile radio unit.Equipment for providing such a radio link is described in GB Patent Application Number 9304901.3. This application describes the use of Wiener-like filters for providing good estimates of the amplitude of the inphase I, the quadrature phase Q, components of, for example, a spread spectrum pilot signal.Spread spectrum signals provide the possibility of obtaining excellent immunity to multipath fading through resolving the individual, time separated, multipath components and optimally combining them. The common approach for achieving this is to use a 'Rake' receiver as is familiar to those versed in the art. Such a receiver assigns de-spreading correlators to each of the dominant multipath components and synchronises them for maximum de-spread energy. For each of the Rake 'fingers' the phase and amplitude of the de- spread components is estimated and used to apply optimum amplitude weighting and phase alignment prior to addition (combining). The weighted sum of the multipath components will experience considerably less fading than any of the individual components so that a diversity gain is obtained. 

 One problem with the normal implementation of such a receiver is that the delay spread of the signal must be perpetually searched to determine whether a Rake finger should be assigned to a new, stronger, multipath component. If the channel is changing rapidly, significant loss in performance can result from there being too long a delay between a stronger multipath component appearing and it being assigned to a Rake finger.Additionally some channels may consist of a large number of quite small multipath components. If all or most of these are not assigned to a Rake finger then a significant amount of signal energy may be wasted for the purposes of reception although it will still appear as interference to the reception of the spread spectrum transmission sharing the carrier frequency in a Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) sense. The problem with these low level components is that, unless they are being measured continuously, it is not possible to assess with adequate accuracy, when and at what level they should be included in the combining output. The requirement to allow inclusion of a large number of multipath components could lead to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
•
 2 .
*
>
 -
CLAIMS
1. Apparatus for use in equipment providing a digital radio link using direct sequence spread spectrum between a fixed and mobile radio unit, said apparatus comprising a Rake receiver including a plurality of digital correlators each providing a Rake finger, in which a block of digital correlation functions cover a contiguous span of spreading code phases of the same order as the maximum delay spread of a signal to be received, and adder means arranged to combine energy from each multipath component from several correlators.
2. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 , wherein the Rake receiver includes receive and transmit filters of Nyquist type for creating a receive correlation function to permit recovery of mis-timed signal components in the correlator output signals.
3. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2, wherein the Rake fingers are arranged in parallel and each Rake finger includes digital correlator means connected to a stage of a shift register means respectively, through which the input signal is passed, said digital correlator means having two output lines connected to a first input of first multiplying means and to a first input of second multiplying means via delay means, said second multiplying means having an output connected to a Wiener-like filter having an output connected to a second input of said first multiplying 


means, said first multiplying means having their respective outputs connected to further adder means having an output connected to a switching arrangement, and an output connected to a third multiplying means via further delay means, an output from said third multiplying means being connected to an input of tracking means having an output connected to threshold means generating an output signal for controlling said switching arrangement, and, upon operation of said switching arrangement the output from said further adder means is applied to an input of said adder means which receives a signal from each of said Rake fingers, said adder means generating an output signal which is applied to an integrating means for generating a feedback control signal for each of the second multiplying means, said output from said adder circuit being also applied to a differential decode circuit for generating a received data output signal.
4. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 having only one Rake finger comprising a digital filter means arranged to receive the inphase and quadrature phase components of an input signal, said filter means having two output lines connected to a first input of first multiplying means and to an input of second multiplying means via a delay circuit, said second multiplying means having an output connected to an input of a Wiener-like filter, the output of which is connected to a second input of said first multiplying means, an output from each first multiplying means being applied to an input of adder means, the output of which is applied via 


delay means to third multiplying means having an output connected to an input of tracking means, an output from said tracking means being applied to threshold means, an output of which is used to control a switching arrangement, said switching arrangement being connected to the output of said adder means and is arranged to switch said output to an integrating means, the output of which is connected to an input of a limiting means which generates an output which is applied to a further input of said second multiplying means, said output from said integrating means being further applied to a differential decode circuit which is arranged to generate the received data output signal.
5. Apparatus as claimed in Claims 3 and 4, wherein the Rake receiver is arranged to handle differential phase shift keying signals.
6. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2, wherein digital filter means is provided respectively for a pilot signal and for the data signal, each being arranged to receive the inphase and quadrature phase components of an input signal, said filter for handling the pilot signal has its outputs connected to a Wiener-like filter, the outputs of which are connected to a first input of a first multiplying means and to first and second inputs of second multiplying means, said filter for handling the data signal has its output connected via delay means to a second input of said first multiplying means, an output from said first multiplying means being applied to an input 


of first adder means respectively, said first adder means having an output connected to a switching arrangement, said second multiplying means having an output connected to an input of a second adder means respectively, an output of which is connected to an input of a tracking means, said tracking means being connected to threshold means arranged to control said switching arrangement, and upon operation of said switching arrangement the output from said first adder means is applied to an input of integrating means which generates at an output the received data signal.
7. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 6, being arranged to handle binary phase shift keying signals.
8. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 6 or Claim 7, wherein a plurality of Rake fingers may be arranged in parallel.
9. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 8, wherein the Rake receiver may comprise a serial and parallel combination of Rake fingers.
10. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2 arranged to handle multi level differential phase shift keying signals, said apparatus comprising a digital filter means arranged to receive the inphase and quadrature phase components of an input signal, said filter having two output lines connected to a first input of multiplying means and to inputs of a first complex linear multiplying means 


via delay means, said complex linear multiplying means having an output connected to a Wiener-like filter respectively, said filter having an output connected to a second input of said multiplying means, an output from said multiplying means being connected to an input of a further complex linear multiplying means via delay means and to a respective switching arrangement, said further complex linear multiplying means having its outputs connected to further adder means, an output of which is applied to an input of tracking means, an output from said tracking means is connected to a threshold device arranged to provide an output signal for controlling said switching arrangements, said switching arrangements being caused to operate to switch the output from said multiplying means to an input of an integrating means respectively, said integrating means having their outputs connected to a differential decode circuit which is arranged to generate a data output signal, said output from said integrating means being further applied to inputs of circuit means arranged to normalise amplitude and threshold to the nearest phase in alphabet and to generate output signals for processing by conjugate circuit means, said conjugate circuit means generating output signals which are applied to two further inputs respectively of said complex linear multiplying means and said further complex linear multiplying means.
1 1 . Apparatus as claimed in Claim 10, wherein said further complex linear multiplying means and delay means associated 


therewith is replaced by two further multiplying means each arranged to receive at its inputs the output from a Wiener-like filter respectively.
12. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 10, wherein a plurality of Rake fingers is arranged in parallel.
13. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 1 , wherein a plurality of Rake fingers is arranged in parallel.
14. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 10 or Claim 1 1 comprising a serial/parallel combination of Rake fingers.
15. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 2, wherein a digital filter means is provided for a pilot signal and a further digital filter means is provided for the data signal, said filters being arranged to receive both the inphase and quadrature phase components of an input signal, said filter handling said pilot signal having two outputs each arranged to be connected to an input of a Wiener¬ like filter respectively, an output of which is connected to an input of a first multiplying means and to first and second inputs of a further multiplying means, said filter handling said data signal having two outputs arranged to be connected via delay means to a second input of said first multiplying means respectively, an output of said first multiplying means being connected to an input of a switching arrangement respectively, said further multiplying 


means having an output connected to an input of further adder means respectively, the output of which is connected to tracking means, an output of said tracking means being applied to a threshold device which is arranged to generate an output signal for controlling said switching arrangements, said switching arrangements causing said output from said first multiplying means to be applied to an input of an integrating means respectively, said integrating means having an output connecting to circuit means which selects the closest phase in alphabet to generate a data output signal.
16. Apparatus as claimed in Claim 15 arranged to handle multi phase shift keying signals in serial, parallel or serial/parallel combination.
17. Apparatus as claimed in Claims 4, 6, 10, 11 and 15, wherein a memory means is connected to said delay means, Wiener-like filters and tracking means for refreshing their content with information relating to an earlier bit period.
1 8. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein to provide synchronisation said correlators have a set of code phases applied to them stepped forward or backward to cover the next contiguous range of delays, until either a signal is found the entire predetermined range is covered. 



19. Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding Claims 1 to 17, wherein synchronisation is provided by one or more sliding correlators arranged to scan outside the desired range.
20. Apparatus as claimed in any of the preceding Claims 3 to 19, wherein the Wiener-like filters are dual pass Wiener-like filters. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
