<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644647</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An electrical power generating arrangement
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02P904	H02P904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02P	H02P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02P9	H02P9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrical power generating arrangement 2 (for example, 
in a CHP system) is which fixed frequency AC electric power 

for supply to mains or grid 18 is output from a frequency 
converter 16 supplied with a variable frequency AC power 

input from an electrical generator 4 driven by an internal 
combustion engine 6. The speed of the engine 6 is varied by 

operation of a throttle 10 controlled by a controller 24 
containing a predetermined engine map representing 

variation of engine speed as a function of the variation in 
electrical power output from the frequency converter 16 to 

meet the demand of an external electrical load 20. On the 
load demand changing, the controller signals the frequency 

converter 16 to give a changed new power output to meet the 
changed demand. The controller consults the map to 

determine the new engine speed corresponding to the new 
power demand and operates the throttle 10 to cause the 

engine to run at the new speed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH GAS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BG PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUTTON JEFFREY ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEBBUTT IAIN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUTTON, JEFFREY ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEBBUTT, IAIN JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns an electrical power 
generating arrangement from which the electrical power 
output is to be connected to the electrical mains. The electrical power generating arrangement may be 
included in a combined heat and power system (CHP), though 
it need not necessarily be. In some known CHP systems the electrical generator 
feeding its output into the electrical mains or grid is 
rotated at substantially constant speed by a reciprocating 
internal combustion engine giving a substantially constant 
speed rotary output driving the generator. Since the engine 
rotates at a substantially constant number of revolutions 
per minute (r.p.m.) whatever the electrical power demand 
from the generator by an external circuit being supplied, 
the engine is not necessarily operating at optimum 
efficiency which optimum efficiency may occur at a lower 
r.p.m. than the aforesaid constant r.p.m. for low power 
demand or at a higher r.p.m. for higher power demand. Also 
best advantage cannot be taken of using high revving high 
performance engines produced for motor vehicles. An object of the invention is to provide an 
electrical power generating arrangement from which the 
electrical power output is to be connected to the electrical 
mains or grid, in which the arrangement is capable of being 
used with the engine running at variable speed. US-A 4,661,761 discloses an arrangement in which an 
internal combustion engine drives an electric generator supplying 
a frequency converter in order to obtain a constant frequency output.  
 According to the invention there is provided an 
electrical power generating arrangement from which the 
electrical power output is to be connected to the electrical 
mains, 
   said electrical power generating arrangement 
being characterised by a reciprocating internal combustion 
engine and an electrical power generator rotatably driven by 
rotary drive derived from said engine, frequency converter 
means for converting variable frequency AC derived from said 
generator to a substantially fixed frequency AC for delivery 
to said mains, control means, said control means being 
arranged to control the speed of said engine, and said 
control means being arranged to vary the engine speed as a 
function of variation of the electrical power to be 
delivered from said frequency converter means. The engine can be run at varying speeds causing the 
generator to give variable frequency AC electrical power 
output which is converted by the frequency converter means 
to an AC
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) from 
which the electrical power output is to be connected to the 

electrical mains (18),
 
   said electric power generating arrangement (2) 

being characterised by a reciprocating internal combustion 
engine (6) and an electrical power generator (4) rotatably 

driven by rotary drive derived from said engine, frequency 
converter means (16) for converting variable frequency AC 

derived from said generator (4) to a substantially fixed 
frequency AC for delivery to said mains (18), control means 

(24), said control means (24) being arranged to control the 
speed of said engine (6), and said control means (24) being 

arranged to vary the engine speed as a function of variation 
of the electrical power output to be delivered from said 

frequency converter means (16). 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said control means 

(24) is arranged to operate in accordance with an engine map 
representing variation of the engine speed as a function of 

variation of said electrical power output from the frequency 
converter means (16). 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in Claim 2, characterised in that said engine map is 

derived from data to provide a particular said engine speed 
corresponding to a particular said electrical power output  

 
from the frequency converter means (16), and said particular 

engine speed being the speed at which the engine (6) is 
operating at substantially optimum efficiency for the 

arrangement (2) to produce said particular output from the 
frequency converter means (16) having regard to the scope of 

said data. 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in Claim 2, characterised in that said engine map 

comprises a range of engine speeds and a range of electrical 
power outputs from the frequency converter means (16), and 

for each speed in said range of speeds there corresponds a 
different respective power output in the said range of 

outputs, and the speed corresponding to a particular power 
output in said range of outputs is the speed at which the 

engine (6) is operating with optimum efficiency, compared to 
operating at other speeds in said range of speeds, when the 

power output from said frequency converter means (16) is to 
be said particular power output. 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one preceding claim, characterised in that 

the frequency converter means (16) is responsive to signals 
from said control means (24) to vary the electrical power 

output from the frequency converter means (16). 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in Claim 5, characterised in that the control means 

(24) is arranged to receive signals indicating the 
electrical power demand by an external load (20) and issue a 

signal to vary the electrical power output from said  
 

frequency converter means (16) to substantially equal the 
power demand by said load (20). 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one preceding claim, characterised in that 

the control means (24) is arranged to control opening and 
closing of throttle means (10) regulating supply of fuel to 

said engine (6). 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one preceding claim, characterised in that 

means (28) is provided to produce a signal transmitted to 
the control means (24) to indicate the speed of said engine 

(6). 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in Claim 2 and Claim 7, characterised in that means 

(30, 26) are provided to -observe fuel consumption by said 
engine (6) and electric power output from the frequency 

converter means (16), and using data derived from said 
observations said control means (24) can calculate the 

efficiency of the engine (6) and cause variation of the 
opening of said throttle means (10) to vary the engine speed 

about an engine speed setpoint derived from said map. 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one of Claim 2 to 4, or in Claim 9, or in any 

one of Claims 5 to 8 when appended to Claim 2, characterised 
in that the control means (24) comprises computer means 

programmed with said engine map. 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one preceding claim, characterised in that  

 
the frequency converter means (16) comprises a rectifier - 

inverter. 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one preceding claim, characterised in that 

the engine fuel is fuel gas. 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one preceding claim, characterised in that 

said control means (24) is arranged to cause the speed of 
the engine (6) to increase when an increase in the 

electrical power output from said frequency converter means 
(16) is required. 
An electrical power generating arrangement (2) as 
claimed in any one preceding claim, characterised in that 

said control means (24) is arranged to cause the speed of 

the engine (6) to decrease when a decrease in the electrical 
power output from said frequency converter means (24) is 

required. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
