<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610417</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN IMPULSE-TYPE INTERMITTENT BRAKING DEVICE FOR BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60T832	B60T832	B60T854	B60T854	B62L100	B62L110	B62L300	B62L300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60T	B60T	B60T	B60T	B62L	B62L	B62L	B62L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60T8	B60T8	B60T8	B60T8	B62L1	B62L1	B62L3	B62L3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The object of the invention is to provide an intermittent impulse-type anti-lock braking device for bicycles and motorcycles, whose principal function is to prevent the front or the rear wheel from locking up when the rider actuates the brake lever. Said impulse-type intermittent device is made up of an eccentric wheel (103) placed into motion by contact with the wheel of the vehicle. The eccentric wheel (103), connected to a lever (102), which has its fulcrum in (104), transmits the necessary alternating motion to the brake pad (101). In this manner, the pad is pressed against the rim of the wheel with an intermittent action instead of the continuous pressure that is provided by the braking systems which are currently on the market.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZAGO MASSIMILIANO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ZAGO, MASSIMILIANO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAGO MASSIMILIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZAGO, MASSIMILIANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionAnirφulse-type intermittent braking device for bicycles and motorcyclesTechnical field This discovery is an intermittent impulse-type braking device for bicycles and motorcycles, whose principal function is to prevent the front or rear wheel from locking up when the rider actuates the brake lever.It is known that in emergency circumstances resulting from a road surface that has been made slippery by rain or mud, or in emergency circumstances due to the unpre- dictable nature of traffic situations, the rider of a bicycle or motorcycle is often called upon to act extremely quickly to stop his vehicle in as small a space as pos¬ sible and without losing control.However, it is also known that the delicate equilibriim of two-wheeled vehicles does not always allow this goal to be reached; instead, it frequently occurs that the ri- der loses control of his vehicle even though he has rapidly taken the proper steps to actuate the braking systems at his disposal; such failure to maintain control usually occurs when one of thewheels, most often, the front wheel, locks up. To prevent this from occurring and to prevent the consequent physical harm that may occur to the passive victim of such an event ( i.e. the rider ), there is one way to solve the problem : modifying the braking system of the vehicle so that neither one of the wheels is allowed to lock up. Disclosure of inventionThis result can be obtained by actuatuing a device which draws off a portion of wheel rrDvement and transmits such movement through a transmission shaft to an eccentric element or cam which is connected to a small piston.This piston is in turn directly connected to a brake pad whose action has been made more efficient by the shape of tha pad itself ( hollow in the inside ).In this way the braking action is not con- tinous as in the braking systems currently on the market, but instead is intermit¬ tent as a result of the intermittent action exerted by the piston on the brake pad. The basic feature of this discovery is that the wheel of the vehicle is the source 

 of the braking force.As will be illustrated later on, the motion that powers the system is mechanically drawn from the rotating tire; however, it must be emphasized that any and all cases in which motion is drawn from any bicycle or motorcycle wheel component, such as tires, rims, disc-brakes, hubs, accessories and other systems, even those that have been added for this specific purpose at any point on the wheel, herein defined as a rotating system, are to be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims l. A impulse-type intermittent braking device for bicycles and motorcycles which is characterized by the fact that such device is made up of a mechanically, hydrauli- cany,pneumaticany and/or electrically driven mechanism that is placed in motion through contact with a wheel of a bicycle or motorcycle.
2. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1, which is cha¬ racterized bythe fact that said mechanism acts upon the braking means of bicycles ormotorcycles in an intermittentmanner due to the effect ofthemotion transmitted to said brakingmeans.
3. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1, which is cha¬ racterized by the fact that said mechanism is preferably placed into motion by contact with the rim or the tire of the bicycles or motorcycles and which exerts its anti-lock braking action preferably on the rim of the wheels of the bicycles or motorcycles.
4. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1, which is cha¬ racterized by the fact that said mechanism acts upon the rim of the wheel of the bi¬ cycle or motorcycle in an intermittent anti-lock manner due to the effect of the mo¬ tion transmitted to said mechanism by contact with a wheel of a bicycleor motorcycle.
5. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1, which is cha¬ racterized by the fact that the motion of said mechanism can be advantageously drawn from any other component part of the wheels of the bicycle or motorcycle, including tires, rims, hubs,brake-discs, joints or other accessories, whether already present or installed for this specific purpose and whether housed at any point on the wheels of the bicycles or motorcycles or in any way connected to the wheels, whether to draw or to impart motion, by means of belts, shafts, flexible cables etc.etc.
6. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1, which is cha- racterized by the fact that said mechanism is made up of an eccentric wheel placed 


 1 into motion by contact with the wheel of the vehicle.Said eccentric wheel imparts the alternating anti-lock movement to the brake pad through a lever or a shaft or analo¬ gous and equivalent system.
c 7. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1 , which is cha
¬
 racterized by the fact that said mechanism is preferably made up of a control termi¬ nal located on the handlebar of the bicycle/motorcycle, a small knurled wheel that re¬ sts on the tire of a wheel and is moved by said tire, an eccentric hub or equivalent system that is axially connected to said small knurled wheel and which is in turn IQ connected to a small piston or other moving element and with the aforesaid moving e- le ent equipped with a brake pad and arranged at the side of the wheel rim upon which said brake pad exerts the required intermittent anti-lock braking action.
8. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1 , which is cha- 15 racterized by the fact that said device can also be created by drawing motion from the circumference of a tire of the bicycle or motorcycle by means of at least one small cam-type wheel equipped with two lateral shoulders, including any other simi¬ lar device for this same purpose which is arranged over the center line of yhe bicy¬ cle or motorcycle and which actuates two levers, left and right, that are mounted 20 over the center of the wheel and that impart alternating motion to the brake pads.
9. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1 , which is cha¬ racterized by the fact that said device can also be created by drawing motion from the circumference of a brake-disc by means of one small cam-type wheel equipped with 5 lateral shoulders, or any similar device for this same purpose, which is arranged over the center line of the brake-disc which actuates the braking intermittent action.
10. A impulse-type intermittent braking device as described in claim 1 , which is cha¬ racterized by the fact that the operation of said mechanism can be obtained by using sources external to the wheels of the bicycle or motorcycle, such as elctric motors 


1 that are powered by a variety of methods (dynamo, battery, rechargeable battery etc.)
11. A impulse-type interπritteπt braking device as described in claim 1, which is characterized by the fact that such device can be created on the basis of one or more 
'
 of the preceding claims and according to what is substantially described and illu¬ strated on the tables attached herein. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
