<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652796</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITE MOUTHGUARD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61C500	A61C500	A61C1900	A61C1906	A61F556	A61F556	A63B7108	A63B7108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61C	A61C	A61C	A61C	A61F	A61F	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61C5	A61C5	A61C19	A61C19	A61F5	A61F5	A63B71	A63B71	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composite mouthguard (60) has a flexible and tough, softenable thermoplastic mouthguard portion (61) with a U-shaped base (62) having upward inner lingual (68) and outer labial walls (70) extending therefrom. A shock absorbing and attenuating nonsoftening, resilient, low compression, elastomer framework (78) is embedded in the mouthguard portion (61) to absorb, attenuate and dissipate shock forces exerted on the mouthguard (60) during athletic activity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EZ GARD IND INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
E-Z GARD INDUSTRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELVEDERE PAUL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITTELSEN JON D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BELVEDERE, PAUL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KITTELSEN, JON, D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPOSITE MOUTHGUARDBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to a protective mouthguard for use by athletes, and more particularly to a composite mouthguard that absorbs, attenuates and dissipates shock forces exerted on the mouthguard with additional teeth, jaw and joint protecting features and which further increases body muscular strength and endurance.A number of mouthguards currently exist in the art for protecting the teeth and for reducing the chance of shock, concussions and other injuries as a result of high impact collisions and blows during athletic competition. Mouthguards generally are characterized as being nonpersonalized, universal and stock model type, or are custom formed to have upper jaw and teeth direct contact. Additionally, mouthguards may be tethered or untethered. Tethered mouthguards are usually connected to a fastening point, such as a helmet or face guard, to prevent the chance of the mouthguard from being lost as well as to prevent swallowing of the mouthguard or choking on the mouthguard by the user.Failure to use a mouthguard or the use of an improperly fitted mouthguard when impacts, collisions or blows occur to the jaw structure of an athlete have recently been found to be responsible for athletes' susceptibility to headaches, presence of earaches, ringing in the ears, clogged ears, vertigo, concussions and dizziness. The cause of these types of health problems and injuries are generally not visible by inspection of the mouth or jaw, but more particularly relate to the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and surrounding tissues where the lower jaw is connected to the skull in the proximity where the auriculo-temporalis nerves and supra-temporal arteries pass from the neck nerves into the skull to the brain. 

 Most mouthguards in the past have been made from ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) . The material has a softening point approximating the temperature of boiling water which will permit the mouthguard to be placed in boiling water and custom fit to the wearer's mouth. However, the EVA material, although the best known to date, is not ideal for absorption, attenuation and dissipation of shock forces exerted on the EVA mouthguard during athletic activity. Furthermore, the EVA material is subject to deformation and break down with continued use and chewing thereon by the wearer.There is a need for a mouthguard that may be fit by the user, practitioners, dentists, equipment personnel and trainers that will custom fit with direct contact with the upper jaw and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS
1. A composite mouthguard for a user having an upper jaw with anterior teeth, posterior teeth with occlusal surfaces, and fossae with cartilage forming sockets, and a movable lower jaw with anterior teeth, posterior teeth with occlusal surfaces and condyles movably fitted within the sockets forming the temporomandibular joints through which the auriculo-temporalis nerves and supra-temporal arteries pass, the mouthguard comprising:
(a) a flexible and tough mouthguard portion made of a first material having an U-shaped base with top and bottom sides with upward inner lingual and outer labial walls and further having posterior and anterior portions; and
(b) a shock absorbing and attenuating framework made of a second material embedded in the mouthguard portion to absorb, attenuate and dissipate shock forces exerted on the mouthguard during athletic activity.
2. The composite mouthguard of claim 1, wherein the framework second material is a nonsoftening, resilient, low compression elastomer which is embedded in the posterior portion of the mouthguard base wherein the mouthguard portion first material is a softenable thermoplastic.
3. The composite mouthguard of claim 2, wherein the framework in each mouthguard posterior portion is comprised of a posterior cushion pad for absorption, attenuation and dissipation of shock forces exerted on the posterior teeth.
4. The composite mouthguard of claim 3, wherein each posterior cushion pad has an enlarged portion above and below the cushion pad in an area of a molar tooth. 


 5. The composite mouthguard of claim 3, wherein each posterior cushion pad has an enlarged portion above and below the posterior cushion pad in an area of a bicuspid tooth.
6. The composite mouthguard of claim 3, wherein each posterior cushion pad has two enlarged portions above and below the cushion pad in areas of molar and bicuspid teeth.
7. The composite mouthguard of claim 6, further comprising a raised ridge on each posterior cushion pad extending from the enlarged portions.
8. The composite mouthguard of claim 3, further comprising thermoplastic occlusal poster pads on the bottom side of the base along only the poster portions to space apart the anterior teeth of the lower jaw from the anterior portion of the bottom side of the U-shaped base to facilitate breathing and speech and to lessen condyles pressure and impact upon the cartilage, and temporomandibular joints, the arteries and the nerves.
9. The composite mouthguard of claim 8, wherein the elastomeric posterior cushion pads are embedded in the thermoplastic occlusal posterior pads.
10. The composite mouthguard of claim 1, wherein the framework second material is a nonsoftening, resilient, low compression elastomer which forms an anterior impact brace on the anterior portion of the upward outer labial wall and at least partially extends through the labial wall to form anterior cushion pads to touch the anterior teeth of the upper jaw. 


 11. The composite mouthguard of claim 10, wherein the elastomeric framework extends rearwardly from the anterior brace to form posterior cushion pads in the posterior portions of the mouthguard base.
12. The composite mouthguard of claim 1, wherein the framework second material is a nonsoftening, resilient, low compression elastomer which forms an anterior impact brace on the anterior portion of the upward outer labial wall and extends rearwardly to the posterior portions of the mouthguard base wherein the mouthguard portion first material is a softenable thermoplastic.
13. The composite mouthguard of claim 12, wherein the framework in each of the mouthguard posterior portions is comprised of a posterior cushion pad for absorption, attenuation and dissipation of shock forces exerted on the posterior teeth.
14. The composite mouthguard of claim 13, wherein each posterior cushion pad has an enlarged portion above and below the posterior cushion pad in an area of a molar tooth.
15. The composite mouthguard of claim 13, wherein each posterior cushion pad has an enlarged portion above and below the posterior cushion pad in an area of a bicuspid tooth.
16. The composite mouthguard of claim 13, wherein each posterior cushion pad has two enlarged portions above and below the posterior cushion pad in areas of molar and bicuspid teeth.
17. The composite mouthguard of claim 16, further comprising a raised ridge on each posterior cushion pad extending from the enlarged portions. 


 18. The composite mouthguard of claim 13, further comprising thermoplastic occlusal posterior pads on the bottom side of the base along the poster portions to space apart the anterior teeth of the lower jaw from the anterior portion of the bottom side of the U-shaped base to facilitate breathing and speech and to lessen condyles pressure and impact upon the cartilage, and temporomandibular joints, the arteries and the nerves.
19. The composite mouthguard of claim 18, wherein the elastomeric posterior cushion pads are embedded in the thermoplastic occlusal posterior pads.
20. The composite mouthguard of claim 12, wherein the anterior impact brace on the anterior portion of the upward, outer labial wall at least partially extends through the labial wall to form anterior cushion pads to touch the anterior teeth of the upper jaw.
21. The composite mouthguard of claim 1, wherein the mouthguard portion first material is made from a thermoplastic comprised of copolymers of ethylene and vinyl acetate.
22. The composite mouthguard of claim 1, wherein the framework second material is made from an elastomeric material of a group comprising thermoplastic rubber and vulcanized rubber. 

23. A composite mouthguard for a user having an upper jaw with anterior teeth, posterior teeth with occlusal surfaces, and fossae with cartilage forming sockets, and a movable lower jaw with anterior teeth, posterior teeth with occlusal surfaces and condyles movably fitted within the sockets forming the temporomandibular joints through which the auriculo-temporalis nerves and supra-temporal arteries pass, the mouthguard comprising:
(a) a flexible and tough, softenable thermoplastic mouthguard portion having an U-shaped base with top and bottom sides with upward inner lingual and outer labial walls and further having posterior and anterior portions; and
(b) a shock absorbing and attenuating non¬ softening, resilient, low compression, elastomeric framework embedded in the mouthguard portion to absorb, attenuate and dissipate shock forces exerted on the mouthguard during athletic activity, wherein the elastomeric framework forms an anterior impact brace on the anterior portion of the upward outer labial wall and extends rearwardly to form posterior cushion pads in the posterior portions of the mouthguard base.
24. The composite mouthguard of claim 23, wherein each posterior cushion pad has an enlarged portion above and below the cushion pad in an area of a molar tooth.
25. The composite mouthguard of claim 23, wherein each posterior cushion pad has an enlarged portion above and below the posterior cushion pad in an area of a bicuspid tooth.
26. The composite mouthguard of claim 23, wherein each posterior cushion pad has two enlarged portions above and below the cushion pad in areas of molar and bicuspid teeth. 


 27. The composite mouthguard of claim 26, further comprising a raised ridge on each posterior cushion pad extending from the enlarged portions.
28. The composite mouthguard of claim 23, further comprising thermoplastic occlusal poster pads on the bottom side of the base along only the poster portions to space apart the anterior teeth of the lower jaw from the anterior portion of the bottom side of the U-shaped base to facilitate breathing and speech and to lessen condyles pressure and impact upon the cartilage, and temporomandibular joints, the arteries and the nerves.
29. The composite mouthguard of claim 28, wherein the elastomeric posterior cushion pads are embedded in the thermoplastic occlusal posterior pads.
30. The composite mouthguard of claim 23, wherein the anterior impact brace on the anterior portion of the upward outer labial wall at least partially extends through the labial wall to form anterior cushion pads to touch the anterior teeth of the upper jaw.
31. The composite mouthguard of claim 23, wherein the thermoplastic mouthguard is made from copolymers of ethylene and vinyl acetate.
32. The composite mouthguard of claim 23, wherein the elastomeric framework is made from a material of a group comprising thermoplastic rubber and vulcanized rubber. 


 33. A composite mouthguard for a user having an upper jaw with anterior teeth, posterior teeth with occlusal surfaces, and fossae with cartilage forming sockets, and a movable lower jaw with anterior teeth, posterior teeth with occlusal surfaces and condyles movably fitted within the sockets forming the temporomandibular joints through which the auriculo-temporalis nerves and supra-temporal arteries pass, the mouthguard comprising:
(a) a flexible and tough, softenable thermoplastic mouthguard portion having an U-shaped base with top and bottom sides with upward inner lingual and outer labial walls and further having posterior and anterior portions;
(b) a shock absorbing and attenuating non¬ softening, resilient, low compression, elastomeric framework embedded in the mouthguard portion to absorb, attenuate and dissipate shock forces exerted on the mouthguard during athletic activity, wherein the elastomeric framework forms an anterior impact brace on the anterior portion of the upward outer labial wall and extends rearwardly to form posterior cushion pads in the posterior portions of the mouthguard base;
(c) two enlarged portions on each posterior cushion pad in areas of bicuspid and molar teeth; and
(d) anterior cushion pads on the anterior impact brace at least partially extending through the labial wall to touch the anterior teeth of. the upper jaw.
34. The composite mouthguard of claim 33, further comprising a raised ridge on each posterior cushion pad extending from the enlarged portions. 


 35. The composite mouthguard of claim 33, further comprising thermoplastic occlusal poster pads on the bottom side of the base along only the poster portions to space apart the anterior teeth of the lower jaw from the anterior portion of the bottom side of the U-shaped base to facilitate breathing and speech and to lessen condyles pressure and impact upon the cartilage, and temporomandibular joints, the arteries and the nerves.
36. The composite mouthguard of claim 35, wherein the elastomeric posterior cushion pads are embedded in the thermoplastic occlusal posterior pads.
37. The composite mouthguard of claim 33, wherein the thermoplastic mouthguard is made from copolymers of ethylene and vinyl acetate.
38. The composite mouthguard of claim 33, wherein the elastomeric framework is made from a material of a group comprising thermoplastic rubber and vulcanized rubber. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
