<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640346</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Uses of sulphated sugars against inflammation
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61Q1908	A61K3170	A61Q1704	A61K3170	A61K872	A61K860	A61Q1908	A61Q1704	A61K31715	A61K31715	A61K849	A61K873	A61K830	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61Q	A61K	A61Q	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61Q	A61Q	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61Q19	A61K31	A61Q17	A61K31	A61K8	A61K8	A61Q19	A61Q17	A61K31	A61K31	A61K8	A61K8	A61K8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Use of a sulphated mono- or disaccharide or a salt or complex 
thereof for the preparation of a medicament for the 

prophylaxis or treatment of inflammation of an animal or a 
huma
n 

i) for topical application to the skin or to any non-gastrointestinal, 
non-oral mucosal surface including the lining of body cavities; 
ii) or for implantation into tissue or a body cavity; 
iii) or for injection into tissue or a body cavity including 
joints; 
iv) or for systemic administration. 
The inflammation may be caused by e.g. a microbial epithelial 
infection, non-microbial dermatosis, an allergic or immune 

disorder, a malignant or premalignant disorder, exposure to 
radiation including ultraviolet radiation, a chemical agent, 

external pressure, heat, surgery, or by the presence directly 
on the skin or the mucosal surface of a device; or caused by 

acne or rosacea; or caused by cancer in situ colli uteri, 
cervical carcinoma, endometrial carcinoma, or basal cell 

carcinoma. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the use of sulphated saccharides as
anti-inflammatory agents.While it is difficult to give an adequate description of inflammatory
phenomena in terms of underlying cellular events in the injured
tissue, there are certain features of the process that are generally
agreed to be characteristic. These include fenestration of the micro-vasculature,
leakage of the elements of blood into the interstitial
spaces and migration of leukocytes into the inflamed tissue. On a
macroscopic level, this is usually accompanied by the familiar clinical
signs of erythema, oedema, tenderness and pain. During this
complex response, chemical mediators such as histamine, serotonine,
leukotrienes, prostaglandines, various chemotactic factors, bradykinin,
lymphokines, kinin and complement system, lysosomal enzymes and
cyclic nucleotides are liberated locally. Phagocytic cells migrate
into the area, and cellular lysosomal membranes may be ruptured,
releasing lytic enzymes. All these events contribute to the inflammatory
response.Several drugs are employed to suppress the manifestations of inflammation,
including the adrenocorticosteroids, the large group comprising
the so called non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs,
and drugs such as immunosuppressive agents, chloroquine, penicillamine
and gold salts.NSAIDs are chemically a heterogeneous group of drugs, mainly constituting
aromatic substituted carboxylic acids. Pharmacologically, they
have anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgetic effects, and they
inhibit prostaglandin synthesis and decrease thrombocyte aggregation.
The mode of action of NSAIDs is not yet fully understood, although 
it is known that they inhibit one or more of the mediator substances
of inflammation. However, there is no good correlation between inhibition
of prostaglandin synthesis and anti-inflammatory effect. The
main indication for NSAIDs is rheumatic diseases, particularly where
inflammatory processes in supporting tissues give rise to pain and
joint-stiffness. Furthermore, the analgetic effects can be used as
symptomatic pain relief in cases where the prostaglandin inhibitory
effect can be utilized, such as dysmennorrhoea, urolithiasis, etc.
Some of the drugs, including indomethacin, have also been used topically
on the skin in the treatment of various dermatoses and as a
topical anti-inflammatory agent in the eye.The use of NSAIDs gives rise to a broad spectrum of side effects.
Severe and often fatal blood dyscrasias are often seen, notably
following the use of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Use of a sulphated mono- or disaccharide or a salt or complex thereof for preparing a medicament
for the prophylaxis or treatment of inflammation of an animal or of a human,


i) for topical application to the skin or to any non-gastrointestinal, non-oral mucosal surface
including the lining of body cavities;
ii) or for implantation into tissue or into a non-gastrointestinal, non-oral body cavity;
iii) or for injection into tissue or a non-gastrointestinal, non-oral body cavity including joints;
iv) or for systemic administration.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for topical application for
prophylaxis or treatment of inflammation caused by a microbial epithelial infection, non-microbial

dermatosis, an allergic or immune disorder, a malignant or premalignant disorder, exposure to
radiation including ultraviolet radiation, a chemical agent, external pressure, heat, surgery, or by the

presence directly on the skin or the mucosal surface of a device.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for topical application for
prophylaxis or treatment of inflammation caused by acne or rosacea.
Use according to claim 2 for the preparation of a medicament for prophylaxis or treatment of
inflammation caused by cancer in situ colli uteri, cervical carcinoma, endometrial carcinoma, or

basal cell carcinoma.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for topical application in the form
of a powder, paste, ointment, lotion, gel, cream, emulsion, solution, suspension, spray, sponge, strip,

plaster, pad, dressing or ostomy plate.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for topical application in the form
of a preparation suitable for application on vaginal mucosa e.g. a vaginal suppository, a tampon, a

suspension for vaginal irrigation, a vaginal tablet or troche, a vaginal cream or gel or ointment; or
for application on nasal mucosa e.g. a nasal insert, a nasal drop or spray, a nasal ointment or gel; or

for application on eye mucosa e.g. eye drops, eye salve, eye gel, or an eye insert. 
Use according to claim 1, wherein the sulphated saccharide is sucrose octasulfate, a complex or
salt of sucrose octasulfate with a metal chosen from Al, Na, K, Ca, Mg, Ba, Zn, Cu, Zr, Ti, Bi, Mn

or Os, or a salt of sucrose octasulfate with an amino acid.
Use according to claim 7, wherein the sulphated saccharide is sucrose octasulfate or potassium or
sodium salt thereof or the aluminum complex of sucrose octasulphate, sucralfate.
Use according to any of claims 1-8 wherein the concentration of the sulphated mono- or
disaccharide is present in medicament in an amount of 0.001-99%, typically 0.01-75%, more

typically 0.1-20%, especially 1-10% by weight of the medicament.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for implantation, injection or
systemic administration wherein the inflammation is caused by surgery.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for implantation, injection or
systemic administration wherein the inflammation is caused by a premalignant or malignant

disorder.
Use according to claim 11 wherein the inflammation is caused by cancer in situ coli uteri,
cervical carcinoma, endometrial carcinoma, or basal cell carcinoma.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for systemic administration for
treatment of inflammation caused by acute leukemia, chronic myelocytic leukemia, chronic

lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, lymphosarcoma, myeloma, metastasing carcinoma of any
origin, or metastasing melanoma.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for injection wherein the
inflammation is caused by tendinitis, tenosynovitis, tendofibrositis, bursitis, fibromyositis, myositis,

fibrositis and epicondylitis, strains and sprains, twisting, dislocation, luxation, carpal tunnel syndrome,
fascitis, synovitis in rheumatoid arthritis, infectious arthritis, monoarthritis in arthritis urica,

spondylitis, chondrocalcinosis, Reiter's syndrome, osteitis, or osteomyelitis.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for systemic administration
wherein the inflammation is caused by a microbial infection. 
Use according to claim 15 for the preparation of a medicament for systemic administration
wherein the inflammation is caused by AIDS, bacterial septicemia, systemic fungal infections,

Rickettsial diseases, toxic shock syndrome, infectious mononucleosis, cytomegalovirus infection,
influenza, poliomyelitis, malaria, Leishmaniosis, Trypanosomiasis, Toxoplasmosis, Lassa Fever, or

Yellow Fever.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for systemic administration

wherein the inflammation is caused by an allergic or immune disorder.
Use according to claim 17 wherein the inflammation is caused by systemic lupus erythematosus,
polyarteritis nodosa, scleroderma, polymyositis, dermatomyositis, rheumatoid arthritis, anaphylaxis,

serum sickness, hemolytic anaemia, allergic agranulocytosis.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for systemic administration
wherein the inflammation is caused by toxic agranulocytosis.
Use according to claim 1 for the preparation of a medicament for injection or systemic
administration, characterized in that the medicament is in a form suitable for injection or systemic

administration, e.g. a solution or a suspension.
Use according to claim 1 for implantation for the preparation of a medicament, characterized in
that the medicament is in form of a coating of a medicotechnical device or is incorporated into the

material of the device itself.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
