<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659257</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WASTE PROCESSING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G21F932	F23G5027	A62D337	A62D300	F23G5027	G21F930	G21F930	A62D340	A62D10128	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G21F	F23G	A62D	A62D	F23G	G21F	G21F	A62D	A62D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G21F9	F23G5	A62D3	A62D3	F23G5	G21F9	G21F9	A62D3	A62D101	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the processing of solid organic sulphur-containing waste, in particular ion exchange media, from nuclear facilities, which method comprises that in a first step a) the waste is subjected to pyrolysis at the most at 700  C, in a step b) the gas resulting from step a) is subjected to pyrolysis, in an optional step c) the gas resulting from step b) is exposed to a reductant bed, and in a step d) the gas from step b) or alternatively step c) is exposed to a bed of sulphide-forming metal to form metal sulphides and easily manageable harmless gases. Apparatus for carrying out the method comprises A) a pyrolysis reactor for the solid waste, B) a pyrolysis reactor for the gas from A), C) optionally, a reductant bed, and D) a bed of a sulphur-forming metal for the gas from B) or C).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STUDSVIK RADWASTE AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STUDSVIK RADWASTE AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESBOEL ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLST LARS EVERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESBOEL, ROLF
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLST, LARS, EVERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of processing 
organic waste, "processing" in the present case referring 
to the breaking down of said waste via the thermal route 
with the primary aim of affording opportunities for 
reducing its volume to thereby lessen handling and storage 
problems. More particularly, it concerns a new method and 
new apparatus for processing solid organic sulphur-containing 
waste in which the thermal breakdown embraces 
pyrolysis of the waste. The new method of the invention 
not only achieves the aim of volume reduction, but also 
provides, for example, such benefits as the elimination of 
the sulphur content from the exhaust gases, and similarly 
any radioactive content, in an effective and straight 
forward manner. The invention is therefore especially 
useful for the processing of ionic exchange media from 
nuclear facilities, which media display a certain degree 
of radioactivity and therefore would otherwise require 
conventional measures in relation to ultimate waste 
disposal end deposition. The nuclear industry annually produces a significant 
amount of waste which is classified as radioactively 
contaminated ion exchange media. In Sweden, such waste is 
managed in various fashions in the individual nuclear 
facilities prior to ultimate disposal in bedrock chambers. 
This management is technically complex and as a rule leads 
to increased volumes which influences storage costs. A 
process resulting in diminished volume at reasonable cost 
should therefore be commercially interesting.  
 Ion exchange medium is an organic material. The base is 
usually a styrene polymer with grafted sulphonic acid and 
amine groups. The material is therefore burnable, but air 
is supplied during combustion and sulphur and nitrogen 
oxides are formed which in turn must be separated in some 
manner. Additionally, during combustion the temperature 
becomes sufficiently high for radioactive caesium to be 
partially vapourised. The residual radioactivity will also 
accompany the resulting fly ash to some extent. This 
necessitates a very high performance filter system. 
Accordingly, both technical and economic problems are 
associated with the combustion technique. An alternative to combustion is pyrolysis. However, 
previously known pyrolysis methods in this technical field 
are deficient in several aspects and in particular 
no one has earlier succeeded in devising a pyrolysis 
process which provides a comprehensive solution to the 
problem of sulphur and nitrogen-containing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for the processing of solid organic sulphur-containing 
waste, in particular ion exchange media, from 

nuclear facilities comprising the pyrolysis of said waste 
with the primary aim of reducing its volume, characterized 

in that 

a) the waste is subjected to pyrolysis at a temperature 
of at the most 700°C, preferably 600°C at the most, to 

form a gas which contains organic sulphur compounds, and a 
solid pyrolysis residue which contains radioactive 

material from the waste, 
b) the gas is separated from the pyrolysis residue and 
subjected to pyrolysis, alternatively cracking, for 

breaking down the organic sulphur compounds with a moderately high number of carbons in the gas to 
carbonaceous compounds with a lower number of carbons and 

inorganic sulphur compounds, 
c) optionally exposing the gas from step b) to a bed of a 
solid reductant, preferably carbon, under reducing 

conditions so that any sulphur oxides present are reduced 
to hydrogen sulphide, and 
d) exposing the gas from step b), or alternatively step 
c) it this was carried out, to a bed of a sulphide-forming metal under conditions 

in which the sulphur compounds from the preceding step 
form metal sulphides with said metal. 
A method according to claim 1, characterized in that 
prior to step b), the gas is subjected to condensation 

conditions in which tar products therein condense out and 
are separated before the gas is conducted to said step b).  

 
A method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in 
that after step a) any fly ash is separated from the gas, 

preferably in a ceramic filter. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 

characterized in that the pyrolysis in step a) is carried 
out at a temperature in the range of 400 - 700°C, 

preferably 400 - 600°C, especially 450 - 550°C. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the pyrolysis in step a) is 

carried out without a catalyst for the breaking down of 
carbon compounds in the waste. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the pyrolysis in step a) is carried 

out in a gravity or flash reactor, preferably with a 
residence time less than 10 seconds, especially 5 - 8 

seconds. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the pyrolysis or cracking in step b) 

is carried out in the absence of a cracking catalyst and 
at a higher temperature than the pyrolysis in step a), 

preferably above 700°C, more preferably above 700°C and 
up to 1300°C, especially above 700°C and up to 1000°C, 

e.g. above 700°C and up to 850°C. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, 
characterized in that the pyrolysis or cracking in step b) 

is carried out in the presence of a cracking catalyst and 
at a temperture above 600°C, especially in the range of 

600 - 1300°C, preferably 650 - 1300°C. 
A method according to claim 8, characterized in that 
the pyrolysis or cracking in step b) is carried out in the 

presence of dolomite lime.  
 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the reduction in step c) is carried 

out at a temperature in the range of 700 - 900°C, 
especially around 800°C. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the sulphide formation in step d) is 

performed at a temperature in the range of 400 - 600°C, 
especially around 500°C. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the volume of the residue resulting 

from step a) is reduced by compression. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized by being carried out at a negative pressure. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that after step b), the gas is subjected 

to filtration, preferably in a carbon filter. 
A method according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characerized in that after step d), the exhaust gases are 

subjected to oxidation. 
Apparatus for the processing of solid organic 
sulphur-containing waste, in particular exchange media, 

from nuclear facilities comprising pyrolysis of the waste, 
characterized in that it comprises: 


A) a pyrolysis reactor (1) for carrying out pyrolysis 
on the solid waste, preferably at a temperature in the 

range of 400 - 700°C, especially 400 - 600°C, 
B) a pyrolysis or cracking reactor (7) for carrying 
out pyrolysis on the gas emanating from the pyrolysis reactor (1), 

preferably at a temperature in the range above 700°C and 
up to 1300°C without a catalyst and in the range of 600 -  

 
1300°C with a catalyst, 
C) optionally, a bed (11) of a solid reductant for the 
reduction of any sulphur dioxide present in the gas from the pyrolysis/cracking reactor (7), and 
D) a bed (13) of a sulphide-forming metal for the 
formation of metal sulphide with the gas from the pyrolysis/cracking reactor (7) or 

alternatively the bed (11), if used. 
Apparatus according to claim 16, characterized in that 
the pyrolysis reactor (1) is a gravity or flash 

reactor. 
Apparatus according to claim 16 or 17, characterized 
by comprising, prior to pyrolysis/cracking (7) reactor, a condenser (8) for 

the condensation of tar products in the gas. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 - 18, 
characterized by comprising a filter (5) in reactor 

(1), preferably a ceramic filter, for the separation of 
any fly ash from the gas. 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 - 19, 
characterized by comprising a filter, preferably a 

carbon filter, for the separation of soot from the gas 
from pyrolysis/cracking reactor (7). 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 - 20, 
characterized by comprising a compactor for the 

compression of pyrolysis residue resulting from the pyrolysis reactor (1). 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 - 21, 
characterized by comprising an afterburner (15) after the bed (13). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
