<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639817</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Identification or smart card system, correlator circuit and synchronisation circuit suitable for use in such a system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K700	G06K700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	G06K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	G06K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A data detector for a differential biphase modulated 
signal, in particular for identification systems. The 

invention is based on the solution given by the stochastic 
detection theory, however, with an adjustment such that the 

realisation is simplified. Also provided is an adequate 
synchronisation circuit. 
The entire data detector circuit can be realized as an 
algorithm in a digital signal processor. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NEDAP NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.V. NEDERLANDSCHE APPARATENFABRIEK NEDAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOCKENS TALLIENCO W H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREVINK GERRIT J W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIP HARM J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOCKENS, TALLIENCO W. H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GREVINK, GERRIT J. W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIP, HARM J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an identification or smart card 
system comprising a reader unit and at least one responder 
which codes data bits, comprising means for modulating a 
subcarrier with information representing data bits by means of 
differential biphase modulation of a subcarrier to obtain a 
differential biphase modulated signal which is radiated by the 
responder to be detected by the reader unit, the reader unit 
comprising a data detector for recovering the data bits from 
the received differential biphase modulated signal. Such a system is known per se, the detector unit 
comparing the received biphase signal with a zero level. Of 
the thus obtained binary signal, the moments are determined at 
which the binary signal passes the zero level. On the basis of 
this information the data bits to be recovered are 
subsequently determined. Accordingly, the phase of the 
received signal is a relevant parameter here. Because the 
noise present in the system is relatively large in relation to 
the binary signal at the moment when the binary signal passes 
a zero-axis crossing, an accurate detection precisely requires 
a high signal to noise ratio, so that high requirements are 
imposed on the system, which are often technically unfeasible 
or economically unattractive. The invention meets the above-mentioned disadvantages and 
has as a characteristic feature that the data detector 
comprises a correlator circuit which multiplies the received 
differential biphase signal by a template signal and 
integrates the signal obtained upon multiplication over an 
integration period which runs over a last part of the time 
span in which a first data bit is present and a subsequent 
initial part of a time span in which a second data bit, 
following the first data bit, is present, the correlator  
 
circuit processing the outcome of the integration performed 
over a first period in combination with the outcome of an 
integration which has been performed over a second period 
directly following the first period for recovering said data 
bits. Accordingly, according to a particular aspect of the 
invention only one correlator circuit is used. It is further observed that systems are known in which 
the data bits are recovered using two correlators. However, 
these systems work according to an entirely different 
principle. The invention will be explained hereinafter with 
reference to the drawing. In the drawing: 
Fig. 1 shows an example of the way in which a 
differential biphase modulated signal is obtained; Fig.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An identification or smart card system comprising a 
reader unit and at least one responder which codes data bits, 

comprising means for modulating a subcarrier with information 
representing data bits by means of differential biphase 

modulation of a subcarrier to obtain a differential biphase 
modulated signal which is radiated by the responder to be 

detected by the reader unit, the reader unit comprising a data 
detector for recovering the data bits from the received 

differential biphase modulated signal, 
   characterized in that the data detector comprises a 

correlator circuit which multiplies the received differential 
biphase signal by a template signal and integrates the signal 

obtained upon multiplication over an integration period which 
runs over a last part of the time span in which a first data 

bit is present and a subsequent initial part of a time span in 
which a second data bit, following the first data bit, is 

present, the correlator circuit processing the outcome of the 
integration performed over a first period in combination with 

the outcome of an integration which has been performed over a 
second period directly following the first period for 

recovering said data bits. 
A system according to claim 1, characterized in that the 
template signal corresponds with the unmodulated subcarrier. 
A system according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
in the correlator circuit the outcomes of the said two 

integration periods are subtracted from each other, the 
absolute value of the difference accordingly obtained 

representing a '1' data bit if this value is relatively high 
and representing a '0' data bit when this value is relatively 

low. 
A system according to claim 3, characterized in that the 
correlator circuit comprises a multiplier for carrying out 

said multiplication, an integrator for carrying out said 
integration, a sampling switch with which an output signal of 

the integrator is sampled to obtain the said outcomes of the 
integrations performed, a reset switch for resetting the 

integrator at a predetermined value after the outcome of an 
integration performed has been obtained using the sampling 

switch and before a next integration is performed, a memory 
for storing the outcome of the integration performed over the 

first period, a subtracter circuit for determining the 
difference between the outcome of the integration performed 

over the second period and the outcome of the integration 
performed over the first period, stored in the memory, and a 

comparator for comparing the absolute value of the difference 
with a predetermined value, the comparator generating a 
'0' 
data bit when the absolute value of the difference is smaller 

than the predetermined value and generating a '1' data bit 
when the absolute value of the difference is greater than the 

predetermined value. 
A system according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that 
the correlator circuit determines the polarity of the outcomes 

of the integrations performed over the first and second 
periods and compares the two polarities with each other for 

obtaining said data bits. 
A system according to claim 5, characterized in that the 
correlator circuit generates a '1' data bit when the said 

polarities are different and generates a '0' data bit when the 
said polarities are equal. 
A system according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that 
the correlator circuit comprises a multiplier for performing 

said multiplication, an integrator for performing said 
 

integration, a sampling switch with which an output signal of 
the integrator is sampled to obtain said outcomes of the 

integrations performed, a reset switch for resetting the 
integrator at a predetermined value after the outcome of an 

integration performed has been obtained using the sampling 
switch and before a next integration is performed, a 

comparator for determining the polarity of the outcomes of the 
integration performed, a memory for storing the polarity of 

the result of the integration performed over the first period, 
and an exclusive-OR circuit for comparing the polarity of the 

outcome of the integration performed over the first period as 
stored in the memory and the polarity of the outcome of the 

integration performed over the second period. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the subcarrier comprises a clock signal, 

the data detector further comprising a synchronisation circuit 
for controlling the phase of an internal clock circuit, the 

synchronisation circuit integrating the received differential 
biphase signal over an integration period smaller than a 

period of a data bit and adjusts the phase of the internal 
clock signal on the basis of the obtained results of the last-mentioned 

integration performed. 
A system according to claim 8, characterized in that the 
phase of the internal clock signal is adjusted on the basis of 

the absolute value of the results of the integration 
performed. 
A system according to claim 8 or 9, characterized in that 
the synchronisation circuit comprises means which are known 

per se for determining a clock frequency of the clock signal 
present in the received differential biphase signal and for 

generating the internal clock signal with a clock frequency 
which is equal to the clock frequency of the received 

differential biphase signal. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the reader unit generates an 

interrogation field which is modulated by the responder when 
the responder is introduced into the interrogation field, the 

responder transforming the differential biphase modulated 
signal in frequency, so that this signal is transmitted in a 

side band of the interrogation field. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the reader unit detects the differential 

biphase signal according to the absorption principle. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the reader unit detects the differential 

biphase signal according to the transmission principle. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims, 
characterized in that the data detector comprises a digital 

signal processor which functions as a correlator circuit. 
A system according to any one of the preceding claims 
7-9, characterized in that the data detector comprises a 

digital signal processor which functions as a synchronisation 
circuit. 
A system according to claims 14 and 15, characterized in 
that the data processor comprises a digital signal processor 

which functions as a correlator circuit and synchronisation 
circuit. 
A correlator circuit suitable for use in a system 
according to any one of the preceding claims. 
A synchronisation circuit suitable for use in a system 
according to any one of the preceding claims 1-16. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
