<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636767</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cleaning apparatus and method for fuel passages and other passages.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B902	B08B902	B08B9032	F01D2500	F01D2500	F02B7704	F02B7704	F02C722	F02C7232	F02M6500	F02M6500	F23D1136	F23D1138	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	B08B	F01D	F01D	F02B	F02B	F02C	F02C	F02M	F02M	F23D	F23D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B9	B08B9	B08B9	F01D25	F01D25	F02B77	F02B77	F02C7	F02C7	F02M65	F02M65	F23D11	F23D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for cleaning an internal passage of an 
article, such as a fuel passage of a gas turbine or 

other engine. The apparatus comprises a container for 
containing cleaning fluid, means for communicating a 

first end of the passage to the cleaning fluid in the 
container, and cleaning fluid conduit means communicated 

to a second end of the passage in a manner to draw 
cleaning fluid from the container to flow through the 

passage from the first end toward the second end in 
response to flow of cleaning fluid through the conduit 

means. The apparatus includes means for blocking flow of 
cleaning fluid through the conduit means so as to direct 

the cleaning fluid therein to flow through the passage 
from the second end toward the first end and into the 

container. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXTRON FUEL SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUEL SYSTEMS TEXTRON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUDDAS RICHARD V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUDDAS, RICHARD V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and 
methods for cleaning of internal passages of articles of 
manufacture, especially fuel passages of fuel injection 
devices for gas turbine and other engines to remove coke 
or other deposits therefrom. During use, fuel injection nozzles of gas turbine 
engines are known to develop deposits of what is called 
coke in the fuel passages proximate the engine 
combustor; i.e. in the fuel discharge passages proximate 
the nozzle discharge tip that is exposed to the 
combustor for discharging fuel thereto. The coke 
deposits are formed proximate the nozzle fuel discharge 
tip by action of combustor heat on stagnant fuel 
residing in the fuel passages communicating with the 
combustor to carbonize the fuel to coke. For example, 
fuel residing in the primary fuel passages can be 
carbonized to form deposits of coke after engine 
shutdown when non-flowing fuel residing in the primary 
fuel passages is baked by the combustor heat. During 
engine operation, primary fuel flow through the primary 
passages is typically continuous such that coking does 
not occur during engine operation.  On the other hand, fuel in the secondary fuel 
passages can be carbonized to form deposits of coke 
during and after engine shutdown. In particular, 
secondary fuel is sometimes interrupted during engine 
operation such that there is non-flowing fuel present in 
the secondary fuel passages. The secondary fuel can be 
baked by the combustor heat in this situation to form 
coke deposits. Moreover, fuel residing in the secondary 
fuel passages also can be carbonized to form deposits of 
coke after engine shutdown when non-flowing fuel resides 
in the secondary fuel passages and is baked by the 
combustor heat to form coke deposits. The formation of coke deposits in the primary and/or 
secondary fuel passages proximate the nozzle fuel 
discharge tip occurs over time and adversely affects 
performance of the fuel injection nozzle. Moreover, 
coke deposits also form on external tip surfaces exposed 
to the engine combustor. As a result, fuel injection 
nozzles are periodically removed from the engine and 
subjected to a cleaning operation to remove the coke 
deposits from the fuel passages. A typical cleaning procedure heretofore employed 
involved fixturing a cleaning device on the nozzle fuel 
discharge tip and submerging the nozzle in an 
ultrasonically activated bath of cleaning solution such 
as an caustic aqueous solution. Periodically, the 
cleaning solution is pumped from the fixture
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention in which an 
exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined 

as follows: 

Apparatus for cleaning an internal passage of 
an article, comprising: 


a) a container for cleaning fluid, 
b) means for communicating a first end of the 
passage to said cleaning fluid, 
c) cleaning fluid conduit means communicated to a 
second end of said passage in a manner to draw cleaning 

fluid from said container into said passage through said 
first and into said conduit means through said second 

end in response to flow of cleaning fluid through said 
conduit means, 
d) means for supplying cleaning fluid to said 
conduit means, and 
e) means for blocking flow of cleaning fluid 
through said conduit means so as to direct the cleaning 

fluid therein to flow into said passage through said 
second end and into said container through said first 

end. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for 
communicating said first end of said passage to said 

cleaning fluid comprises fixturing means for positioning 
said article relative to said cleaning fluid to immerse 

said first end therein. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said cleaning 
fluid conduit means is communicated to said second end 

of said passage by a vacuum-generating device for 
establishing a subambient pressure at said second end 

sufficient to draw the cleaning fluid from the container 
means through said passage from said first end toward 

said second end. 
The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said device is 
a venturi device having a discharge end communicated to 

said second end by a conduit extending between said 
discharge end and said second end. 
The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein said means for 
blocking flow of cleaning fluid through said conduit 

means is disposed downstream of said vacuum-generating 
device. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for 
blocking flow of cleaning fluid through said conduit 

means comprises a valve means disposed in said conduit 
means. 
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for 
supplying cleaning fluid to said conduit means comprises 

cleaning fluid recirculating means connected to said 
container for withdrawing cleaning fluid therefrom and 

supplying it to said conduit means. 
Apparatus for cleaning a fuel passage of a fuel 
injection device, comprising: 


a) a container for cleaning fluid, 
b) means for communicating a fuel outlet of said 
passage to said cleaning fluid, 
c) cleaning fluid conduit means communicated a 
fuel inlet of said passage in a manner to draw cleaning 

fluid from said container into said passage through said 
fuel outlet and into said conduit means through said 

fuel inlet in response to flow of cleaning fluid through 
said conduit means, 
d) means for supplying cleaning fluid to said 
conduit means, and 
e) means for blocking flow of cleaning fluid 
through said conduit means so as to direct the cleaning 

fluid therein to flow into said passage through said 
fuel inlet and into said container through said fuel 

outlet. 
The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said means for 
communicating said fuel outlet to said cleaning fluid 

comprises fixturing means for positioning said fuel 
injection device relative to said cleaning fluid to 

immerse said fuel outlet therein. 
The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said cleaning 
fluid conduit means is communicated to said fuel inlet 

by a vacuum-generating device for establishing a 
subambient pressure at said fuel inlet sufficient to 

draw the cleaning fluid from the container means through 
said passage from said fuel outlet toward said fuel 

inlet. 
The apparatus of Claim 10 wherein said means 
for blocking flow of cleaning fluid through said conduit 

means comprises a valve means disposed in said conduit 
means downstream of said vacuum-generating device. 
The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said means for 
supplying cleaning fluid to said conduit means comprises 

cleaning fluid recirculating means connected to said 
container for withdrawing cleaning fluid therefrom and 

supplying it to said conduit means. 
Apparatus for cleaning a fuel passage of a gas 
turbine engine fuel injection device having a fuel inlet 

fitting for supplying fuel to said passage and a fuel 
discharge orifice for discharging fuel from said passage 

to an engine combustor, comprising: 
a) a container for cleaning fluid, 
b) means for communicating said fuel discharge 
orifice to said cleaning fluid in said container, 
c) cleaning fluid conduit means communicated said 
inlet fitting in a manner to draw cleaning fluid from 

said container into said passage through said fuel 
discharge orifice and into said conduit means through 

said fuel inlet fitting in response to flow of cleaning 
fluid through said conduit means, 
d) means for supplying cleaning fluid to said 
conduit means, and 
e) means for blocking flow of cleaning fluid 
through said conduit means so as to direct the cleaning 

fluid therein to flow into said passage through said 
fuel inlet fitting and into said container through said 

fuel discharge orifice. 
The apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said means 
for communicating said fuel discharge orifice to said 

cleaning fluid comprises fixturing means for engaging a 
flange of said fuel injection device located between 

said fuel inlet fitting and a fuel discharge tip of said 
fuel injection device and positioning said fuel 

discharge tip immersed in said cleaning fluid. 
The apparatus of Claim 13 wherein said cleaning 
fluid conduit means is communicated to said fuel inlet 

fitting by a vacuum-generating device for establishing a 
subambient pressure at said fuel inlet fitting 

sufficient to draw the cleaning fluid from the container 
means through said passage from said fuel discharge 

orifice toward said fuel inlet fitting. 
Method for cleaning an internal passage of an 
article, comprising:

 
   communicating a first end of the passage to a 

cleaning fluid, 
   establishing a relative vacuum at a second end of 

the passage by flowing cleaning fluid through a vacuum-generating 
device communicated to said second end, 

whereby the cleaning fluid is drawn through the passage 
from said first end toward said second end, and 

   blocking flow of cleaning fluid downstream of the 
vacuum-generating device so as to direct cleaning fluid 

to flow into said passage from said second end toward 
said first end. 
The method of Claim 16 wherein the first end is 
communicated to the cleaning fluid by immersing said 

first end in said cleaning fluid. 
Apparatus for contacting external and internal 
surfaces of an article with first and second fluids, 

comprising: 

a) a container for receiving the article, 
b) means for supplying a first fluid to the 
container to contact an external article surface, said 

means comprising a storage tank for said first fluid, 
conduit means for connecting the storage tank to the 

container, and a first transfer pump for transferring 
the first fluid between the container and the tank, 
c) means for supplying a second fluid to the 
container after the first fluid is returned to the first 

storage tank for contacting an external article surface 
contact the article, said means comprising a storage 

tank for said second fluid, conduit means for connecting 
the storage tank to the container, and a second transfer 

pump for transferring the second fluid between the 
container and the tank, and 
d) a booster pump alternately communicable to the 
respective first and second transfer pumps for supplying 

 
the respective first and second fluid therefrom at a 

higher pressure to an internal surface of the article 
while the external surface thereof contacts the 

respective first and second fluid in the container. 
The apparatus of Claim 18 wherein the first 
storage tank contains a cleaning fluid and the second 

storage tank contains rinse water. 
The apparatus of Claim 18 wherein the booster 
pump is communicable to the respective transfer pumps by 

a respective first and second electrically actuated 
valves. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
