<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624326</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Clothes-hanger supporting device for wardrobes, that can be lowered.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47B6100	A47B6100	A47B6102	A47G2500	A47G2506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47B	A47B	A47B	A47G	A47G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47B61	A47B61	A47B61	A47G25	A47G25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The lowerable clothes-hanger supporting device for 
wardrobes comprises a plate (1) fixable to a wardrobe side 

panel (F), and a disk-like element (10) provided with an 
arm (2) having an end connected to a rail (3) for 

supporting clothes hangers. The disk-like element (10) is 
mounted on the plate (1) so that it can oscillate in a 

plane between two positions in which the rail (3) is 
respectively raised and lowered. A first elastic member 

(23) is placed around the disk-like element (10) to return 
it to the position in which the rail (3) is raised. A 

second elastic member (30) is applied eccentrically with 
respect to the disk-like element (10), so as to apply 

thereon a moment in the same or opposite direction with 
respect to the moment applied by the first elastic member 

(23) around the positions that respectively correspond to 
the lifting and lowering of the rail (3). An actuation rod 

(8a) is connected to the disk-like element for lowering and 
lifting the rail. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMBOS SRL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMBOS S.R.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AGOSTONI EGIDIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AGOSTONI, EGIDIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a lowerable clothes-hanger 
supporting device for wardrobes. As it is known, wardrobes divided into two stacked 
compartments are currently in widespread use for clothes 
storage. Placement and removal of clothes hangers in and 
from the upper compartments are often rather troublesome: 
ladders and stools are in fact rarely immediately 
available, and use thereof is somewhat awkward; it is also 
awkward to use appropriate tools to engage the individual 
hanger and lift it into, or lower it out of, the upper 
compartment of the wardrobe. The upper compartments of two-level wardrobes have 
accordingly been equipped with devices that allow to lower 
the rail supporting the clothes hangers. Said devices have lever systems for articulating the 
rail to the side panels of the wardrobe; these lever 
systems cooperate with means that are supposed to 
facilitate the operations for the descent and rise of the 
rail. However, these means are not always designed so as to 
have, during the various operating steps, a favorable ratio 
between the force that is required and the resistance that 
is opposed. Some devices already in use, however, have compact 
structures but are rather expensive; other known devices 
are instead relatively cheap, but, due to their multiple 
fully-exposed structural elements and to their paths, they 
are considerably bulky and can undesirably interfere with 
the user and with items placed in the wardrobes.  The aim of the present invention is to obviate the 
difficulties and drawbacks of existing lowerable clothes-hanger 
supporting devices for wardrobes by providing a 
device that, in all of its operating steps, optimizes the 
ratio between the forces and resistances involved, 
furthermore adapting to the load of clothes that bears on 
it. Within the scope of this aim, an object of the device 
according to the present invention is to provide a compact 
structure that has a limited bulk, is quick and easy to 
assemble and adapt to wardrobes of various sizes, and has a 
relatively low cost. With this aim and this object in view, there is 
provided, according to the present invention, a lowerable 
clothes-hanger supporting device for wardrobes, 
characterized in that it comprises: a plate for fixing it 
to a side panel of the wardrobe; a disk-like element that 
has an arm lying on a plane parallel to said plate and to 
said side panel, said arm having, at its end, a rail for 
supporting the clothes hangers, and being mounted on said 
plate so that it can
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Lowerable clothes-hanger supporting device for 
wardrobes, characterized in that it comprises: a plate for 

fixing the device to a side panel of the wardrobe; a disk-like 
element having an arm that lies on a plane parallel to 

said plate and to said side panel, said arm having at its 
end a rail for supporting clothes hangers, and being 

mounted on said plate so that it can oscillate in said 
plane between two positions in which the rail is 

respectively raised and lowered; a first elastic means, 
placed around said disk-like element to return it to the 

position in which the rail is raised; a second elastic 
means, applied eccentrically with respect to the disk-like 

element so as to apply thereon a moment in the same or 
opposite direction with respect to the moment applied by 

said first elastic means around the positions that 
respectively correspond to the lifting and lowering of the 

rail; and an actuation rod for lowering and lifting said 
rail. 
Device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said first elastic means is constituted by a helical spring 

elongated along an axis that winds partially around said 
disk-like element, which is correspondingly provided with a 

peripheral groove. 
Device according to the preceding claims, 
characterized in that one end of said helical spring is 

fixed to said disk-like element, whereas the second end is 
adjustably engaged with said plate so as to adjust the 

tension applied to said spring according to the load of 
 

clothes. 
Device according to the preceding claims, 
characterized in that said second end of the helical 

spring, which corresponds to a portion thereof which is 
substantially tangent to said disk-like element, is 

connected to a lever which is pivoted to said plate, 
substantially at right angles to said portion, and can thus 

be locked to said plate at a series of engagement elements 
formed by said plate. 
Device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said second elastic means has damping means. 
Device according to claims 1 and 5, characterized 
in that said second elastic means comprises: a cylinder 

which is filled with an emulsion of air and grease and is 
pivoted to said plate at one of its ends; a piston 

slideable in said cylinder and crossed by a small hole; a 
compression spring which is interposed between said piston 

and said end of the cylinder; a stem which is rigidly 
coupled to the piston and protrudes from the other end of 

the cylinder; a linkage which is articulated to the end of 
said stem and to said disk-like element; and elements which 

are formed by said disk-like element so as to delimit the 
angular strokes of said linkage. 
Device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said plate has an abutment for said arm that can be 

adjusted according to the position that corresponds to the 
lifting of said rail. 
Device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said plate has, along its edge directed toward the front of 

the wardrobe, a series of holes for the insertion of the 
 

screws for fixing to the side panel of the wardrobe, said 
holes having the same even spacing as those normally formed 

in said side panel. 
Device according to one or more of the preceding 
claims, characterized in that said plate, said first 

elastic means and second elastic means are covered by a 
case, said case having an opening for access to the 

adjustable abutment and to said holes, a further opening 
for the protrusion of said lever, and a hole for 

accommodating said disk-like element. 
Device according to claim 1, characterized in that 
said rail has an adjustable length, is retained at each end 

to a head which can be adjusted along the end of a 
respective said arm, and rotatably supports, at a central 

region, the coupling for said actuation rod, which is 
provided with a vertically adjustable handle at a downward 

region thereof. 
Device according to claim 10, characterized in 
that the lower portion of said actuation rod ends with a 

bend and in that said handle is constituted by a pair of 
vertical casings which are suitable to be closed by snap-together 

action against each other and to secure said 
portion of the rod, offering a series of seats at various 

heights for said bend. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
