<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0649587</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED PORTABLE POWER SOURCE AND RF TAG UTILIZING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S1300	G01S1375	H04B104	H04B104	H04B116	H04B116	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S13	G01S13	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An RF tag (10) includes an RF receiver (16) and an RF transmitter (18). A power source (12) provides power to the receiver and transmitter. The power source includes a plurality of energy converters (22, 24, 26, 28, 30 and 32). Each energy converter is responsive to a predetermined form of incident energy for converting its respective predetermined form of incident energy to electrical current. At least two of the energy converters are responsive to respective different predetermined forms of incident energy for providing electrical current. A storage capacitor (54) stores the electrical current provided by the energy converters and is coupled to the RF receiver and RF transmitter. A plurality of RF tags (10, 110, 140, 160) utilizing the power source 12 are also described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOTOROLA, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN RUDYARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO GEORGE L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAEM, SANJAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISTVAN, RUDYARD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAURO, GEORGE, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Improved Portable Power Source and RF Tag Utilizing SameField of the InventionThe present invention generally relates to the field of portable power sources and more particularly to a portable power source which is responsive to incident energy for converting the incident energy to electrical current. The present invention is more particularly directed to such a power source which includes a plurality of energy converters wherein each energy converter is responsive to a predetermined form of incident energy for providing electrical current with at least two of the energy converters being response to respective different predetermined forms of incident energy for providing electrical current. The present invention is further directed to an RF tag which includes an RF transmitter for transmitting an identification signal and which is powered by the portable power source.Background of the InventionThere are many portable electronic device applications wherein a portable electronic device requires low power to support its operation. Calculators and automobile door lock and security system actuating transmitters are just a couple of examples of such portable device applications. In the past, battery power has been utilized to support the operation of such devices. More recently, portable calculators, instead of being powered by a battery, have been powered photovoltaic cells which generate power for the calculators responsive to incident visible light. 

recharged. Such replacement or recharging is not always convenient.Photovoltaic cells, as is well known, require incident light for providing electrical energy. Hence, such devices cannot be relied upon at all times to provide electrical power, as for example, when such devices are in the dark.From the foregoing, it can be seen that portable power sources of the prior art exhibit numerous disadvantages.Depletable power sources, such as batteries, eventually require replacement or recharging. Photovoltaic cells do not provide electrical current under all circumstances.Other forms of portable power sources are also known. For example, in the RF tag field, at least one RF tag is known which utilizes an active device in the form of an RF transmitter which transmits an RF signal and is powered by a tuned circuit which converts RF energy at a predetermined frequency to sufficient electrical energy to power the transmitter for a very short period of time, on the order a few milliseconds. In this application, the tuned circuit on the RF tag charges a capacitor when
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims :
1. A power source for generating and storing electrical energy for providing said electrical energy to a portable electronic device, said power source comprising: a plurality of energy converters, each said energy converter being responsive to a predetermined form of incident energy for converting its respective predetermined form of incident energy to electrical current, at least two of said energy converters being responsive to respective different predetermined forms of incident energy for providing electrical current; and storage means for storing the electrical current provided by said energy converters.
2. A power source as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident vibrational energy for providing electrical current.
3. A power source as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident infrared energy for providing electrical current. 4. A power source as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident heat energy for providing electrical current.
5. A power source as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident visible light for providing electrical current.
6. A power source as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident radio frequency energy.
7. A power source as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said at least two of said energy converters converts a different portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum to electrical current to be stored by the storage means. 


incident vibrational energy for providing electrical current and wherein at least another one of said energy converters is responsive to incident radio frequency energy for providing electrical current. 9. A power source as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident radio frequency energy for providing electrical current and wherein at least another one of said energy converters is responsive to incident visible light for providing electrical current.
10. An RF tag comprising: an RF transmitter for transmitting an identification signal; and a power source for powering said RF transmitter, said power source including a plurality of energy converters, each said energy converter being responsive to a predetermined form of incident energy for converting its respective predetermined form of incident energy to electrical current, at least two of said energy converters being responsive to respective different predetermined forms of incident energy for providing electrical current and storage means for storing the electrical current provided by said energy converters and being coupled to said RF transmitter.
1 1. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 further including an RF receiver for receiving an interrogation signal, wherein said storage means is coupled to said RF receiver for powering said RF receiver, and wherein said RF transmitter transmits said identification signal responsive to said RF receiver receiving said interrogation signal.
12. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein said identification signal comprises a predetermined identifying code. 


 12. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein said identification signal comprises a predetermined identifying code.
13. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein each of said at least two of said energy converters converts a different portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum to the electrical current to be stored by said storage means.
14. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein said RF transmitter includes an output for providing said identification signal and wherein said output is coupled to said energy converters whereby said energy converters form an antenna for said RF transmitter.
15. An RF tag as defined in claim 14 wherein said output is capacitively coupled to said energy converters.
16. An RF tag as defined in claim 14 wherein said power source includes interconnect means for interconnecting said energy converters and wherein said output is coupled to said interconnect means. 17. An RF tag as defined in claim 16 wherein said output is capacitively coupled to said interconnect means.
18. An RF tag as defined in claim 11 wherein said RF receiver includes an input for receiving said interrogation signal and wherein said input is coupled to said energy converters whereby said energy converters form an antenna for said RF receiver.
19. An RF tag as defined in claim 18 wherein said input is capacitively coupled to said energy converters.
20. An RF tag as defined in claim 18 wherein said power source includes interconnect means for interconnecting said energy converters and wherein said input is coupled to said interconnect means.
21. An RF tag as defined in claim 20 wherein said input is capacitively coupled to said interconnect means. 


input for receiving said interrogation signal, and wherein said input and said output are coupled to said energy converters whereby said energy converters form an antenna for said RF receiver and said RF transmitter. 23. An RF tag as defined in claim 22 wherein said input and said output are capacitively coupled to said energy converters.
24. An RF tag as defined in claim 22 wherein said power source includes interconnect means for interconnecting said energy converters and wherein said input and said output are coupled to said interconnect means .
25. An RF tag as defined in claim 24 wherein said input and said output are capacitively coupled to said interconnect means.
26. An RF tag as defined in claim 25 wherein said RF transmitter transmits on a first frequency, wherein said receiver receives on a second frequency, said first frequency being different than said second frequency, wherein said RF tag further includes first coupling means for coupling said RF receiver input to said interconnect means, second coupling means for coupling said RF transmitter to said interconnect means, and wherein one of said first and second coupling means includes tuning means for tuning said energy converters to an RF frequency substantially corresponding to either said first frequency or said second frequency.
27. An RF tag as defined in claim 26 wherein said tuning means comprises inductance means for inductively tuning said RF frequency of said energy converters.
28. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident vibrational energy for providing electrical current. 


 29. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident infrared energy for providing electrical current.
30. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident heat energy for providing electrical current.
31. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident visible light for providing electrical current. 32. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said incident energy converters is responsive to radio frequency energy for providing electrical current.
33. An RF tag source as defined in claim 32 wherein said radio frequency energy is radio frequency energy in the frequency spectrum below one gigahertz.
34. An RF tag as defined in claim 32 wherein said radio frequency energy is radio frequency in the frequency spectrum above one gigahertz.
35. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident vibrational energy for providing electrical current and wherein at least another one of said energy converters is responsive to incident radio frequency energy for providing electrical current. 36. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said energy converters is responsive to incident radio frequency energy for providing electrical current and wherein at least another one of said energy converters is responsive to incident visible light for providing electrical energy.
37. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 further including antenna means for receiving an interrogation signal and coupled to said storage means, wherein said power source provides electrical current to said storage 


means for charging said storage means to a voltage below a threshold voltage, and wherein said RF transmitter is responsive to said interrogation signal received by said antenna means forcing the voltage on said storage means above said threshold voltage for transmitting said identification signal.
38. An RF tag as defined in claim 37 wherein said storage means comprises a first storage means for storing a first voltage derived from said power source and a second storage means for storing a second voltage derived from said interrogation signal, wherein said first voltage is below said threshold voltage and wherein the sum of said first and second voltages is above said threshold voltage.
39. An RF tag as defined in claim 28 wherein said power source provides electrical current to said storage means when at rest for charging said storage means to a voltage below a threshold voltage, said energy converter responsive to incident vibrational energy responsive to receiving vibrational energy for charging said storage means to a voltage above said threshold voltage, and wherein said transmitting means is responsive to said storage means charging to a voltage above said threshold voltage for transmitting said identification signal.
40. An RF tag as defined in claim 10 further including an RF receiver for receiving an interrogation signal and voltage sensing means coupled to said storage means and responsive to the voltage on said storage means exceeding a first threshold voltage for energizing said RF receiver. 41. An RF tag as defined in claim 40 wherein said voltage sensing means further de-energizes said RF receiver when the voltage on said storage means decreases to or below a second voltage threshold in the absence of a received interrogation signal. 


 42. An RF tag as defined in claim 41 wherein said RF transmitter is responsive to said voltage sensing means sensing a voltage on said storage means above said second threshold voltage and to said RF receiver receiving said interrogation signal for transmitting said identification signal.
43. An RF tag as defined in claim 42 wherein said RF transmitter is further responsive to said voltage sensing means for transmitting said identification signal until said voltage sensing means senses a decreased voltage on said storage means below a third threshold voltage.
44. An RF tag as defined in claim 43 wherein said voltage sensing means re-energizes said RF receiver when the voltage on said storage means returns to or is above said first threshold voltage.
45. An RF tag as defined in claim 44 further including a single antenna for transmitting said identification signal and for receiving said interrogation signal and switch means for selectively coupling said antenna to said RF transmitter and said RF receiver responsive to said voltage sensing means.
46. An RF tag as defined in claim 28 further including an RF receiver for receiving an interrogation signal and voltage sensing means coupled to said storage means and responsive to the voltage on said storage means exceeding a first threshold voltage for energizing said RF receiver.
47. An RF tag as defined in claim 46 wherein said voltage sensing means further de-energizes said RF receiver when the voltage on said storage means decreases to or below a second voltage threshold in the absence of a received interrogation signal.
48. An RF tag as defined in claim 47 wherein said RF transmitter is responsive to said voltage sensing means 


sensing a voltage on said storage means above said second threshold voltage and sensing said energy converter responsive to incident vibrational energy receiving incident vibrational energy, and to said RF receiver receiving said interrogation signal for transmitting said identification signal.
49. An RF tag as defined in claim 48 wherein said RF transmitter is further responsive to said voltage sensing means for transmitting said identification signal until said voltage sensing means senses a decreased voltage on said storage means below a third threshold voltage.
50. An RF tag as defined in claim 49 wherein said voltage sensing means re-energizes said RF receiver when the voltage on said storage means returns to or is above said first threshold voltage.
51 . An RF tag as defined in claim 50 further including a single antenna for transmitting said identification signal and for receiving said interrogation signal and switch means for selectively coupling said antenna to said RF transmitter and said RF receiver responsive to said voltage sensing means.
52. An RF tag comprising: an RF transmitter for transmitting an identification signal; and a power source for powering said RF transmitter, said power source including an energy converter responsive to incident vibrational energy for providing power to said RF transmitter and causing said RF transmitter to transmit said identification signal. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
