<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647407</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for flash flow processing having feed rate control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23G310	A23G302	D01D518	D01D500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23G	A23G	D01D	D01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23G3	A23G3	D01D5	D01D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A material processing apparatus and method for flash 
flow processing by melt spinning. The invention includes 

a feed rate controller in combination with a spinner head 
assembly including a spinner head with a continuous 

perimeter for providing heat and centrifugal force to a 
material being processed. The spinner head assembly also 

includes a spinner drive connected to the spinner head 
for generating the centrifugal force. The material 

processing apparatus can also include support for 
supporting the spinner head assembly, where the feed rate 

controller is electrically connected to the support. The 
feed rate controller determines a detected load of 

material in the spinner head from data provided by the 
support, compares it to a preselected load for the 

material being processed and generates a feed rate 
control signal indicative of a difference between the 

detected and preselected loads. A feeder assembly 
supplies the feedstock material to the spinner head at a 

feed rate defined by the feed control signal. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUISZ TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGUE BEUFORD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HRUBEC JOHN A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOGUE, BEUFORD A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HRUBEC, JOHN A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to flash flow
processing, and, more particularly, to improvements in
melt spin processing machines to enhance process
capability.Various machines have been designed for
spinning feedstock materials, particularly sugar, while
at the same time applying heat to the feedstock. The
materials may be introduced to a spinner assembly within
the spinning machine in molten form or, alternatively,
introduced in solid form and heated to the flow point or
subjected to flash-flow just prior to being spun out from
the spinner assembly.U.S. Patent No. 4,872,821 discloses a spinning
machine that is particularly designed for spinning cotton
candy. The machine includes a spinner head having
slotted, cylindrical walls and heating elements adjacent
to each wall. Sugar in solid form is introduced into the
spinner head and propelled against the heating elements
where it is made flowable and spun out through the slots
where it solidifies into the floss-like material known as
cotton candy.Various other machines have been designed over the
years for spinning cotton candy. One such machine is
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,930,043,
which corresponds to the preamble of claim 1.
This machine
includes a helical resistance heating element positioned
within a finely perforated shell. The heating element is
supported against the inner wall of the shell by spacer
elements. As the shell spins, molten sugar moves through
the perforations. Similar machines are disclosed in U.S.
Patent Nos. 3,073,262 and 3,070,045. Still another machine for spinning substances is
disclosed in commonly owned, co-pending U.S. Patent
Application Serial No. 07/954,257 to Fuisz. The
application discloses a spinner head including a heating
element which defines a narrow, elongate opening
providing a substantially non-tortuous path through which
feedstock material subjected to flash-flow is projected.
Various other spinning machines of the prior art are
referenced therein.A basic spinning machine includes a spinning head
with a heating element arranged circumferentially
therearound. Sugar is introduced to the spinner head and
dispersed along the heating element. Heat from the
heating element thereby changes the physical structure of
the sugar sufficiently to permit the sugar to flow
through openings and form the floss product. In early
models, heat is applied as the spinner head rotates
whereby the floss product is generated. The early models
had virtually no means for controlling the various
factors that strongly influenced the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (10) for melt spin processing
comprising: a spinner head assembly, which assembly

includes a spinner head (26) having a continuous perimeter
for spinning material Using heat and centrifugal force and

spinner drive motors (32) connected to the head (26) for
supplying centrifugal force thereto characterised in that

the apparatus includes feed rate control means comprising at
least one load detector (40) positioned to support the

spinner head (26) and generate a load signal, which signal
indicates a detected load of feedstock within the spinner

head (26); a process controller (48) responsive to said
load signal, the process controller (48) continuously

comparing the determined load to a preselected load,
determining a difference between the detected and

preselected loads; and control means (50) responsive to said
difference for controlling the rate at which feedstock is

fed to the spinner head assembly.
An apparatus as defined by claim 1, further
comprising a signal processor for filtering short term

variations from each said at least one load signal.
An apparatus as defined by claim 1, characterised
in that said process controller (48) includes means for

receiving direct user input for controlling said feed rate.
An apparatus as defined by claim 1, characterised
in that said process controller (48) includes a

microcomputer for determining said difference.
An apparatus as defined by claim 1, characterised in
that said process controller (48) includes means for

generating a select signal indicative of the preselected
load and means for generating a process control signal

according to a difference between said select and said at 
least one load signals, and characterised in that said

control means (50) includes means responsive to said process
control signal.
An apparatus as defined by claim 5, further
comprising a summer (44) for receiving and summing each load

signal and generating a summation load signal therefrom, and
wherein said process controller (48) generates said process

control signal according a difference between said select
and said summation load signals.
An apparatus as defined by claim 6, further
comprising a signal processor (46) for filtering short term

variations from said summation load signal.
A method of melt spin processing characterised in
that the method comprises the following steps:


continuously detecting a load of feedstock in a spinner head and
generating a load signal therefrom;
comparing said load signal to signal for a preselected load
and generating a comparison signal;
controlling the rate at which feedstock material is supplied
to the spinner head (26) in response to said comparison

signal.
A method as defined in claim 8, further comprising
the step of filtering said load signal to remove short term

variations therefrom.
A method as defined by claim 8, characterised in
that the step of continuously detecting includes detecting a

weight of the feedstock material, and characterised in that
said step of comparing includes comparing the detected

weight with a preselected processing weight. 
A method as defined by claim 8, further comprising
the step of inputting data for directly controlling said

feed rate.
An apparatus as defined by claim 1 comprising:

a heating element (34) substantially
continuous with the spinner head perimeter for generating

said heat,;
a feed rate controller(12) electrically connected to the
load detection means (4
0) which uses said detected force to
determine a load of the material being processed in the

spinner head (26), comparing said load to a preselected load
and determining a difference therefrom; and a feeder

assembly (20) responsive to said difference that supplies
the material.
An apparatus as defined by claim 12, characterised
in that said support means includes at least one load cell

for generating at least one load signal indicative of said
force, characterised in that said feed rate controller

includes means to compare said at least one load signal to a
select signal indicative of the preselected load and

generates a feed rate control signal according thereto, and
characterised in that said feeder assembly is responsive to

said feed rate control signal.
An apparatus as defined by claim 13, characterised
in that said feed rate controller includes: 


a summer electrically connected to each said load cell for
generating a summation load signal;
a process controller electrically connected to said summer
for comparing said summation load signal to said select

signal and generating a process control signal from the
comparison; and
control means responsive to said process control signal for
generating said feed rate control signal.
An apparatus as defined by claim 14, characterised
in that said feed rate controller includes a filter

electrically connected to said summer for filtering short
term variations from said at least one load signal.
A method as defined by claim 8, characterised in
that the step of controlling includes receiving direct user

input.
A method as defined by claim 16, characterised in
that said step of continuously detecting includes detecting

a weight of said feedstock material, and characterised in
that said step of comparing includes comparing said detected

weight to a preselected weight.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
