<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635137</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HIGH TEMPERATURE STABILIZED TIME BASE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G05D2320	G05D2320	H03L100	H03L104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G05D	G05D	H03L	H03L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G05D23	G05D23	H03L1	H03L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To provide stable, accurate time reference signals for control and operation of a well logging instrument (12), a temperature isolation enclosure (14) defines an internal cavity (16) for containing and protecting an electronic time base (10). An electronic timer (10) such as a crystal oscillator is located within the oven cavity (16) and is electronically stable at a predetermined temperature range slightly higher than the highest ambient temperature encountered within the wellbore. A heating element (18), control circuit (22), and a temperature sensor (24) are provided within the oven cavity (16) to maintain the timer (10) within the predetermined temperature range. An automatically energized cooling element (20) may also be provided within the oven cavity (16) for additional temperature control.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WESTERN ATLAS INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES KENNETH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES KENNETH L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HIGH TEMPERATURE STABILIZED TIME BASEThis invention relates generally to the provision of a stabilized timing reference such as is provided by solid state timers, crystal oscillators and the like. More particularly, the present invention is directed to the provision of a stable timing reference in downhole well logging instruments for provision of a stabilized time reference signal for effective instrument operation over a large spectrum of operating temperatures while eliminating typical loss of accuracy due to temperature variations, line loss and skew caused by the resistance and capacitance of the lengthy wireline required for a well logging operation.Timing devices (i.e., solid state timers, such as crystal oscillators and the like) are well known to be quite sensitive to changes in temperature. Though stable at a certain temperature, changing the temperature degrades their stability. It is desirable, therefore, to provide means for maintaining the timing device within a designated, quite narrow temperature range that permits the timing device to operate at maximum efficiency and accuracy. It is well known that the ambient temperature of the downhole well environment varies with depth and well location. Thus, during a downhole well logging operation, the logging instrument will typically encounter a wide variety of ambient temperatures depending upon its location in the well bore. Some of these temperatures may be above or below the stable operating temperature range of crystal oscillators and other timing devices. It is desirable, therefore, to provide novel means for providing a stable timing reference by maintaining the timing device at a fixed, elevated temperature above that of the maximum ambient temperature of use, while operating in a well logging environment where the ambient temperature varies with depth and well location. It is a principal feature of the present invention to provide a novel high temperature stabilized time base for well logging operations which generates a stable 

reference signal at the logging instrument and maintains the signal generating device of the logging instrument within a predetermined, narrow temperature range within which the timing device maintains its operational stability.It is another feature of this invention to provide a novel high temperature stabilized time base for well logging instruments which maintains the timing device or devices thereof within a predetermined, narrow temperature range regardless of the ambient temperature that is encountered
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS:
1. A stabilized time base for a well logging instrument utilized for conducting logging operations, comprising:
(a) an isolation enclosure being disposed within said well logging instrument;
(b) heating means being disposed within said isolation enclosure;
(c) control circuitry for said heating means being operative for monitoring the temperature within said isolation enclosure and for regulating electrical power to said heating means to maintain the temperature of said isolation enclosure within a predetermined temperature range; and
(d) an electronic timing device being located within said isolation enclosure and having timing stability when maintained within said predetermined temperature range to provide stable timing reference signals for operation of said well logging instrument.
2. The stabilized time base of claim 1, wherein said electronic timing device comprises: a solid state electronic timer capable of supplying a stable reference signal when maintained within said predetermined temperature range.
3. The stabilized time base of claim 1, wherein said timing device comprises: a crystal oscillator capable of supplying a stable reference signal when maintained within said predetermined temperature range. 


 4. The stabilized time base of claim 1 , wherein said heating means comprises: an electrically energized heating element being disposed within said isolation enclosure having sufficient heating capacity to maintain said predetermined temperature within said isolation enclosure.
5. The stabilized time base of claim 1, wherein: said predetermined temperature is higher than the highest temperature expected to be encountered within said well bore.
6. The stabilized time base of claim 1 , including: cooling means being disposed within said isolation enclosure for controlled energization by said control circuitry for maintaining the temperature within said isolation enclosure within said predetermined temperature range.
7. The stabilized time base of claim 1 , wherein said control circuitry includes: (a) a temperature sensor for detecting the temperature of said isolation enclosure and having an electronic temperature signal output; and
(b) a heater controller being responsive to said electronic temperature signal output for selective energization of said heating means.
8. The stabilized time base of claim 1, wherein said isolation enclosure comprises:
(a) a low thermal-conductive enclosure being located within said well logging instrument and defining an oven cavity;
(b) said heating means, control circuitry and electronic timing device being located within said oven cavity; and (c) a frequency output conductor being coupled in signal transmitting relation with said electronic timing device and extending through said low 


thermal-conductive enclosure.
9. A stabilized time base for a well logging instrument utilized for conducting logging operations, comprising:
(a) an isolation enclosure being disposed within said well logging instrument;
(b) heating means being disposed within said isolation enclosure;
(c) control circuitry for said heating means and said cooling means being operative for selectively regulating electrical power to said heating means and said cooling means to maintain the temperature of said isolation enclosure within a predetermined temperature range;
(d) a temperature sensor being located within said isolation enclosure and having an electronic temperature signal output being coupled in signal transmitting relation with said control circuitry; and (e) an electronic timing device being located within said isolation enclosure and having timing stability when maintained within said predetermined temperature range to provide stable timing reference signals for said well logging instrument.
10. The stabilized time base of claim 9, including: cooling means being disposed within said isolation enclosure and being energized by said control circuitry for cooling said isolation enclosure to said predetermined temperature range.
11. The stabilized time base of claim 9, wherein said electronic timing device comprises: a solid state electronic timer capable of supplying a stable reference signal when maintained within said predetermined temperature range. 


 12. The stabilized time base of claim 9, wherein said timing device comprises: a crystal oscillator capable of supplying a stable reference signal when maintained within said predetermined temperature range.
13. The stabilized time base of claim 9, wherein said heating means comprises: an electrically energized heating element being disposed within said isolation enclosure having sufficient heating capacity to maintain said predetermined temperature within said isolation enclosure.
14. The stabilized time base of claim 9, wherein: said predetermined temperature is higher than the highest temperature expected to be encountered within said well bore.
15. The stabilized time base of claim 9, including: cooling means being disposed within said isolation enclosure for controlled energization by said control circuitry for maintaining the temperature within said isolation enclosure within said predetermined temperature range.
16. The stabilized time base of claim 15, wherein said cooling means comprises: a Peltier-Junction cooling element being located within said isolation enclosure and being coupled for power and control by said control circuitry. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
