<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610916</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for providing preferentially segmented digital images.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T500	G06T500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T5	G06T5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for providing a preferentially segmented 
digital image of a specimen image having predetermined 

characteristics and containing an object of interest. A 
specimen image is obtained through a microscope set at a 

magnification value and digitized to create a digital 
specimen image. Preferential enhancement values are 

determined based upon the magnification value and the 
specimen characteristics, and then the digital specimen 

image is enhanced using the preferential enhancement 
values to accentuate the object dark features. This 

creates a dark feature enhanced image which is then 
binarized to yield an edge mask that consists of black 

object silhouettes on a white background. Detection of 
the edges of the object contained in the edge mask is then 

performed to create an edge overlay that can be used to 
obtain morphometric measurements or combined with the 

digital specimen image to create a preferentially segmented 
digital image suitable for densitometric measurement. 

The resulting morphometric and densitometric data 
is used to accurately classify objects of interest. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEDARS SINAI MEDICAL CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERLER BRIAN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCHEVSKY ALBERTO M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERLER, BRIAN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARCHEVSKY, ALBERTO M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to methods for image 
analysis and, more particularly, to methods to provide 
preferentially segmented digital images of microscopical 
specimens for more accurate measurement and analysis. Pathologists study very thin tissue sections and 
cellular preparations under a microscope and make 
diagnoses based upon a knowledge of cellular and 
architectural patterns of disease and based upon a 
subjective impression of how closely the observed pattern 
fits established diagnostic criteria. Morphometric and 
densitometric image analysis allows subtle histologic and 
cytologic features to be objectively evaluated to yield 
useful diagnostic and prognostic information. In 
particular, the microscopic diagnosis of benign and 
malignant tumors is largely based on characteristics of 
tumor cell nuclei. Nuclear features are also used to 
stratify malignant tumors into prognostic categories. By 
applying image analysis to study the nuclear morphometric 
features of size and shape, and the densitometric features 
of relative optical density and texture, a quantitative 
description of individual and population nuclear characteristics 
in a tumor can be obtained. This quantitative 
information can then be used to establish objective 
classification criteria for discriminating diagnostic and 
prognostic classes such as benign vs. malignant, and low 
grade vs. intermediate grade vs. high grade. For example, 
morphometric image analysis has shown promise in discriminating  
 
benign and malignant cells in numerous applications, 
including, lymphoid-rich effusions, urothelial 
cytology, ovarian tumors, and atypical endometrial 
hyperplasia. Prognostic information based upon image 
analysis data has been obtained for carcinomas of the 
prostate, endometrium and breast. Image analysis has 
become an important tool in the pathology laboratory for 
tumor cell DNA content evaluation and quantitative immunohistochemistry. 
Further, routine cytologic screening 
using image analysis has become possible through the 
availability of powerful microcomputers, sophisticated 
algorithms and neural network programming. Before performing gradient object edge detection, a 
threshold pixel value must be established to segment 
objects of interest from background objects. This 
threshold can be determined for an entire image (a global 
threshold) or a portion of an image (a local threshold). 
Accordingly, it must be constantly redetermined to provide 
accurate segmentation of objects of interest. In many 
appl
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for providing an edge mask from a 
specimen image, obtained from a specimen on a slide that 

is magnified at a predetermined magnification value and 
has predetermined characteristics, comprising the steps 

of: 
   digitizing the specimen image to provide a digital 

specimen image; 
   determining first and second preferential enhancement 

values from the magnification value of the specimen image 
and from the characteristics of the specimen image; 

   enhancing the digital specimen image based upon the 
first and second preferential enhancement values to create 

a dark feature enhanced image; and 
   binarizing the dark feature enhanced image to create 

an edge mask. 
A method as defined in claim 1, further 
comprising the step of: 

   detecting the edges of the edge mask to create an 
edge overlay. 
A method as defined in claim 2, further 
comprising the step of: 

   combining the edge overlay with the digital specimen 
image to create a preferentially segmented digital image. 
A method as defined in claim 3, further 
comprising the step of: 

   measuring the densitometric features of the 
preferentially segmented digital image. 
A method as defined in claim 1, further 
comprising the step of: 

   decalibrating the digital specimen image for glare 
and shading prior to enhancing the digital specimen image. 
A method as defined in claim 5, wherein the step 
of decalibrating further comprising the steps of: 

   obtaining a blank bright field image from the slide; 
   obtaining a dark field image from the slide; 

   decalibrating the digital specimen image for glare 
and shading prior to enhancing the digital specimen image 

based upon the blank bright field image and the dark field 
image. 
A method as defined in claim 6, wherein: 
   the step of decalibrating the digital specimen image 

for glare and shading implements the following equationNew Digital Specimen Image = [(Digital Specimen Image-Dark Field Value) / 
(Blank Bright Field Image-Dark Field Image)]
 * 255. 
A method as defined in claim 1, wherein: 
   the step of enhancing the digital specimen image 

based upon the first and second preferential enhancement 
values to create a dark feature enhanced image implements 

the following equationDark Feature Enhanced Image = [(Digital Image²/k + Digital Image)n]/kn-1

 
   where "digital image" is the digital specimen image, 

"k" is the first preferential enhancement value and "n" is 
the second preferential enhancement value. 
A method as defined in claim 1, further 
comprising the step of: 

   measuring the morphometric features of the edge mask. 
A method for providing a preferentially 
segmented digital image representative of a specimen image 

with an edge overlay from a specimen stained with a dye on 
a slide and magnified at a predetermined magnification 

value, the method comprising the steps of: 
   interposing an optical filter between the light 

source and the specimen slide;
 

   obtaining a blank bright field representation from 
the slide; 

   digitizing the blank bright field representation to 
provide a blank bright field image; 

   obtaining a dark field representation from the slide; 
   digitizing the dark field representation to provide 

a dark field image; 
   obtaining a specimen representation from the slide; 

   digitizing the specimen image to provide a digital 
specimen image; 

   decalibrating the digital specimen image for glare 
and shading based upon the blank bright field image and 

the dark field image to provide a decalibrated image; 
   determining first and second preferential enhancement 

values from the magnification value of the specimen image 
and from the characteristics of the specimen image; 

   enhancing the digital specimen image based upon the 
first and second preferential enhancement values to create 

a dark feature enhanced image; 
   binarizing the dark feature enhanced image to create 

an edge mask; 
   detecting the edges of the edge mask to create an 

edge overlay; and 
   combining the edge overlay with the decalibrated 

image to create a preferentially segmented digital image. 
A method as defined in claim 10, further 
comprising the step of: 

   measuring the densitometric features of the preferentially 
segmented digital image. 
An apparatus for measuring the morphometric 
features of an object of interest in a specimen on a 

slide, having predetermined characteristics, comprising: 
   means for converting a specimen image of the specimen 

magnified at a predetermined value into an electric 
signal;

 
   means for digitizing the electric signal into a 

digital specimen image; 
   means for determining first and second preferential 

enhancement values from the magnification value of the 
specimen image and from the characteristics of the 

specimen image; 
   means for obtaining a blank bright field image and a 

dark field image from the slide; 
   means for decalibrating the digital specimen image 

for glare and shading based upon the blank bright field 
image and the dark field image to create a decalibrated 

image; 
   means for enhancing the decalibrated image based upon 

the first and second preferential enhancement values to 
create a dark feature enhanced image; 

   means for binarizing the dark feature enhanced image 
to create an edge mask; 

   means for detecting the edges of the edge mask to 
create an edge overlay; 

   means for combining the edge overlay with the 
decalibrated image to create a preferentially segmented 

digital image; 
   means for measuring the morphometric features of the 

object of interest from the edge overlay. 
The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising: 
   means for analyzing the morphometric measurement to 

obtain a classification of the object of interest in the 
specimen; and 

   means for displaying the classification of the object 
of interest. 
The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising: 
   means for measuring the densitometric features of the 

object of interest from the preferentially segmented 
digital image; 

   means for analyzing the densitometric measurements to 
obtain a classification of the object of interest in the 

specimen; and 
   means for displaying the classification of the object 

of interest. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
