<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633976</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MOUNTING OF AXIAL TURBO-MACHINERY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04D2960	F04D2960	F01D2524	F04D1902	F02C700	F04D2964	F01D2524	F04D1900	F02C700	F01D904	F01D904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04D	F04D	F01D	F04D	F02C	F04D	F01D	F04D	F02C	F01D	F01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04D29	F04D29	F01D25	F04D19	F02C7	F04D29	F01D25	F04D19	F02C7	F01D9	F01D9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a method and a device for mounting an axial turbo-machine, preferably a low-pressure compressor for a gas turbine, constructed without a parting line with a whole or constructed rotor. From the design point of view, problems arise regarding the mounting of the stationary guide vane rings in the case of a design without a parting line and a whole rotor. The problem is solved by dividing the guide vane rings into sectors in a number greater than two. These sectors are brought radially into position and are guided and fixed in the correct position by guide rings which are applied around each guide vane ring composed from sectors. Each composed guide vane ring with the surrounding guide ring is guided and fixed to the preceding guide ring and all the guide vane rings are successively built up around the whole or constructed rotor. The guide rings mounted together constitute a stiff annular element.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB STAL AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABB STAL AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
M NSSON MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
M NSSON, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to axial turbo-machines, preferably
low-pressure compressors for gas turbines and to a method
and a device for mounting of a machine concept without a
parting line and with a non-divisible rotor.When designing axial turbo-machines comprising a bladed
rotor in several stages and partitions comprising stationary
guide vanes, an axial parting line is preferably chosen. The
housing of the turbo-machine is thus given a top half and a
bottom half, which are bolted together in the parting line
by means of flanges. The partitions, which contain the
stationary guide vanes, are divided into two halves, one
half being placed in the bottom half of the housing where it
is aligned and centered by means arranged between the wall
half and the housing. The bladed rotor is placed in its
bearing positions in the ends of the bottom half, the rotor
discs then being situated between the mounted partitions of
the bottom half. The other partition halves are mounted in
the top half of the housing.The principle described above is the most frequently used.
However, depending on the type of turbo-machine, it is a
question of partitions in the form of plates with a relatively
low (a small radial extent) guide vane channel to the
extreme case involving guide vane lattices attached to the
inside of the housing without any wall construction. Action
type steam turbines have marked partitions whereas guide
vane lattices for a gas turbine compressor can only comprise
guide vanes attached to the inner walls of the compressor
housing with or without any connecting element at the inner
limit of the guide vanes nearest the rotor shaft. The parting line entails an accumulation of material and a
departure from the rotational symmetry, which is a drawback
upon start-up and load changes. Uneven temperature heating
arises, which above all causes ovalities. To prevent this
from giving rise to cutting between stationary parts and
parts of the rotating rotor, enlarged clearances in the flow
channel are required, which causes major leakage and
inferior performance of the machine. The negative effect of
parting lines is minimized either by minimizing the amount
of material in the parting line by constructing in high-strength
material with thin thicknesses (gas turbines for
aircraft) or choosing to change the load of the turbine
slowly (large steam turbines for high pressures and cast
housings).Parting lines are sensitive to leakage, which means that the
necessary stiffness requires a certain amount of material in
the flanges.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of mounting an axial turbo-machine, preferably a
low-pressure compressor for a gas turbine, with a housing

which is constructed without a parting line in the longitudinal
direction of the turbo-machine, with a rotor which is

constructed in one piece or may be fully assembled prior to
the mounting, and with guide vane rings divided into sectors

which are guided and fixed in the correct position by

applying guide rings (14) around each ring composed of guide
vane ring sectors, 
characterized
 in that the
number of sectors per guide vane ring is greater than two,

and that the guide vane rings are mounted by bringing the
radial sectors (9) into position with radial gaps between

adjacent guide vane ring sectors. 
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized
 in that
the guide rings are fixed axially by means of axial bolts

(19) or some other form of fixing element.
A method according to claim 1, 
characterized
 in that
the sectors, after having been radially brought into position,

are displaced axially towards the previously mounted
guide ring (13), the sectors (9) being fixed radially by

means of a guide (11) in said previous guide ring (13).
A method according to claim 3, 
characterized
 in that
each sector (9) is angularly fixed in the plane perpendicular

to the direction of the rotor shaft with the rotor
shaft as fulcrum by means of an axial pin (12) or other

guide element which is engaged by the sector when being
axially fixed to the preceding guide ring (11).
A method according to claim 4, 
characterized
 in that
guide rings which are fitted over positioned sectors fix

these axially.
A method according to claim 5, 
characterized
 in that
guide rings which are fitted over positioned sectors have

guide surfaces which are fitted into guide surfaces in the
sectors and fix the sectors radially. 
A method according to claim 6, 
characterized
 in that
the guide rings are fixed axially by means of axial bolts or

another form of fixing elements.
A method according to claim 7, 
characterized
 in that
the guide rings are guided radially against each other.
An axial turbo-machine, preferably a low-pressure compressor
for a gas turbine, with a housing constructed without

a parting line in the longitudinal direction of the
turbo-machine, with a rotor which may be constructed in one

piece, and with guide vane rings divided into sectors
which are guided and fixed in the correct position by guide

rings (14) around each ring composed of guide vane ring sectors,

characterized
 in that the guide vane
rings are radially divided into more than two guide vane

ring sectors (9) with radial gaps between adjacent guide
vane ring sectors.
An axial turbo-machine according to claim 9, 
characterized
 in that
the guide rings are axially fixed by means of bolted joints

(19) or some other form of fixing elements.
An axial turbo-machine according to claim 10, 
characterized
 in that
the sectors are guided and fixed in the guide ring (13) of

the preceding stage.
An axial turbo-machine according to claim 11, 
characterized
 in that
one axial guide pin (12) per sector or another guide element

fixes the sectors in the preceding guide ring (13) into a
definite angular position in the plane perpendicular to the

direction of the rotor shaft with the rotor shaft as
fulcrum.
An axial turbo-machine according to claim 12, 
characterized
 in that
the guide ring (14) fixes the positioned sectors axially in

cooperation with the preceding guide ring (13).
An axial turbo-machine according to claim 13, 
characterized
 in that
the guide ring has guide surfaces which are guided against 

corresponding guide surfaces on the sectors when the guide
ring is axially mounted.
An axial turbo-machine according to claim 14, 
characterized
 in that
the guide rings are guided radially against each other via

guide surfaces (15, 26).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
