<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626537</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ignition methods and apparatus for combustors.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F23D1100	F23D1132	F23D1136	F23D1142	F23Q1300	F23Q1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F23D	F23D	F23D	F23D	F23Q	F23Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F23D11	F23D11	F23D11	F23D11	F23Q13	F23Q13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for igniting fuel in a combustor (10) includes 
an injector (30) having an electrostatic fuel atomisation 

nozzle (50) and an igniter (52). The injector (30) 
produces an initial combustion process which ignites the 

main fuel supply from a fuel nozzle (16). Alternatively, 
a main fuel nozzle is provided which includes a plurality 

of electrostatic fuel nozzles disposed about a centrally 
located igniter. The igniter may be a laser igniter. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION ENGINE SYST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIMMONDS PRECISION ENGINE SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREITAS DENNIS MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEFREITAS, DENNIS MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates generally to apparatus and methods for 
igniting air/fuel mixtures in combustors. More particularly, the 
invention relates to the use of electrostatic atomization in such 
apparatus and methods. A gas turbine engine is an example of an engine where ignition 
and engine restart can be a critical safety concern. For example, 
in aerospace applications, if a flame out occurs in an airborne jet 
engine, it may be necessary to restart the engine under extremely 
adverse conditions such as low ambient temperatures, thin 
atmospheric condition, and low fuel pressures as engine speed 
decelerates. A combustor is a fundamental assembly used in turbine and 
other engines. The combustor typically includes a can or other 
annular casing that forms part or all of the combustion chamber. 
Within the combustor are one or more fuel nozzles which deliver 
fuel to the combustion chamber, along with air vents for delivering 
high pressure air to the combustion chamber. The fuel/air mixture 
is ignited near the region of the combustor closest to the fuel 
nozzles (i.e. the primary zone). The combustion process continues 
as the combusting fuel/air mixture moves down to the intermediate 
zone where additional air is supplied to cool the combustor wall 
and aid the combustion process. The process continues as the 
mixture of hot combustion gases enters the dilution zone where 
dilution air is supplied to cool the exhaust gases to protect the 
annulus casing from melting and downstream to protect the turbine 
blades. As is well known, homogeneity of the fuel burn within the 
combustion chamber is an important design criteria for a turbine 
engine. Fuel delivery systems play an important part in the ability 
to initiate or restart a turbine engine. In known combustors, the 
fuel nozzles typically include a primary orifice and one or more 
secondary orifices. The purpose of the nozzle is to initially 
provide a fine fuel spray that can be ignited for engine start. 
After combustion starts and the engine speed increases, the 
secondary orifices are opened to increase fuel flow for engine idle 
and full throttle conditions. The ease with which fuel can be ignited in the combustor 
depends on several key factors including fuel temperature, the type  
 
of igniter used, amount of ignition energy delivered, point of 
ignition energy delivery and the degree to which the fuel is 
atomized by the nozzle via the primary orifice. The atomization 
process is also important with respect to the overall efficiency 
of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a combustor, a device for starting combustion 
characterized by an electrostatic fuel nozzle connectable to a fuel 

supply, and means for igniting fuel from said nozzle. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said fuel nozzle and said 
igniting means comprise an integral combustion injector that 

produces an initial combustion that ignites fuel from a main fuel 
delivery system. 
The device of claim 1 comprising an injector housing in 
which said nozzle and igniting means are mounted in close proximity 

to each other. 
The device of claim 3 wherein said housing includes a main 
body which has an orifice into which said nozzle injects a fuel 

spray, said igniting means being integrally formed in said body at 
said orifice. 
The device of claim 4 wherein said igniting means 
comprises two electrodes formed in said housing about an external 

surface of said body that defines said orifice, said electrodes 
being electrically insulated from each other by a part of said 

housing body. 
The device of claim 5 wherein said orifice is defined by 
a frustoconical surface formed in said housing. 
The device of claim 6 wherein said frustoconical surface 
includes a portion thereof formed by a ceramic insert, said insert 

comprising an insulator between said electrodes. 
The device of claim 7 wherein said insert includes a 
recess with one of said electrodes being disposed therein, said 

other electrode being formed by a part of said housing. 
The device of claim 8 wherein said electrodes are 
connectable to a high voltage supply to create a plasma arc that 

ignites said fuel spray. 
The device of claim 9 further comprising vent means for 
providing combustion air into said orifice. 
The device of claim 10 wherein said high voltage supply 
is a capacitive discharge exciter. 
The device of claim 10 wherein said housing includes a 
fuel inlet port for providing fuel to said electrostatic nozzle, 

a first high voltage input for said nozzle, and a second high 
voltage input for said igniting means. 
The device of claim 12 further comprising a first 
conductor that electrically connects said first high voltage input 

to said nozzle and a second conductor that electrically connects 
said second high voltage input to one of said electrodes. 
The device of claim 13 further comprising a fuel tube 
within said housing that connects said fuel inlet port to said 

nozzle. 
The device of claim 14 wherein said vent means comprises 
a port in said housing that opens at one end to an air plenum 

outside said housing and opens to said orifice at another end. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said nozzle and igniting 
means are mounted in a common housing as part of a main fuel nozzle 

for the combustor. 
The device of claim 16 wherein said main fuel nozzle 

comprises a plurality of said electrostatic nozzles arranged around 
a centrally disposed igniting means. 
The device of claim 17 wherein said igniting means 
comprises a spark plug. 
The device of claim 17 wherein said igniting means 
comprises a flame injector centrally disposed with respect to said 

plurality of electrostatic nozzles. 
The device of claim 19 wherein said flame injector 
comprises an electrostatic nozzle and an igniter mounted in an 

injector housing such that said igniter can ignite a fuel spray 
ejected from said flame injector nozzle to produce an ignition 

flame. 
The device of claim 20 wherein said ignition flame is 
used to ignite fuel from said plurality of electrostatic nozzles. 
The device of claim 1 wherein said igniting means 
comprises laser igniter means for initiating combustion of said 

electrostatic nozzle fuel spray using laser energy. 
The device of claim 22 wherein said laser igniter means 
comprises laser energy optic coupling means for transmitting laser 

energy from a laser energy source into an orifice that also 
receives the fuel spray. 
The device of claim 23 wherein said optic coupling means 
is nonabsorptive of the laser energy used to initiate combustion. 
The device of claim 24 wherein said optic coupling means 
comprises lens means disposed in said housing for directing laser 

 
energy from an input end of said housing through a passage to an 

output end of said housing near said orifice. 
The device of claim 24 wherein said optic coupling means 
comprises a light rod disposed in said housing to transmit light 

from an input end to an output end of said housing, said light rod 
being optically connectable to a laser energy source. 
The device of claim 23 wherein said optic coupling means 
comprises optic fiber means disposed in said housing for directing 

at a first housing end a laser beam into said nozzle fuel spray, 
and optically connectable at a second housing end to an optic cable 

connectable to a laser energy source. 
The device of claim 27 further comprising an electrical 
conductor disposed in said housing and connected at one end to said 

nozzle and connectable at another end to a high voltage lead 
connectable to a high voltage source. 
The device of claim 1 in combination with a first high 
voltage means for energizing said nozzle, and a second high voltage 

means for energizing said igniter means to produce a discharge that 
ignites fuel from said nozzle means. 
The device of claim 29 further comprising an integral 
cable and connectors consisting of at least one high voltage/high 

current igniter lead and at least one high voltage/low current 
nozzle lead each with at least one metallic shield and at least one 

metallic overshield surrounding both leads. 
The device of claim 1 in combination with a high voltage 
means for energizing said nozzle, and a laser energy source for 

providing laser energy to said igniter means to ignite fuel from 
said nozzle using laser energy. 
The device of claim 31 further comprising an integral 
cable and connectors consisting of at least one high voltage/low 

current nozzle lead and at least one optic cable. 
The combination of claim 32 wherein said device includes 
a first input terminal connectable to said high voltage means with 

a conductor, and a second input terminal connectable to said laser 
energy source with an optic cable. 
The injector according to claim 1 in combination with a 
turbine engine combustor, said injector producing an ignition flame 

injected into a primary zone of the combustor for starting engine 
combustion. 
A method for igniting fuel in a combustor comprising the 
steps of: 


a. using an electrostatic nozzle to atomize fuel 
provided from a fuel supply; 
b. using an igniter to ignite combustion of the atomized 
fuel; and 
c. using the initial combustion of electrostatically 
atomized fuel to ignite fuel from a main fuel supply in the 

combustor. 
The method of claim 35 wherein the step of using an 
electrostatic nozzle to atomize fuel includes the step of using 

another electrostatic nozzle as a main fuel supply to the 
combustor. 
Apparatus according to any preceding claim in combination 
with an ignition system comprising an integral high voltage supply 

for said nozzle, energy means for providing ignition energy to said 
igniter means, and a control means for operating said igniter means 

and nozzle means. 
The apparatus of claim 37 wherein said energy means 
comprises an exciter for electrically operated igniters, and a 

laser energy source for optically operated igniters. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
