<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0912597</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MET/FRET LABELLED AMPLIFICATION OLIGONUCLEOTIDES AND METHODS USING THEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12N1509	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33566	G01N33566	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides labeled nucleic acid amplification oligonucleotides, which can be linear or hairpin primers or blocking oligonucleotides. The oligonucleotides of the invention are labeled with donor and/or acceptor moieties of molecular energy transfer pairs. The moieties can be fluorophores, such that fluorescent energy emitted by the donor is absorbed by the acceptor. The acceptor may be a fluorophore that fluoresces at a wavelength different from the donor moiety, or it may be a quencher. The oligonucleotides of the invention are configured so that a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety are incorporated into the amplification product. The invention also provides methods and kits for directly detecting amplification products employing the nucleic acid amplification primers. When labeled linear primers are used, treatment with exonuclease or by using specific temperature eliminates the need for separation of unincorporated primers. This "closed-tube" format greatly reduces the possibility of carryover contamination with amplification products, provides for high throughput of samples, and may be totally automated.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEMICON INTERNATIONAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHEMICON INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHATNAGAR SATISH K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOHMAN ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAZARENKO IRINA A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINN-DEEN EMILY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BHATNAGAR, SATISH, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOHMAN, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAZARENKO, IRINA, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINN-DEEN, EMILY, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to oligonucleotides
for amplification of nucleic acids that are detectably
labeled with molecular energy transfer (MET) labels. It also
relates to methods for detecting the products of nucleic acid
amplification using these oligonucleotides. It further
relates to a rapid, sensitive, and reliable method for
detecting amplification products that greatly decreases the
possibility of carryover contamination with amplification
products and that is adaptable to many methods for
amplification of nucleic acid sequences, including polymerase
chain reaction (PCR), triamplification, and other
amplification systems.Molecular energy transfer (MET) is a process by
which energy is passed non-radiatively between a donor
molecule and an acceptor molecule. Fluorescence resonance
energy transfer (FRET) is a form of MET. FRET arises from
the properties of certain chemical compounds; when excited by
exposure to particular wavelengths of light, they emit light
(i.e., they fluoresce) at a different wavelength. Such
compounds are termed fluorophores. In FRET, energy is passed
non-radiatively over a long distance (10-100Å) between a 
donor molecule, which is a fluorophore, and an acceptor
molecule. The donor absorbs a photon and transfers this
energy nonradiatively to the acceptor (Förster, 1949, Z.
Naturforsch. A4: 321-327; Clegg, 1992, Methods Enzymol. 211:
353-388).When two fluorophores whose excitation and emission
spectra overlap are in close proximity, excitation of one
fluorophore will cause it to emit light at wavelengths that
are absorbed by and that stimulate the second fluorophore,
causing it in turn to fluoresce. In other words, the
excited-state energy of the first (donor) fluorophore is
transferred by a resonance induced dipole - dipole
interaction to the neighboring second (acceptor) fluorophore.
As a result, the lifetime of the donor molecule is decreased
and its fluorescence is quenched, while the fluorescence
intensity of the acceptor molecule is enhanced and
depolarized. When the excited-state energy of the donor is
transferred to a non-fluorophore acceptor, the fluorescence
of the donor is quenched without subsequent emission of
fluorescence by the acceptor. In this case, the acceptor
functions as a quencher.Pairs of molecules that can engage in fluorescence
resonance energy transfer (FRET) are termed FRET pairs. In
order for energy transfer to occur, the donor and acceptor
molecules must typically be in close proximity (up to 70 to
100 Å) (Clegg, 1992, Methods Enzymol. 211:
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An oligonucleotide comprising the following
contiguous sequences in 5' to 3' order:


(a) a first nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides,
wherein a nucleotide within said first nucleotide

sequence is labeled with a first moiety selected
from a donor moiety and an acceptor moiety of a

molecular energy transfer pair, wherein the donor
moiety emits fluorescence at one or more particular

wavelengths when excited, and the acceptor moiety
absorbs and quenches said fluorescence emitted by

said donor moiety;
(b) a second, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of
3-20 nucleotides;
(c) a third nucleotide sequence of 6-30 nucleotides,
wherein a nucleotide within said third nucleotide

sequence is labeled with a second moiety selected
from said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, and

said second moiety is the member of said group not
labeling said first nucleotide sequence, wherein

said third nucleotide sequence is complementary in
reverse order to said first nucleotide sequence such

that a duplex can form between said first nucleotide
sequence and said third nucleotide sequence such

that said first moiety and second moiety are in
proximity such that, when the donor moiety is

excited and emits fluorescence, the acceptor moiety
absorbs and quenches said fluorescence emitted by

said donor moiety; and
(d) at the 3' end of said oligonucleotide, a fourth,
single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 8-40

nucleotides that comprises at its 3' end a sequence 
complementary to a preselected target sequence and

able to prime synthesis by a nucleic acid polymerase
of a nucleotide sequence complementary to a nucleic

acid strand comprising said target sequence;

wherein when said duplex is not formed, said first moiety
and said second moiety are separated by a distance that

prevents molecular energy transfer between said first and
second moiety.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said distance
is in the range of 15-25 nucleotides.
The oligonucleotide of claim 2 wherein said distance
is 20 nucleotides.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said donor
moiety is a fluorophore.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said
preselected target sequence is a genomic or mRNA

sequence.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1, 2 or 5 wherein said
preselected target sequence is a human genomic, cDNA, or

mRNA sequence.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said
preselected target sequence is a genomic sequence of an

infectious disease agent.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said
preselected target sequence is a wild-type human genomic

sequence, mutation of which is implicated in the presence
of a human disease or disorder. 
The oligonucleotide of claim 4 wherein said donor
moiety and said acceptor moiety are selected from

5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM),

2'7'-dimethoxy-4'5'-dichloro-6-carboxyfluorescein (JOE),
rhodamine, 6-carboxyrhodamine (R6G),
N,N,N'
-tetramethyl-6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA),

6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX),

5-(2'-aminoethyl)aminonapthalene-1-sulfonic acid (EDANS),
anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives,

Malachite green, Reactive Red 4, DABCYL, tetramethyl
rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine nitrotyrosine,

ethidium, and Texas Red.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said donor
moiety is selected from fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein

(FAM), rhodamine,

5-(2'-aminoethyl)aminonapthalene-1-sulfonic acid (EDANS),
anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives,

Malachite green, and Reactive Red 4, and said acceptor
moiety is selected from DABCYL, rhodamine, tetramethyl

rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine nitrotyrosine,
ethidium, and Texas Red.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said donor
moiety is fluorescein or a derivative thereof, and said

acceptor moiety is DABCYL.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 or 4 which is a
oligodeoxynucleotide.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said fourth
nucleotide sequence further comprises a restriction

endonuclease recognition site.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1, the sequence of
which consists of nucleotide sequences (a)-(d). 
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said first
moiety and said second moiety are situated on

complementary nucleotides that are opposite each other in
said duplex.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said first
moiety and said second moiety are situated on opposite

strand nucleotides that are five nucleotides apart in
said duplex.
An oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said fourth
single-stranded nucleotide sequence (d) comprises 10-25

nucleotides.
The oligonucleotide of claim 17 wherein said
donor moiety and said acceptor moiety are a FRET pair.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said second,
single-stranded nucleotide sequence consists of 4-6

nucleotides.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 which is purified.
The oligonucleotide of claim 1 wherein said first
moiety is the donor moiety, and said second moiety is the

acceptor moiety.
A method of making an oligonucleotide hairpin primer
comprising:


A. hybridizing a first oligonucleotide, the nucleotide
sequence of which consists of the following contiguous

sequences in 5' to 3' order:

(a) a first single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 1 to
10 nucleotides; 
(b) a second nucleotide sequence of 2-30 nucleotides,
wherein a nucleotide within said first nucleotide

sequence or said second nucleotide sequence is
labeled with a first moiety selected from a donor

moiety and an acceptor moiety of a molecular energy
transfer pair, wherein the donor moiety emits

fluorescence at one or more particular wavelengths
when excited, and the acceptor moiety absorbs and

quenches said fluorescence emitted by said donor
moiety;
(c) a third, single-stranded nucleotide sequence of 3-20
nucleotides; and
(d) a fourth nucleotide sequence of 2-30 nucleotides,
wherein a nucleotide within said fourth nucleotide

sequence is labeled with a second moiety selected
from said donor moiety and said acceptor moiety, and

said second moiety is the member of said group not
labeling said first or second nucleotide sequence,

wherein said fourth nucleotide sequence is
complementary in reverse order to said second

nucleotide sequence such that a duplex can form
between said second nucleotide sequence and said

fourth nucleotide sequence such that said first
moiety and second moiety are in proximity such that,

when the donor moiety is excited and emits
fluorescence, the acceptor moiety absorbs and

quenches said fluorescence emitted by said donor
moiety,

to a second oligonucleotide, said second oligonucleotide
comprising:


(i) a 5' sequence complementary to said first
single-stranded nucleotide sequence (a) of said 

first oligonucleotide and hybridizable thereto,
and
(ii) a 3' sequence of 8-40 nucleotides complementary
to a preselected target sequence such that it

is able to prime synthesis by a nucleic acid

polymerase of a nucleotide sequence
complementary to a nucleic acid strand

comprising said target sequence; and
B. ligating the 5' end of said 5' sequence to the 3'
terminus of said fourth nucleotide sequence (d) of said

first oligonucleotide.
The method of claim 22 wherein said first nucleotide
sequence (a) of said first oligonucleotide is in the

range of 3-4 nucleotides, said second nucleotide sequence
(b) of said first oligonucleotide is in the range of 4-6

nucleotides, said third nucleotide sequence (c) of said
first oligonucleotide is in the range of 4-6 nucleotides,

and said fourth nucleotide sequence (d) of said first
oligonucleotide is in the range of 4-6 nucleotides.
The method of claim 23 wherein said first nucleotide
sequence is 5'-GGC-3'.
The method of claim 22 wherein said donor moiety is
a fluorophore.
The method of claim 25 wherein said donor moiety is
selected from fluorescein, 5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM),

rhodamine, 5-(2'-aminoethyl)aminonapthalene-1-sulfonic
acid (EDANS), anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate

derivatives, Malachite green, and Reactive Red 4, and
said acceptor moiety is selected from DABCYL, rhodamine,

tetramethyl rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine
nitrotyrosine, ethidium, and Texas Red. 
The method of claim 22 wherein said first
oligonucleotide is an oligodeoxynucleotide.
A kit comprising in a container the oligonucleotide
of any one of claims 1 to 21.
A kit of claim 28 comprising the oligonucleotide of
claim 1.
A kit of claim 28 comprising the oligonucleotide of
claim 12.
A kit of claim 28 comprising the oligonucleotide of
claim 17 or 18.
A kit of claim 31 comprising in one or more
containers:


(a) a first oligonucleotide of claim 17; and
(b) a second oligonucleotide;

wherein said fourth single-stranded nucleotide sequence
of said first oligonucleotide of claim 17 is also present

at the 5' end of said second oligonucleotide.
A kit of claim 28 comprising, in addition to said
oligonucleotide of any one of claims 1 to 21, a further

oligonucleotide, wherein said oligonucleotide of any one
of claims 1 to 21 and said further oligonucleotide are

primers for use in a nucleic acid amplification reaction
to amplify a preselected target nucleic acid sequence;

and are contained in one or more containers.
The kit of claim 33 wherein both of said first and
second oligonucleotides are oligonucleotides of claim 1. 
The kit of claim 33, which further comprises a third
oligonucleotide that is partially complementary to one of

the first and second oligonucleotides.
The kit of claim 35, which further comprises in one
or more containers:


(c) a DNA polymerase; and
(d) a DNA ligase.
The kit of claim 33 which further comprises in one
or more containers:


(c) a buffer for said amplification reaction;
(d) a control nucleic acid comprising the preselected
target sequence; and
(e) a DNA polymerase.
The kit of claim 37 which further comprises:

(f) a set of directions for carrying out said
amplification reaction.
The kit of claim 38 which further comprises means
for stimulating and detecting fluorescent light

emissions.
The kit of claim 33 which further comprises in said
one containers or in different one or more containers: a

third oligonucleotide; and a fourth oligonucleotide,
wherein said third and fourth oligonucleotides are

primers for use in said nucleic acid amplification
reaction to amplify a second preselected target sequence;

and at least one of said third and fourth 
oligonucleotides is an oligonucleotide of claim 1, and

wherein said donor moiety of said first or second
oligonucleotide emits fluorescent light of a different

wavelength than said donor moiety of said third or fourth
oligonucleotide.
The kit of claim 33 wherein said first and second
oligonucleotides are oligodeoxynucleotides.
A kit according to claim 28 comprising in one or
more containers:


(A) a first oligonucleotide primer;
(B) a second oligonucleotide primer, wherein the first
and second oligonucleotide primers are forward and

reverse primers for DNA synthesis in an
amplification reaction to amplify a nucleic acid

sequence, and wherein said second oligonucleotide
primer comprises:


(i) a 5' sequence that is not complementary to a
preselected target sequence in said nucleic

acid sequence, and
(ii) a 3' sequence that is complementary to said
preselected target sequence; and
(C) a third oligonucleotide primer, said third
oligonucleotide primer being an oligonucleotide of

claim 1 wherein, in said oligonucleotide of claim 1,
the fourth single-stranded nucleotide sequence (d)

of said oligonucleotide of claim 1 is a sequence of
10-25 nucleotides that comprises at its 3' a

sequence identical to said 5' sequence of said
second oligonucleotide primer of (B).
The kit of claim 42 wherein said preselected target
sequence is from nucleic acid selected from the group

consisting of Fragile X gene, Prader-Willi syndrome
region, Angelman syndrome region, p15 gene, p16 gene,

E-cadherin gene, and von Hippel-Lindau syndrome gene.
The kit of claim 33 wherein said first
oligonucleotide is the oligonucleotide of claim 1, and

which kit further comprises a blocking oligonucleotide
that comprises a sequence complementary and hybridizable

to a sequence of said second oligonucleotide; and
optionally further comprises in a separate container DNA

ligase.
The kit of claim 33 wherein said amplification
reaction is polymerase chain reaction.
The kit of claim 36, wherein said amplification
reaction comprises repeated steps of polymerization and

ligation, such that one of said first and second
oligonucleotides is ligated to said third

oligonucleotide.
The kit of any one of claims 28 to 46 wherein the
oligonucleotide is in a distilled water or buffered

solution.
The kit of any one of claims 28 to 47 further
comprising in a separate container sodium bisulfite.
The kit of claim 48 which further comprises in one
or more containers a buffer for a nucleic acid

amplification reaction.
The kit of any one of claims 28 to 49 which further
comprises in separate containers: a mixture of sodium

bisulfite and hydroquinone powder; mineral oil; DNA 
binding matrix; NaI solution; glycogen; amplification

buffer; unmethylated control DNA; and methylated control
DNA.
A method of claim 27 wherein said first
oligonucleotide consists of:


(a) SEQ ID NO:1, optionally with fluorescein or a
derivative thereof attached to the 5' G and DABCYL

attached to the T at nucleotide number 22;
(b) SEQ ID NO:13, optionally with fluorescein or a
derivative thereof attached to the 5' A and DABCYL

attached to the T at nucleotide number 20;
(c) SEQ ID NO:14, optionally with fluorescein or a
derivative thereof attached to the 5' A and DABCYL

attached to the T at nucleotide number 24;
(d) SEQ ID NO:15, optionally with fluorescein or a
derivative thereof attached to the 5' A and DABCYL

attached to the T at nucleotide number 24;
(e) SEQ ID NO:16, optionally with fluorescein or a
derivative thereof attached to the 5' A and DABCYL

attached to the T at nucleotide number 22;
(f) SEQ ID NO:17, optionally with fluorescein or a
derivative thereof attached to the 5' A and DABCYL

attached to the T at nucleotide number 22; or
(g) SEQ ID NO:18, optionally with fluorescein or a
derivative thereof attached to the 5' C and DABCYL

attached to the T at nucleotide number 20.
A method for detecting or measuring a product of a
nucleic acid amplification reaction comprising: 


(a) contacting a sample comprising nucleic acids with at
least two oligonucleotide primers, said

oligonucleotide primers being adapted for use in
said amplification reaction such that said primers

are incorporated into an amplified product of said
amplification reaction when a preselected target

sequence is present in the sample; at least one of
said oligonucleotide primers being the

oligonucleotide of claim 1;
(b) conducting the amplification reaction;
(c) stimulating emission of fluorescence from said donor
moiety; and
(d) detecting or measuring said fluorescence emitted by
said donor moiety.
The method of claim 52 wherein said donor moiety is
a fluorophore.
The method of claim 52 wherein said preselected
target sequence is a genomic sequence.
The method of claim 52 wherein said preselected
target sequence is a human genomic sequence.
The method of claim 52 wherein said preselected
target sequence is a genomic sequence of an infectious

disease agent.
The method of claim 52 wherein said preselected
target sequence is a wild-type human genomic sequence,

mutation of which is implicated in the presence of a
human disease or disorder. 
The method of claim 52 wherein said donor moiety and
said acceptor moiety are selected from fluorescein,

5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM), 2'7'-dimethoxy-4'5'-dichloro-6-carboxyfluorescein
(JOE),

rhodamine, 6-carboxyrhodamine (R6G),

N,N,N',N-tetramethyl-6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA),
6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX),

5-(2'-aminoethyl)aminonaphthalene-1-sulfonic acid
(EDANS), anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate

derivatives, Malachite green, Reactive Red 4, DABCYL,
rhodamine, tetramethyl rhodamine, pyrene butyrate,

eosine, nitrotyrosine, ethidium, and Texas Red.
The method of claim 52 wherein said donor moiety is
selected from the group consisting of fluorescein,

5-carboxyfluorescein (FAM), rhodamine,

5-(2'-aminoethyl)aminonapthalene-1-sulfonic acid (EDANS),
anthranilamide, coumarin, terbium chelate derivatives,

Malachite green, and Reactive Red 4; and said acceptor
moiety is selected from DABCYL, rhodamine, tetramethyl

rhodamine, pyrene butyrate, eosine nitrotyrosine,
ethidium, and Texas Red.
The method of claim 52 wherein said donor moiety is
fluorescein or a derivative thereof, and said acceptor

moiety is DABCYL.
The method of claim 52 wherein the oligonucleotide
is an oligodeoxynucleotide.
The method of claim 53 wherein the oligonucleotide
is an oligodeoxynucleotide.
The method of claim 52 wherein said fourth
nucleotide sequence further comprises a restriction

endonuclease recognition site. 
The method of claim 52 wherein the nucleotide
sequence of said oligonucleotide of claim 1 consists of

nucleotide sequences (a)-(d).
The method of claim 52 wherein said first moiety and
said second moiety are situated on complementary

nucleotides that are opposite each other in said duplex.
The method of claim 52 wherein said first moiety and
said second moiety are situated on opposite strand

nucleotides that are five nucleotides apart in said
duplex.
The method of claim 52 or 53 wherein said
oligonucleotide primers comprise a plurality of different

oligonucleotides of claim 1, each oligonucleotide
comprising at its 3' end a said sequence complementary to

a different preselected target sequence whereby said
different oligonucleotides are incorporated into

different amplified products when each said target
sequence is present in said sample, each said

oligonucleotide being labeled with a donor moiety that
emits fluorescent light of a different wavelength than

that emitted by the other donor moieties.
The method of claim 52 wherein said amplification
reaction is polymerase chain reaction.
The method of claim 52 wherein said amplification
reaction is allele-specific polymerase chain reaction.
The method of claim 52 or 53, wherein step (a)
occurs in the presence of a DNA polymerase and a DNA

ligase, and wherein said amplification reaction comprises
repeated steps of polymerization and ligation, such that

one of the oligonucleotide primers is ligated to a third 
oligonucleotide that is partially complementary to one of

the oligonucleotide primers.
The method of claim 52 wherein said amplification
reaction is strand displacement.
The method of claim 52 wherein said amplification
reaction is NASBA amplification.
The method of claim 52 in which said amplification
reaction is triamplification, and said at least two

oligonucleotide primers comprises a forward primer to
prime DNA synthesis and a reverse primer to prime DNA

synthesis; and said contacting step comprises contacting
said sample also with a blocking oligonucleotide.
The method of claim 52 or 53 wherein said
amplification product is not separated from said

unincorporated oligonucleotide primers after conducting
said amplification reaction and before said stimulating

and detecting steps.
A method of claim 52 wherein step (a) comprises:

contacting a sample comprising nucleic acids with a
first oligonucleotide, a second oligonucleotide, and a

third oligonucleotide, said first oligonucleotide being
the oligonucleotide of claim 17, said second and third

oligonucleotides being primers adapted for use in a
nucleic acid amplification reaction such that said

primers are incorporated into an amplified product of
said amplification reaction when a preselected target

sequence is present in the sample; wherein said fourth,
predetermined single-stranded nucleotide sequence of said

first oligonucleotide is also present at the 5' end of
said second oligonucleotide, and wherein said fourth,

predetermined single-stranded nucleotide sequence is not 

complementary to said preselected target sequence.
The method of claim 75 wherein said donor moiety and
said acceptor moiety are a FRET pair.
The method of claim 52 wherein energy emitted by
said donor moiety or acceptor moiety is measured in step

(d), and wherein the amount of said measured energy
correlates with the amount of said preselected target

sequence that was present in said sample, thereby
allowing determination of the amount of said preselected

target sequence that was present in said sample.
The method of claim 77 wherein the amount of DNA
containing said preselected target sequence in the sample

is determined.
The method of claim 77 wherein the amount of RNA
containing said preselected target sequence in the sample

is determined.
The method of claim 77 wherein the number of
chromosomes containing said preselected target sequence

in the sample is determined.
The method of any one of claims 52 to 80 wherein the
amplification reaction is conducted in situ.
The method of any one of claims 52 to 81 wherein
said amplification reaction is cascade rolling circle

amplification.
A method of determining the methylation status of
DNA comprising the following steps in the order stated:


(a) contacting a sample comprising nucleic acids
with an amount of bisulfite sufficient to 

convert unmethylated cytosines in the sample to
uracil;
(b) contacting said sample with a first
oligonucleotide, a second oligonucleotide, and

a third oligonucleotide, said first
oligonucleotide being the oligonucleotide of

claim 17, said second and third
oligonucleotides being primers adapted for use

in a nucleic acid amplification reaction such
that said primers are incorporated into an

amplified product of said amplification
reaction when a preselected target sequence is

present in the sample; wherein said fourth,
predetermined single-stranded nucleotide

sequence of said first oligonucleotide is also
present at the 5' end of said second

oligonucleotide, and wherein said fourth,
predetermined single-stranded nucleotide

sequence is not complementary to said
preselected target sequence;
(c) conducting the amplification reaction;
(d) stimulating emission of fluorescence from said donor
moiety of said first oligonucleotide; and
(e) detecting or measuring fluorescence emitted by said
donor moiety;

wherein the amount of fluorescence detected or measured
indicates the presence or amount of said amplified

product, the presence or amount of said amplified product
indicating the methylation status of said preselected

target sequence in said sample. 
The method of claim 83 wherein said preselected
target sequence is from nucleic acid selected from the

group consisting of Fragile X gene, Prader-Willi syndrome
region, Angelman syndrome region, p15 gene, p16 gene,

E-cadherin gene, and von Hippel-Lindau syndrome gene.
A method of detecting telomerase activity
comprising:


(a) contacting a sample suspected of having
telomerase activity with at least two

oligonucleotide primers comprising a first
primer and a second primer, wherein either:


(i) said first primer comprises a sequence at its
3' end that is a substrate for a telomerase,

and said second primer is the oligonucleotide
of claim 1; wherein said preselected target

sequence to which said fourth, single-stranded
nucleotide sequence of said second primer is

complementary, comprises telomeric repeats that
result from the activity of said telomerase; or
(ii) said first primer is an oligonucleotide of
claim 1 that comprises at its 3' end a sequence

that is a substrate for a telomerase; and
wherein said second primer comprises at its 3'

end a sequence able to hybridize to telomeric
repeats that result from the activity of said

telomerase;
(b) subjecting the sample to conditions suitable for
telomerase activity;
(c) conducting a nucleic acid amplification reaction
under conditions suitable for said first and second

primers to prime DNA synthesis; 
(d) stimulating emission of fluorescence from said donor
moiety; and
(e) detecting or measuring fluorescence emitted by said
donor moiety;

the presence or amount of said fluorescence indicating
the presence or amount of telomerase activity.
The method of claim 85 wherein the amplification
reaction is conducted in situ.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
