<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Reversibly bound in dessicated form to a solid support nucleid acid hydridisation probe, method using the same and kit therefor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12Q168	C12N1509	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12Q	C12N	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12Q1	C12N15	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a novel composition for use in nucleic acid hybridisation assays comprising a labelled nucleic acid hybridisation probe (or precursor thereof) reversibly bound in dessicated form to a solid support, said probe (or precursor) being releasable upon the addition of water or an aqueous solution. Also disclosed is a method of performing nucleic acid hybridisation assays which employs the novel composition and a kit for performing said assay method.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYTOCELL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CYTOCELL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARDY DONALD LEONARD NICHOLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARDY, DONALD LEONARD NICHOLAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to methods of performing nucleic 
acid hybridisation assays, novel compositions for use in 
said assays, and kits for performing said assays. Nucleic acid hybridisation assays currently find many 
different applications, especially in the area of 
detection and diagnosis of infectious or genetic 
diseases. The detection or diagnosis of genetic disease, involving 
the analysis of chromosomes in mammalian cells, usually 
requires the culturing of cells in nutrient medium in the 
presence of substances designed to block the cell cycle 
progression at mitosis, for example colchicine. At this 
stage, the chromosomes in mammalian cells are condensed 
and easily identifiable by staining. Without cell 
culture, a low frequency of cells in mitosis can be found 
although with varying difficulty depending on the cell 
type. Thus, it is routine in clinical cytogenetics 
laboratories for the analysis of peripheral blood cells or 
for the analysis of cells from amniocentesis samples 
(amniocytes) to culture these cell types for several weeks 
prior to chromosome analysis.  
 Standard methods of chromosome analysis require the 
deposition of fixed cells onto microscope slides and the 
viewing of mitotic cells by microscopy. Whilst 
chromosomes are readily visible in mitotic cells, the 
identification of individual chromosomes is more difficult 
and commonly requires matching pairs of chromosomes on the 
basis of size and G (Giemsa)-banding pattern. This is 
often done by photographing a stained chromosome spread 
and then manually pairing chromosomes from the photograph. 
Considerable skill is often required to identify 
chromosomal abnormalities in cells, for example in 
translocations of one section of a chromosome to another. 
In the 9:22 translocation associated with chronic 
myelogonous leukemia, for example, the cytogeneticist must 
identify the shortened chromosome 22 associated with a 
piece of chromosome 9 (the "Philadelphia chromosome"). 
Less extensive abnormalities within chromosomes, such as 
small deletions or mutations within genes, cannot be 
identified by standard visual methods for chromosomal 
analysis. The use of hybridisation probes for chromosome analysis 
has greatly facilitated the identification of individual 
chromosomes in mitotic cells and the analysis of 
abnormalities such as translocations. For example, DNA 
probes have been developed which hybridise to centromeric 
regions of individual chromosomes (van Dekken and Bauman, 
Cytogenet. Cell Genet., volume 48 (1988)
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composition for use in nucleic acid hybridisation assays, comprising a labelled 
nucleic acid hybridisation probe, or a precursor thereof, reversibly bound in dessicated 

form to a solid support and being releasable therefrom upon the addition of water or an 
aqueous solution, and wherein the hybridisation assay is performed in contact with the 

surface of the solid support upon which the nucleic acid probe is reversibly bound. 
A composition according to claim 1, comprising a probe precursor in the form of an 

unlabelled nucleic acid probe. 
A composition according to claim 2, wherein labelling of the probe precursor is 
achieved by the addition thereto of labelled nucleotides. 
A composition according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the solid support is 
substantially planar. 
A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the solid 
support comprises a microscope slide or coverslip. 
A composition according to any one of the preceding claims. wherein the solid 
support comprises siliconized glass. 
A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a plurality of 
different probes or precursors thereof are reversibly bound to a single solid support. 
A composition according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising other 
substances bound in dessicated form to the same or a further solid support. 
A composition according to claim 8. wherein said other substances comprise a  
 

reversibly or irreversibly immobilised substance capable of interacting with the nucleic 
acid probe. 
A composition according to claim 8 or 9, wherein said other substances comprise an 
enzyme. 
A composition according to any one of claims 8, 9 or 10, wherein said other 
substances comprise a DNA polymerase. 
A composition according to any one of claims 8-11, wherein said other substances 
comprise deoxynucleotides for addition to the probe substance. 
A composition according to any one of claims 8-12, wherein said other substances 
comprise labelling reagents. 
A method of performing a nucleic acid hybridisation assay, comprising: treating a 
labelled nucleic acid probe or precursor thereof, reversibly bound in dessicated form to 

a solid support and being releasable therefrom upon the addition of water or an aqueous 
solution, by the addition of water or an aqueous solution to release the probe or precursor; 

bringing the released probe or precursor into contact with a sample to be assayed, 
comprising nucleic acid, under conditions which allow the hybridisation of homologous 

or substantially homologous sequences; if necessary, treating the precursor in suitable 
manner to produce a labelled probe, removing unhybridised probe from the mixture and 

determining the presence (if any) of labelled probe hybridised to the sample nucleic acid, 
wherein the assay, is performed in contact with the surface of the solid support. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein the probe or precursor thereof is released 
by the addition of hybridisation fluid. 
A method according to claim 14 or 15, wherein a precursor reversibly bound to the 
support is treated in a suitable manner to produce a labelled probe by the use of a 

polymerase to add labelled nucleotides to the precursor.  
 
A method according to any one of claims 14-16, wherein the method is performed 
in a manner which does not require additional precisely measured quantities of reagents. 
A method according to any one of claims 14-17, wherein the method is applied to the 
chromosome analysis of cells. 
A kit for use in nucleic acid hybridisation assays, comprising: a labelled nucleic acid 
probe or precursor thereof reversibly bound in dessicated form to a solid support and 

being releasable therefrom upon the addition of water or an aqueous solution, for 
performance of the assay in contact with the surface of the solid support; and instructions 

for use. 
A kit according to claim 19, further comprising other substances bound in dessicated 
form to the same or a further solid support. 
A kit according to claim 19 or 20, wherein said other substances comprise labelling 
reagents. 
A kit according to any one of claims 19-21, further comprising one or more of the 
following: hybridisation fluid; washing solution; vulcanising solution; and anti-fade 

solution comprising propidium iodide. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
