<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623007</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TISSUE ABLATION AND A LATERAL-LASING FIBER OPTIC DEVICE THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1722	A61B1722	A61B1742	A61B1742	A61B1800	A61B1800	A61B1820	A61B1820	A61B1822	A61B1824	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B18	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for removing unwanted material in a body lumen, cavity or organ provides the steps of using an endoscope or other viewing sytem to position a suitably sized lateral-lasing fiber optic device (14) axially at one or more places in a body lumen, cavity or organ and delivering a predetermined amount of light energy for a predetermined period of time laterally in one or more directions, while delivering a biocompatible fluid at a predetermined rate of flow. The distal end of the lateral-lasing fiber optic device (14) includes a reflectively-coated metal tip (15), which is capable of directing, by reflection, the light energy from the optical fiber laterally from the longitudinal axis of the light energy carrying optical fiber and outwardly toward a target tissue region.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIMEDYNE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRIMEDYNE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUSSEIN HANY M G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON DOUGLAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOEB MARVIN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUSSEIN HANY M G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSON DOUGLAS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOEB MARVIN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TISSUE ABLATION AND A LATERAL-LASING FIBER OPTIC DEVICE THEREFOR Field Of The InventionThe present invention relates to medical procedures and devices for ablating or coagulating tissue to effect the removal of unwanted material from body lumens, including blood vessels or ducts, cavities or organs, and more particularly to (a) transurethral laser resection of the prostate to remove unwanted tissue and increase urine flow, (b) coagulation or ablation of the endometrial lining of the uterus to stop excessive bleeding, (c) coagulation of bleeding blood vessels and (d) coagulation or ablation of tumors. Background Of The Invention Treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia is one of this nation's major health-care expenses, as evidenced by the fact that transurethral resection of the prostate is second only to cataract extraction as the major operation most costly to Medicare. For the approximately 450,000 prostatectomies performed annually in the United States, hospitalization expenses and physician charges (not including costs for nonoperative evaluation and treatment) approach five billion dollars. The surgical procedure constitutes over a third of the major operations performed by urologists, and the operative and the clinical activities associated with it involve nearly a quarter of the urologist's time. Mortality for the pr.ocedure has been reduced to 0.2% over the last 27 years, but the incidence of immediate postoperative morbidity has remained unchanged at 18%. The high cost of the procedure, not only in physician time but also in medical expense and patient morbidity, has therefore caused urologists to seek cheaper and less morbid ways of treating patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia. 

 During the last decade, as a result, a variety of alternative treatment methods have been introduced, including watchful waiting, medical management using alpha blockers or androgen suppression, insertion of prostatic stents and coils, balloon dilation, prostatic hyperthermia, and transurethral incision. None of these methods has proved superior to transurethral resection, and the majority of patients with bladder-outlet obstruction continue to require hospitalization for this procedure to relieve their symptoms.The procedure of transurethral resection includes the step of electrically heating an insulated loop of wire in a electrocautery device and slowly drawing the heated loop back and forth longitudinally within the prostate to cut and cauterize tissue, creating a series of furrows along the length of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A method for the removal of unwanted tissue comprising the steps of: positioning an elongated lateral-lasing fiber optic device adjacent a selected region of the tissue to be removed; delivering a biocompatible fluid at a predetermined rate of flow contiguous with the positioned lateral-lasing fiber optic device; and energizing the positioned lateral-lasing fiber optic device at a predetermined power level to emit laser energy in a direction substantially transversely to the longitudinal axis of the later-lasing fiber optic device and so as to irradiate the selected region of the tissue to be removed for a predetermined time period to produce a zone of coagulation in the irradiated tissue.
2. The method according to claim 1, in which the flow rate of said biocompatible fluid is in the range of 20 to 200 cubic centimeters per minute. 3. The method according to claim 1, in which the light energy is generated by a neodymium:YAG laser.
4. The method according to claim 1, in which the light energy is generated by a holmium laser.
5. The method according to claim 1, in which the power level and duration of light energy emission from a neodymium:YAG laser and the fluid flow rate are, in the case of laser transurethral resection of the prostate, approximately 40 watts for approximately 30 seconds in the 12 and 6 o'clock positions and approximately 60 seconds in the 3 and 9 o'clock positions, respectively, with fluid infusion at the treatment site at a
'
 rate of approximately 50 cc per minute.
6. The method according to claim 1, in which the power level and duration of light energy emission 


 from a neodymium:YAG laser and the fluid flow rate are, in the case of laser transurethral resection of the prostate, approximately 40 watts for approximately 60 seconds at the 2, 4, 8 and 10 o'clock or the 3 and 9 o'clock positions, respectively, with fluid flow at approximately 50 cc per minute.
7. The method according to claim 1, in which a viewing system for positioning is an endoscope.
8. The method according to claim 1, in which more than one circumferential or bi-lateral zone of lasing is performed on tissue in a body lumen, cavity or organ.
9. The method according to claim 8, in which the body lumen is the prostatic urethra and the body organ is the prostate.
10. The method according to claim 1, in which the body lumen is the uterus.
11. The method according to claim 1, in which the procedure is a laser transurethral prostatic resection.
12. The method according to claim 1, in which the procedure is endometrial ablation of the uterus.
13. A method for removing unwanted tissue in a body lumen, cavity or organ, which comprises the steps of:
(a) using a viewing system to position in a body lumen, cavity or organ opposite said unwanted tissue a lateral-lasing fiber-optic device having at the distal end thereof a reflectively-coated metal tip mounted to an optical fiber, which tip is capable of directing by reflection the light energy from a laser laterally from the axis of the optical fiber; and 


 (b) delivering, while infusing a biocompatible fluid at a predetermined flow rate, or in the presence of sufficient fluid, a predetermined amount of light energy from a laser to said unwanted tissue for a predetermined period of time to obtain the desired zone of coagulation.
14. The method according to claim 13, in which the light energy is generated by a neodymium:YAG laser.
15. The method according to claim 13, in which the light energy is generated by a holmium laser.
16. The method according to claim 13, in which the body lumen is the prostatic urethra, the body cavity is the abdominal cavity and the body organ is the prostate.
17. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said unwanted tissue is infused with a photoactive agent prior to irradiation. 18. The method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said light energy is delivered from a pulsed laser and the temperature of the tip is monitored.
19. The method in accordance with claim 13 wherein the reflectively-coated metal tip is contained within a balloon transparent to the wavelength of said light energy.
20. A device for applying a laser energy beam to a selected body site comprising: an elongated, laser energy transmitting conduit having a proximal end and a distal end; a laser energy source optically coupled to the proximal end region of the conduit for transmitting laser energy along the conduit; a hollow, apertured element mounted on the distal end of said conduit and provided with an internal 


 laser energy reflective surface so that a major portion of the laser energy transmitted by the conduit to the bulbous element impinges thereon and exits from the element laterally as a laser energy beam; said element defining a cavity within which the distal end of the conduit is received and further defining an aperture communicating with said cavity and positioned to one side of the laser energy path entering said cavity but in registry with the laterally exiting laser energy beam; and an operculum over said cavity; said operculum being permeable to the laser energy beam but preventing body tissue entry into said cavity.
21. The device according to claim 20 wherein the operculum is a bar that extends longitudinally across said cavity.
22. The device according to claim 20 wherein the operculum is a plurality of bars across said cavity.
23. The device according to claim 20 wherein the operculum is a laser energy transparent baffle that extends partially across said cavity.
24. The device according to claim 20 wherein the operculum is a laser energy transparent lid over said cavity. 25. The device according to claim 20 wherein the operculum is a laser energy transparent lid over said cavity and wherein the lid and said hollow apertured element together define a sealed sapce therebetween. 26. The device according to claim 20 wherein the laser energy beam exits the hollow element through said operculum and in a direction substantially transverse to the major axis of the elongated, laser energy transmitting conduit at the distal end region of the conduit. 


 27. The device according to claim 20 wherein an energy reflective surface layer for receiving and reflecting the laser energy transmitted by the conduit is provided within said cavity and in the path of the laser energy beam emitted from the conduit.
28. The device according to claim 20 wherein the energy reflective mirror surface is defined by a layer of gold.
29. The device according to claim 20 wherein a reflective coating is provided on the external surface of the hollow element.
30. The device according to claim 20 wherein the energy reflective surface is provided by an inset mounted in the hollow element and situated in the path of a laser beam exiting from said conduit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
