<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636777</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Four-stroke engine
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B7502	F01L134	F02M2507	F02D902	F02B2902	F02D1302	F02D1302	F01L134	F02B7502	F02D4300	F02D4300	F02B2900	F02D902	F02M2507	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F01L	F02M	F02D	F02B	F02D	F02D	F01L	F02B	F02D	F02D	F02B	F02D	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B75	F01L1	F02M25	F02D9	F02B29	F02D13	F02D13	F01L1	F02B75	F02D43	F02D43	F02B29	F02D9	F02M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An engine charge control system operates by 
initially reducing power from full load by retarding 

exhaust valve (20) closing timing to increase exhaust 
gas charge dilution up to the limit for efficient 

operation. Further load reductions are made by 
reducing charge mass without increased dilution via 

alternative steps such as throttling (in conjunction 
with intake check valves or using individual cylinder 

valves) or retarding intake valve (19) opening timing 
without throttling. Partial substitution of external 

charge dilution is also contemplated. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to external ignition 
or spark ignition internal combustion four-stroke 
engines. It is known in the art relating to engines 
to control the cylinder intake charges by various 
means and methods. These include intake manifold or 
individual cylinder throttling, variable intake and/or 
exhaust valve timing, auxiliary non-return or check 
valves (preferably reed valves) in the cylinder intake 
runners. US-A-5161497, which can be considered as the 
closest prior art, discloses a method of operating 
an engine by independently phase shifting the intake 
and exhaust valves, including delayed opening of the 
intake valve and delayed closing of 
the exhaust valve. The present invention seeks to provide an 
improved four-stroke engine. According to an aspect of the present 
invention, there is provided a method of operating a 
four-stroke engine as specified in claim 1. According to another aspect of the present 
invention, there is provided a method of operating a 
four-stroke engine as specified in claim 3. According to another aspect of the present 
invention, there is provided a four-stroke engine as 
specified in claim 13. Preferred embodiments of the invention may 
combine certain of the previously known means and can 
provide methods for their operation in the control of 
engine speed and load which can improve engine 
operating efficiency and/or emission control over 
substantial portions of the load range. A preferred embodiment combines variable 
timing of cylinder exhaust valve closing with manifold 
intake throttling and auxiliary cylinder intake check  
 
valves with optional bypass and an operating method 
which can maintain efficient operating conditions over 
the load range.  
 A preferred operating method includes full 
load operation with fully open throttle and full power 
valve timing; reduced load operation in a high load 
range by delaying of exhaust valve closing to a first 
limit within a favourable combustion zone; optional 
further reduced load operation in an intermediate load 
range by throttling to reduce manifold pressure while 
substantially maintaining delayed exhaust valve 
closing at the first limit; and lower reduced load 
operation in a low load range obtained by further 
throttling to reduce manifold pressure while advancing 
exhaust valve closing from the first limit to near the 
initial full power valve timing at engine idle. An embodiment of the present invention is 
described below, by way of example only, with 
reference to the accompanying
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating a four-stroke 
engine, which engine includes at least one cylinder 

(12) comprising at least one intake valve (19), at 
least one exhaust valve (20), a piston (14) in the 

cylinder connected to a crankshaft (16) and timing 
means (24) for varying intake charge pressure provided 

to the intake valves and means for varying the timing 
of exhaust valve closing relative to the crank angle 

of the associated piston; the method comprising the 
steps of providing a desired maximum intake charge 

pressure to the intake valve and a selected valve 
timing for operation of the engine at substantially 

maximum rated power at various operating speeds; 
reducing power for operation in a high power range 

immediately below maximum power by increasingly 
delaying exhaust valve closing combined at least in 

part with proportionally delaying intake valve opening 
up to a maximum delay selected to avoid adversely 

affecting charge combustion in the cylinders; and 
completing power reduction for operation in a low 

power range above idle by further delaying intake 
valve opening and advancing exhaust valve closing 

timing back to substantially the initial timing 
setting. 
A method according to claim 1, wherein 
an initial portion of the reduction from maximum power 

is accomplished while maintaining intake valve opening 
timing substantially constant. 
A method of operating a four-stroke 
engine, which engine includes at least one cylinder 

(12) comprising at least one intake valve (19) and at 
least one exhaust valve, a piston (14) in the cylinder 

connected to a crankshaft (16), a throttle 
(80) for varying intake charge pressure provided to  

 
the intake valve and timing means (24) for varying the 

timing of exhaust valve closing relative to the crank 
angle of the associated piston; the method comprising 

the steps of providing a desired maximum intake charge 
pressure to the intake valves and a selected valve 

timing for operation of the engine at substantially 
maximum rated power at various operating speeds; 

reducing power for operation in a high power range 
immediately below maximum power by increasingly 

delaying exhaust valve closing up to a maximum delay 
selected to avoid adversely affecting charge 

combustion in the cylinders while the throttle is held fully open; and completing power 
reduction for operation in a low power range above 

idle by reducing intake charge pressure to the intake 
valves by throttling while advancing exhaust valve closing timing 

back to substantially the initial timing setting. 
A method according to claim 3, including 
the step of reducing power from the high power range 

to an intermediate power range above the low power 
range by reducing intake charge pressure while 

maintaining exhaust valve closing delay substantially 
constant. 
A method according to claim 3 or 4, 
wherein the or each cylinder includes at least two 

exhaust valves, the exhaust valve closing timing of at 
least one of the valves remaining substantially 

constant during engine operation. 
A method according to claim 3, 4 or 5, 
wherein control of the intake charge pressure is 

provided by a manifold intake throttle (32). 
A method according to claim 3, 4 or 5, 
wherein control of the intake charge pressure is 

provided by a cylinder intake conduit throttle (80). 
A method according to any preceding 
claim, wherein control of the exhaust valve closing  

 
timing is provided by a variable valve timing 

mechanism (59). 
A method according to any preceding 
claim, wherein control of the exhaust valve closing 

timing is provided by camshaft phase changing means 
which alters the timing of a camshaft (42) that 

actuates the valve or valves of the or each cylinder. 
A method according to claim 9, wherein 
the camshaft also actuates the intake valve or valves 

of the or each cylinder. 
A method according to claim 3, wherein 
intake charge pressure is determined in part from a 

cylinder intake check valve (34) upstream of the or 
each intake valve. 
A method according to claim 11, wherein 
control of the intake charge pressure is provided by a 

manifold intake throttle (32) together with the 
cylinder intake check valve. 
A four-stroke engine including at least 
one cylinder (12) comprising at least one intake valve 

(19) and at least one exhaust valve (20), a piston 
(14) connected to a crankshaft (16), a throttle 

(80) for varying intake charge pressure provided 
to the intake valve, timing means (24) for varying the 

timing of exhaust valve closing relative to the crank 
angle of the associated piston, characterized by control means for 

operating the engine to provide a desired maximum 
intake charge pressure to the intake valves and a 

selected valve timing for operation of the engine at 
maximum rated power at various operating speeds; to 

reduce power for operation in a high power range 
immediately below maximum power by increasingly 

delaying exhaust valve closing up to a maximum delay 
selected to avoid adversely affecting charge 

combustion in the cylinders while the throttle is held fully open; and to complete power  
 

reduction for operation in a low power range above 
idle by reducing intake charge pressure to the intake 

valves by throttling and advancing exhaust valve closing timing back 
to substantially the initial timing setting. 
A four-stroke engine according to claim 
13, wherein the control means is operative to reduce 

power from the high power range in an intermediate 
power range above 
the low power range by reducing 
intake charge pressure while maintaining exhaust valve 

closing delay substantially constant. 
A four-stroke engine according to claim 
13 or 14, wherein the or each cylinder (12) includes 

at least two exhaust valves, the control means being 
operative to keep the exhaust valve closing timing of 

at least one of the valves substantially constant 
during engine operation. 
A four-stroke engine according to claim 
13, 14 or 15, including a manifold intake throttle 

(32) actuatable by the control means to provide 
control of the intake charge pressure. 
A four-stroke engine according to claim 
13, 14 or 15, including a cylinder intake conduit 

throttle (80) for the or each cylinder actuatable by 
the control means to provide control of the intake 

charge pressure. 
A four-stroke engine according to any 
one of claims 13 to 17, including camshaft phase 

changing means operable to vary the timing of a 
camshaft (42) which actuates the exhaust valve or 

valves of the or each cylinder, the phase changing 
means being actuatable by the control means to provide 

control of the exhaust valve closing timing. 
A four-stroke engine according to claim 
18, wherein the camshaft also actuates the intake 

valve or valves of the or each cylinder.  
 
A four-stroke engine according to any 
one of claims 13 to 19, wherein the pressure varying 

means includes a cylinder intake check valve (34) 
upstream of the intake valve or valves. 
A four-stroke engine according to claim 
20, wherein the chek valve is a reed valve. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
