<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618176</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for color reduction of dye wastewater
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C02F170	C02F900	C02F152	C02F166	C02F170	C02F154	C02F900	C02F166	C02F154	C02F152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C02F1	C02F9	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F9	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A highly colored dye wastewater is treated by a sequence 
of steps to obtain a color reduction of 90 percent or more. 

The method requires acidifying the wastewater and adding a 
cationic flocculant. A reducing agent is then, optionally, 

added to further reduce the color value of the wastewater and 
produce an oxidation-reduction potential of at least -200 and, 

generally, about -400 to -800. The reducing agent is, 
preferably, either a hydrosulfite or both a bisulfite and an 

alkali metal borohydride. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a process for reducing the
color value of dye wastewater. More particularly, the
invention relates to a process for removing dye bodies from
wastewater and for converting the dye bodies into less
chromophoric forms.Wastewaters from pulp and paper process effluents and
from textile dyeing process effluents presents substantial
environmental problems because such wastewaters contain
substantial concentrations of "color bodies". For example,
textile mills can generate millions of gallons of dye
wastewater every day. Such wastewater contain colloidal
bodies and suspended solids containing color compounds. Color
compounds or "color bodies" can include dyes and/or dye by-products.
Wastewater streams, that contains these dyes and/or
dye by-products, often do not meet regulatory standards for
wastewater discharge even after they have undergone treatment
by a conventional process.Various processes have been utilized to remove the
colored colloidal bodies and colored suspended solids
(hereinafter collectively referred to as "color bodies") and
to reduce their associated high biochemical oxygen demand.
One wastewater treatment process involves adding substantial
quantities of lime to the wastewater from which pulp fibers
and ligneous matter have been separated. The lime flocculates
the color bodies and, thereby, reduces the initial color of
the wastewater by 80 to 90 percent and significantly reduces
the biochemical oxygen demand. This process has a significant
disadvantage in that it requires high capital and operating
expenditures. In addition, such wastewater treatment
processes do not recover the pulp or ligneous material
collected by the process. Finally, the quantities of lime
employed by this process cause significant problems in lime
handling, sludge removal, pH, and environmental quality of the
wastewater that is ultimately released from the process. Other processes for removing color bodies include
treating the wastewater from a paper and textile dyeing
process with lime and ferrous sulfate. This treatment is
effective for separating a portion of the color bodies from
the wastewater. However, dilution of the treated wastewater
or a change in its pH releases the dye back into solution.Some wastewater treatment processes pass the wastewater
through an ion exchange resin to adsorb the lignins and their
derivatives. Ion exchange resins, that are used for these
purposes, generally comprise significantly cross-linked
hydrophilic acrylic copolymers. These cross-linked
hydrophilic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for reducing a color value of a wastewater
containing an organic dye, said process

characterized in that it comprises the steps of:

adjusting the wastewater to an acidic pH;
admixing said wastewater with a sufficient quantity of a
cationic flocculant from a quaternary ammonium condensation

polymer to form a floc with said organic dye;
admixing a reducing agent into said flocculated
wastewater in a
n amount sufficient to attain an
oxidation-reduction potential end point of at least -200,

said admixing of said reducing agent being performed in one
of two conditions, said two conditions being as follows:
a first condition wherein said reducing agent is a
hydrosulfite selected from the group consisting of an alkali

metal hydrosulfite, an alkaline earth hydrosulfite, and
mixtures thereof; and
a second condition wherein said reducing agent is a
combination of:
a bisulfite selected from the group consisting of an
alkali metal bisulfite, an alkaline earth bisulfite, and

mixtures thereof; and
an alkali metal borohydride selected from the group
consisting of an lithium borohydride, sodium borohydride,

potassium borohydride, and mixtures thereof; and
separating said flocculated organic dye from the
wastewater.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said flocculant is a condensation product of epichlorhydrin,

ethylene diamine, and dimethylamine.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said adjusting of said pH of said wastewater provides a pH of

about 2.0 to about pH 6.9. 
The process according to claim 3, characterised in that
said adjusting of said pH of said wastewater provides a pH of

about 5.0 to about 6.0.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said flocculant is admixed in an amount to provide a

concentration of about 50 to 3000 parts per million in said
wastewater.
The process according to claim 5, characterised in that
said flocculant is admixed in an amount to provide a

concentration of about 1000 to 2000 parts per million in said
wastewater.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said flocculant is a polydiallyldimethyl ammonium chloride.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said alkali metal borohydride is added to said wastewater

subsequent to admixing with said bisulfite.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said alkali metal hydrosulfite is sodium hydrosulfite.
The process according to claim 9, characterised in that
said alkali metal borohydride is sodium borohydride.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said flocculant and said reducing agent are added in

sufficient amounts to reduce the color value of said
wastewater by at least 90 percent.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said floc is separated from said wastewater by filtering. 
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said admixing of said flocculated wastewater with at least

one reducing agent is in a sufficient amount to attain an
oxidation-reduction potential end point of -400 to -800.
The process according to claim 13, characterised in that
said admixing of said flocculated wastewater with at least

one reducing agent is in a sufficient amount to attain an
oxidation-reduction potential end point of -500 to -700.
The process according to claim 1, characterised in that
said reducing agent is added in an amount to provide a

concentration of up to 5,500 parts per million in said
wastewater.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
