<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616577</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A METHOD AND KIT FOR MARKING AN ARTICLE WITH IDENTIFICATION SYMBOLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M112	B41M112	B44C122	B44C122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	B44C	B44C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M1	B41M1	B44C1	B44C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to a method of marking an article with identification symbols comprising the steps of providing a masking material (1a) and an active substance (4), which reacts with the material of the article (6), the masking material (1a) being impermeable to the active substance (4), removing sections from the masking material corresponding to the identification symbols, locating the masking material (1a) on the article (6) and applying the active substance (4) to the masking material to mark the areas of the article (6) exposed through the masking material wherein the identification symbols are inputted into a computer (7) which is programmed to activate a printing means (8) for removing sections corresponding to the required identification symbols from the masking material (1a) and the masking material (1a) is in the form of a continuous web which can be fed through the printing means (8).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLASSETCH INTERNATIONAL LIMITE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLASSETCH INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROOKING TIMOTHY JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROOKING, TIMOTHY JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A METHOD AND KIT FOR MARKING AN ARTICLE WITH IDENTIFICATION SYMBOLSThe present invention relates to a method and kit for marking an article with identification symbols, in particular, for marking a motor vehicle with the numbers and letters of its registration plate, engine number or other number unique to that vehicle.It is well known to stencil, sandblast, engrave or etch marks on articles or products for the purpose of identifying the contents of the container, the origin of the product or the date of manufacture of the product. However, these methods require specific machinery and a certain level of skill to achieve the . desired effect.In the motor industry it is known to mark the registration number or other unique number of a vehicle on one or more of the glass windows in order to discourage theft of the vehicle. A vehicle marked in this way would require a thief to change all the windows, which is a time consuming and expensive operation, before it could be sold again. Moreover, attempts to remove the registration number by abrasive methods would cause permanent damage to the glass, making tampering very obvious. Accordingly, this form of identification has proved popular, particularly in the motor and motor insurance industries.AU-531,407 describes a method of marking an article using a stencil of impervious material which is marked by a multitude of small perforations using an electrostatic means. The stencil has a layer of 

 adhesive on one side which enables it to be adhered to the surface of the article to be marked. Once the stencil is applied to the article, a paste-like corrosive substance is spread over the stencil to react with the areas which are exposed through the small perforations. The paste-like corrosive substance used is ammonium bifluoride. Organic thickening agents are often added such as gum acacia and gum tregacanth but this results in a paste of varying quality owing to their nature.US-2,067,925 discloses a method of applying a printed design to a transfer. A plate is engraved with the design using an engraving tool and then an etching composition is forced into the engraved lines. A transfer tissue is applied so that upon removal, the etching composition sticks onto the transfer leaving no residue in the plate. The printed design is in relief and can then be moistened and pressed onto the article which is to be marked for a sufficient length of time to allow the etching composition to react. The disadvantages with this method are the slow speed of production and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A method of marking an article with identification symbols comprising the steps of providing a masking material and an active substance which reacts with the material of the article, the masking material being impermeable to the active substance, removing sections from the masking material corresponding to the identification symbols, locating the masking material on the article and applying the active substance to the masking material to mark the areas of the article exposed through the masking material wherein the indentification symbols are inputted into a computer which is programmed to activate a printing means for removing sections corresponding to the required identification symbols from the masking material and the masking material is in the form of a continuous web which can be fed through the printing means.
2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the computer can activate the printing means to print the identification symbols more than once on the continuous web of masking material.
3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the web of masking material is perforated into a plurality of strips to allow a single strip to be removed after passing through the printing means.
4. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the masking material is self-adhesive and is applied to a backing material.
5. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the masking material is a wax 


 impregnated material.
6. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the active substance is applied to predetermined sizes of paper strips with water absorbent qualities which have sufficient strength to allow handling when wet.
7. A method as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the active substance is applied by hand pressing from intaglio plates.
8. A method as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the active substance is applied by mechanical pressing from intaglio plates.
9. A method as claimed in Claim 6 or Claim 7 wherein the active substance and paper are dried out until required for use, the active substance being activated by the addition of water.
10. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the active substance comprises ammonium hydrogen difluorid .and a thickening agent.
11. A method as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the inorganic thickening agent is hydroxy methyl cellulose.
12. A method as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the thickening agent is gum tragacanth.
13. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the computer stores the inputted identification symbols for future use. 


 14. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the article to be marked is a motor vehicle and the identification symbols are the vehicle registration number, or other unique number.
15. A method of marking an article with indicia substantially as herein described and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
16. A kit for marking an article with identification symbols comprising a masking material and an active substance which reacts with the material of the article, the masking material being impermeable to the active substance, wherein a computer is provided and an associated programme which when inputted with the identification symbols data will activate a printing means for removing sections from the masking material corresponding to the identification symbols and the masking material is in the form of a continuous web which can be fed through the printing means.
17. A kit for marking an article with indicia substantially as herein described and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
18. A continuous web of wax based material which is self-adhesive and applied to a backing material wherein the backing material is provided with a plurality of regularly spaced holes along each edge of the web which enable the backing material and wax based material to be passed through a printing means.
19. A web as claimed in Claim 18 wherein the wax based material is an impregnated tissue paper. 


 20. A continuous web of wax based material substantially as herein described and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
