<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610587</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital signal processing apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5265	H04N764	H04N5265	H04N768	H04N726	H04N752	H04N754	H04N7167	H04N726	H04N7167	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N7	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Digital signal processing apparatus in which compressed 
frequency components of a digital signal are processed to 

selectively achieve fade-in, fade-out and scene change effects 
and where the digital signal is scrambled (and subsequently 

descrambled) in whole or in by scrambling (or descrambling) 
selected compressed frequency components of the digital signal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURO MASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURO, MASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a digital signal
processing apparatus, and more particularly, to apparatus for
processing compressed frequency components of a digital image
signal to provide fade-in and fade-out effects and
further, to provide scrambling and descrambling of the digital
image signal.Audio-video equipment, such as a consumer VTR (video
tape recorder) having a built-in camera (i.e. a camcorder),
permit fade-in or fade-out of a video image during a scene change
or the like. During this fade-in or fade-out operation, it is
known to utilize a white fade for a white fade in/out and to
utilize a black fade for a black fade in/out or the like.FIG. 9 illustrates one example of an arrangement of a
conventional fade-in and fade-out circuit. As shown in FIG. 9, a
composite video signal is supplied to an input terminal 101.
Since it is common that the composite video signal be transmitted
at 75 ohms and 1Vp-p (peak to peak), the composite video signal
is terminated by a terminating resistor 102 of 75 ohms and
received by a buffer 103. An output from the buffer 103 is
supplied through a capacitor 104 to a clamper 105. The clamper
105 is adapted to prevent a DC component of the pedestal level of
the video signal from becoming unstable. The output of clamper
105 is supplied to a Y/C separating circuit 106 and a 
synchronizing separating circuit 107. The synchronizing
separating circuit 107 extracts from the composite video signal a
composite sync. signal from which a horizontal (H) sync. signal
and a vertical (V) sync. signal are synthesized. The Y/C
separating circuit 106 separates the composite video signal to
provide a luminance signal Y and a chrominance signal C which are
supplied to buffers 108, 109, respectively.Typically the fade-in and fade-out operations are
carried out by varying the resistance values of three variable
resistors. Variable resistors 111 and 112 pass, or attenuate,
the luminance signal Y and the chrominance sign C, respectively,
thereby adjusting the levels of these signals. Another variable
resistor 110 connects a power source voltage Vcc to a mixer 113,
thus applying a DC voltage to the mixer. This voltage is
referred to as a set-up voltage.Normally, during a non-fade in or fade-out operation,
the resistance value of variable resistor 110 is set to its
maximum value and the resistance values of variable resistors
111, 112 are set to zero (short circuit) such that luminance
signal Y passes through variable resistor 111, mixer 113 and
buffer 114 and chrominance sign C passes
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Digital signal processing apparatus in which compressed frequency components of a
digital video signal are processed to produce special video effects, comprising:


means for receiving said compressed frequency components of said digital video
signal; and
means (81, 83, 85) for processing said digital video signal by operating upon said
compressed frequency components of said digital video signal to selectively achieve

fade-in and fade-out effects, wherein said compressed frequency components include
an orthogonally transformed DC component and an AC component and said means

(81, 83, 85) for processing operates upon said DC component and does not affect the
AC component.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said compressed frequency components are
framed, digitized video data, and said means for receiving includes means (4) for de-framing

received digitized video data and wherein said means for processing
processes said de-framed digitized video data.
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said means for receiving further comprises means
(2) for detecting errors in said digitized video data and for correcting said detected

errors.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for processing selectively achieves
white fade-in, white fade-out, black fade-in and black fade-out effects.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for processing selectively achieves
color fade-in and color fade-out effects.
The apparatus of anyone of claims 1 to 5, wherein said DC component comprises a
luminance portion and a chrominance portion. 
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said means for processing comprises means (88)
for generating a control value, means (81) for varying said control value, and means

(82) for adding the varied control value to said luminance portion of the DC
component such that said fade-out effect and said fade-in effect are controlled by

varying said control value.
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said means for processing increases the control
value from a predetermined minimum value to a predetermined maximum value to

achieve said fade-out effect and decreases the control value from said predetermined
maximum value to said predetermined minimum value to achieve said fade-in effect.
The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said means for processing comprises means (88)
for generating a control value, means (85) for varying said control value, means (86)

for adding said control value to said chrominance portion of the DC component
when a value of said chrominance portion is below a predetermined value and means

(86) for subtracting said control value from said chrominance portion of the DC
component when said value of said chrominance portion is above said predetermined

value, such that said fade-out effect and said fade-in effect are controlled by varying
said control value.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said received compressed frequency components
comprise a non-compressed DC component and compressed AC components.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for processing operates upon only said

compressed frequency components of said digital video signal to selectively achieve
fade-in and fade-out effects.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said digital video signal is an image signal.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said compressed frequency components of said
digital video signal are compressed frequency components of a discrete cosine

transformed video signal.
Digital signal reproducing apparatus comprising an apparatus according to claim 1. 
The apparatus according to anyone of the preceding claims, further comprising
means for selectively scrambling at least a portion of said digital image signal by

scrambling selected ones of said compressed frequency components and transmitting
said scrambled signal to said means for receiving.
The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising means for determining whether the
digital image signal should be scrambled and for controlling said means for

selectively scrambling in accordance with that determination.
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said means for scrambling scrambles selected
fields of said digital image signal.
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said compressed frequency components of said
digital image signal comprise a DC component and AC components and wherein said

means for scrambling scrambles only said DC component.
The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising means for recording said scrambled
digital image signal on a recording medium.
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said means for receiving comprises means for
reproducing said compressed frequency components of said digital image signal from

a recording medium.
The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said recording medium comprises a digital video
tape stored in a housing and having a memory device disposed in said housing, said

memory device storing a tape ID number;
and wherein said means for selectively

scrambling scrambles said digital image signal when said stored tape ID number, retrieved by a means for retrieving,
differs from a predetermined number.
The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising means for determining whether the
received compressed frequency components of said digital image signal are

scrambled; and means for selectively descrambling said compressed frequency
components in response to such determination. 
The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said compressed frequency components of said
digital image signal are compressed frequency components of a discrete cosine

transformed image signal.
The apparatus according to claim 15, further comprising
means for selectively descrambling at least a portion of said digital image signal by

descrambling said scrambled compressed frequency components, and outputting said
descrambled signal to said means for receiving.
Digital signal reproducing apparatus comprising an apparatus according to claim 24.
The appparatus of claim 24, further comprising means for determining whether the
scrambled compressed frequency components of said digital image signal should be

descrambled and for controlling said means for selectively descrambling in
accordance with that determination.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
