<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634026</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OVERHEAD PROJECTOR FOR LCD PANEL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F113	G03B21132	G03B21132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G03B	G03B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G03B21	G03B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEDY JAMES K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWEATON MICHAEL C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRITLE GARY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KENNEDY, JAMES, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWEATON, MICHAEL, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRITLE, GARY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 OVERHEAD PROJECTOR FOR LCD PANELBackground of the Invention1. Field of the Invention The present invention generally relates to projection and display systems, and more particularly to an overhead projector having a computer integrated therein with several output ports for external devices, and having a unique interface card which electronically connects the overhead projector to a liquid crystal display panel and simultaneously aligns the panel with the stage of the overhead projector. The panel may be slidably or pivotally attached to the overhead projector.2. Description of the Prior Art Overhead projectors (OHP's) are known in the art, and generally consist of a base having a stage area, a light source to illuminate the stage, and a projector head which houses mirrors and lenses designed to project any image placed on the stage area onto a display screen. OHP's may be either transmissive or reflective. In a transmissive OHP, the light source is under the stage area, i.e., opposite the side of the projector head. In a reflective OHP, the light source is above the stage area, typically near or even in the projector head, and the stage has a mirror-like surface to reflect the light back toward the head.Use of OHP's has recently expanded from the traditional projection of images printed on transparent films, to the projection of images which are stored in machine-readable form (e.g., on magnetic or optical disks) and which are presented by means of a light- trans issive liquid crystal display (LCD) panel which is laid on the stage of the OHP. Exemplary LCD/OHP arrangements are shown in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,846,694 and 4,944,578. In these patents, the LCD panels are controlled by external processors, such as a personal computer (PC) . This type of system enhances the use of an OHP since the LCD controller may simultaneously direct the video output to other viewing devices, such as 

television monitors, which may be placed at several stations among the audience.Several problems have arisen, however, in the use of LCD panels with OHP's. Foremost among these is the difficulty of storing and transporting the PC which controls the LCD panel, and connecting the PC to the panel. Three alternative systems have been devised to overcome this problem. The first system simply provides a portable "black box," much more compact than a normal PC and having simplified user inputs, which contains the minimum electronic components necessary to control the LCD panel, such as a microprocessor, memory storage and a monitor
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS : r wf lv---An apparatus for electronically generating an image in a light-transmissive display panel and for projecting the image,≡-fche apparatus comprising: a light source; means for housing said light source, said housing means having a transparent stage area for receiving the display panel; first optical means, located inside said housing means, for directing light from said light source to said stage area; second optical means attached to said housing means, proximate said stage area, for collecting and projecting light which passes through said stage area; computer means located in said housing means for electronically storing the image, said computer means having a plurality of output ports for connecting said computer means to external peripheral devices; and means for electrically connecting said computer means to the display panel.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said computer means includes: a microprocessor; permanent memory means, connected to said microprocessor, for storing program instructions for said microprocessor; temporary memory means, connected to said microprocessor, for electronically storing the image; graphic adaptor means, connected to said microprocessor, for generating a video signal corresponding to the electronically stored image; and means, connected to said microprocessor, for controlling the peripheral devices.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for connecting the display panel to said computer means comprises: a generally planar connector card having at 


least one surface, there being a plurality of electrically conductive paths located on said surface, said conductive paths each having first and second terminals; and a card-edge connector, fastened to said housing means and electrically connected to said computer means, said card-edge connector having a plurality of electrical contacts for connection to said first terminals of said conductive paths on said connector card. 4. The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising an external video monitor electrically connected to one of said output ports for remote viewing of the image.
5. The apparatus of Claim 2 wherein said program instructions for said microprocessor are selected from the group of conventional operating systems consisting of PC-DOS, OS/2, MS-DOS, DR DOS and MACINTOSH.
6. An apparatus for electronically generating an image in a light-transmissive display panel and for projecting the image, the apparatus comprising: a light source; means for housing said light source, said housing means having a transparent stage area for receiving the display panel; first optical means, located inside said housing means, for directing light from said light source to said stage area; second optical means attached to said housing means, proximate said stage area, for collecting and projecting light which passes through said stage area; computer means located in said housing means for electronically storing the image and transmitting it to the display panel; and card means for electrically connecting said computer means to the display panel and for aligning the display panel with said stage area.
7. The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein said card means comprises: 


 a generally planar member having at least one surface, there being a plurality of electrically conductive paths located on said surface, said conductive paths each having first and second terminals; and a card-edge connector, fastened to said housing means and electrically connected to said computer means, said card-edge connector having a plurality of electrical contacts for connection to said first terminals of said conductive paths on said connector card. 8. The apparatus of Claim 7 wherein: said planar member is generally rectangular, having first and second edges defining a width of said member; said conductive paths on said member are generally linear, extending from said first edge to said second edge, said first terminals being located at said first edge and said second terminals being located at said second edge; said housing means has an upper surface coinciding with said stage area, said upper surface having a slot therein, said slot having a depth which is smaller than said width of said member; said card-edge connector forms a floor of said slot; and said member is partially inserted into said slot, said first edge thereof contacting said card-edge connector.
9. An apparatus for electronically generating an image in a light-transmissive display panel and for projecting the image, the apparatus comprising: a light source; means for housing said light source, said housing means having a transparent stage area; optical means attached to said housing means, proximate said stage area, for collecting and projecting light which passes through said stage area; 


 drawe~ means located in said housing means for slidably moving the display panel between said light source and said stage area; computer means located in said housing means for electronically storing the image; and means for electrically connecting said computer means to the display panel, including a generally planar card member having at least one surface, there being a plurality of electrically conductive paths located on said surface.
10. The apparatus of Claim 9 further comprising auxiliary lens means for focusing light from said light source toward the display panel when the panel is locatd between said light source and said stage area. 11. The apparatus of Claim 10 further comprising means for moving said auxiliary lens means to an operative position as the display panel is moved between said light source and said stage area.
12. An apparatus for electronically generating an image in a light-transmissive display panel and for projecting the image, the apparatus comprising: a light source; means for housing said light source, said housing means having a transparent stage area; optical means attached to said housing means, proximate said stage area, for collecting and projecting light which passes through said stage area; means attached to said housing means, proximate said stage area, for pivotally moving the display panel adjacent said stage area; computer means located in said housing means for electronically storing the image; and means for electrically connecting said computer means to the display panel, including a generally planar card member having at least one surface, there being a plurality of electrically conductive paths located on said surface. 


 13. The apparatus of Claim 12 wherein: said housing means has an upper surface coinciding with said stage area; and said means for pivotally moving the display panel comprises a peg member attached to the display panel, said peg member being removably received in a hole formed in said upper surface of said housing means.
14. A presentation system comprising: a base having an upper surface, said upper surface having a stage area defined by a transparent sheet; a light source located in said base; optical means attached to said base, proximate said stage area, for collecting and projecting light which passes through said stage area; a light transmissive display panel; and means for removably attaching said display panel to said base, said attaching means allowing said display panel to be moved in a plane parallel with said stage area, between operative and storage positions.
15. The presentation system of Claim 14 wherein said attaching means comprises a drawer attached to an interior portion of said base, said drawer being slidably movable between said operative position and said storage position, and being sized to support and receive said display panel.
16. The presentation system of Claim 14 wherein: said display panel has four corners; said attaching means comprises a post member removably fastened to one of said corners of said display panel; and said stage area is generally rectangular, defining four corners, and said base has a hole therein at one of said corners of said stage area, said hole removable receiving said post member.
17. The presentation system of Claim 14 further 


comprising: computer means located in said base for electronically storing an image and transmitting it to said display panel; and card means for electronically connecting said computer means to said display panel and for aligning said display panel with said stage area. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
