<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628217</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DUAL BAND SIGNAL RECEIVER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01Q500	H01Q500	H01Q1300	H01Q1302	H01Q2124	H01Q2124	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01Q5	H01Q5	H01Q13	H01Q13	H01Q21	H01Q21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dual band signal receiver (10) is provided with relatively coaxial antenna assemblies (12, 11) electromagnetically coupled to respective upper and lower band rectangular waveguides and ports through suitable polarization switching assemblies. The upper band rotatable antenna assembly (12) consists of a dipole feed (14) having driven dipole element (16), parasitic dipole elements (17), and a corner reflector element (70) electromagnetically coupled to the upper band rectangular waveguide by a suitable transmission line extending substantially along the longitudinal axis or centerline of the lower band cylindrical waveguide.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHAPARRAL COMMUNICATIONS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CHAPARRAL COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBER, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DUAL BAND SIGNAL RECEIVERThis is a continuation of co-pending U.S. application Serial Number 07/840,334 filed February 24, 1992.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to prime focus antenna feeds for receiving microwave signals transmitted from a satellite in geosynchronous orbit about the earth, and in particular to prime focus polarization switches having one antenna responsive to a first frequency range and another antenna responsive to a second frequency range so as to permit simultaneous reception of satellite microwave signals within each of the first and second frequency ranges. The invention has particular use in connection with satellite broadcast "receive only" (TVRO) television systems.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONSatellite broadcast "receive only" television signals are very weak and require the use of a large antenna with a large collecting area in order to receive a useful signal. It is common for the large collecting area to constitute a paraboloidal reflector dish. The signal collected and reflected by the paraboloidal dish is focused by the reflector surface to a point in front of the dish. The distance of the focal point of any particular dish from the dish is dependent upon the curvature of the reflecting surface of the dish, which is usually paraboloidal.The signal reflected from the dish is normally detected by a device referred to as a prime focus feed antenna. As will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art, the prime focus 

feed antenna is located as precisely close to the focal point of the reflector as is possible. The principal function of all prime focus feed antennas is to provide uniform illumination of the paraboloidal reflector surface of the dish without any spillage of energy beyond the outer rim of the reflector surface.Many different prime focus feed antennas have been used heretofore for such purposes. These include feed antennas such as open waveguides, conical or pyramidal horns, dipoles, slotted waveguide arrays, helix antennas, dielectric rod antennas, icrostrip antennas, corrugated circular waveguides and conical horns. These devices provide well documented varying levels of overall performance achieved. While the overall function of receiving and collecting the reflected signal as efficiently as possible is essentially the same for all of these types of antennas, the physical principles and the way by which these different antennas function to produce the desired radiation beam or pattern so as efficiently to illuminate the paraboloidal
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A dual frequency feed assembly comprising: a lower frequency waveguide cavity and probe assembly therein, said probe assembly being mounted so as to rotate about the longitudinal axis of said waveguide cavity, said waveguide cavity having a rim defining an aperture in which said lower frequency microwave signals are incident; a higher frequency antenna assembly of interactive elements mounted coaxially with the lower frequency waveguide and with at least one active element of said interactive elements being substantially within the plane of the aperture of said lower frequency waveguide, said interactive elements comprising first and second pairs of oppositely extending antenna arms, each arm of said second pair of antenna arms being spaced from and parallel to one arm of said first pair of antenna arms, and at least one flat reflector plate having a planar surface adjacent and substantially parallel to each arm of said second pair of antenna arms, said second pair of oppositely extending antenna arms being substantially between said planar surface of said reflector plate and said first, pair of antenna arms; and means for rotating said higher frequency antenna assembly about said longitudinal axis of said lower frequency waveguide.
2. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which said first pair of antenna arms are substantially collinear.
3. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which said second pair of antenna arms are substantially collinear.
4. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which 


said first and second pairs of antenna arms are substantially coextensive.
5. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which said planar surface of said reflector plate is substantially parallel to each arm of said first pair of antenna arms.
6. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which said interactive elements comprise a pair of said flat reflector plates, the planar surfaces of which intersect at a corner, each of said planar surfaces being substantially parallel to each arm of said second pair of antenna arms.
7. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 6 in which each of said planar surfaces is substantially parallel to each arm of said first pair of antenna arms.
8. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 7 in which said second pair of antenna arms is substantially parallel to the line of intersection between said planar surfaces.
9. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 8 in which said planar surfaces subtend an oblique angle relative to said first and second pairs of antenna arms.
10. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 9 in which said planar surfaces subtend an angle of approximately 120 degrees relative to said first and second pairs of antenna arms.
11. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which said first pair of antenna arms comprise a driven dipole antenna.
12. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which each arm of said second pair of antenna arms comprises a parasitic dipole element.
13. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 1 in which 


said interactive elements are fixedly mounted adjacent one end of a common tubular member.
14. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 13 in which a feed wire is electrically coupled to one arm of said first pair of antenna arms and extends longitudinally within said tubular member from said one end thereof, said feed wire terminating in a feed pin within said tubular member.
15. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 14 comprising a coaxial line for transmission of said higher frequency signal, said coaxial line extending longitudinally within said tubular member from the other end of said tubular member toward said feed pin, said tubular member being rotatable relative to said coaxial line and about its longitudinal axis.
16. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 15 comprising means for rotating said tubular member relative to said coaxial line and said lower frequency probe assembly simultaneously.
17. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 16 in which said rotating means comprises a dielectric drive shaft fixedly engaging each of said tubular member and said lower frequency probe assembly, whereby said tubular member and said probe assembly rotate together.
18. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 17 in which said dielectric drive shaft comprises a lower drive bar and an upper drive bar, said lower drive bar engaging said lower frequency probe assembly and said upper drive bar engaging said tubular member.
19. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 18 in which said upper drive bar comprises a laterally projecting portion 


having a bore extending therethrough in the direction of the longitudinal axis of said upper drive bar.
20. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 19 in which said coaxial line for transmission of said higher frequency signal traverses said laterally projecting portion of said upper drive bar through said bore, said upper drive bar being rotatable relative to said coaxial line and about its longitudinal axis.
21. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 15 in which the center conductor of said coaxial line defines a conductive pin extending toward but spaced from said feed pin.
22. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 21 in which both of said conductive pin and said feed pin are surrounded by a single metallic sleeve within said tubular member.
23. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 22 comprising means for maintaining a constant gap between said conductive pin and said feed pin.
24. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 23 comprising means for mounting said higher frequency antenna assembly against axial movement in the direction of said probe assembly, and said means for maintaining a constant gap comprises said metallic sleeve, one end thereof abutting a portion of said tubular member, the other end thereof abutting said mounting means.
25. The dual frequency feed assembly of claim 7 in which a plane containing the distal ends of said intersecting planar surfaces substantially contains each of the arms of said first pair of antenna arms. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
