<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648186</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TEXTILE CORE HAVING IMPROVED START-UP GROOVE AND GROOVING BLADE THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23H900	B23H908	B26D100	B26D100	B26D308	B26D308	B65H7528	B65H7528	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23H	B23H	B26D	B26D	B26D	B26D	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23H9	B23H9	B26D1	B26D1	B26D3	B26D3	B65H75	B65H75	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides textile cores (10) having improved start-up grooves (12). The start-up grooves have a generally V shaped cross section and in one embodiment, at least one longitudinal portion (14), preferably the leading portion of the groove, has at least one vertically compound angle sidewall (23, 32) with a roughened surface (36) for gripping a yarn line. In another embodiment, a start-up groove (161) includes at least one longitudinal portion (167), preferably the trailing portion of the groove, having at least one longitudinally compound sidewall (180, 184) defined in longitudinal cross section by a plurality of alternating, substantially rectangular tongue and notch sections (170, 172) extending along the sidewall. In accordance with other aspects of the invention, improved grooving blades (50, 150) for textile cores are provided and are formed using an electric discharge machining (EDM) process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONOCO PRODUCTS CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONOCO PRODUCTS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUMMAGE TONY F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUMMAGE, TONY, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TEXTILE CORE HAVING IMPROVED START-UP GROOVE AND GROOVING BLADETHEREFORField of the Invention The invention is directed to improved textile cores of the type comprising an elongate tubular body having a circumferential groove for gripping an incoming yarn line for wind-up on the core. In addition, the invention is directed to improved grooving blades for forming start-up grooves in textile cores and to processes for forming grooving blades having compound or multiple compound surfaces and/or a roughened exterior surface capable of providing a matte finish on the surface of the circumferential start-up groove in the- textile core.Background of the Invention Textile yarn cores, i.e., yarn carriers or bobbins, are employed in the textile industry for winding and supporting yarn packages. In the package forming process, a moving yarn line is strung up onto a rapidly rotating empty core. In the manual string-up process, the moving yarn line is usually held by an aspirator gun and the yarn line brought into tangential contact with the rotating empty core. Typically, a start-up groove is provided in the surface of the core, normally adjacent tc one end of the core. The yarn line is manually directed by movement of the aspirator gun into the groove which grips the yarn line thereby initiating the wind-up process. 

 Newer winder technologies provide for the string-up process to be automatically initiated without manual intervention. For example with turret-type winders, an empty yarn core is moved from a waiting position to a winding position when a fully wound yarn package is formed on another position on the apparatus. The empty core is rotated rapidly and moved into tangential contact with the thread line being wound on the other, now full, yarn package. This initiates string-up for the empty core and terminates winding for the fully wound core. For this automated process to work effectively, the start-up groove on the empty core must readily and reliably catch the incoming yarn line without operator intervention. Multiple width start-up grooves in yarn cores have been provided in an effort to improve the yarn pick up propensities of the yarn groove. In the multiple width pick up grooves, one longitudinal, i.e., lengthwise, portion of the groove is relatively wide while an adjacent longitudinal portion is relatively narrow. The. core is rotated so that the wide portion of the groove forms the leading portion; the narrow portion of the groove forms the trailing portion. The transition portion of the groove
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A textile core comprising an elongate tubular body for supporting a yarn package and comprising: a substantially circumferential groove for gripping an incoming yarn line for windup on said core, said groove being formed in at least a portion of the periphery of said tubular body adjacent one end thereof; said groove having a generally V shaped cross-section including an open top, a closed bottom and two sidewalls disposed on opposite sides of a center line extending radially into said tubular body, at least a first portion of said groove having a first compound sidewall defined in transverse cross-section by a first surface extending upwardly from the bottom thereof and defining a first predetermined acute angle with said center line and a second surface extending downwardly from the top of said groove and defining a second predetermined acute angle with said center line, said second predetermined acute angle being greater than said first predetermined acute angle; said compound sidewall of said groove having a roughened surface for engaging said incoming yarn line.
2. The textile core according to Claim 1 wherein said tubular body comprises paperboard.
3. The textile core of Claim 1 wherein said first longitudinal portion of said groove additionally comprises a second compound sidewall, said second compound sidewall being defined in transverse cross- section by a first surface extending upwardly from the bottom of said groove and defining a first predetermined acute angle with said center line of said 


groove and a second surface extending downwardly from the top of said groove and defining a second predetermined acute angle with said center line of said groove, said second predetermined acute angle being greater than said first predetermined acute angle.
4. The textile core of Claim 3 wherein said first predetermined acute angle formed between said first surface of said first sidewall and said center line of said groove is substantially the same as the first predetermined angle formed between said first surface of said second sidewall and said center line of said groove and wherein said second predetermined angle formed between said second surface of said first sidewall and said center line of said groove is substantially the same as the second predetermined angle formed between said second surface of said second sidewall and said center line of said groove.
5. The textile core according to Claim 1 wherein said first predetermined acute angle is between about 5° and about 15° and wherein said second predetermined angle is between about 15° and about 45°.
6. The textile core of Claim 4 wherein each of said first predetermined acute angles are between about 5° c id about 20° and wherein each of said second predetermined acute angles are between about 15° and about 45°.
7. The textile core of Claim 1 wherein said groove is formed by contact of said tubular body with the cutting edge of a knife blade, said cutting edge having a surface roughness of between about 18 and about 45, measured on the VDI scale. 


 8. The textile core of Claim 1 wherein said groove includes a second longitudinal portion adjacent said first longitudinal portion, said second longitudinal portion of said groove having at least a first single taper sidewall, said sidewall having a roughened surface for engaging said incoming yarn line.
9. The textile core according to Claim 8 wherein said second longitudinal portion of said groove includes a second single taper sidewall extending from the top to the bottom of said groove and having a roughened surface for engaging said incoming yarn line.
10. The textile core according to Claim 8 wherein said first said wall of said second longitudinal portion of said groove forms an angle of between about 5° and about 20° with the center line of said groove.
11. The textile core of Claim 10 wherein said second sidewall of said second longitudinal portion of said groove forms an angle of between about 5° and about 20° with the center line of said groove.
12. The textile core of Claim 1 wherein said tubular body has a substantially cylindrical shape.
13. The textile core of Claim 1 wherein said tubular body has a substantially frustroconical shape.
14. A textile core comprising an elongate tubular body for supporting a yarn package and comprising: a substantially circumferential groove for gripping an incoming yarn line for windup on said core, said groove being formed in at least a portion of 


the periphery of said tubular body adjacent at least one end thereof; said groove having a generally V-shaped cross-section including an open top, a closed bottom and two sidewalls disposed on opposite sides of a center line extending radially into said tubular body, at least a first portion of said groove has a first compound sidewall defined in longitudinal cross-section by a plurality of alternating, substantially rectangularly shaped tongue and notch sections extending along said first sidewall, each of said tongue sections comprising a front wall which forms a portion of said first sidewall of said groove, each of said tongue sections additionally comprising at least one sidewall extending substantially transversely into said groove for engaging said incoming yarn line.
15. The textile core according to Claim 14, wherein said tubular body comprises paperboard.
lό. The textile core according to Claim 14, wherein said groove additionally comprises a second compound sidewall positioned in opposed relation to said f. st compound sidewall, said second compound sidewall being defined in longitudinally cross-section by a plurality of alternating, substantially rectangularly shaped tongue and notch sections extending along said sidewall, each of said tongue sections comprising a front wall which forms a portion of said second sidewall and a sidewall extending substantially transversely into said groove.
17. The textile core of Claim 16 wherein the tongues of said first sidewall are positioned in opposed relationship to the notches on said second sidewall. 


 18. The textile core of Claim 16 wherein each of said tongues on said first sidewall have a longitudinal dimension less than the longitudinal dimension of the notches on said second sidewall.
19. The textile core according to Claim 17 wherein each of said tongues on said first sidewall have a longitudinal dimension less than each of said notches on said second sidewall and wherein each of said tongues on said second sidewall have a longitudinal dimension less than each of said notches on said first sidewall.
20. The textile core of Claim 16 wherein the wall of each of said tongues on said first and second sidewalls is closely adjacent the longitudinal center line of said groove.
21. The textile core according to Claim 19 wherein the front wall of each of said tongues is closely adjacent the longitudinal center line of said start-up groove.
22. The textile core of Claim 19 wherein said start-up groove additionally comprises a second longitudinal portion adjacent said first longitudinal portion, said second longitudinal portion of said groove and having opposed sidewall, at least one of said sidewall being disposed at an angle of from about 20° to about 35° with respect to the center line of said groove. 


 23. The textile core of Claim 22 wherein said first said second opposed sidewall of said second longitudinal portion of said groove is disposed at an angle from about 20° to about 35° with respect to the center line of said groove.
24. The textile core of Claim 17 wherein said start-up groove additionally comprises a second longitudinal portion adjacent said first longitudinal portion, said second longitudinal portion comprising first and second opposed sidewalls, each of said sidewalls being disposed at an angle of from about 20° to about 35° with respect to said center line of said groove.
25. The textile core of Claim 24 wherein the width of said second longitudinal portion of said start-up groove at a generally top portion thereof is substantially greater than the width of said first longitudinal portion of said start-up groove at a generally top portion thereof.
26. The textile core of Claim 25 wherein said tubular body has a substantially cylindrical shape.
27. The textile core of Claim 1 wherein said sidewall comprises between about 5 and about 15 of said tongue portions.
28. A grooving blade for forming a groove in a textile core comprising a substantially planer blade body including a central plane defining two opposed sides of said body and having a peripheral cuttinr ^dge for cutting a circumferential groove of predetermined cross-sectional dimensions in a least a portion of the periphery of said textile core; 


 a least a first longitudinal portion of said periphersl cutting edge comprising a compound cutting surface on at least a first side of said blade body defined in vertical transverse cross-section by a first cutting surface adjacent the outer tip of said cutting edge, said first cutting surface forming a first predetermined acute angle with respect to the plane of said blade body and a second cutting surface spaced from said outer tip of said cutting edge and being adjacent said first cutting surface, said second cutting surface defining a second predetermined acute angle with respect to the plane of said blade body, said second predetermined angle being greater than said first predetermined acute angle; and said compound cutting surface having a predetermined roughness on the exterior thereof for forming a matte finish on the surface of said circumferential groove in said textile core.
29. The grooving blade of Claim 28
^
wherein said peripheral cutting edge of said blade is formed by an electric discharge machining process.
30. The grooving blade of Claim 29 wherein said peripheral cutting edge of said blade includes a second longitudinal portion adjacent said first longitudinal portion, said second longitudinal portion having at least a first single taper cutting surface on at least a first side of said blade body.
31. The grooving blade according to Claim 29 wherein said first longitudinal portion of said peripheral cutting edge additionally comprises a second compound cutting surface on the second side of said blade body and being defined in transverse cross- section by a first cutting surface adjacent the outer tip of said cutting edge, said first cutting surface 


defining a first predetermined acute angle with respect to the plane of said blade body, and a second cutting surface spaced from the outer tip of said cutting edge and being adjacent said first cutting surface, said second cutting surface defining a second predetermined acute angle with respect to the plane of said blade body, said second predetermined angle being greater than said first predetermined acute angle.
32. The grooving blade according to Claim 28 wherein said first predetermined acute angle is between about 5° and about 15° and wherein said second predetermined acute angle is about 15° and about 45°.
33. The grooving blade according to Claim 31 wherein each of said first predetermined acute angles are between about 5° and about 20° and wherein each of said second predetermined acute angles are between about 15° and about 45°.
34. The grooving blade according to Claim 29 wherein said compound cutting surface has a surface roughness of between about 18 and about 45, measured on the VDI scale.
35. The grooving blade according to Claim 34 wherein said compound cutting surface has a surface roughness of between about 30 and 35, measured on the VDI scale.
36. The grooving blade of Claim 30 wherein said first cutting surface of said second longitudinal portion of said peripheral cutting edge of said grooving blade forms an angle of between about 5° and about 20° with the central plane of said blade. 


 37. The grooving blade according to Claim 30 wherein said second longitudinal portion of said peripheral cutting edge of said grooving blade includes a second single taper cutting surface, said second cutting surface having a roughened surface for forming a matte finish on the surface of said circumferential groove in said textile core.
38. The grooving blade according to Claim 37 wherein said second cutting surface of said second longitudinal portion of said peripheral cutting edge of said blade forms an angle of between about 5° and about 20° with the central plane of said blade body.
39. A process for forming a grooving blade for forming a groove in a textile core comprising: placing an EDM forming electrode of predetermined compound shape adjacent the peripheral edge of a blade body; and applying a pulsed DC current between said electrode and blade body for generating a plurality of destructive sparks capable of vaporizing portions of the surface of said blade body for a time sufficient to provide at least one compound cutting surface on said blade body.
40. The process of Claim 39 additionally comprising the step of controlling the amperage and cycle time of said pulsed DC current to provide a surface roughness on the peripheral edge of said blade body of between about 18 and about 45, measured on the VDI scale.
41. The process of Claim 39 wherein said EDM forming electrode comprises a longitudinally compound shape for forming a longitudinally compound cutting surface on said blade body. 


 42. The process of Claim 39 wherein said EDM forming electrode comprises a vertically compound shape for forming a vertically compound cutting surface on said blade body.
43. The process of Claim 40 wherein said amperage and cycle time are controlled to provide a surface roughness of between about 30 and about 35, measured on the VDI scale.
44. The process of Claim 39 wherein at least a first longitudinal portion of said EDM electrode is shaped to provide a vertically compound, double taper cutting surface on at least one side of said blade body.
45. The process according to Claim 44 wherein at least a second longitudinal portion of said EDM electrode is shaped to provide a vertically simple single taper cutting surface on a second portion of said blade oody.
46. The process of Claim 39 wherein at least a first longitudinal portion of said EDM electrode is shaped to provide a longitudinally compound cutting surface on at least one side of said blade body.
47. The process of Claim 46 wherein at least a second longitudinal portion of said EDM electrode is shaped to provide a longitudinally simple cutting surface on a second portion of said blade body. 


 48. A grooving blade for forming a groove in a textile core comprising a substantially planar blade body including a central plane defining two opposed sides of said body and having a peripheral cutting edge for cutting a circumferential groove of predetermined dimensions in at least a portion of said textile core; at least a first longitudinal portion of said peripheral cutting edge comprising a longitudinally compound cutting surface on at least each of said opposed sides of said blade body defined in longitudinal cross-section by a plurality of alternating narrow angle and wider angle cutting sections on each of said sides and wherein each of said narrow angle cutting section is positioned in opposed relation to one of said wider angle cutting sections on the opposed side of said peripheral cutting edge.
49. The grooving blade of claim 48 wherein each of said narrow angle cutting sections are defined in vertical cross-section by a cutting surface forming an angle of less than 10° with respect to the central plane of said blade body.
50. The grooving blade of claim 49 wherein each of said wider angle cutting sections are defined in vertical cross-section by a cutting surface forming an angle of greater than 10° with respect to the central plane of said blade body.
51. The grooving blade of Claim 50 wherein each of said wider angle cutting sections has a greater longitudinal dimension than each of said opposed narrow angle cutting sections. 


 52. The grooving blade of Claim 51 additionally comprising a second longitudinal portion of said peripheral cutting edge adjacent said first longitudinal portion and comprising opposed longitudinal simple cutting surfaces.
53. The grooving blade of Claim 52 wherein each of said opposed cutting surfaces on said second longitudinal portion of said peripheral cutting edge are defined in vertical cross-section by a cutting surface forming an angle of between about 15° and about 35° with said central plane of said blade body. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
