<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648677</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Container for holding elongated article.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D550	B65D550	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D5	B65D5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A top wall (7) for closing an upper opening of a 
rectangular frame is formed continuously with an upper edge 

of a side wall (3) disposed on one side of a row (A) 
consisting of four side walls. An upper flap (14) having 

a supporting wall (27) is folded to form an article supporting 
section (B) on an upper edge of a side wall (4) 

adjacent to the side wall (3). A lower flap (15) to which 
a bonding portion continuous with the upper flap (14) is 

fixed is formed continuously with the lower edge of the 
side wall (4). An upper flap (23) is formed continuously 

with an upper edge of a side wall (6) disposed on the other 
side of the row (A) and has a shorter supporting wall (28). 

The upper flap (23) is folded to form an article supporting 
section (C) opposed to the article supporting section (B). 

A lower flap (24) is formed continuously with a lower edge 
of the side wall (6). A bonding portion (32) continuous 

with the supporting wall (28) is bonded to the flower flap 
(24). At least one supporting window (33, 34) is defined 

on each of upper supporting portions (23', 14') and each of 
the supporting walls (27, 28). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAKEDA CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TAKEDA CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUWATA TATSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUDA TERUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASHIZU YOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUWATA, TATSUO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MATSUDA, TERUMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WASHIZU, YOSHIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a container for 
holding an elongated article, with both ends thereof 
supported in the container. The container is formed by 
folding a sheet and bonding predetermined portions thereof 
to each other. More particularly, the present invention 
relates to a container for supporting a cylindrical disposal 
type syringe such as dual chamber prefiled syringe, 
containing medicine, comprising a needle disposed at one 
end thereof and a finger grip projecting from the other end 
of the body thereof without the syringe being rotated 
unexpectedly. Further, during the transport of the containers, 
they can be easily overlaid one on the other and 
reliably stored and allow syringes to be removed therefrom 
easily. In a container for stably supporting an elongated 
article such as a disposal type syringe hitherto known, a 
supporting base prepared separately from the container is 
put thereinto. A packing container is, however, delivered to 
customers with the container and the supporting base 
combined with each other in manufacturing process. Thus, 
assembling process is complicated and further, it is 
expensive to transport and store it. In addition, in this  
 
type of container, an article accommodated in the container 
is unstable in the lengthwise direction thereof although it 
can withstand vibrations which occur in the widthwise 
direction thereof. Hence, the article cannot be supported 
stably in the container. Therefore, there is a growing demand for a 
container which can be folded in integration with a base 
section for supporting articles and can support an article 
by the base section so that the container can be transported 
and stored conveniently. In order to comply with the demand, the present 
applicant proposed folding type containers for supporting 
vials or ampuls as disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open Utility 
Model Publications No. 6-25115, 6-27542, and 6-14022. Referring to Fig. 10, the above-described containers 
have supporting section 100 and 101 integral with 
other portion of the container and opposed to each other 
and apertures 102 and 103 formed on each of the supporting 
section 100 and 101. The supporting windows 102 and 103 supporting a 
disposal type syringe as shown in Fig. 11 have the following 
problems. That is, referring to Fig. 12, in this kind of 
disposal type syringe (D), a wing-shaped finger grip (E) is 
formed at the read end of the cylindrical body 200 thereof. 
The finger grip (E) comprises a cylindrical portion 201  
 
into which the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A container for holding an elongated article, 
assembled by folding a sheet and bonding necessary portions 

to each other, comprising: 
   a row (A), comprising four side walls (3, 4, 5, 

6) continuous with each other via three fold lines (2) 
spaced at required intervals, both ends of which are bonded 

to each other to form a rectangular frame; 
   a bottom wall (11) continuous with a lower edge 

of at least one of the side walls (3, 4, 5, 6) via at least 
one fold line (13), thus closing a lower opening of the 

rectangular frame; 
   an upper flap (14), continuous with an upper edge 

of the side wall (4) via a fold line (16), having a supporting 
window (33) and being folded into the rectangular 

frame to form an article supporting section (B); and 
   an upper flap (23), continuous, with an upper 

edge of the side wall (6) via a fold line (25), disposed on 
the other side of the row (A), having a supporting window 

(34) and being folded into the rectangular frame to form an 
article supporting section (C) lower than the article 

supporting section (B), 
   wherein supposing that the sheet has been assembled 

into the rectangular frame, the supporting window (33) 
of the article supporting section (B) and the supporting 

window (34) of the article supporting section (C) are 
 

opposed to each other so that the article is supported, 
with one side thereof inserted into the supporting window 

(33) and the other side thereof inserted into the supporting 
window (34). 
A container holding an elongated article, assembled 
by folding a sheet and bonding necessary portions to 

each other, comprising: 
   a row (A), comprising four side walls (3, 4, 5, 

6) continuous with each other via three fold lines (2) 
spaced at required intervals, both ends of which are bonded 

to each other to form a rectangular frame; 
   a bottom wall (11), continuous with a lower edge 

of the side walls (3) via a fold line (13), having an 
engaging portion (8) defined at a lower edge thereof and a 

connecting portion (10) defined at a side thereof via an 
inclined fold line (9), thus closing one half of the lower 

opening of the rectangular frame; 
   an upper flap (14), continuous with an upper edge 

of the side wall (4) via a fold line (16) and having a 
supporting window (33), being folded into the rectangular 

frame to form an article supporting section (B) for supporting 
one side of the article; and 

   a lower flap (15), continuous with a lower edge 
of the side wall (4) via a fold line (17) and having an 

aperture (35) defined on one side thereof, the other side 
 

of which is connected with the folded connecting portion 
(10) with adhesive agent; 

   a bottom wall (18), continuous with a lower edge 
of the side wall (5) via a fold line (22), having a locking 

portion (19) defined at a tip edge thereof so that the 
locking portion (19) is connected with the engaging portion 

(8) of the bottom wall (11) in engagement therewith and 
having a connecting portion (21) defined at a side thereof 

via an inclined fold line (20), wherein a corner defined on 
the other side is inserted into the aperture (35) to close 

the other half of the lower opening of the rectangular 
frame; 

   an upper flap (23), continuous with an upper edge 
of the side wall (6) via a fold line (25) and having a 

supporting window (34), being folded into the rectangular 
frame to form an article supporting section (C) for supporting 

the other side of the article; and 
   a lower flap (24), continuous with a lower edge 

of the side wall (6) via a fold line (26) and having a slit 

(36), defined thereon, into which an edge of the bottom 
wall (11) is inserted, wherein a side is connected with the 

connecting portion (21) of the bottom wall (18) with 
adhesive agent, 

   wherein supposing that the sheet has been assembled 
into the rectangular frame, the supporting window (33) 

of the article supporting section (B) and the supporting 
 

window (34) of the article supporting section (C) are 
opposed to each other so that the article is supported, 

with one side thereof inserted into the supporting window 
(33) and the other side thereof inserted into the supporting 

window (34). 
The container as defined in claim 2, wherein the 
height of the article supporting section (B) is greater 

than that of the article supporting section (C). 
The container as defined in claim 1 and 2, 
comprising a top wall (7) continuous with an upper edge of 

the side wall (3) disposed on one side of the row (A) via 
a fold line (12), thus opening and closing an upper opening 

of the rectangular frame. 
The container as defined in any one of claims 1 
through 4, wherein the upper flap (14, 23) forming the 

article supporting section (B, C) comprises an upper 
supporting portion (23', 14') extending horizontally on an 

inner side of the side wall (4, 6); a supporting wall (27) 
extending vertically, thus connecting an inner end of the 

upper supporting portion (14') and the lower flap (15) with 
each other; a supporting wall (28) extending vertically, 

thus connecting an inner end of the upper supporting 
portion (23') and the lower flap (24) with each other; a 

bonding portion (31) continuous with the supporting wall 
(27) and being fixed to the lower flap (15) with adhesive 

agent; a bonding portion (46) continuous with the supporting 
 

wall (28) and being fixed to the lower flap (24) with 
adhesive agent; and 

   the supporting window (33, 34) is defined on the 
supporting wall (27, 28) and the upper supporting portion 

(23', 14'). 
The container as defined in any one of claims 1 
through 5, wherein a holding projection (38) is formed on 

the supporting window (33, 34). 
The container as defined in any one of claims 1 
through 6, wherein the supporting window (33, 34) comprises 

a plurality of windows spaced from each other in parallel 
with each other at regular intervals to accommodate a 

plurality of articles. 
The container as defined in any one of claims 1 
through 7, wherein the length of the article supporting 

section (B) opposed to the article supporting section (C) 
in the container is greater than that of the article 

supporting section (C) such that the leading end of the 
article supporting section (B) is disposed at approximately 

the center of the container. 
The container as defined in any one of claims 1 
through 8, wherein the vertical length of the upper supporting 

portion (23') of the article supporting section (C) 
is shorter than that of the side wall (6); and the upper 

supporting portion (23') is stepped on the side wall (6). 
The container as defined in claim 9, wherein five 
fold lines (30a, 30b, 30c, 30d, 30e) parallel with the fold 

line (25) are formed at required intervals on the upper 
flap (23) forming the article supporting section (C), 

   wherein a region between the fold line (25) and 
the fold line (30a) is folded inwardly horizontally to 

define an upper wall (44); 
   a region between the fold line (30a) and the fold 

line (30b) is folded downward in parallel with the side 
wall (6) to define an inner vertical wall (45); 

   a region between the fold line (30b) and the fold 
line (30c) is folded inwardly horizontally to define a 

bonding portion (32) to be bonded to the lower flap (24) 
with adhesive agent; 

   a region between the fold line (30c) and the fold 
line (30d) is folded upward such that the region is parallel 

with the side wall (6); 
   a region between the fold line (30d) and the fold 

line (30e) is folded outward horizontally to define an 
upper supporting portion (23'); and 

   a region between the fold line (30e) and the 
upper edge of the second upper flap (23) is folded in 

parallel with the side wall (6) to define a bonding portion 
(46) to be bonded to the inner vertical wall (45), 

   wherein the vertical length of the upper supporting 
portion (23') is shorter than that of the upper supporting 

 
portion (14') of the article supporting section 

(B). 
The container as defined in claim 1 and 2, 
wherein the upper flap (23) comprises a supporting wall 

(28) having the supporting window (34) formed thereon and 
the upper supporting portion (23') are continuously formed 

on an inner side of an outer wall (40) of the rectangular 
frame having an entrance/exit (39) formed thereon, by 

folding the side wall (6) in a direction from the upper end 
thereof. 
The container as defined in any one of claims 1 
through 11, wherein the article consists of a syringe (D) 

having, at one end thereof, a wing-shaped finger grip (E), 
comprising a rectangular flat portion, the shorter side of 

which is substantially the same as the diameter of the 
syringe (D) and the longer side of which is greater than 

diameter of the syringe (D); and the finger grip (E) is 
inserted into the supporting window (34) of the article 

supporting section (C), with the longer side thereof 
disposed vertically and the upper end thereof projecting 

from the supporting window (34). 
The container as defined in claim 12, wherein a 
width of the supporting window (34) is set to be greater 

than that of the shorter side of the flat portion of the 
finger grip (E) and smaller than that of the longer side 

thereof. 
The container as defined in claim 12 and 13, 
wherein the height of the supporting window (34) is set to 

be approximately the half of the length of the longer side 
of the flat portion of the finger grip (E). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
