<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652526</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Aircraft flight emulation test system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09B916	G09B924	G09B902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09B	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09B9	G09B9	G09B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An aircraft test system generates stimuli that emulate the stimuli received 
by an aircraft when in flight is disclosed. The aircraft test system includes a 

number of instruments for generating the number of processor-controllable 
instruments for generating stimuli received by an aircraft when in flight. The 

system also includes a number of instruments that monitor the response of the 
various aircraft components to the stimuli to which the aircraft is exposed. A 

processor in response to the output signal from the aircraft components directs 
the stimuli generating instruments to produce stimuli that emulate those received 

by the aircraft as it moves through the air. The system thus generates an initial 
set of stimuli similar to what an aircraft would be exposed to when in flight; 

monitors the response of the aircraft to the stimuli to which it is exposed; and, in 
response generates an updated set of stimuli to the aircraft. The system also 

records the response of the output responses of aircraft components so that they 
could be monitored by personnel charged with insuring that the aircraft is 

functioning properly. The system can also be used to train flight crews since it 
can be used to place the aircraft "in the loop" during a flight emulation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOEING CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOEING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNER ANN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCHER JOHN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLIDAY LAWRENCE E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNANGST HUGH C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BERNER, ANN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BUCHER, JOHN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOLLIDAY, LAWRENCE E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
UNANGST, HUGH C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to aircraft
test systems and, more particularly, systems for ground
testing and aircraft by emulating flight conditions and
testing the response to the emulation.An aircraft is an assembly of numerous
interacting mechanical and electrical components that
need to function properly for the aircraft to operate
safely. An important step in the manufacture and
maintenance of an airplane is the testing of the
components in order to verify that they operate
accurately and reliably. Almost all aircraft components
are tested prior to installation in the aircraft. Most
aircraft components should also be tested after
installation to verify that they function properly in
conjunction with the other components to which they are
connected. This testing is necessary to verify that the
aircraft, as an assembly of interacting components, will
function properly when in flight.Conventional testing of aircraft components
relies on either flight testing of the aircraft or system
testing when the aircraft in on the ground. Flight
testing, as the name implies, involves actually flying
the aircraft in order to ensure that its various
components operate properly with respect to each other.
Flight testing, while useful, has limitations. In flight
testing it is difficult, if not impossible, to expose an
aircraft to all conditions and events to which it might
be exposed in order to observe how the components will
respond. For example, environmental conditions such as
sudden cross winds cannot be developed on command. Also,
complex aircraft, such as modern commercial airliners, 
comprise a large number of components that are assembled
into numerous systems. These components and systems must
be subjected to numerous test procedures in order to
ensure that they function properly. It is neither an
efficient use of time nor resources to repeatedly flight
test an aircraft solely to ascertain whether a specific
assembly of components are performing satisfactorily.
Moreover, a number of test procedures involve verifying
the proper operation of aircraft under potentially
threatening conditions such as low altitude, high wind
conditions. Testing the in-flight repsonse of an aircraft
of these conditions and events has the potential of
jeopardizing the safety of both the aircraft and the
flight crew.The alternative to flight testing an aircraft
is ground testing. This involves applying input signals
to the components of a grounded aircraft and monitoring
the response. Conventional ground testing equipment is
typ
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Aircraft test system for evaluation of the
performance of an aircraft on the ground, the aircraft having a number of different aircraft components to which stimuli are appplied and that, in reaction to the stimuli, generate measurable responses, including:


a plurality of processor-controllable test
instruments for generating different stimuli to which

aircraft components would normally be exposed in flight including at
least one instrument for generating at least one radio

signal received by an aircraft component and at least one
instrument for generating an electrical signal normally

generated by a first aircraft component that is received
by a second aircraft component;
a plurality of test instruments for measuring
the response of aircraft components to stimuli to which

they are exposed and for producing output signals
representative of said measurements; and,
a processor means connected to said stimuli generating test instruments for controlling these test instruments and to said measuring test instruments for receiving said output signals representing said measurements,
wherein the processor means

establish an initial aircraft state vector, each vector
including a set of aircraft state variables, each of

which describing a specific attribute of the aircraft
when in flight, and wherein the processor means

cyclically produces an update of the aircraft state vector based on the aircraft state vector at the start of the update process and the measured responses of the aircraft components, and adjusts
said stimuli based on updated aircraft state variable

contained in said updated aircraft state vector.
Aircraft test system according to claim 1,
wherein at least one of said stimuli generating test

instruments generates airflows simulating pitot and static
air flows monitored by an aircraft component.
Aircraft test system according to claim 2,
wherein at least one of said stimuli generating test 

instruments generates signals normally generated by an on-aircraft
inertial navigation reference unit.
Aircraft test system according to claim 3,
wherein at least one of said stimuli generating test

instruments generates radio navigation signals received by
an aircraft radio navigation receiver.
Aircraft test system according to one of the
preceding claims, wherein:


at least one of said measuring instruments is
adapted for connection to the aircraft for receiving

command signals sent between aircraft components; and
said processor means further adapted to produce
said updated aircraft state vector in response to the

commands transferred between the aircraft components.
Aircraft test system according to claim 5,
wherein said aircraft state vector includes a plurality

of instrument input parameters, wherein each said input
parameter describes the attribute of a specific stimulus

that is generated by said stimuli generating instruments,
and said processor means adjusts the application of

stimuli to the aircraft by initially updating at least

one of said aircraft state variables and then resetting
said at least one instrument input parameter.
Aircraft test system according to one of the
preceding claims, further including an operator interface

means connected to said processor means for allowing an
operator to control the generation of stimuli through

said processor means.
Aircraft test system according to any of the
preceding claims, wherein:


at least one of said stimuli generating instruments
has a lag between the time at which said instrument is

directed to adjust said stimuli applied to the aircraft
and time at which said adjusted stimuli is applied to the

aircraft; and
said processor means produces control signals
for controlling stimuli generated by said lagging stimuli

generating instrument based on a predictor equation from 
which control signals are produced to overdrive said

stimuli generating instrument so that said stimuli
generating instrument will produce stimuli approximately

equal to said real time stimuli.
Aircraft test system according to claim 8
wherein said stimuli generating instrument for producing

said airflows is said lagging instrument and said
processor means controls production of said airflow based

on a set of air data lag predictor equations.
Aircraft test system according to claim 4,
wherein at least one of said stimuli generating test

instruments receives radio altimeter interrogation signals
emitted by the aircraft and transmitted return radio

altimetry interrogation signals to the aircraft based on
a time delay that emulates the in-flight emission and

reception of signals by the aircraft.
Aircraft test system according to claim 4,
wherein at least one of said stimuli generating instruments

generates instrument landing, glide slope and localizer
signals emulating the glide slope and localizer signals

normally received by the aircraft.
Aircraft test system according to claim 4,
further including at least one of said stimuli generating

instruments generates engine performance signals
emulating engine performance signals normally transmitted

by an aircraft engine to another component of the
aircraft.
Aircraft test system according to claim 4,
further including at least one of said measuring test

instruments records signals from an aircraft
component that normally is read for storage by an on-aircraft

flight data acquisition unit; a flight data
reader connected to the aircraft flight data acquisition

unit for reading the data stored by the flight data
acquisition unit; and said processor means is connected

to said flight data reader for recording the flight data
recorded from said flight data reader and said data 

recorded by said measuring test instrument for recording
aircraft component signals.
Aircraft test system according to claim 5,
wherein said aircraft state vector includes a plurality

of aircraft input variables, each said aircraft input
variable describing aircraft information measured by said

system measuring instruments, and said processor means
updates said aircraft input variables and updates said

aircraft state variables at least based on said aircraft
input variables.
Aircraft test system according to claim 14,
wherein said processor means repeatedly updates said

aircraft state vector in a series of flight emulation
frames, wherein during each said flight emulation frame

said aircraft state variables are updated to indicating
changing attributes of the aircraft when in flight, said

system instrument input variables are updated to indicate
changing attributes of stimuli the aircraft is exposed to

when in flight and said processor means updates at least
one said stimuli generating instrument with respect to an

associated updated aircraft system instrument input
parameter.
Aircraft test system according to claim 15,
wherein said processor means updates at least one of said

stimuli generating instruments at a rate less than once
very said flight emulation frame.
Aircraft test system according to claim 16,
wherein said processor means updates at least one said

aircraft input variable at a rate less than once every
said flight emulation frame.
Aircraft test system according to claim 4,
further including at least one of said measuring test

instruments for recording signals from an aircraft
component that are normally read for storage by an on-aircraft

flight data acquisition unit for reading the
data stored by the flight data acquisition unit; a flight

data reader connected to the aircraft flight data
acquisition unit for reading the data stored by the 

flight data acquisition unit; and, said processor means
is connected to said flight data reader for reading the

flight data recorded from said flight data reader and
comparing said data with said measuring instrument output

signals.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
