<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638127</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TEST ARTICLE AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING BLOOD COAGULATION ASSAYS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q156	C12Q156	G01N2127	G01N2164	G01N3352	G01N2175	G01N2125	C12Q100	G01N2164	G01N3352	C12Q100	G01N3386	G01N2175	G01N3386	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	C12Q	G01N	G01N	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	G01N21	G01N21	C12Q1	G01N21	G01N33	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N21	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A test article for determining coagulation capability in a blood sample comprises a porous membrane having a coagulation initiator and substrate impregnated therein. The pore dimensions and composition of the membrane are selected so that only blood plasma can pass into the interior of the membrane, where coagulation is initiated. The substrate is activated by a component of the coagulation pathway, typically thrombin, and produces a detectable signal upon activation. By utilizing membrane matrix materials which are substantially free from interference with the coagulation pathway, accurate results can be achieved.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVOCET MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AVOCET MEDICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWEIG STEPHEN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZWEIG, STEPHEN E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to blood
coagulation testing, and more particularly to a test article
comprising the reagents necessary for such an assay and methods
which rely on the generation of a fluorescent or other visible
signal from the test article.Blood coagulation tests may be performed for a
variety of purposes, including determination of bleeding
susceptibility of patients undergoing surgery and monitoring of
patients undergoing anti-coagulation therapy for the prevention
of blood clots. A variety of coagulation tests are presently
in use. One of the most popular is the "prothrombin time" (PT)
test which relies on induction of the extrinsic coagulation
pathway, and another is the "activated partial thromboplastin
time" (APTT) test which relies on induction of the intrinsic
coagulation pathway. Both the extrinsic and intrinsic
coagulation pathways result in the production of thrombin,
which is a proteolytic enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of
fibrinogen to fibrin. Such conversion is an essential function
in the clotting mechanism. Conveniently, thrombin production
can be monitored by exposure of a patient blood sample to a
synthetic thrombin substrate peptide, cleavably bound to a
reporter molecule which is activated by thrombin cleavage. The
reporter molecule produces an observable change, such as color
production or fluorescence; and thrombin activity (which is a
measure of the blood's coagulation capability) is assessed by
optical means.Heretofore, such blood coagulation tests have tended
to be complex, with performance generally limited to clinical
laboratories. While such centralized testing may be adequate
for surgical patients, visiting a doctor's office or a clinic
on a regular basis to monitor anti-coagulation therapy is less
acceptable. Thus, the need for a convenient and practical home
coagulation monitoring test is apparent. The technical challenges in devising a coagulation
test which is simple enough to be administered by the patients
themselves, however, are substantial. The test must be
extremely simple, low cost, robust, and must permit use with
widely varying volumes of whole blood. Blood sampling in a
home environment is generally limited to the "fingerstick"
method (where a finger is pricked by a small needle mounted on
a spring-loaded device), which produces relatively uncontrolled
volumes of whole blood, generally being from 5 to 30 µl.
Additionally, it would be desirable if the blood coagulation
test could be performed at room temperatures, eliminating

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A test article comprising:

a single permeable membrane having an application
face and an indicator face in lateral opposition, said

membrane being substantially free from interference
with a coagulation pathway;
a coagulation initiator impregnated within the
membrane; and
a substrate impregnated within the same membrane
as the coagulation initiator, which substrate produces

a detectable signal upon activation by a component of
the coagulation pathway;

whereby whole blood may be applied to the
application face of the membrane and a detectable

signal produced on the indicator face as a result of
production of the coagulation pathway component.
A test article as in claim 1, wherein the
permeable membrane is composed of a hydrophilic, non-swellable

material which is free from interference
with the coagulation pathway.
A test article as in claim 2, wherein the
material is polysulfone.
A test article as in claim 3, wherein the
polysulfone has an asymmetric structure.
A test article as in claim 1, wherein the
permeable membrane is hydrophilic, non-swellable

material which has been treated to inhibit
interference with the coagulation pathway.
A test article as in claim 1, wherein the 
coagulation initiator initiates the extrinsic

coagulation pathway.
A test article as in claim 6, wherein the
coagulation initiator is selected from the group

consisting of thromboplastin, or other factor VII
activating substances.
A test article as in claim 1, wherein the
coagulation initiator initiates the intrinsic

coagulation pathway.
A test article as in claim 8, wherein the
coagulation initiator is selected from the group

consisting of ellagic acid, kaolin, silica or other
factor XII activating substances.
A test article as in claim 1, wherein the
coagulation pathway component which activates the

substrate is thrombin.
A test article as in claim 10, wherein the
thrombin substrate is a peptide cleavably attached to

a reporter molecule, where thrombin binds the peptide
and cleaves the reporter molecule from the peptide to

produce the detectable signal.
A test article as in claim 11, wherein the
detectable signal is fluorescence.
A test article as in claim 1, further
comprising a buffer impregnated within the membrane

which maintains a pH compatible with the coagulation
pathway and the membrane material. 
A test articles as in claim 1, further
comprising calcium impregnated within the membrane.
A test article as in claim 1, further
comprising a pigment impregnated within the membrane.
A test article as in claim 1, further
comprising a flow control agent impregnated within the

membrane.
A method for determining coagulation
capability of a patient, said method comprising:


applying a whole blood sample to an application
face of a permeable membrane, wherein the membrane is

substantially free from interference with a
coagulation pathway and wherein a coagulation

initiator and a substrate which produces a detectable
signal upon activation by a component of the

coagulation pathway are impregnated within the
membrane; and
detecting the detectable signal upon an indicator
face of the membrane, wherein the indicator face is

laterally opposed to the application face and the
detectable signal results from production of the

coagulation pathway component initiated within the
membrane by interaction of the coagulation initiator

and the blood sample.
A method as in claim 17, wherein the blood
sample is not measured prior to applying.
A method as in claim 18, wherein the blood
sample is obtained by a finger prick.
A method as in claim 17, performed at room 
temperature.
A method as in claim 17, performed at a
controlled temperature.
A method as in claim 17, wherein the
detectable signal is fluorescence.
A method as in claim 17, wherein the
detectable signal is temperature compensated.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
