<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637807</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recording and retrieval of information relevant to the activities of a user
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07C100	G06F1502	G06Q1000	G07C110	G06F1502	G06F1500	G06Q1000	G06F1730	G06F1730	G06F1500	G07C100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07C	G06F	G06Q	G07C	G06F	G06F	G06Q	G06F	G06F	G06F	G07C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07C1	G06F15	G06Q10	G07C1	G06F15	G06F15	G06Q10	G06F17	G06F17	G06F15	G07C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for the recording and retrieval of information relevant to the activities of 
the user. The invention may be employed to provide a memory prosthesis in the form of a highly 

portable device (30) (e.g. a device worn like a watch) which records all kinds of information about 
the user's life, and provides a simple and rapid means of access to that information. The device 

receives and stores information from external sources ('objects') via, for example, a cellular 
communications network, or from signal generators identifying specific machines, places, or 

people carrying other ones of the same type of device. Events comprising encounters between 
'objects' are recorded automatically, being time-stamped and stored chronologically, and a rapid 

search method for such a database is disclosed. The data can either be stored in the memory of 
the device itself, or, for better protection against failure, in a central data repository of the system, 

with a fail-safe backup. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
XEROX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLYNN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAMMING MICHAEL G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLYNN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LAMMING, MICHAEL, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a system and method for the recording and retrieval of
information relevant to the activities of the user. The invention is particularly suitable for
implementation in the form of a memory aid device which is portable, and preferably wearable
by the user.Memory problems are widespread but little has been done to exploit information
technology to help. People have many procedures designed to compensate for their fallible
memory, for example, writing lists, organising things in files, putting notices on notice boards
and setting alarms. Even in a well-organised setting, things might be mislaid or forgotten
because they were not seen to be important at the time they were encountered. These failures
of memory have a cost, both in the time spent recovering (such as looking for mislaid
documents) and in the time spent organising things in the first place so that problems do not
arise.One current form of memory aid is the electronic personal organiser, which is similar
in form to a hand-held calculator. Although such a device is capable of holding large amounts
of information, each item must be entered, usually manually, so the user must both input the
information and remember to do so.Various other systems have recently been proposed to help the user recall past events
as well as to provide reminders of future intentions. For example, in EP-A-0,495,622 there is
described an activity-based information retrieval system which automatically captures and
records certain aspects of the context in which a recorded event took place. The system relies
on a variety of apparatuses for monitoring, recording and time-stamping various key aspects of
human activity, from which a readable list of episodes, or 'activity diary' can be generated
automatically. In one example, the system uses encoded identifiers, each intended to be
carried by people working in the environment being monitored. One particularly convenient
form of identifier is the "active badge" offered by Olivetti. This identifier takes the form of
miniaturised circuitry in a housing able to be pinned or clipped to the clothing of the person to
whom the identifier is issued. The circuitry is designed to emit pulse width modulated infra-red
coded signals for a tenth of a second every 12 to 15 seconds. The signals, by their nature, have a
range of about six metres, and will not travel through walls, which makes them very useful for
keeping track of people moving between rooms in a normal working environment. In each of
the rooms or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information recording system consisting of at least two devices, at least one
of said devices (10) being allocated to a human user and part thereof being portable

by said human user and each device comprising means for wireless communication
(16) with the other device, a control unit (14) and a database (12), wherein each

control unit controls transmission of information via the means for wireless
communication (16) concerning the identification of the respective device (10) and

further controls the reception of the respective identifying information from other
devices,
characterized in that
 each control unit (14) automatically records in its respective
database (12) identifying information received from another device upon the

occurrence of a physical or logical collocation with the respective other device (10) to
obtain a sequence of chronological occurrences in said database (12).
The system of claim 1 where each of said identifying information is described
by a fact which comprises an attribute and the value of that attribute for a given device

(10) at the time communicated by the time stamp and is recorded as such.
The system according to any one of claims 1 or 2, where at least one device
has a user interface (18) providing means for entering and retrieving information from

said database (12).
The system according to any one of claims 1 to 3 where a sensor (20) provides
data about its surroundings.
The system of claim 1 including means to enable manual entry of facts or other
information into at least one database (12) of one device (10). 
The system according to any one of claims 1 to 5 further including means for
automatically recording facts in the database (12) at predetermined times.
The system according to any one of claims 1 to 6, further including means for
automatically recording facts in the database (12) on the occurrence of predetermined

values of a attribute.
The system according to any one of claims 1 to 7, where the user interface (18)
enables the user to retrieve from the database (12) a sequence of occurrences of a

selected fact or pattern of facts.
The system according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the user interface (18)
enables the user to search by displaying sequentially the occurrences of a selected

fact or pattern of facts.
The system according to any one of claims 8 or 9, wherein each sequence of
occurrences of a fact comprises a "thread" when each of the facts is represented by

the coincidence of two or more of the threads, and wherein the user can search the
database (12) by selecting one thread, or by selecting the coincidence of a plurality of

threads, or by moving from one thread to another.
The system according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein at least part of one
of the devices is wearable by a user.
The system according to any of the previous claims, where at least one device
(10) without a sensor (20) and without an user interface (18) is arranged to transmit

signals to cooperate with devices (10) having both a sensor (20) and a user interface
(18).
The system according to any of the previous claims, wherein the
communication means (16) of some of the devices (10) comprise a cellular

communications network, enabling a device (10) to determine its position in the
network. 
The system according to any one of the previous claims, wherein at least one
device (10) is in communication with a central data processing unit.
A method for use in an information recording system consisting of at least two
devices, at least one of said devices (10) being allocated to a human user and part

thereof being portable by said human user and each device comprising means for
wireless communication (16) with the other device (10), a control unit (14) and a

database (12), the control unit (14) controls transmission of information via the means
for wireless communication (16) concerning the identification of the respective device

(10) and further controls the reception of the respective identifying information from
other devices said method comprising the steps of:


recognizing the presence of another device (10) in physical or logical
collocation with the device;
receiving the identification information from the other device (10) over a
communications channel (16); and
automatically storing the information in the databases (12);
The method according to claim 15, said method further comprising the steps of:

organizing data obtained from received identifying information as a set of
threads, each thread comprising a chronological sequence of time stamped

facts all of which relate to a single device (10) and at least some of which also
represent descriptors of other devices (10), each device (10) representing a

person or an identifiable entity, and each of the facts comprising a attribute and
a value of that attribute for a given device (10);
displaying the sequence of facts of a selected thread, or the sequence of
events defined by the coincidence of two or more threads;
moving selectively forward or backward in time through the displayed sequence
of facts or events; and
enabling the selection, for subsequent display, of any of the threads of a
displayed event.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
