<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644786</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PSYCHOTHERAPY APPARATUS FOR TREATING UNDESIRABLE EMOTIONAL AROUSAL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2100	A61M2100	A61M2102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M21	A61M21	A61M21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEATHERS LAWRENCE R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEATHERS, LAWRENCE, R.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEATHERS LAWRENCE R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEATHERS, LAWRENCE, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionPSYCHOTHERAPY APPARATUS FOR TREATING UNDESIRABLE EMOTIONAL AROUSALTechnical Field The present invention generally relates to psychotherapy techniques for treating emotional problems and, more particularly, to a psychotherapy apparatus and method for treating undesirable emotional arousal of a patient.Background ArtMany members of society currently demonstrating various undesirable (both pathological and non- pathological) behaviors are burdened with various emotional problems and emotionally-aggravated physical problems. Some examples of these problems are anxiety disorders, asthma, panic attacks, depression, anger, impotence, fears and phobias, grief, headaches, marriage problems, post Electro-Convulsive Therapy confusion, anxiety and memory loss, and post traumatic stress disorder (Vietnam and police service and child abuse and incest). The current undesirable behavior of a person provides connection of a current experience with a historical or more recent negative experience.Heretofore, the primary mode of conducting psychotherapy for treatment of these problems has been by the use of one therapist with one patient or one or more therapists with a small group of patients. This mode of psychotherapy has been carried out mainly through verbal communication between therapists and patients. A significant drawback of relying primarily on verbal communication to conduct psychotherapy is that a large number of treatment sessions are needed to 

adequately deal with these problems. An unfortunate consequence of this is that the greater the overall quantity of time consumed in treatment the greater the cost and the fewer the number of persons that can be treated by a given population of therapists with proper qualification and clinical training. Another significant drawback is that some adults and many children are not verbal enough to successfully profit from verbal therapies. Consequently, a need exists for a different approach to psychotherapy for treatment of emotional problems and emotionally-aggravated physical problems which approach will overcome the above-described drawbacks without introducing new ones in their place.Disclosure of InventionThe present invention provides a psychotherapy apparatus and method being designed to satisfy the aforementioned needs. The psychotherapy apparatus and method of the present invention employ a sequence of operative steps which preferably are conducted in an automated manner so as to thereby reduce the number of treatment sessions and increase the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A psychotherapy apparatus for treating undesirable emotional arousal of a patient, comprising:
(a) means for presenting visual stimuli so aε to be observed by a stationarily-poεitioned patient εubstantially at predetermined opposite extremes of the patient's range of eye movement;
(b) means for presenting auditory εtimuli to the earε of the patient; and
(c) control meanε connected to said visual εtimuli preεenting meanε and to εaid auditory εtimuli preεenting meanε for operating εaid viεual εtimuli presenting means to movably alternate the visual stimuli between the predetermined extremes of the patient's range of eye movement and for operating said auditory stimuli presenting means to movably alternate the auditory stimuli between the patient's ears.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control means is for operating said visual stimuli presenting means and said auditory stimuli preεenting meanε to move the visual stimuli and auditory stimuli in a predetermined coordinated synchronous relation with respect to one another.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein εaid viεual εtimuli preεenting means includes a bank of lightε adapted to be located at each of said predetermined extremes of the patient's eye movement.
4. The apparatuε of claim 3 wherein εaid control means is for operating εaid visual stimuli presenting means to alternately blink said lights of said banks back and forth between εaid predetermined extremes of 


the patient's eye movement.
5. The apparatuε of claim 1 wherein said predetermined extremes are right and left lateral extremes of the patient's lateral eye movement.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein εaid auditory εtimuli presenting meanε includes: means for generating a sound; and a pair of headphones adapted to be worn over the ears of the patient, εaid headphoneε for operating to receive the εound and tranεmit the εound to the patient'ε earε.
7. The apparatuε of claim 6 wherein εaid control meanε iε connected between εaid εound generating meanε and εaid headphones and is for operating εaid εound generating meanε to alternately εwitch the εound being tranεmitted through εaid headphoneε back and forth between the patient'ε earε.
8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means dispoεed between εaid predetermined extremes of the patient'ε range of eye movement for displaying viεual information toward the stationarily-positioned patient.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein εaid control meanε is connected to εaid diεplaying means and is for operating to cause said diεplaying meanε to diεplay the viεual information in a predetermined pattern.
10. The apparatuε of claim 8 wherein εaid diεplaying meanε includeε a video diεplay monitor adapted to be diεpoεed between εaid predetermined 


extremes of the patient's range of eye movement.
11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein εaid diεplaying meanε includeε: a εcreen adapted to be diεposed between said predetermined extremes of the patient'ε range of eye movement; and a projector for operating εaid diεplaying meanε to project a display of information on said screen.
12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein εaid control meanε includeε meanε for monitoring and meaεuring at leaεt one predetermined phyεiological reεponεe of the patient to the viεual and auditory εtimuli and producing an output representative of the responεe.
13. The apparatuε of claim 12 wherein εaid monitoring and measuring means includes at leaεt one detector for εenεing the patient'ε phyεiological reεponse and producing the output representative of the senεed reεponεe.
14. The apparatuε of claim 12 wherein εaid control meanε further includeε meanε connected to εaid monitoring and meaεuring meanε for receiving εaid output thereof and controlling, in responεe to εaid output, said visual stimuli presenting means and said auditory εtimuli presenting meanε εo aε to elict in the patient a mental imagery of a given negative experience of the patient and to eliminate the undeεirable emotional arousal evoked in the patient by the given negative experience and to substitute a positive experience reinforcing a desired new behavior.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said meanε 


for receiving and controlling includes a computer storing a software program and being operable, in response to εaid output of εaid monitoring and measuring means, to run said software program and provide output signals to control operation of said viεual and auditory stimuli presenting means.
16. A pεychotherapy method for treating an undeεirable emotional arouεal of a patient, compriεing the steps of:
(a) presenting visual εtimuli so aε to be observed by a εtationarily-poεitioned patient substantially at predetermined opposite extremes of the patient's range of eye movement;
(b) presenting auditory stimuli to the ears of the patient; (c) alternately switching the viεual εtimuli between the predetermined extremeε of the patient'ε range of eye movement; and
(d) alternately switching the auditory stimuli between the patient'ε ears.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein said extremeε are right and left lateral extremes of the patient's lateral eye movement.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein the viεual stimuli and auditory stimuli are alternately εwitched in a predetermined coordinated εynchronouε relation with reεpect to one another.
19. The method of claim 16 wherein εaid presenting the viεual εtimuli includes generating light from a bank of lights located at each of said predetermined extremeε of the patient'ε eye movement. 


 20. The method of claim 16 wherein said presenting the auditory stimuli includes generating a sound and transmitting the sound to the patient's ears through a pair of stereo headr^ones adapted to be worn over the patient's ears.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein said alternately switching the auditory εtimuli includeε alternately εwitching the εound from the stereo headphoneε back and forth between the patient's ears.
22. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of: displaying visual information toward the stationarily-poεitioned patient from between εaid predetermined extremeε of the patient'ε range of eye movement.
23. The method of claim 16 further compriεing the εtep of: monitoring and meaεuring at leaεt one predetermined physi ^logical response of the patient to the viεual and auditory stimuli and producing an output representative of the responεe.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein εaid monitoring and meaεuring includeε εenεing the patient'ε phyεiological reεponεe and producing the output repreεentative of the sensed responεe.
25. The method of claim 23 further compriεing the step of: controlling εaid viεual εtimuli preεenting and switching and εaid auditory εtimuli preεenting and εwitching, in reεponεe to the output repreεentative of 


the patient's physiological response, so aε to elict in the patient a mental imagery of a given negative experience of the patient and to eliminate the undeεirable emotional arouεal evoked in the patient by the given negative experience and to εubstitute a positive experience reinforcing a new desired behavior.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein said controlling includes operating a computer, in response to said output representative of the patient's phyεiological reεponεe, to run a εoftware program εtored in εaid computer εo aε to provide control of said presenting and alternating of the visual and auditory εtimuli. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
