<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0644737</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USE OF A DYE FOR MANUFACTURING AN AGENT TO IMAGE SOLID TUMOR TISSUE AND A COMBINATION OF A DYE WITH AN APPARATUS FOR SOLID TUMOR, CORTICAL FUNCTION, AND NERVE IMAGING
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06T720	G06T720	G06T100	A61B1000	A61B500	A61B1900	G06T100	A61B1900	A61B1000	A61B500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06T	G06T	G06T	A61B	A61B	A61B	G06T	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06T7	G06T7	G06T1	A61B10	A61B5	A61B19	G06T1	A61B19	A61B10	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention provides a method and apparatus for imaging margins, grade and dimensions of solid tumor tissue located in an area of interest, comprising illuminating the area of interest with high intensity, emr (electromagnetic radiation) containing the wave length of emr absorbed by a dye, obtaining a video signal of the area of interest as an averaged control image and processing the averaged control image into the averaged control frame, administering the dye by bolus injection into a vein circulating to the area of interest, obtaining a series of video images of the area of interest over time as subsequent images and processing each subsequent image as a subsequent frame, comparing each subsequent frame with the processed averaged control frame to obtain a series of difference images, and comparing each difference image for initial evidence of changed absorption within the area of interest which is the outline of solid tumor tissue, whereby tumor tissue is characterized by faster absorption of emr as a result of increased vascularity of solid tumor tissue and inability to clear the dye as fast as normal tissue.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAGLUND MICHAEL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOCHMAN DARYL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAGLUND, MICHAEL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOCHMAN, DARYL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the use of a dye for manufacturing an agent for tissue imaging, and to a combination of an imaging apparatus with means for dye injection. In particular, the invention provides for real-time detection of solid tumor
tissue, plus an ability to grade and characterize tumor tissue.A primary goal of neurological surgery is the complete removal of abnormal or
pathological tissue while sparing normal areas. Hence, the neurosurgeon attempts to
identify boundaries of pathological or dysfunctional tissue and to map adjacent areas of
the cortex committed to important functions, such as language, motor and sensory areas
so that pathological/dysfunctional tissue is removed without removing functional areas.Incidence rates for primary intracranial brain tumors are in the range of 50-150
cases per million population or about 18,000 cases per year (Berens et al. 1990).
Approximately one half of brain tumors are malignant. The incidence of malignant brain
tumors in adults is predominantly in the age range of 40-55 years while the incidence of
more benign tumors peaks near 35 years of age. A primary means for treatment of such
tumors is surgical removal. Many studies have shown that when more of the total
amount of tumor tissue is removed, the better the clinical outcome. For gross total
resections of tumors, the 5-year survival rate is doubled when compared to subtotal
resection. Both duration of survival and independent status of the patient are prolonged
when the extent of resection is maximized in malignant gliomas. Current intraoperative
techniques do not provide rapid differentiation of tumor tissue from normal brain tissue,
especially once the resection of the tumor begins. Development of techniques that
enhance the ability to identify tumor tissue intraoperatively may result in maximizing the
degree of tumor resection and prolonging survival.Of the 500,000 patients projected to die of systemic cancer per year in the
United States, approximately 25%, or over 125,000 can be expected to have
intracranial metastasis. The primary focus for surgery in this group is in those patients
with single lesions who do not have widespread or progressive cancer. This group
represents about 20-25% of patients with metastases (30,000), however, the actual
number of patients that are good candidates for surgery is slightly smaller. Of those
patients undergoing surgery, one half will have local recurrence of their tumor at the 
site of operation, while the other half will develop a tumor elsewhere.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A use of a dye for manufacturing an agent for administration
to an area of interest of a patient to image margins

and dimensions of solid tumor tissue in the area of interest
by the following steps:


a. illuminating the area of interest with electromagnetic
radiation containing in the visible or infrared

regions a wavelength absorbable by the dye,
b. obtaining a video signal from the area of interest
as a sequence of frames and processing the sequence of frames

into an averaged control image,
c. administering said dye to the area of interest,
d. obtaining a series of subsequent frames from the
area of interest over time and processing the series of subsequent

frames into a subsequent averaged image,
e. comparing the subsequent averaged image with the
averaged control image to obtain a tumor difference image,

and
f. imaging in the tumor difference image margins and
dimensions of solid tumor tissue based on a change in optical

property within the area of interest wherein tumor tissue
exhibits faster absorption and longer retention of the dye

than non-tumor tissue.
The use of claim 1 wherein the dye is selected
from the group consisting of indocyanine green, hematoporphyrin,

fluorescein, fluorescamine, NPe
6
, BPD, Evans Blue, and combinations
thereof.
The use of claim 1, wherein in step (c) the area of interest
is located underneath intact skin and/or bone and in step (a) the wavelength 

of electromagnetic radiation is in the infrared region.
The use of claim 1, step (f) additionally comprising
amplifying the tumor difference image across its dynamic range by

identifying a pixel in the tumor difference image with a highest
value and assigning it a maximum value, identifying a pixel in the

tumor difference image with a smallest value and assigning it a
minimum value, and mapping pixels having intermediate values to

logarithmically or linearly increasing values between the maximum
and minimum values, thereby enhancing the contrast of the tumor

difference image.
The use of claim 1, step (f) additionally comprising
mapping different pixel values in the tumor difference image to

color values to enhance the contrast of the tumor difference image.
The use of claim 1, wherein the comparing step
(e) includes spatially translating the averaged control image and

the subsequent averaged image relative to one another by
geometrical transformation to compensate for movement in the area

of interest.
The use of claim 1, steps (a), (b) and (d) additionally comprising
compensating for movement of the patient by mechanical means.
The use of claim 7, wherein in steps (a), (b) and (d), the video signal of
the area of interest is obtained by a detection means, and the

area of interest is illuminated by an illumination source and the illumination source and the detection means are fixed to a skeletal
structure of the patient to maintain the illumination source and

the detection means in a constant orientation with respect to the
area of interest.
The use of claim 1, step (f) additionally comprising
grading solid tumor tissue, wherein malignant tumor tissue is
characterized by
 longer retention of the dye compared to benign and
lower grade tumor tissue.
The use of claim 1 wherein the tumor tissue is
located adjacent to nerve tissue, said steps additionally

comprising the following steps,

stimulating the nerve tissue with an appropriate

paradigm to activate the nerve subsequent to obtaining the averaged
control image;
obtaining a nerve subsequent series of frames at the
time of stimulation and processing the nerve subsequent series of

frames into a nerve subsequent averaged image; and
obtaining a nerve difference image by subtracting
the averaged control image from the nerve subsequent averaged image

to image an active nerve.
The use of claim 10, wherein in step (f), the tumor difference
image and the nerve difference image are superimposed upon each

other to simultaneously visualize the relative locations of tumor
tissue and nerve tissue. 
A combination of an apparatus for imaging margins and
dimensions of solid tumor tissue in an area of interest of a

patient, with means for injecting a dye,

said means for injecting a dye comprising:

a dye adapted to absorb electromagnetic radiation
at a wavelength in the visible or infrared regions,
said apparatus comprising:

a. a source of electromagnetic radiation including the wavelength absorbable by
said dye,
b. means for obtaining analogue video signals of the
area of interest as a sequence of frames,
c. means for processing a sequence of frames into an
averaged control image, processing, after administration of

the dye to the area of interest, a series of subsequent
frames into a subsequent averaged image, comparing the subsequent

averaged image and the averaged control image to provide
a tumor difference image showing changes in optical

property due to tumor tissue exhibiting faster absorption and
longer retention of the dye than non-tumor tissue, and
d. means for displaying the tumor difference image.
The combination of claim 12 wherein the means (c) for processing
the sequence of frames into the averaged control

image or the subsequent averaged image comprises:

e. a means for digitising the analog video signal and
processing the digitised image across a full dynamic range;
f. a means for averaging a series of frames into an
averaged control image and storing data from the averaged

control image in a first frame buffer;
g. a means for storing each subsequent and processed
digitised image data in a second frame buffer;
h. a means for subtractively combining the averaged
control image with a subsequent averaged image from the first 

and second frame buffers to provide a difference image, said
difference image being stored in a third frame buffer;
i. a means for processing the difference image to
stretch the image across a full dynamic range;
j. a means for color-coding the difference image; and
k. a means for superimposing the color-coded difference
image upon an analog video image and a monitor for viewing

this image.
The combination of claim 12 including a means for obtaining
a digital image by subtractively combining at least two

images, wherein the two images are spatially translated relative
to one another by geometrical transformation.
The combination of claim 13, wherein means (h) and (i) are
replaced by a means for subtracting a subsequent averaged image

from the averaged control image to obtain a first difference
image and subtracting the averaged control image from

the subsequent image to obtain a second difference image, and
adding the first difference image and the second difference

image to create a sum difference image showing areas of increased
neuronal activity and areas of inhibited neuronal activity.
The combination of any of claims 12 to 15, wherein the
electromagnetic radiation source is a high intensity, broad spectrum electromagnetic radiation source,

preferably a tungsten-halogen lamp.
The combination of any of claims 12 to 16, wherein the
electromagnetic radiation source and/or the means for obtaining analogue video signals of

the area of interest comprise a wavelength cutoff filter,
preferably for wavelength below 695 nm.
The combination of any of claims 12 to 17, including
fiber optic means for directing the electromagnetic radiation

to the area of interest. 
The combination of any of claims 12 to 18, wherein the
means for processing the difference image comprises means for

smoothing out the difference image and for removing spatial frequency
noise.
The combination of any of claims 12 to 19, further comprising
detection means for obtaining the video signals of

the area of interest, wherein the electromagnetic radiation source and the detection
means are arranged to be fixed to a skeletal structure

of the patient to maintain the electromagnetic radiation illumination source and
the detection means in a constant orientation with respect to

the area of interest.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
