<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641996</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sensor coil for a fiber optic gyroscope.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1972	G01C1972	G02B600	G02B600	G02B644	G02B644	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C19	G01C19	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	G02B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotation sensor for use in a fiber optic 
gyroscope includes a substantially-planar disk-like 

coil mounting member (68) of titanium. A wound sensor 
coil (64, 66) is supported by the member in an edgewise 

fashion, allowing free expansion of the sensor coil in 
the direction orthogonal to the plane of the member to 

minimize thermally-induced stressing of the sensor 
coil. In an alternative embodiment, the free-standing 

coil is effectively "split"; that is, one-half (64) is 
mounted to one side of the member and the remainder 

(66) to the other side in such a way that the sensitive 
axes are coincident. Edge ramps (49, 50) are provided 

in the member (68) for guiding the continuous optical 
fiber comprising the coil segments from one side of the 

disk-like mounting member to the other without 
microbends. A cylindrical inner hub (72) includes a 

thinned and flexible portion (70) for contacting a 
mounting pedestal (58) of stainless steel composition, 

whereby the differential thermal expansion of the 
pedestal and mounting member materials will not produce 

misalignment of the sensor coil with respect to a 
predetermined input axis of rotation. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTON SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LITTON SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATTERSON RALPH A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATTERSON, RALPH A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to sensor coils 
for fiber optic gyroscopes. A fiber optic gyroscope normally comprises the 
following main components: (1) a light source, (2) a 
beamsplitter (either a fiber optic directional coupler or 
an integrated-optics Y-junction), (3) a fiber optic coil, 
(4) a polarizer (and sometimes one or more depolarizers), 
and (5) a detector. Light from the light source is split 
by the beamsplitter into copropagating and 
counterpropagating waves that travel through the sensing 
coil. Associated electronics measures the phase 
relationships between the two interfering, 
counterpropagating, beams of light that emerge from the 
opposite ends of the coil. The difference between the  
 
phase shifts experienced by the two beams provides a 
measure of the rate of rotation of the platform to which 
the instrument is fixed. Environmental factors can affect the measured 
phase shift difference between the counterpropagating 
beams, thereby introducing a bias or error. Such 
environmental factors include variables such as 
temperature, vibration (acoustical and mechanical) and 
magnetic fields. These are both time-varying and unevenly 
distributed throughout the coil and induce variations in 
index of refraction and length that each 
counterpropagating wave encounters as it travels through 
the coil. The phase shifts imposed upon the two waves are 
unequal, producing a net undesirable phase shift which is 
indistinguishable from the rotation-induced signal. One approach to reducing the sensitivity arising 
from environmental factors has involved the use of 
symmetric coil winding configurations. In such coils, the 
windings are arranged so that the geometrical center of 
the winding is located at the innermost layer while the 
two ends of the coil are located at the outermost layers.  N. Frigo has proposed the use of particular 
winding patterns to compensate for non-reciprocities in 
"Compensation of Linear Sources of Non-Reciprocity in 
Sagnac Interferometers", Fiber Optics and Laser Sensors I, 
Procs. SPIE, v. 412, p.261 (1989). Furthermore, United 
States patent 4,793,708 of Bednarz entitled "Fiber Optic 
Sensing Coil" teaches a symmetric fiber optic sensing coil 
formed by duopole or quadrupole winding. The coils 
described in that patent exhibit enhanced performance over 
the conventional helix-type winding. United States patent 4,856,900 of Ivancevic 
entitled "Quadruple-Wound Fiber Optic Sensing Coil and 
Method of Manufacture Thereof" teaches an improved 
quadrupole-wound
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotation sensor for use in a fiber optic 
gyroscope and comprising a mounting member (68) and a 

continuous optical fiber arranged as a coil (64, 66) 
comprising a plurality of layers of coaxial turns which 

are embedded in potting material and are fixed to said 
member (68), characterised in that the mounting member 

is substantially planar and the coil is fixed to the 
member so that the axis of said coil is substantially 

orthogonal to said mounting member, whilst the block 
composed of the coil and potting material is 

cantilevered from the member or otherwise axially 
substantially unconstrained. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 1, wherein a 
first portion (64) of said coil is fixed to a first 

planar surface of said substantially planar mounting 
member and a second portion (66) of said coil is fixed 

to the opposed surface of said substantially planar 
mounting member. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 2 wherein 
said member includes means (50 to 52) for guiding said 

continuous optical fiber between said first and second 
portions of said coil. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 3 wherein the 
means for guiding said continuous optical fiber 

includes at least one arcuate groove (50, 52) located 
at a peripheral edge of said member. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 3 or 4 
wherein the means for guiding (50, 52) is arranged to 

guide said optical fiber through at least one-fourth of 
a fiber turn. 
A rotation sensor according to any one of the 
preceding claims and including means (70, 71, 72) 

engaged to said member (68) for maintaining a 
predetermined alignment of the axis of said coil. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 6 wherein 
said mounting member comprises an annular, 

substantially-planar, disk (68), and a hub (72) located 
at the center of said annular disk, portions of said 

hub extending axially above and below the disk. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 7 wherein 
said hub comprises a cylindrical wall comprising axial 

portions of first and second thicknesses, the region 
adjacent a first end of said wall being of said first 

thickness and the region adjacent a second opposed end 
of said wall being of said second thickness and said 

wall undergoing a transition from said first thickness 
to said second thickness over an intermediate axial 

region adjacent the junction of said wall to said disk. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 6, 7 or 8 
wherein said means for maintaining a predetermined 

alignment of the axis of said coil incudes a pedestal 
(58), means for aligning said pedestal with said axis 

and means for maintaining a predetermined orientation 
of said mounting member with respect to said coil. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 9 when 
appended to claim 8, wherein said mounting member is of 

titanium, the pedestal is of stainless steel, the 
pedestal includes a shoulder (71), the second thickness 

exceeds the first thickness of said cylindrical wall 
and the shoulder abuts said first end. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 9 or 10, when 
appended to claim 8, wherein said means for maintaining 

a predetermined alignment includes a substantially-planar 
retainer element (74) for securing said second 

end. 
A rotation sensor according to claim 11 and 
including means (80) for fixing said retainer to said 

pedestal. 
A rotation sensor for use in a fiber optic 
gyroscope and comprising a mounting member (68) and a 

 
continuous optical fiber arranged as a coil (64, 66) 

comprising a plurality of layers of coaxial turns which 
are embedded in potting material and are fixed to said 

member so that the axis of the coil is substantially 
orthogonal to the mounting member. 
A rotation sensor for use in a fiber optic 
gyroscope comprising the following features: 


a) a substantially-planar mounting member (68); 
b) a continuous optical fiber, said fiber being 
arranged into a coil (64, 66) comprising a plurality of 

layers of coaxial turns; 
c) a first portion (64) of said coil is fixed to 
a first planar surface of said substantially planar 

mounting member (68); 
d) a second portion (66) of said coil is fixed 
to the opposed surface of said substantially planar 

mounting member (68); 
e) said member includes means (49, 50) for 
guiding said continuous optical fiber between said 

first and second portions of said coil, said means 
including at least one arcuate groove (50) located 

adjacent the peripheral edge of said mounting member; 
f) the turns of said coil are embedded in 
potting material of preselected composition; 
g) means for fixing said coil to said member so 
that the axis of said coil is substantially orthogonal 

to said mounting member; and 
h) means (70, 72) engaged to said member for 
maintaining a predetermined alignment of the axis of 

said coil. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
