<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619707</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FRUIT EXTRACTION AND INFUSION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1100	A23N100	A23L1221	A23L1212	A23L1221	B01D1102	A23B708	A23L204	B01F702	A23B708	A23L202	A23L1212	B01F708	B30B914	B01D1102	B30B912	A23N100	B01D1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	A23N	A23L	A23L	A23L	B01D	A23B	A23L	B01F	A23B	A23L	A23L	B01F	B30B	B01D	B30B	A23N	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D11	A23N1	A23L1	A23L1	A23L1	B01D11	A23B7	A23L2	B01F7	A23B7	A23L2	A23L1	B01F7	B30B9	B01D11	B30B9	A23N1	B01D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Extraction, especially of firm fruit such as cranberries, with improved yields of high quality, low tannin juices by using an improved countercurrent extractor employing longitudinal members positioned between adjacent flights and reinfusion of decharacterized, extracted fruit pieces with infusion syrups, such as juices from fruits other than that extracted, to produce a fruit food product of various flavors having a desired level of inherent soluble fruit component, without the need to bleed off spent syrup as a byproduct.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OCEAN SPRAY CRANBERRIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OCEAN SPRAY CRANBERRIES, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANTIUS HAROLD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON PETER R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANTIUS, HAROLD, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PETERSON, PETER, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the extraction and
infusion of fruits, especially cranberries, for producing
various food products.Countercurrent extractors are used in the fruit
processing industry for extraction of juices from solid
fruit matter. The extractor includes a screw conveyor
which urges fruit solids in a first direction, while
extraction fluid flows in the opposite direction,
extracting juice from the solids by osmosis. Other juice
extraction methods used in the processing of cranberries
include processes which utilize presses in conjunction
with pressing aids (e.g., rice hulls) to produce a high
quality single strength juice. Higher yield processes
often utilize enzymatic treatment at elevated temperature
to break down pectin in raw fruit prior to extraction and
may result in a juice of substantially lower quality.A method of producing a sweet pickle is known from US-A 4 789 558.
The pickle stock with its outer membrane perforated is treated to at least
two vacuum and elevated treatment cycles in the presence of CaCI2 brine.
The treated pickle stock is then allowed to equilibrate in the presence of a
high sugar, sugar syrup before packaging.The invention is defined in independent method claims 1 and 21 and in
independent product claim 28. Advantageous embodiments of the methods
are defined in dependent claims 2 to 20 and 22 to 27, respectively. Advantageous
embodiments of the product are defined in dependent claims 29
to 33. In aspects of the invention, fruits, especially
firm berry fruits such as cranberries, are extracted by
an improved countercurrent extraction apparatus resulting
in improved and surprising yields of high quality juice,
without the need for pressing aids, enzymatic treatments,
nor excessive heating of extraction liquid or extracted
juice mixtures or the fruit itself. Further, because
enzymes and high temperatures need not be used, the fruit
maintains substantial physical integrity in a
decharacterized form post extraction. The
decharacterized fruit, a product of the juice extraction
process, may be used as a carrier for various flavorings
by infusing the decharacterized fruit with a flavored 
liquid infusion syrup. Particularly, infusion is
achieved with a countercurrent apparatus similar to that
used for extraction with the decharacterised fruit being
loaded as a solid and the infusion syrup, carrying the
flavoring, introduced in a countercurrent fashion. The
resulting infused food product, still maintaining
substantial physical integrity of the original raw fruit,
provides
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for processing fruit,
comprising:


providing raw fruit,
penetrating said fruit to expose the inside of
said fruit, unprotected by the skin,
countercurrently extracting said fruit with an
extraction liquid while maintaining conditions, including

a low temperature, that pride extracted fruit with 
substantially the structural integrity of the raw fruit, and a fruit extract

that has not been exposed to high termperatures,
collecting the extract from said fruit,
collecting the extracted fruit, and
countercurrently infusing said extracted fruit
with an infusion liquid while maintaining conditions that provide an infused

fruit with substantially the structural integrity of the raw, and
collecting said infused fruit.
The method of claim 1 comprising freezing
said raw fruit prior to said providing step.
The method of claim 1 further comprising
collecting spent infusion liquid after said

countercurrent infusion, concentrating said spent liquid
and recycling said concentrated liquid in its entirety

for subsequent infusion.
The method of claim 3 comprising:

extracting said fruit to provide a
decharacterized fruit having a selected level of inherent

soluble fruit component, and
formulating said infusion liquid to have a
level of inherent soluble fruit component substantially 

equal to or greater than said level in said
decharacterized fruit.
The method of claim 1 wherein said
decharacterized fruit has been extracted of about 94 to

98% of soluble solids.
The method of claim 1 wherein said
infusion liquid includes a liquid selected from fruit

juice or fruit juice concentrate, corn syrup, sugar-water
solutions, and artificial sweeteners or combination

thereof.
The method of claim 6 wherein the
infusion liquid is fortified with a material selected

from the group consisting of vitamins, flavorings,
minerals, and combinations thereof.
The method of claim 1 wherein said
infusion liquid has 60 to 80 brix.
The method of claim 1 comprising infusing
said fruit to about 40 to 55 brix.
The method of claim 9 further comprising
drying said infused fruit to remove water. 
The method of claim 10 comprising drying
said infused fruit to about 40 brix or greater.
The method of claim 10 comprising drying
said infused fruit to a water activity of about 0.5 to

0.55.
The method of claim 1 wherein the
extraction liquid is water substantially free of

pectinase enzymes.
The method of claim 13 comprising
extracting said fruit by advancing said fruit and flowing

an extracting liquid countercurrently to said advancing
fruit, while continuously uniformly tumbling said fruit

between the flights of a screw conveyor by passing narrow
longitudinal members parallel to the axis of said

conveyer through said fruit.
The method of claim 14 further comprising
infusing said decharacterized fruit by advancing said

fruit and flowing an infusing liquid countercurrently to
said advancing fruit, while continuously uniformly

tumbling said fruit between the flights of a screw
conveyor by passing narrow longitudinal members parallel

to the axis of said conveyer through said fruit. 
The method of claim 15 further comprising

maintaining the temperature at about 24°C (75°F) or
less during said extracting step.
The method of claim 16 comprising

maintaining a residence time of said fruit of greater
than about 90 minutes during said extraction.
The method of claim 17 wherein the
residence time of said fruit is about 120 to 150 minutes.
The method of claim 18 comprising

maintaining a process temperature of about 37 to 55°C (100 to 130°F)
during said infusing.
The method of claim 19 comprising

maintaining a residence time of said fruit of about 120
to 300 minutes during said infusing.
A method for processing fruit, comprising:

providing raw fruit,
penetrating said fruit to expose the inside of
said fruit, unprotected by the skin,
countercurrently extracting said fruit with an extraction liquid
while maintaining a low temperature

to provide decharacterized fruit having a desired level
of inherent soluble fruit component,
collecting the extract from said fruit, 
collecting the decharacterized fruit,
formulating an infusion liquid having inherent
soluble fruit component at a level equal to or greater

than said decharacterized fruit,
countercurrently infusing said decharacterized fruit with said
infusion liquid without net extraction of said inherent

soluble fruit component from said decharacterized fruit,
collecting a spent infusion liquid after said
infusing,
concentrating said spent liquid,
recycling said concentrated spent infusion
liquid for subsequent infusion, and
collecting said infused fruit.
The method of claim 21 including
reformulating said infusion liquid by the addition of

non-inherent soluble component to said concentrated spent
syrup.
The method of claim 22 including
reformulating said infusion liquid by the addition of

inherent soluble fruit component to said concentrated
spent liquid.
The method of claim 23 wherein said
infusing includes countercurrently infusing. 
The method of claim 24 wherein said
extraction liquid is water free of pectinase enzymes.
The method of Claim 21 or 25 comprising
freezing said raw fruit prior to said providing step.
The method of claim 26 comprising
maintaining a process temperature of about 24°C (75°F) or less

during said extracting step.
A raw cranberry fruit food
product, comprising:


a decharacterized cranberry fruit piece having
removed therefrom

in a countercurrent extraction method step at low temperature
at least about 90% of its inherent

soluble solids and including therein a flavor liquid,
infused in a countercurrent infusion method step

said product having a brix of about 40 or greater.
The food product of claim 28 wherein about
94 to 98% of the soluble solids have been removed.
The food product of claim 28 wherein the
syrup is a fruit flavor different from the fruit piece.
The food product of claim 28 wherein said
decharacterized fruit is free from added enzyme

degradation, substantially maintaining the structural 

integrity of the raw fruit, being untreated by pectinase
enzymes.
The food products of claim 28 wherein said
decharacterized fruit has been extracted of about 50% or

more of its original color.
The method of any one of claims
16, 21 or 27 wherein said fruit is cranberry and said

extract has a tannin content of less than about 1900 mg/L
measured at 7.5 brix.
The method of any one of claims 13 or
16 wherein said fruit is cranberry.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
