<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643647</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SENSOR FOR MEASURING FORCE AND EXTENSION IN TYRES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60C2306	B60C2306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60C	B60C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60C23	B60C23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of monitoring the force conditions in vehicle tyres during driving, whereby a signal is generated in dependence on forces occurring in the vehicle tyre and the signal is emitted to a registration unit (17) arranged at a distance from the tyre. At least one electric resonance circuit (11) is arranged embedded in the tyre and is brought to self-oscillate at a resonance frequency characteristic of the resonance circuit (11) during the giving of a signal comprising electromagnetic energy into space. The resonance frequency is brought to vary with occurring forces and strain conditions in the tyre and the variation of the resonance frequency is registered in the registration unit (17) through the reception of the electromagnetic energy.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAAB SCANIA COMBITECH AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SAAB-SCANIA COMBITECH AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLSSON LARS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OLSSON, LARS, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SENSOR FOR MEASURING FORCE AND EXTENSION IN TYRES In vehicles having wheels with rubber tyres, the deformations/forces that occur in the tyre material give a great deal of information about the conditions that have an effect on the driving of the vehicle. It is for instance possible to register current frictional conditions between tyre and roadway and the force transmission that takes place between tyre and roadway.Manufacturers of tyres have for many years made experiments with the purpose to achieve tyre patterns that would give a large tread surface against the roadway and high friction. At such experiments, in addition to photographing the tread surface of the tyre against a glass surface, traditional strain gauges have been used, which have been embedded in the tyre. The strain gauges have been electrically connected to the measuring equipment, which, naturally, has meant that the method of procedure has been entirely limited to experimental set-ups in laboratory environment and the like. With this type of gauge it has not been possible to transmit the measuring signal frcm the tyre to the measuring equipment wirelessly, which must be a pre-requisite for tests under more realistic conditions. The number of strain gauges in the tyre has also been extremely liinited, in order to reduce the wiring problem.After the development of a new type of transmitters comprising piezo¬ electric transmission elements formed as bands, it has beccme possible to improve resolution when measuring the force conditions in tyres. A system that uses this type of transmitter is shown and described in WD90/05646. In that patent specification, the tyre print is monitored by means of piezo-resistive rubber transmitters, which are embedded in the tyre. Thereby the motive force and other forces can be automatically distributed in the various tyres of the vehicle in order to optimize vehicle performance in various surrounding conditions. As this type of transmitter too generates an electric signal, the problem of trans¬ mitting the generated signal from the transmitter to the measuring and control equipment, which is required for using the measured signal, remains.An object of the present invention is consequently to find a method 

of monitoring the strain and force conditions in vehicle tyres on vehicles in normal operation, according to which is used wireless transmission of the signals from the transmitters arranged in the tyre to a receiver arranged in the vehicle. According to the method it is also achieved very high
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method of monitoring the force conditions in vehicle tyres during driving, whereby a signal is generated in dependence on forces occurring in the vehicle tyre, and the signal is emitted to a registration unit (17) arranged at a distance frcm the tyre, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at least one electric resonance circuit (11) is arranged embedded in the tyre, that the electric resonance circuit (11) is brought to self-oscillate at a resonance frequency characteristic of the resonance circuit, on emitting a signal comprising electromagnetic energy into space, that the resonance frequency is brought to vary with occurring forces and strain conditions in the vehicle tyre, and that the variation of the resonance frequency is registered in the registration unit (17) through the reception of the electromagnetic energy.
2. A method according to claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that signals frcm several resonance circuits (11) embedded in a portion of the tyre that is in contact with a bed are emitted and received by the registration unit (17) , som that the appearance of zones in the tyre that slips against the bed is registered, before the whole portion, in contact, slips.
3. A device for monitoring the force conditions in vehicle tyres on a vehicle during driving, comprising means (10) for producing and giving a signal in dependence on forces occurring in the vehicle tyre and a registration unit (17) arranged at a distance from the tyre, for receiving the given signal, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that at least one electric resonance circuit (11) with characteristic resonance frequency is arranged embedded in the tyre for trans¬ mitting electromagnetic energy into space, 


 that the electric resonance circuit (11) comprises a resonance frequency determining means (12) , whose characteristics are dependent on the forces occurring in the vehicle tyre, that an excitation means (15) is arranged for excitation of the electric resonance circuit (11) to self-oscillate, that the registration unit (17) is operatively connected to at least one receiver (16) for receiving the electromagnetic energy indicating the resonance frequency of the resonance circuit (11) .
4. A device according to claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the resonance frequency determining means (12) is formed as a band of an amorfous material.
5. A device according to claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the electric resonance circuit (11) comprises a coil (1 ) , which is arranged magnetically connected to the resonance frequency determining means (12) .
6. A device according to any one of claims 3-5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the resonance circuit (11) of every transmitter (10) in a vehicle tyre is arranged so as to self-oscillate at a unique resonance frequency in an unloaded condition.
7. A device according to any one of claims 3-6, c h a r a c t e r¬ i z e d in that at each vehicle tyre a separate excitation means (15) and a separate receiver (16) are arranged, that at each vehicle tyre a transmission antenna (18) operatively connected to the excitation means (15) is arranged, that at each vehicle tyre a receiving antenna (19) operatively connected to a receiver (16) is arranged.
8. A device according to any one of claims 3-6, c h a r a c t e r¬ i z e d in 


 that the vehicle is provided with an excitation means (15) which is mutual for all the vehicle tyres, and a receiver (16) which is mutual for all the vehicle tyres, and that at each vehicle tyre a separate transmission antenna (18) and a separate receiving antenna (19) are arranged.
9. A device according to any one of claims 3-6, c h a r a c t e r¬ i z e d in that the vehicle is provided with an excitation means (15) which is mutual for all the vehicle tyres, and a receiver (16) which is mutual for all the vehicle tyres, and that centrally in the vehicle, a transmission antenna (18) and a receiving antenna (19) are arranged.
10. A device according to any one of claims 3-8, c h a r a c t e r¬ i z e d in that the resonance frequency determining means (12) are arranged in the vehicle tyre for sensing forces in the peripheral direction of the vehicle tyre.
11. A device according to any one of claims 3-8, c h a r a c t e r¬ i z e d in that the resonance frequency determining means (12) are arranged in the vehicle tyre for sensing forces in the axial direction of the vehicle tyre. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
