<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Self contained gas powered surgical apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1728	A61B1900	A61B1700	A61B17068	A61B17072	A61B1900	A61B1728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-contained gas powered endoscopic surgical 
apparatus so is provided for placing lateral lines of 

surgical fasteners into body tissue. The apparatus 
includes a frame portion 52, an elongated portion 54 

extending from the frame portion, and an articulating 
fastener applying assembly 58 associated with a distal end 

of the elongated portion. The fastener applying assembly 
includes a base portion, a staple cartridge housing, and an 

anvil member 56 which has a forming surface thereon against 
which surgical fasteners are driven as they are ejected 

from the cartridge housing. A self-contained pneumatic 
system 68 is associated with the frame portion and is 

actuable to eject the surgical fasteners from the cartridge 
assembly. A first mechanism is provided for effectuating 

the rotation of the fastener applying assembly about an 
axis defined by the body portion, a second mechanism 452 is 

provided for effectuating the articulation of the fastener 
applying assembly, and a third mechanism 562 is provided 

for independently rotating the cartridge housing and anvil 
member relative to a longitudinal axis defined by the base 

position to increase the range of operability of the 
apparatus. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to surgical stapling
apparatus, and more particularly to surgical apparatus
which are powered by self contained relatively low pressure
gas systems to perform sequential operations such as tissue
clamping, staple forming and/or tissue cutting.Surgical stapling apparatus is known wherein tissue is
first grasped or clamped between opposing jaw structure and
then fastened by means of fasteners. In some instruments a
knife is provided to cut tissue which has been joined. The
fasteners are typically in the form of surgical staples.
However, two part polymeric type fasteners are also known.Instruments for this purpose can comprise two elongated
fingers which are respectively used to capture or clamp
tissue. Typically, one of the fingers carries a 
disposable cartridge housing wherein a plurality of staples
are arranged in at least two lateral rows while the other
finger comprises an anvil for curling the staple legs into
a hook-like configuration upon their being driven against
the anvil. The stapling operation is effected by a pusher
which travels longitudinally along the cartridge carrying
finger, with the pusher acting upon the staples to place
rows of staples in body tissue. A knife may be optionally
positioned in such a manner so as to operate sequentially
immediately behind the pusher, and laterally positioned
between the staple rows to longitudinally cut and/or open
the stapled tissue between the rows of staples. Such
instruments are disclosed in Bobrov et al. (U.S. Patent No.
3,079,606) and Green (U.S. Patent No. 3,490,675). These
instruments comprise apparatus for simultaneously making a
longitudinal incision and applying a row of staples on
both sides of the incision.A later development disclosed in Green (U.S. Patent No.
3,499,591) applies a double row of staples on each side of
the incision. This is accomplished by a cartridge assembly
wherein a cam member moves within a guide path between two
sets of staggered staple carrying grooves. Staple drive
members located within the grooves each have two staple
pusher plates, and sloping surfaces disposed within the
guide path so as to be contacted by the longitudinally
moving cam and be driven along the groove to effect
ejection of two staples.The cartridge assemblies typically come in a plurality
of sizes, each varying in both length and number of staples
contained therein. Depending on the procedure to be
performed, the surgeon must select the appropriate
cartridge assembly. No provision is currently available to
adjust the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical apparatus (810) for driving surgical fasteners
comprising:


a frame portion (812);
an elongate body portion (816) extending distally from
said frame portion and defining a first longitudinal axis;
a fastener applying assembly (818) associated with a
distal end portion of said body portion, said fastener

applying assembly including:

a base portion (826);
a cartridge assembly (828) mounted to said base
portion, said cartridge assembly defining a proximal end

portion and a distal end portion, and having a tissue
engaging surface thereon, said cartridge assembly having a

plurality of surgical fasteners contained therein; and
an anvil member (830) mounted to said base portion and
having a fastener forming surface thereon, said anvil

member and said cartridge assembly being relatively movable
between an open position wherein said fastener forming

surface is spaced from said tissue engaging surface and a
closed position wherein said fastener forming surface is in

close co-operative alignment with said tissue engaging
surface;
means (850) associated with said fastener applying
assembly and actuable from said frame portion for effecting

the relative movement of said anvil member and said
cartridge assembly between said open and closed positions;

and
means (890) movable through said cartridge assembly
from said distal end portion thereof toward said proximal

end portion thereof and actuable from said frame portion
for ejecting said plurality of surgical fasteners from said

cartridge assembly;
wherein said means for effecting the relative movement
of said anvil member and said cartridge assembly comprises

a rotary cam member (850) pivotably mounted to at least one
of said anvil member and said cartridge member and

connected to an actuation mechanism (902) which extends
through said body portion to said frame portion; and
wherein said rotary cam member defines a non-linear
cam slot (858) configured to co-operate wish a cam pin

(856) mounted in at least one of said anvil member and said
cartridge assembly;

the apparatus being 
characterised in that:
the base portion is pivotably connected (840-842) to
said body portion and defines a second longitudinal axis

extending therethrough.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said
means for ejecting surgical fasteners from said cartridge

assembly comprises a camming sled (890) including a base
portion (892) and a plurality of upstanding spaced apart

cam plates (894) depending from said base portion.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said
means for sequentially ejecting surgical fasteners from

said cartridge assembly further comprises a drive assembly
including means (902) disposed at a distal end thereof for

releasably engaging said base portion of said camming sled.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 2 or 3, wherein
said fastener applying assembly further comprises a knife

member (906) configured for movement through said cartridge
assembly in conjunction with said camming sled.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said
knife member is frangibly (910) mounted adjacent said

distal end portion of said cartridge assembly and includes 
means (908a) for engaging said camming sled as said camming

sled moves towards said proximal end portion of said
cartridge assembly.
A surgical apparatus as recited in any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising a pneumatic actuation system

(814) disposed within said frame portion and operatively
connected to said means for sequentially ejecting surgical

fasteners from said cartridge assembly.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein said
pneumatic actuation system includes a container (914) of

compressed gas and a compression chamber having an
elliptical cross-section.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 6 or 7, further
comprising counter means (945) for indicating the number of

times said pneumatic actuation system may be operated.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein said
counter means comprises a ratchet assembly including a

linear rack member (946) and a reciprocating ratchet shaft
(944).
A surgical apparatus as recited in claims 8 or 9, further
comprising disabling means (948) operatively associated

with said counter means for rendering said surgical
apparatus inoperative after the performance of a

predetermined number of operations.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said
disabling means comprises a linkage mechanism (918-920)

operatively associated with said ratchet shaft and said
pneumatic actuation system. 
A surgical apparatus as recited in any one of claims 6 to
11, further comprising means (950) for inhibiting operation

of said pneumatic actuation system prior to said anvil
member and said cartridge assembly being moved into said

closed position.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein said
inhibiting means comprises a spring biased blocking member

(950) disposed in said frame portion for selectively
interfering with an actuation trigger (916).
A surgical apparatus as recited in any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising means (822) for articulating

said base portion between a first position substantially
parallel to said first longitudinal axis and a second

position disposed at an angle to said first longitudinal
axis.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein said
means for articulating said fastener applying assembly

comprises a reciprocating shaft (966) extending through
said body portion to said base portion and a rotatable

drive mechanism (964) operatively associated with said
reciprocating shaft for effecting longitudinal movement

thereof.
A surgical apparatus as recited in any one of the preceding
claims, further comprising means (820) for rotating said

fastener applying assembly about said first longitudinal
axis relative to said frame portion.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein said
means (824) for rotating said cartridge assembly and said

anvil member relative to said base portion comprises a 
ro
tatable drive assembly (974) extending through said body
portion to said base portion.
A surgical apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein said
rotatable drive assembly (974) includes a first pinion gear

set (974) disposed adjacent a proximal end portion of said
body portion and a second pinion gear set (978) adjacent a

distal end portion of said body portion, said first and
second pinion gear sets being interconnected by an

elongated transition shaft (976).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
