<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648326</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR PREPARING CALIBRATION CURVES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2125	G01N2127	G01N3396	G01N3396	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N21	G01N21	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided a method for preparing a calibration curve for a component of interest in a fluid for each of a plurality of optical read stations in an analytical instrument. According to the method a control or calibrator composition and any other required reagent(s) are applied to an assay device and after a suitable incubation period an optical signal is obtained at each of the plurality of optical read stations by reading the assay device successively at each of the optical read stations at specifically defined times. The procedure is repeated for each control or calibrator composition required to prepare the calibration curves.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHRING DIAGNOSTICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BEHRING DIAGNOSTICS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINGH SHAILENDRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SINGH, SHAILENDRA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ETHOD FOR PREPARING CALIBRATION CURVESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to a method for forming a calibration curve for a component of interest in a fluid for each of a plurality of optical read stations in an automated, analytical instrument. Various types of chemical tests can be performed by automated test equipment, an example of testing of considerable interest being the assay of biological substances for human health care. Automated test equipment allows large numbers of test samples to be processed rapidly. Such equipment is employed in health care institutions including hospitals and laboratories. Biological fluids, such as whole blood, plasma, serum or urine are tested to find evidence of disease, to monitor therapeutic drug levels, etc.In the automated test instrument a sample of the test fluid is typically provided in a sample cup and all of the process steps including pipetting of the sample onto an assay test element, incubation and readout of the signal obtained are carried out automatically. The test instrument typically includes a series of work 

stations each of which performs one of the steps in the test procedure. The assay element may be transported from one work station to the next by a conveyor such as a carousel to enable the test steps to be accomplished sequentially. Typically, the conveyor carries a plurality of assay modules each of which is secured to a specific location of the surface of the conveyor. In the usual arrangement, the assay modules are spaced apart from each other in berths which are located along the periphery of the conveyor to facilitate automatic insertion and extraction. In certain types of instruments such as those which are designed to carry out assays based on immunometric interactions between analytes or metabolites and their binding partners, at least the part of the conveyor carrying the assay modules is arranged within the temperature controlled chamber since it is necessary that the assay be carried out at a very precisely controlled temperature, for example at 37 ± 0.5°C. The assay cartridges are maintained in the temperature controlled chamber for a period of time sufficient to bring them to the desired temperature prior to beginning the assay procedure and are maintained at that temperature for the duration of the process.As is known in the art typically there is stored in the control processing unit (CPU) of such automated instruments a calibration curve for each analyte which can be analyzed by the instrument. When a patient
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for creating a calibration curve for a component of interest in a fluid for each of a plurality of optical read stations included in an analytical instrument, the method comprising:
(a) applying a calibrator or control composition for a component of interest to an assay device which is adapted to provide, in the presence of at least a fluid containing a component of interest, an optical signal which is a function of the concentration of the component of interest in said fluid;
(b) incubating said assay device;
(c) obtaining successively an optical signal with said assay device at each of a plurality of optical read stations, each optical signal at each optical read station being obtained at a specifically defined time for each optical read station;
(d) repeating steps (a), (b) and (c) for the remainder of the plurality of control or calibrator compositions utilized to prepare the calibration curve, wherein for each said calibrator or control composition the optical signal at each optical read station is obtained at the same specifically defined times as those obtained in step (c); and
(e) preparing a calibration curve for said component of interest for each optical read station from the plurality of optical signals obtained from said plurality of calibrator or control compositions at each optical read station. 


 2. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein a calibration curve is prepared for said component of interest at each of from two to six optical read stations.
3. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the first optical signal at the first optical read station is obtained at a time which is within about one percent of the incubation time in step (b) .
4. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the optical signals at the plurality of optical read stations are obtained within a time period which is within about ten percent of the incubation time in step (b).
5. A method for creating a calibration curve for a component of interest in a fluid for each of a plurality of optical read stations included in an analytical instrument, the method comprising:
(a) distributing a calibrator or control composition across the surface of a multilayer assay element which comprises: i. a light-blocking layer which is permeable to said composition; and ii. a reagent layer comprising a signal generating species. (b) incubating said assay device;
(c) obtaining successively an optical signal with said assay element at each of a plurality of optical read stations, each optical signal at each optical read station being obtained at a specifically defined time for each optical read station; (d) repeating steps (a), (b) and (c) for the remainder of the plurality of control or calibrator compositions utilized to prepare the calibration curve, wherein for each said calibrator or control 


composition the optical signal at each optical read station is obtained at the same specifically defined times as those obtained in step (c); and
(e) preparing a calibration curve for said component of interest for each optical read station from the plurality of optical signals obtained from said plurality of calibrator or control compositions at each optical read station.
6. The method as defined in claim 5 wherein a calibration curve is prepared for said component of interest at each of from two to six optical read stations.
7. The method as defined in claim 5 wherein the first optical signal at the first optical read station is obtained at a time which is within about one percent of the incubation time in step (b).
8. The method as defined in claim 5 wherein the optical signals at the plurality of optical read stations are obtained within a time period which is within about ten percent of the incubation time in step (b).
9. A method for creating a calibration curve for a component of interest in a fluid for each of a plurality of optical read stations included in an analytical instrument, the method comprising:
(a) applying a calibrator or control composition for a component of interest to an assay device which includes a solid carrier material;
(b) incubating said assay device; (c) obtaining successively an optical signal with said assay device at each of a plurality of optical read stations, each 


optical signal at each optical read station being obtained at a specifically defined time for each optical read station;
(d) repeating steps (a), (b) and (c) for the remainder of the plurality of control or calibrator compositions utilized to prepare the calibration curve, wherein for each said calibrator or control composition the optical signal at each optical read station is obtained at the same specifically defined times as those obtained in step (c); and
(e) preparing a calibration curve for said component of interest for each optical read station from the plurality of optical signals obtained from said plurality of calibrator or control compositions at each optical read station.
10. The method as defined in claim 9 wherein a calibration curve is prepared for said component of interest at each of from two to six optical read stations.
1 1 . The method as defined in claim 9 wherein the first optical signal is obtained at a time which is with about one percent of the incubation time in step (b).
12. The method as defined in claim 9 wherein the optical signals at the plurality of optical read stations are obtained within a time period which is with about ten percent of the incubation time in step (b).
13. A method for determining the concentration of a component of interest in a sample fluid in an analytical instrument containing a plurality of optical read stations; the method comprising: 


 (a) preparing a calibration curve for the component of interest at each of said optical read stations in accordance with the method defined in claim 1 ;
(b) applying a sample fluid to an assay device; (c) incubating said assay device;
(d) obtaining an optical signal with said assay device at one of said plurality of optical read stations, said optical signal being obtained at said optical read station at the same specifically defined time as said optical signals for said assay devices bearing said calibrator or control compositions was obtained at said optical read station; and
(e) applying said signal obtained in step (d) to said calibration curve for said optical read station utilized in step (d) to determine the concentration of the component of interest in said sample fluid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
