<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648547</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A device for separating insulation and metallic material
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B07B1300	B29B1702	B07B1310	B07B1300	B29B1702	B07B1311	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B07B	B29B	B07B	B07B	B29B	B07B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B07B13	B29B17	B07B13	B07B13	B29B17	B07B13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for separating lighter insulation material 
from heavier metallic material present in decomposed electric 

cables or the like, which device comprises an inlet (8) 
for mixed insulation and metallic material, and a first 

outlet for the insulation material and a second outlet for 
the metallic material, separate from the first outlet. The 

device further comprises a track (40) inclined relative to 
the horizontal plane, to which the mixed material is 

delivered from the inlet and which is profiled such that 
when a reciprocating movement is imparted thereto essentially 

in the plane of the track, the metal material is 
transported towards the upper end of the track where it is 

fed out through the second outlet while the insulation 
material is transported towards the lower end of the track 

where it is fed out through the first outlet. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a device for
separating lighter insulation material from heavier metallic
material present in decomposed electric cables or the like,
which device comprises an inlet for mixed insulation and
metallic material, a first outlet for the insulation
material and, separate therefrom, a second outlet for the
metallic material.Devices of the above-mentioned kind are previously
known. Generally they include vibrating tables to which
decomposed electric cable material is transported from a
decomposition device, a so called granulator. The vibrating
tables are bulky, complicated and inefficient. Since the
granulator is separate from the vibrating tables, the
installation as a whole will be bulky. Transportation of the
decomposed material from the granulator to the vibrating
tables is time-consuming and also involves the use of
conveying equipment and manpower.From GB-A-454859 a device is known which discloses the features of Claim 1
except that an air stream is oriented towards the track and that the track has an
area at a lower end thereof having a first incline and an area above the lower end
thereof having a second incline relatively greater than the first incline. It is an object of the present invention to improve
previously known devices and to provide an effective, space-saving
device.Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a unit including a
device for the decomposition of electric cables and a separation
device according to the present invention,Fig. 2 is a plan view seen obliquely from the rear
from the right-hand side in Fig. 1 of some details incorporated
in the unit of Fig. 1, and Fig. 3 is a plan view, partly in section, seen
obliquely from the front in Fig. 1 of some details incorporated
in the unit 1 and 2.In Fig. 1 the unit or machine including the device
according to the invention is indicated at 1. The machine 1
has a bottom surface which is approximately as large as the
supporting surface of a standard pallet, its height slightly
exceeding the length of its longest side. The machine 1 is
provided with a chamber 2 having two lateral openings 3 and
4 through which one or more electric cables, such as the
electric cable E, with one or more cores of metal and and
insulation, are intended to be passed to a decomposition
device 5 located behind the opening 4 in Fig. 1, which
decomposition device is shown in part in Fig. 2. The machine
is provided with a duct 6 in which decomposed material is
transported from the device 5 to the inlet 8 in a separation
device 7, which is best
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for separating lighter insulation material
from heavier metallic material present in decomposed electric

cables or the like, which device comprises an inlet (8)
for mixed insulation and metallic material, a first outlet

for the insulation material, a second outlet (48)
for the metallic material and which is separate from the

first outlet, and a track (40) inclined relative to the
horizontal plane, to which track the mixed material is

delivered from the inlet (8),
the track (40) having an area at a lower end thereof having

a first incline and an area above the lower end thereof
having a second incline relatively greater than the first

incline,
the track being profiled

such that when a reciprocating movement is imparted
thereto essentially in the plane of the track and an air

stream is oriented towards the lower end of the track (40)
and essentially along the track, the metallic material is

transported towards the upper end of the track where it is
fed out through the second outlet (48) while the insulation

material is transported towards the lower end of the

track where it is fed out through the first outlet.
A device according to claim 1,
characterized
 in that an air-delivering device
(13) generates the air stream oriented towards the lower end

of the track, and that at least one of the orientation, flow
and velocity of the air-delivering device are adjustable

such that essentially only the insulation material is conveyed
towards the first outlet.
A device according to claim 1 or 2,
characterized
 in that the inclination of the
track (40) is adjustable, and that the inclination preferably

is mainly constant with the exception of an area at the 
lower end of the track which is inclined to a lesser degree

than the rest of the track (39a).
A device according to any of claims 1 - 3,
characterized
 in that the profile of the track
(40) is substantially saw-tooth-shaped.
A device according to any of the preceding claims,

characterized
 in that the track (40) forms the
bottom of a box (34) provided with side walls (34) and

optionally with a cover (38), which box is open at the upper
and lower ends of the track, forming the two outlets (at 41

and 48) at said ends.
A device according to any of the preceding claims,

characterized
 in that the track (40) is
suspended by means of pendulum arms (32, 33) in a frame (20)

and that the pendulum arms are preferably displaceably
adjustable relative to the frame and/or the track to alter

the movement pattern of the track.
A device according to any of the preceding claims,

characterized
 in that a substantially reciprocating
movement is imparted to the track (40) by a motor

(46), which is connected with the track via an eccentric
(44) and a rod (43), which is flexibly connected with the

track.
A device according to any of claims 2-7,
characterized
 in that the device generating the
air stream includes a blow-off nozzle (13) attached at the

upper end of the track (40).
A device according to any of the preceding claims,

characterized
 in that the inlet (8) is located
above the track (40) at distance from the two ends thereof,

preferably approximately right between the same.
A device according to any of the preceding claims,

characterized
 in that the inlet (8) is connected
with an electric cable decomposition device (5) from 

which the decomposed material is transported to the inlet,
preferably by means of air, through a duct (6).
A device according to claim 10,
characterized
 in that it is joined to the
decomposition device (5) into one unit (1).
An electric cable decomposition device,
characterized
 in that it includes a device for
separating lighter insulation material from heavier material

present in decomposed electric cables in accordance with any
one of claims 1-11, and in that the decomposed material is

transported from the decomposition device to the inlet of
the separating device by means of air, through a duct.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
