<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621006</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Surgical apparatus with jaws, comprising approximation lockout means
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B17072	A61B1700	A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B17068	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self contained gas powered endoscopic surgical 
apparatus (50) is provided for placing lateral lines of surgical 

fasteners into body tissue. The apparatus includes an anvil 
member (56) and a surgical fastener cartridge member (58) mounted to the 

distal end of an elongated endoscopic portion (54). A tubular collar 
(60) of the endoscopic portion moves distally to engage the anvil 

member (56) and bias the anvil member and the cartridge member into 
cooperative alignment, thereby clamping body tissue to be 

fastened between the anvil member and the cartridge member. A 
self contained pneumatic system (68) is disposed in the surgical 

apparatus and is actuable to eject and/or form the surgical 
fasteners in the clamped body tissue. The apparatus further 

comprises a locking means for preventing approximation of the 
anvil member and the cartridge. In one embodiment a clamping 

interlock is shown which prevents approximation of the jaws when 
the jaws are either misaligned or improperly inserted into the 

instrument. In a second embodiment a clamping interlock is 
shown which directly engages the tubular collar preventing 

approximation of the jaws when a cartridge member is not fully 
inserted. In a third embodiment a clamping interlock is shown 

which directly engages the tubular collar when an unfired 

cartridge is not present or properly inserted into the 
instrument. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to surgical stapling apparatus, 
and more particularly to surgical apparatus which are powered by 
self contained relatively low pressure gas systems to perform 
sequential operations such as tissue clamping, staple forming 
and/or tissue cutting. Surgical stapling apparatus is known wherein tissue is 
first grasped or clamped between opposing jaw structure and then 
fastened by means of fasteners. In some instruments a knife is 
provided to cut tissue which has been joined. The fasteners are 
typically in the form of surgical staples however, two part 
polymeric type fasteners are also known. Instruments for this purpose can comprise two 
elongated fingers which are respectively used to capture or 
clamp tissue. Typically, one of the fingers carries a 
disposable cartridge housing a plurality of staples arranged in 
at least two lateral rows while the other finger comprises an 
anvil for curling the staple legs into hook form upon their 
being driven against the anvil. The stapling operation is 
effected by a pusher which travels longitudinally along the 
cartridge carrying finger, with the pusher acting upon the 
staples to place rows of staples in body tissue. A knife may 
optionally be positioned to operate sequentially immediately 
behind the pusher and laterally positioned between the staple 
rows longitudinally cut and/or open the stapled tissue between 
the rows of staples. Such instruments are disclosed in Bobrov  
 
et al. (U.S. Pat. No. 3,079,606) and Green (U.S. Pat. No. 
3,490,675). The instruments disclosed therein comprise 
apparatus for simultaneously making a longitudinal incision and 
applying a row of staples on both sides of an incision. A later development disclosed in Green (U.S. Pat. No. 
3,499,591) applies a double row of staples on each side of the 
incision. This is accomplished by a cartridge assembly wherein 
a cam member moves within a guide path between two sets of 
staggered staple carrying grooves. Staple drive members located 
within the grooves each have two staple pusher plates, and 
sloping surfaces disposed within the guide path so as to be 
contacted by the longitudinally moving cam and be driven along 
the groove to effect ejection of two staples. The cartridge assemblies typically come in a plurality 
of sizes, each varying in both length and number of staples 
contained therein. Depending on the procedure to be performed, 
the surgeon must select the appropriate cartridge assembly. No 
provision is currently available to adjust the firing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A surgical apparatus (50) for approximating surgical jaw structure comprising: 

a) a handle (62); 
b) an elongate portion (54) defining a longitudinal axis and extending 
distally from said handle; 
c) first jaw means (60) mounted to said elongate portion and having a first 
tissue engaging surface for supporting tissue; 
d) second jaw means (56), mounted to said elongate portion, having a 

second tissue engaging surface and a distal end and a proximal end, said second 
jaw means being mounted with respect to said elongated housing such that at least 

the distal end of said second jaw means is movable in directions generally 
transverse to said longitudinal axis between an open position spaced from said first 

tissue engaging surface and a closed clamping position wherein said second tissue 
engaging surface is in close cooperative alignment with said first tissue engaging 

surface; 
e) collar tube (222) mounted to said elongated portion for moving said 
second jaw means from said open position towards said closed position upon a 

distal movement of the collar tube relative to the elongated portion; and 
f) clamping lockout means for arresting said distal movement of said collar 
tube; and wherein:
 
   the clamping lockout means comprises a latch mechanism (450, 462, 482) 

associated with the elongated portion which cooperates with a notch (221) in the 
collar tube. 
The surgical apparatus of claim 1 wherein said lockout means comprises a latch 
member (450, 462, 482) movably mounted within said elongated housing, said 

latch member being movable from a locked position engaging said collar tube 
(222) to prevent axial movement thereof when said collar tube is in a first position 

to an unlocked position wherein said latch member is disengaged from said collar 
tube.  

 
The surgical apparatus of either of the preceding claims, wherein at least one (232) 
of said first jaw means and said second jaw means is insertable into, and detachable 

from, said elongated portion. 
The surgical apparatus of claims 2 or 3, wherein said latch member is urged into 
said unlocked position when said detachable (232) first or second jaw means is 

fully inserted into said elongated portion. 
The surgical apparatus of claims 2, 3 or 4, wherein said lockout means further 
comprises a spring (460, 476, 486) mounted with respect to said elongated portion, 

wherein said spring acts to bias said latch member toward said locked position. 
The surgical apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said latch 
member (450) in said locked position engages a notched opening (221) in said 

collar tube (222) in said first position. 
The surgical apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said first jaw 
means comprises: 


a cartridge (232) holding a plurality of ejectable surgical fasteners, and 
a cam bar adapter (280) removably mounting means for ejecting said 
surgical fasteners from said cartridge. 
The surgical apparatus as claimed in claim 7, further comprising cam bars (278) for 
ejecting said surgical fasteners and means (192) for actuating said means for 

ejecting said surgical fasteners, and wherein said lockout means comprises a pawl 
member (482) mounted with respect to said elongated portion; wherein said 

actuating means (192) urges said pawl into engagement with said collar tube (222) 
when said cam bar adapter (280) is located distally from a proximalmost end of 

said cartridge (232) and said collar tube (222) is in said first position to arrest 
movement of said collar tube. 
The surgical apparatus of claim 7, wherein said clamp lockout means arrests 
movement of said collar tube when said cam bar adapter (280) is located distally of 

said cam bar adapter's proximal-most position within said cartridge (232). 
The surgical apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an 
actuating means (98) which comprises a pneumatic system disposed in said frame  

 
and including a self-contained supply (100) of pressurised gas and a pneumatic 

actuator mechanism (98) associated with said gas supply, said pneumatic system 
adapted to actuate said means for ejecting said surgical fasteners. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
