<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610376</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTROCHEMICAL DETECTOR CELL, METHOD AND PYROLYSIS FURNACE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27416	G01N27416	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An electrochemical detection cell (320), which is usable either for potentiometric or electrolytic conductivity detection, has a capillary (305), which controls electrolyte flow. A gas stream containing detectable substances is input through a non-wettable plastic capillary (306). A reaction zone (310) through which both gas and liquid flow is internally wettable. Reference electrode (309) and either electrode (311) or (312) may be used for potentiometric detection. Sensor electrodes (311) and (312), both in the reaction zone, are used for conductivity detection. The electrolyte is fed through the capillary (305) gravimetrically from a reservoir, and the gas stream is supplied by a pyrolysis furnace. The mechanim of ionization in the gas phase ionization detector (GPELCD) is described.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COULSON DALE M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COULSON DALE M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COULSON DALE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COULSON DALE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ELECTROCHEMICAL DETECTOR CELL, METHOD AND PYROLYSIS FURNACE5 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention:The present invention relates generally to an improved electrochemical detector cell, an electrochemical detection method, and a pyrolysis furnace for use in 10 electrochemical detection. More paπicularly, the invention relates to such a cell and method which is especially adapted for gravimetric flow. The invention further relates to such a cell and method that is usable for potentiometric, coulometric or conductimetric electrochemical detection.2. Description of the Prior An:15 Before 1950, it was common to determine the elemental composition of organic samples by combusting them and measuring the masses of simple compounds, such as carbon dioxide and water, produced. This method was called microcombustion analysis.During the 1950s, gas chromatography (GC) was discovered, so there was a20 lot of research in the late 1950s and early 1960s on GC instrumentation, including sensitive detectors. Thermal conductivity detectors were soon followed by more sensitive and selective detectors, such as hydrogen flame ionization. electron capture, argon ionization, mass spectrometric and several electrochemical detectors. The first electrochemical detectors for use in chromatography were described in25 U.S. Patent 3,032.493. issued May 1. 1962 to Coulson and Cavanagh. The use of the Coulson and Cavanagh detector with GC is described in Coulson et al.. "Microcoulometric Gas Chromatography of Pesticides", Agricultural and Food Chemistry, 8, 399-402 (Sept.-Oct. 1960) and Coulson, "Electroanalytical Instrumentation", ISA Fall Instrument -Automation Conference, Preprint No.30 181-LA-61 (Sept. 1 1- 15. 1961 ).This detection system contained essentially all of the important features of the \ electrolytic conductivity detectors that were subsequently developed, including: 

 1) An effluent gas stream from a gas chromatograph.2) A pyrolizer to convert organic compounds to simple substances, such as carbon dioxide, hydrogen chloride, ammonia and water.3) A supply of liquid supporting electrolyte. 4) A contact zone to transfer electrolytes from the gas phase to the liquid phase.5) Electrodes in contact with the liquid phase.6) Means for measuring the electrolyte concentration in the liquid phase. In microcoulometry, the means for measuring is based on potentiometry and titrant generation. In electrolytic conductivity, this means is simply measurement of the ohmic resistance between two electrodes.U.S. Patent
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An electrochemical detection cell, which comprises a gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube intersecting a second capillary tube at a given point, a gas stream input flow capillary tube for a gas containing a substance to be detected, said gas stream input flow capillary tube entering said second capillary tube proximate to the given point, said second capillary tube forming a mixing zone at the given point, at least one sensor electrode positioned in said second capillary tube spaced from and beyond the given point, and an electrolyte reservoir connected to said gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube and positioned above said gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube, said second capillary tube having an exit for the electrolyte and the gas stream beyond said at least one sensor electrode, the exit of said second capillary tube being connected to said electrolyte reservoir.
2. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 1 additionally comprising a reference electrode in said gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube.
3. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 1 in which said at least one sensor electrode comprises a pair of sensor electrodes.
4. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 1 in which said gas stream input flow capillary tube is formed from a non-wettable plastic-
5. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 1 additionally comprising a reference electrode in said gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube.
6. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 5 in which said reference electrode is a silver/silver halide electrode.
7. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 5 in which said at least one sensor electrode comprises a pair of sensor electrodes .
8. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 7 additionally comprising a pair of generator electrodes, an additional sensor electrode and an additional reference electrode in said electrolyte reservoir. 


 9. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 1 additionally comprising a reference capillary tube connected between said gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube and said second capillary tube above said at least one sensor electrode. and a reference electrode in said reference capillary tube.
10. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 9 additionally comprising a bypass capillary tube connected between said gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube and said second capillary tube above said at least one sensor electrode. a first generator electrode in said gravimetric electrolyte input flow capillary tube, and a second generator electrode in said bypass capillary tube.
1 1. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 10 in which said at least one sensor electrode comprises a pair of sensor electrodes.
12. The electrochemical detection cell of Claim 1 in which said at least one sensor electrode comprises a pair of sensor electrodes.
13. In combination, the electrochemical detection cell of Claim 1 and a pyrolysis furnace connected to said gas stream input flow capillary tube to provide the gas.
14. The combination of Claim 13 in which said pyrolysis furnace comprises first and second concentrically positioned electrically insulating tubes, and a resistance heater wound around said first electrically insulating tube between said first electrically insulating tube and said second electrically insulating tube.
15. The combination of Claim 14 in which said heating coil is wound from a first end of said first electrically insulating tube to a second end of said first electrically insulating tube and back again to the first end, said pyrolysis furnace additionally comprising fused electrically insulating powder between said first and second electrically insulating tubes to prevent shorting of said heating coil. 


 16. An electrochemical detection method, which comprises supplying an electrolyte solution through an electrolyte input flow capillary tube to a mixing zone at a controlled flow rate, supplying a gas containing a detectable substance through a gas input capillary tube to the mixing zone, mixing the electrolyte solution and the gas in the mixing zone, passing the electrolyte solution and gas from the mixing zone to a detection zone, detecting the detectable substance in the electrolyte solution within the detection zone, and flowing the electrolyte solution and gas from the detection zone.
17. The electrochemical detection method of Claim 16 in which the electrolyte solution is supplied through the electrolyte input flow capillary tube at the controlled rate from an electrolyte solution reservoir above the electrolyte input flow capillary tube by gravity flow from the reservoir.
18. The electrochemical detection method of Claim 17 in which the electrolyte solution and the gas is flowed from the detection zone into the reservoir.
19. The electrochemical detection method of Claim 18 in which the electrolyte solution and gas are separated in a gas-liquid separator containing sensor electrodes after the mixing zone and before the gas and the electrolyte solution are flowed into the reservoir.
20. The electrochemical detection method of Claim 16 in which the detectable substance is detected potentiometrically.
21. The electrochemical detection method of Claim 16 in which the detectable substance is detected coulometrically.
22. The electrochemical detection method of Claim 16 in which the detectable substance is detected conductimetrically.
23. The electrochemical detection method of Claim 16 in which the gas containing a detectable substance is supplied from a pyrolysis furnace. 


 24. A pyrolysis furnace, which comprises first and second concentrically positioned electrically insulating tubes, and a resistance heater wound around said first electrically insulating tube between said first electrically insulating tube and said second electrically insulating tube.
25. The pyrolysis furnace of Claim 24 in which said heating coil is wound from a first end of said first electrically insulating tube to a second end of said first electrically insulating tube and back again to the first end, said pyrolysis furnace additionally comprising fused electrically insulating powder between said first and second electrically insulating tubes to prevent shorting of said heating coil.
26. The pyrolysis furnace of Claim 25 additionally comprising a thermocouple in said first electrically insulating tube.
27. The pyrolysis furnace of Claim 26 in which said pyrolysis furnace comprises a gas phase electrolytic conductivity detector, said thermocouple comprises a cathode of said gas phase electrolytic conductivity detector, and said pyrolysis furnace additionally comprises an anode of said gas phase electrolytic conductivity detector.
28. The pyrolysis furnace of Claim 27 in combination with a source of a chlorine containing sample connected to said second electrically insulating tube and a source of a gas for reacting with the chlorine containing sample to produce ionizable chlorine.
29. The combination of Claim 28 in which said source of the gas is an oxygen, hydrogen or mixture of oxygen and hydrogen source.
30. The combination of Claim 28 in which said source of a chlorine containing sample comprises a flame ionization detector, a photoionization detector or a direct output of a gas chromatograph. 


 31. The pyrolysis furnace of Claim 27 in combination with a source of a sample containing an ionizable element other than carbon, nitrogen and hydrogen connected to said second electrically insulating tube.
32. The combination of Claim 31 in which said source of a sample containing an ionizable element comprises a flame ionization detector, a photoionization detector or a direct output of a gas chromatograph.
33. The combination of Claim 32 in which the flame ionization detector, photoionization detector or direct output of a gas chromatograph is a source of a sample containing chlorine, bromine, sulfur, nitrogen or phosphorus.
35. The pyrolysis furnace of Claim 32 in which said source of a sample containing an ionizable element comprises a gas chromatograph.
36. The pyrolysis furnace of Claim 26 additionally comprising a layer of thermally insulating material on said second electrically insulating tube. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
