<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0645566</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Control valve
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K506	F16K506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K5	F16K5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flow control valve such as a ball valve (12) for controlling fluid flow through a 
flow line (16). The control valve includes a flow chamber (18), an upstream 

passage (19), a downstream passage (20), an annular valve body (24), a 
retainer (26) sealingly engaging the outer annular surface of the flow line and 

secured to the valve body by a pair of flanges (28), a flow control ball (32) 
rotatably disposed within the flow chamber for controlling fluid flow through the 

passages, an operating member (42) for rotating the ball between open and 
closed positions and means (70) for equalizing the pressure in the valve 

chamber. The ball includes a centrally bored flow passageway (36) for 
communicating fluid through the passages and is rotatably supported within the 

chamber by an annular upstream seat carrier (48) and an annular downstream 
seat carrier (50). Each seat carrier includes a ball seat (52) positioned within an 

annular recess (54) provided on the inwardly facing surface (55) of the seat 
carrier and an O-ring (56) positioned within an annular recess (58) provided on 

an axially facing surface (59) of the seat carrier. Each seat 52 includes an 
inwardly facing surface (60) that abuts the outer surface of the ball and an 

axially facing surface (62) that abuts an axial surface (64) of the seat recess. 
The pressure equalizing means includes a passage (72) extending radially 

inwardly within seat carrier (48) and communicates with an annular groove (73) 
cut in axial recess (58) and with chamber (18) by an outlet (76) in a recessed 

portion (82) on an outwardly facing surface (80) of seat carrier (48). Pressure is 
equalized when upstream pressure is introduced into chamber (18) inside O-ring 

(56), through groove (73) and through passage (72). The O-ring in seat 
carrier (50) seals against ball (32). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FMC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FMC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER WILLIAM J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAKER, WILLIAM J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a control valve according to the preamble of 
claim 1. Such a valve is known from US-3 778 029. Ball valves include a central bore for controlling passage of fluid through 
a flow line with a ball being disposed within a valve chamber and rotationally 
supported by a pair of spaced annular seat carriers. Each of the seat carriers 
encircles a valve seat with the seats sealing the upstream flow passage from 
the downstream flow passage. A common problem is that the upstream seat 
tends to become extruded from the seat carrier or blown out of the valve 
chamber if the valve is opened when a large differential pressure exists, i.e., 
high upstream pressure and low downstream pressure. To solve this problem, 
the prior art has suggested means for pressure equalization between the 
upstream flow passage and the valve chamber. For example, it is known to 
provide slots on the outside diameter of the seats. When pressure differential 
causes the upstream seat to move against the ball with the ball moving 
downstream a short distance, pressure in the valve chamber is equalized 
through the slots. As soon as the pressure differential in the valve chamber is 
eliminated, the upstream seat returns to its original position. US patent 3,778,029 discloses a two-way 
ball valve including a sealing system that seals on the downstream seat 
while equalizing pressure on the upstream seat. The valve includes a pair of 
spaced seats disposed on each side of a flow control ball. Each seat is 
encircled by a seat carrier with the upstream seat carrier intentionally leaking in 
the downstream direction and the downstream seat providing a seal between 
the valve chamber and the downstream flow passage. That is, only the 
downstream seat actively seals the flow line. When it is desired to equalize 
upstream pressure into the valve chamber, a U-shaped seal is provided on both 
seat carriers. This U-shaped seal is positioned within an annular recess in an 
outwardly facing corner of the seat carriers adjacent the inner wall of the valve 
chamber. This sealing system seals the downstream side of the flow control 
ball, equalizes pressure between the valve chamber and the upstream seat and 
reduces the turning torque required to open the valve. A disadvantage of this  
 
pressure equalization system, however, is an excessive cost for the U-shaped 
seal ring, which must be specially constructed for this application. Another disadvantage of prior art ball valves is they generally can be 
used only in low
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A valve for controlling passage of fluid through a flow 
line (16), comprising: 


a valve body (24) having upstream and downstream flow 
passages (19, 20), a generally annular valve chamber 

(18) communicating with the flow passages (19, 20), 
means (32) for controlling fluid flow through the 

passages (19, 20), means (44) for operating the fluid 
control means (32) between open and closed positions 

and means (70) for equalizing differential pressure in 
the valve chamber (18), the flow control means (32) 

including a central passageway (36) for communicating 
fluid between the passages (19, 20) and positioned 

between a pair of spaced annular seat carriers (48) in 
the valve chamber (18), each seat carrier (48) being 

disposed in an encircling relationship around a valve 
seat (52) and including an annular recess (54) on an 

inwardly facing surface for holding the valve seat (52) 
and a recess (58) for holding a seal (56), 
the pressure equalization means (70) including at least 
one fluid passage (72) within the upstream seat carrier 

(48), 
 
characterized in that 


said seal holding recess (58) is an annular recess on an 
axially facing surface of the seat carrier, and  

 
the passage (72) communicates said axial recess (58) of 
the upstream seat carrier (48) to the valve chamber 

(18). 
The valve of claim 1,
 
characterized in that
 
the seal (56) is an O-ring. 
The valve of claim 1,
 
characterized in that
 
the pressure equalization means (70) includes multiple 

passages (72). 
The valve of claim 3,
 
characterized in that
 
the passages (72) are evenly spaced from one another. 
The valve of claim 4,
 
characterized in that
 
the outwardly facing surface (80) includes a recessed 

portion (82) with outlets of each of the passages (72) 
being positioned within the recessed portion (82). 
The valve of claim 2,
 
characterized in that
 
the axial recess (82) includes an outer support 

shoulder.  
 
The valve of claim 1,
 
characterized in that
 
the passage (72) includes an annular groove in the 

axial recess (58). 
The valve of claim 7,
 
characterized in that
 
the passage (72) includes a second groove communicating 

with the inward recess (54). 
The valve of claim 1 or 2
 
characterized in that
 
the flow control means (32) is a ball rotatably 

supported by the seat carriers (48). 
The valve of claim 1 or 9,
 
characterized in that
 
the fluid passage (72) extends radially inwardly within 

the upstream seat carrier (48) and communicates with an 
annular groove in the axial recess (58) and an outlet 

on the outwardly facing surface of the upstream seat 
carrier (48). 
The valve of claim 1, 2 or 9,
 
characterized in that 


the pressure equalization means (70) includes a 
plurality of fluid passages (72) extending radially  

 
inwardly within each of the seat carriers (48), 
each seat carrier (48) having an annular groove in the 
axial recess (58) and passage outlets on its outwardly 

facing surface, 
the passage (72) of the upstream seat carrier (48) 
communicating with the axial recess groove of the 

upstream seat carrier and the passages of the 
downstream seat carrier (48) communicating with the 

axial recess groove of the downstream seat carrier. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
