<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TEMPERATURE STABILIZATION APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K720	H05K720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An illustrative embodiment of the invention provides a temperature stabilization apparatus for a closed equipment cabinet (10) in order to maintain the equipment (11) in the cabinet within predetermined temperature limits. A subterranean ground loop (32) is coupled to a heat exchanger (17) in which a portion of the ground loop is buried within the earth (33) to a depth at which the earth's temperature remains within predetermined limits. The heat exchanger (17) transfers heat between recirculated air (30, 31, 34, 35) within the cabinet and the earth (33) to provide the needed temperature stability for equipment within the cabinet. Water, in which its physicial state does not change, is the preferred working fluid for the ground loop.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEOTECH ENERGY CONVERSION CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEOTECH ENERGY CONVERSION CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNELL THOMAS F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
O'CONNELL, THOMAS, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TEMPERATURE STABILIZATION APPARATUSTECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to a heat exchange system for maintaining, within a specified range, the temperature of apparatus in a cabinet, and more particularly, to a system that uses the ground for stabilizing the temperature of electrical and mechanical telephone equipment that is mounted within a cabinet and in which recirculated air transfers heat directly between the telephone equipment and a ground loop, and the like.BACKGROUND ARTThere is a need to stabilize the temperature of equipment, and particularly electrical and mechanical telephone and power equipment, within an acceptable temperature range in order to maintain the equipment at proper performance levels. Operating equipment that is subjected to extreme temperatures tends frequently to fail, resulting in increased maintenance costs and excessive out- of-service time. Equipment of this nature does not normally require the comfort temperature range (70 to 75°F) that is required by human beings, but more typically can successfully operate in temperature ranges of 35 to 110°F. Further in this same regard, high humidity conditions in excess of 70%, considered uncomfortable for humans, are normally not a problem for electrical and mechanical equipment of this character.Various methods have been employed to provide controlled heating and cooling within the aforementioned equipment temperature range, but all of these techniques have serious problems.For example, some systems have employed electric heating, forced air cooling, and refrigerant based cooling systems. Although each of these methods provides either 

heating or cooling, or both, each method is subject to a number of inherent limitations.Electric resistance heat, although able to provide sufficient auxiliary heat within the cabinet to prevent freezing, suffers from a number of drawbacks. Electric resistance heat is very inefficient and expensive because electricity is used" directly for heat rather than as a source to move or to transfer that heat, such as through a heat pump. This inefficiency contributes to a poor load factor at the power plant, higher levels of pollution to the atmosphere and higher operating costs for the user.Forced air systems, which use the air as the primary cooling medium also suffer from a number of problems. In these systems, heating is still provided through electrical resistance heaters, with their attendant problems, as mentioned above. Additionally, forced air convective cooling by means of fans that blow
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS What is claimed is:
1. A temperature stabilization apparatus for a closed equipment cabinet for maintaining equipment in the cabinet within predetermined temperature limits, comprising a housing, an air-to-fluid heat exchanger within the housing, a flow control within the housing and coupled to the heat exchanger for pumping fluid through the heat exchanger, a fan within the housing for recirculating air through the heat exchanger, and a control circuit within the housing for selectively activating said flow control and said fan as the temperature of the recirculated air within the equipment cabinet exceeds the predetermined limits.
2. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 1, further comprising a subterranean ground loop coupled to the heat exchanger in which a portion of the ground loop is buried within the earth to a depth at which the earth's temperature remains within the predetermined temperature limits.
3. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 2, further comprising a plurality of ground loops, each of said loops being selectively coupled to the heat exchanger to prevent thermal saturation of the earth in the vicinity of each of the ground loops.
4. A temperature stabilization apparatus for maintaining equipment within predetermined temperature limits comprising a cabinet, said cabinet having a void space that communicates with the interior of said cabinet, an air-to-fluid heat exchanger within said void space, a flow control within said void space coupled to the heat exchanger for pumping fluid through the heat exchanger, a fan within said void space for recirculating air through the heat exchanger, and a control circuit for selectively activating said flow control and said fan as the temperature of the recirculated air within the equipment cabinet exceeds predetermined temperature limits. 



 5. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 4, further comprising a subterranean ground loop coupled to the heat exchanger in which a portion of the ground loop is buried within the earth to a depth at which the earth's temperature remains within the predetermined temperature limits.
6. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 5, further comprising a plurality of ground loops, each of said loops being selectively coupled to the heat exchanger to prevent thermal saturation of the earth in the vicinity of each of the ground loops.
7. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein said apparatus further comprises water within said air-to-fluid heat exchanger, said flow control and said ground loop.
8. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 7, further comprising telephone equipment within said cabinet for temperature stabilization by the apparatus.
9. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 7, further comprising electrical power distribution equipment within said cabinet for temperature stabilization by the apparatus.
10. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein said control circuit further comprises circuit means for selectively activating said flow control and deactivating said fan to prevent said fluid from freezing.
11. A temperature stabilization apparatus for use in combination with another temperature stabilization system for maintaining equipment within predetermined temperature limits comprising a cabinet, said cabinet having a void space that communicates with the interior of the cabinet, an air-to-fluid heat exchanger within said void space, a flow control within said void space coupled to the heat exchanger for pumping fluid through the heat exchanger, a fan within 


said void space for recirculating air through the heat exchanger, and a control circuit for selectively activating said flow control and said fan as the temperature of the recirculated air within the equipment cabinet exceeds either of the predetermined temperature limits in conjunction with the other temperature stabilization system.
12. A temperature stabilization apparatus according to Claim 11, further comprising a subterranean ground loop coupled to the heat exchanger in which a portion of the ground loop is buried within the earth to a depth at which the earth's temperature remains within the predetermined temperature limits. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
