<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657597</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Connecting clip
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R424	H01R424	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R4	H01R4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A clip (10) for forming an electrical and mechanical 
connection at the junction of two rods (50,52) to afford 

cathodic protection for said rods. The clip (10) is 
electrically conductive and can have a sacrificial metal 

coating or metal insert protecting the rods (50,52) of a 
grid. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURKARD CHRISTOPHER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMM DARYL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURKARD, CHRISTOPHER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAMM, DARYL A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to conductive connecting clips which are used in the
formation of junctions for elongate reinforcing members, such as metal
rod and reinforcing members, to form extended grids. These grids may
be provided with means for cathodic protection which restricts corrosion
and increases the useful life of reinforced concrete structures by
stabilizing the metal grid.Metal rods in the form of a grid structure have long been used as
internal reinforcement for concrete structures, such as beams, girders,
columns, support surfaces and the like. These concrete forms are
frequently subject to weakening due to the gradual deterioration of the
reinforcing metal grid. Deterioration of the grid occurs because most
metals, exposed to natural environments without protection, enter into
reaction with constituents in the environment. This reaction results in the
formation of corrosion products typical of the ores from which the metals
were originally formed. Thus constituents, present in concrete, will attack
the metal reinforcing structure, especially in the presence of moisture and
soluble salts. This phenomenon may also be referred to as
electrochemical corrosion. Since moisture is readily absorbed by
concrete, it is necessary to provide a means of protection for the metal
reinforcement. Two such means are regularly practiced. The first involves
the deposition or formation of a protective coating on the surface of the
metal rod which is used to form the grid structure. Coatings applied to
rods are effective in protecting them from environmental attack.
Unfortunately, damage of the coating is common and results in voids,
cuts or scratches which allow access to the metal causing it to dissolve
via electro-chemical corrosion. The dissolution of a metal in a liquid
environment occurs at discrete sites which act as anodes. A corrosion 
cell consists of an anode and a cathode in contact with each other and
with a common electrolyte. The metal forming the anode will dissolve
while the cathode remains intact. It is necessary, therefore, to provide
means whereby the metal to be protected becomes the cathode under
conditions of corrosion cell formation. There are several ways of doing
this. The most commonly used method is to attach a sacrificial anode to
the metal to be protected. This method relies upon a characteristic
electromotive force (EMF) which controls the tendency of a given metal
to corrode. If two metals are connected through an external conductor
and there is provision for a continuous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A clip for connecting elongate reinforcing members,
said clip consisting of electrically conductive material and

comprising: a rectangular plate (12)
having opposite surfaces, opposite side edges and

opposite end edges, a side tab (14,16) affixed to
and extending from each of said opposite side edges

perpendicularly to one of said surfaces of said
plate (12), an end tab (18,20) affixed to and

extending from each of said opposite end edges perpendicularly
to said one said surface a distance

greater than said side tabs (14,16), said side tabs
(14,16) and said end tabs (18,20) having a U-shaped

contact element (22,24,26,28) formed in the free
end thereof, said contact element having means for

making resilient mechanical contact with elongate
reinforcing members upon applying the 
side tabs
(14,16) onto one reinforcing member and the end

tabs (18,20) onto a second reinforcing member.
A clip according to claim 1, characterized in that
said plate (12) and side tabs (14,16) and end tabs

(18,20) are formed of conductive material selected
from the group consisting of copper, titanium,

stainless steel or nickel alloys.
A clip according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in
that each said U-shaped contact element (22,24,26,

28) comprises wall means defining an open end portion
with opposing side walls (30,32,77,78) and an

end wall (34,28a) generally describing a U-shaped
recess, each of said side walls (30,32,77,78)

having at least one irregularity (36,37,80) as
means for abrading a member inserted into said open

end portion. 
A clip according to claim 3, characterized in that
a longitudinal slot (38,38a) extends from said end

wall (34,28a) closed portion opposite and away from
said open end portion.
A clip according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
characterized in that said clip (10) supports and

is electrically connected to means (56,70) for
corrosion protection.
A clip according to claim 5, characterized in that
said means for corrosion protection is a sacrificial

anode (70) of a base metal selected from the
group consisting of zinc, aluminium or alloys

thereof.
A clip according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
characterized in that said clip (10) has a metallic

coating (56) deposited over the surface, said
metallic coating comprising a base metal selected

from the group consisting of zinc, aluminium or
alloys thereof.
A clip according to any one of claims 1 to 7,
characterized in that an end tab (20a) is formed

with retaining arms (75,76) adjacent the opening
leading into said U-shaped contact element.
A junction of a grid formed by elongate reinforcing
members (50, 52) comprising:


a clip (10) consisting of electrically conductive material for connecting said
reinforcing

members (50,52), said clip (10) comprising:
a square plate (12) having opposite surfaces,
opposite side edges and opposite end edges,
a side tab (14,16) affixed to and extending from
each of said opposite side edges perpendicularly 

to one of said surfaces of said square plate
(12),
an end tab (18,20) affixed to and extending from
each of said opposite end edges perpendicularly

to said one said surfaces a distance greater
than said side tabs (14,16),
each said side tab (14,16) and said end tab (18,
20,20a) having a U-shaped contact element (22,

24,26,28,28a) formed in the free end thereof,
said contact element having means for making

resilient mechanical and electrical contact with
said elongate reinforcing members,
a first elongate reinforcing member (50) positioned
with its longitudinal axis parallel to

said end edges of said square plate a portion of
said first elongate member held by each of said

U-shaped contact elements of said side tabs (14,
16),
a second elongate reinforcing member (52) positioned
with its longitudinal axis parallel to

said side edges of said square plate (12), a
portion of said second elongate reinforcing member

(52) held by each of said U-shaped contact
elements of said end tabs (18,20,20a), with said

first elongate member and said second elongate
member overlapping in transverse relationship,
wherein said clip (10) in particular is provided
according to any one of claims 1 to 8.
A method of forming a grid of elongate reinforcing
members comprising the steps of:


forming an orthogonal array comprising a first
layer and a second layer of said elongate reinforcing

members (50,52) with each of said
elongate reinforcing members positioned in

parallel side by side relationship within each 
of said first layer and said second layer, said

members of said first layer being disposed at
right angles to said members forming said second

layer, and connecting said first layer to said
second layer at a plurality of points of intersection

between said members using a clip (10)
consisting of electrically conductive material and comprising
a rectangular plate (12) having opposite surfaces,
opposite side edges and opposite end

edges,
a side tab (14,16) affixed to and extending from
each of said opposite side edges perpendicularly

to one of said surfaces of said plate, and
an end tab (18,20) affixed to and extending from
each of said opposite end edges perpendicularly

to said one said surface a distance greater than
said side tabs (14,16),
said side tabs (14,16) and said end tabs (18,20)
having a U-shaped contact element (22,24,26,28)

formed in the free end thereof for making
resilient mechanical contact with said elongate

reinforcing members (50,52),
each said clip (10) connecting a portion of an
elongate reinforcing member from said first

layer to a portion of an elongate reinforcing
member from said second layer at a said point of

intersection such that said U-shaped contact
element of each of said side tabs is in

resilient mechanical contact with said portion
of said elongate member from said first layer

and said U-shaped contact element of each said
end tab is in resilient mechanical contact with

said portion of said elongate member from said
second layer,
wherein said clip (10) in particular is provided
according to any one of claims 1 to 8.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
