<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637866</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A control and protection device for an electric system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02H1100	H02H1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02H	H02H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02H11	H02H11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control and protection device for an 
electric system (S) powered from a power distribution 

line (L) through a switch (G) is disclosed. To avoid 
hazard for the system users and possible damage to the 

system itself, the device includes means (A,M) of 
inhibiting closure of the switch (G) and circuit means 

(E), connected to the input terminals (p and q) of the 
electric system (S) and effective to measure at least 

one electric parameter of the system in the open state 
of the switch and to operate the inhibit means (A,M) 

according to the value of the parameter measured. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BTICINO SPA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BTICINO S.P.A.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FABRIZI FABRIZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FABRIZI, FABRIZIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electric systems,
and in particular to a control and protection device
for an electric system powered from a power
distribution line via a switch.Electric systems and their users need, as a
matter of course, to be protected against the
occurrence of various potentially dangerous situations,
such as short-circuits, overloads, and insulation
failures to ground or to any conductors with which a
user might come in contact. To meet this requirement,
protection devices have been developed which are
usually incorporated to the disconnect switch through
which the system is linked to a power supply line,
which devices are effective to detect such danger
situation and act on the switch to open its contacts.Such devices have a drawback inherent to
their very principle of operation, that is they can
only detect any failures likely to result in the
above-mentioned danger situations while the system is
in a live state. Especially on the occasion of an
insulation failure or a short, this may become a
serious danger for a person that, in operating the
system, should touch a non-insulated appliance or close
the switch in a shorted load condition. Document EP-A-0149046 discloses a control and protection
device according to the preamble of claim 1, which device
operates a coil driven switch connecting a
network to the mains in dependence on the condition
of a network. The device comprises an impedance
measuring device, a processing unit and a source of a
measuring voltage. The impedance measuring device has
current sensors to sense currents in the phase wires
of the mains and to detect any currents from the
phase wires to ground. The processing unit compares
the measured impedance values with reference values
and provides corresponding output signals to the
switch coil to open the switch if a dangerous
condition is detected in the network.The object of the invention is to provide a control and protection
device of this kind which is suitable for a manually operated switch.The object of the invention is achieved by a
control and protection device as defined in claim 1. The invention will be more more clearly
understood from the following detailed description of
an embodiment thereof, given by way of example and not
of limitation with reference to the accompanying
drawing, the one Figure whereof shows, in substantially
block diagram form, a device according to the invention
as coupled to a disconnect switch.Specifically, a bipolar disconnect switch G,
e.g. a differential switch protected against
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A control and protection device for an
electric system (S) powered from a power distribution

line (L) via a switch (G), said control and protection device
comprising means (A,M) for inhibiting closure of the

switch, and circuit means (E), connected to the input
terminals (p,q) of the electric system (S) and to a

power source (L,B1), effective to measure at least one
electric parameter of the system in the open state of

the switch and to operate the inhibit means (A,M)
according to the parameter measured,
 
characterized in that the inhibit means (A,M)

comprises an electromagnet (A), a moving armature
actuated by the electromagnet, and a mechanical link

member (M) between the moving armature and the switch
(G) which prevents the switch from being closed upon

operation of the inhibit means. 
A device according to Claim 1,
characterized in that the power source (L,B1) comprises

a safety voltage source (T,B1) being connected, for the
measurement, to the electric system (S) through the

circuit means (E), and that the system (S) own
impedance is an electric parameter for measurement.
A device according to Claim 1,
characterized in that the power source (L,B1) comprises

a safety voltage source (T,B1) being connected, for the
measurement, to the electric system (S) through the

circuit means (E), and that the system insulation from
ground is an electric parameter for measurement.
A device according to Claim 1,
characterized in that the power source (L,B1) comprises 

a safety power source (T,B1) being connected, for the
measurement, to the electric system (S) through the

circuit means (E), and that the parameters for
measurement are the system own impedance and insulation

from ground.
A device according to Claim 4,
characterized in that the two electric parameters are

measured consecutively.
A device according to Claim 4,
characterized in that the two electric parameters are

measured continuously and simultaneously.
A device according to either Claim 2, 4, 5
or 6, characterized in that the circuit means (E)

comprises means (ET,SW) for measuring the current
flowing through the system when the safety voltage

source (T,B1) is connected thereto, to compare that
measured current with a first predetermined reference

current (Ir1) and operate said inhibit means (A,M) if
the measured current exceeds said first reference

current (Ir1).
A device according to any of Claims 3 to
7, characterized in that the circuit means (E)

comprises means (EI,SW) for measuring the current
flowing between a ground terminal and each of the

system input terminals (p,q) when the safety voltage 
source (T,B1) is connected thereto, to compare that

measured current with a second predetermined reference
current (Ir2) and operate said inhibit means (A,M) if

the measured current exceeds said second reference
current (Ir2).
A device according to any of the preceding Claims,
characterized in that the electromagnet (A) is

connected to a power source (L,B2), and that the
inhibit means (A,M) is operated with the electromagnet

(A) in the off state.
A device according to Claim 9,
characterize
d in that the power source is the power
distribution line (L) ahead of the switch (G), and that

it comprises a switching device (P) adapted to be
operated by the circuit means (E) to break the

connection between the electromagnet (A) and its power
source, thereby operating the inhibit means (A,M).
A device according to Claim 10, 
characterized in that the switching device (P)is a

solid-state static switch.
A device according to Claim 10,
characterized in that the switching device (P) is an

optoelectronic coupler.
A device according to Claim 9,
characterized in that the power source for the

electromagnet (A) is a battery (B2).
A device according to any of the
preceding claims, characterized in that the safety

voltage source comprises a transformer (T) connected to
the power distribution line (L) ahead of the switch

(G).
A device according to any of Claims 1 to
13 above, characterized in that the safety voltage

source comprises a battery (B1).
A device according to any of the
preceding claims, characterized in that it includes a

remote control and signalling means (UC) connected to
the circuit means (E) and effective to link said

circuit means with a remote station for receiving
and/or transmitting data.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
