<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652727</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-PURPOSE MULTI-PARAMETER CARDIAC CATHETER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B51459	A61B500	A61B5026	A61B5028	A61B5145	A61B5145	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-lumen multi-purpose catheter (10) which incorporates optical filaments (33) and an optical coupler (30) for use with an external apparatus for determining the oxygen concentration in the blood of a patient under critical care conditions, as well as incorporating therein a heater coil (55) useable with a second external apparatus for measurement of continuous cardiac output. The catheter (10) also includes a thermistor (54) and at least one injectate port (64) for enabling the user to also conduct thermal dilution readings and obtain intermittent measurements of cardiac output. The combination of a thermal dilution catheter with an SV02 catheter and a continuous cardiac output catheter gives the multipurpose catheter (10) substantial versatility as well as providing the user with a versatile cardiac catheter device which enables him to conduct multiple evaluations of disparate blood-related parameters which require the use of separate apparatuses.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLUP DAVID A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES TIMOTHY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPERINDE JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALLUP, DAVID, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUGHES, TIMOTHY, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPERINDE, JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to multi-purpose catheters 
and in particular, to multi-purpose multi-parameter cardiac 
catheters having multiple lumens and useable separately to 
perform diverse independent procedures including oximetry, 
thermal dilution and continuous cardiac output to obtain 
significantly useful blood parameters, such as oxygen 
saturation values (SvO2), thermal dilution values and 
continuous cardiac output values. Multi-lumen cardiac catheters are known. Further, it is 
known to provide within a multi-lumen catheter a plurality 
of optical fibers, such optical fibers used in conjunction 
with a signal processing apparatus to measure the oxygen 
concentration (SVO2) in the blood. Thermal dilution catheters have been provided for the 
measurement of the temperature of mixed fluids in the blood 
and veins in order to provide important diagnostic 
information. Exemplary of the patent art relating to such 
catheters is the patent of H. Khalil, U.S. Pat. No. 
4,217,910 and the patents and literature referred to 
therein. Thermal dilution is the application of the calorimetric 
principle that, in a mixture of fluids of different 
temperatures, the heat lost by one fluid equals the heat  
 
gained by the other. For each fluid the mathematical 
product of the temperature change, specific heat and mass 
is equal. The recognized method for the study of blood circulation 
involves producing a temperature change in the blood at one 
point in the blood flow and measuring the temperatures 
change at a second point downstream of the first one. 
Assuming that the measurement of the temperature change 
occurs at a point downstream of the heat source, and that 
the heat content of the blood is uniform, the measured 
change will reflect the amount of blood passing through the 
blood vessel. Thus, thermal dilution techniques can 
provide an intermittent measure of cardiac output. It is also known to provide an injectateless method of 
measuring cardiac output in which a small heater or cooler 
is incorporated into the catheter to generate a temperature 
change which is measured downstream of the heat source, in 
a manner similar to the introduction of an injectate into 
the blood stream through the thermal dilution method, such 
injectateless method to provide a continuous measure of 
cardiac output. Each technique described above provides an important 
function in determining certain critical parameters 
associated with the treatment of a critically ill patient. 
However, the methods described to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter comprising 
a multi-lumen main body portion (12), a plurality of extension 

tubes (40, 60), each connected to a respective lumen (18, 20, 
22, 23, 24) of the multi-lumen catheter and a manifold (26) 

providing an interface between the main body portion (12) of the 
catheter and the extension tubes, the catheter comprising: 


at least one lumen (18) for holding and supporting fiber 
optic filaments (33, 34); 
at least one lumen (23) for receiving thermal element 
connectors (54); 
at least one lumen (18) for receiving a device (43) for 
temperature measurement; 
at least one lumen (20) associated with a balloon (78) 
mounted at the distal end of the catheter for assisting in 

placement of the catheter in a patient; 
a fiber optic apparatus associated with the catheter 
including optical filaments (33, 34) disposed in the fiber optic 

lumen (18) and extending the working length of the main body 
portion (12) of the catheter, and into a fiber optic coupler 

(28) associated with the catheter; 
temperature measurement apparatus (77) mounted at the 
distal end of the catheter, wiring extending the working length 

of the catheter and into a housing associated with the catheter; 
an external thermal element (55); 
connectors (54) extending from the thermal element (55) 
along the working length of the catheter to be connected to a 

thermal element housing at the proximal end of the catheter; and 
catheter positioning apparatus comprising a balloon (78) 
mounted at the distal end of the catheter, the balloon lumen 

(20) extending from the balloon (78) along the working length of 
the main body portion (12) of the catheter to a device providing 

access to the balloon; 
wherein the thermal element apparatus (55) is operative 
with an external apparatus to provide a measurement of 

continuous cardiac output and the fiber optic elements (33, 44) 
are cooperative with external apparatus for providing a  

 
measurement of oxygen concentration in blood (SVO
2
); 

characterized by
a necked-down portion (68) of the main body portion (12) of 
the catheter, the necked-down portion (68) being disposed near 

the distal end of the catheter, the external thermal element 
(55) being disposed on the necked-down portion (68), 
wherein the lumens (18, 20, 22, 23, 24) of 
the catheter have a reduced diameter at the necked-down portion 

(68). 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of claim 
1, wherein the thermal element (55) comprises a heater coil (54) 

wound about the necked-down portion (68). 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of 
claims 1 or 2, wherein the necked-down portion (68) is 10-15 

centimeters in length and is disposed not less than 10-15 
centimeters from the distal end of the catheter. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of 
claims 2 or 3, wherein the heater coil (54) wound about the 

catheter is pitched at a center-to-center spacing sufficient to 
separate adjacent coils. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of claim 
4, wherein the heater coil windings have a center-to-center 

spacing in a range of 2,54 to 5,08 mm (0,1 to 0,2 inches). 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of one 
or more of claims 2-5, wherein the catheter includes a distal 

heater pressure port (76) disposed between the distal end of the 
heater coil (54) and the distal end of the catheter. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter as 
claimed in one or more of claims 2-6, wherein the temperature 

measurement apparatus (77) comprises a thermistor (77) which is 
at least 10 centimeters downstream of the distal end of the  

 
heater coil (54). 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter as 
claimed one or more of claims 2-7, wherein the heater coil (54) 

is coated with a material (74) structurally similar to the main 
body portion (12) of the catheter. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter as 
claimed in claim 8, wherein the heater coil (54) and the coating 

thereof (74) mounted in the necked-down portion (68) generally 
approximate the diameter of the main body portion (12) of the 

catheter, thereby to effect a smooth insertion of the catheter 
into the body of the patient. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter as 
claimed in one or more of claims 7-9, wherein at least one lumen 

of the catheter comprises an injectate lumen (24) having at 
least one injectate port (64) provided upstream of the 

thermistor (77), thereby to enable injection of an injectate 
fluid into the blood stream of the patient to obtain thermal 

dilution readings at the thermistor (77) to provide values for 
use in calculating intermittent cardiac output values. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of 
claim 1, wherein the thermal element (55) comprises a thin film 

member (55a) spirally wound about the main body portion (12) of 
the catheter near the distal end thereof. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of 
claim 1, wherein the thermal element (55) comprises a thin film 

sleeve (55b) having a single wire circuit (57b) embedded therein 
and overlying the main body portion (12) of the catheter near 

the distal end thereof. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of 
claim 1, wherein the thermal element (55) comprises a self-regulating 

conductive plastic sheath (55d) overlying the main  
 

body portion (12) of the catheter near the distal end thereof. 
The multi-lumen, multi-purpose cardiac catheter of 
claim 1, when the thermal element (55) comprises a heat 

exchanger (55f) having an interior fluid jacket (56f) disposed 
next to the main body portion (12) of the catheter near the 

distal end thereof, with an exterior sheath (57f) overlying the 
fluid jacket (56f). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
