<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625037</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED PHACOEMULSIFICATION HANDPIECE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1732	A61B1732	A61B1900	A61B1900	A61B1902	A61B1908	A61F9007	A61F9007	A61M100	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	A61B19	A61B19	A61F9	A61F9	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A surgical device is provided which emulsifies body tissue, irrigates the surgical site with a saline solution, and removes fluids and tissue, via aspiration from the surgical site. More specifically, a surgical handpiece (4) is provided which is particularly suited to be utilized for the removal of cataractous tissue from the eye. In order to prevent cross-contamination of tissue, the surgical device herein incorporates an easily detachable and disposable outer housing (15) to facilitate thorough cleansing of the irrigation solution path and reduce the time and effort required for such cleaning. Moreover, a secure sealing system (42) is provided in the area of the interface between the inner body portion of the handpiece and a stainless steel shell to prevent leakage and contamination of the irrigating solution.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVENTIVE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INVENTIVE SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITTINGHAM WILLIAM F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WHITTINGHAM WILLIAM F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED PHACOEMULSIFICATION HANDPIECE Field of the InventionThe present invention pertains to cutting instruments used in surgery and, more specifically, to cutting instruments containing irrigation and aspiration features for the purpose of removal of cataractous and/or other tissue from the eye during surgery. Background of the InventionHandpieces which incorporate cutting, aspirating and irrigating features are commonly used by ophthalmic surgeons during surgical operations on the eye. Because ocular surgery often involves cutting away or emulsifying unwanted tissues, as is the case in cataract surgery, the need often arises to remove tissues or fluids from the eye. To prevent damage to the eye tissue, there is also a need to irrigate the surgical site.A number of attempts have been made to produce handpieces capable of effectively cutting, irrigating and aspirating the ocular surgical site. These instruments typically have an elongated cylindrical probe defining a cutter at their distal end, which may be inserted into the eye through an incision in the sclera. The delicate nature of ocular surgery requires that these probes be very narrow. The cutting tip of the probe is made to oscillate by means of a piezoelectric or magnarestrictive motor situated near the proximal end of the handpiece. The proximal portion of the handpiece, which must house a motor and drive mechanism, and which must be designed so as to be easily manipulated by the surgeon, is necessarily much thicker than the probe section. This difference in sizes causes the girth of the handpiece to severely narrow at a point approximately three fourths of the distance from the proximal end to the distal end of the instrument.In order to transmit an irrigating saline solution to the probe, handpieces found in the prior art 

were equipped with a narrow groove cut through the solid metal outer body of the instrument. A similar groove was cut for the aspiration of fluids away from the surgical site. Due to the significant narrowing of the handpiece structure, these grooves followed a severely angular pathway through the handpiece.A number of significant problems have been experienced with prior art handpieces. For example, the oscillating nature of the cutting tip causes cavitation of the saline solution, forming bubbles which are flushed into the eye by the flow of saline solution through the irrigation pathway. Because such bubbles impede a surgeon's view of the surgical site, they interfere with and slow down surgical procedures. Second,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A surgical apparatus providing for aspiration and irrigation during surgery of body tissue comprising: cutting means for cutting body tissue; drive means, connected to said cutting means, for providing power to said cutting means; an irrigation pathway for facilitating the flow of fluid to irrigate the area to be cut by said cutting means; an aspiration pathway for facilitating the application of vacuum to an area to be cut by said cutting means; and a removable outer shell, defining a portion of said irrigation pathway and facilitating the cleaning of said pathway.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said removable outer shell is disposable.
3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said removable outer shell is formed of a plastic or plastic- like material.
4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said removable outer shell is formed of stainless steel.
5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said outer shell is threaded to mate with a horn member, wherein said core member defines a portion of said aspiration pathway.
6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said outer shell abuts an O-ring when it is threaded onto said horn member, such that a liquid tight seal is formed. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said outer shell is disposable.
8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein fluid flows into said irrigation pathway through a Luer fitting which is associated with said outer shell. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said outer shell is disposable. 


 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said outer shell is plastic.
11. A phacoemulsification handpiece device for cutting body tissue from a surgical site and providing for aspiration and irrigation during surgery, said phacoemulsification device comprising: cutting means for cutting body tissue; a horn member including drive means, connected to said cutting means, for providing power to said cutting means, and an aspiration pathway for facilitating the application of vacuum to the surgical site; and an outer shell covering said horn member with the space between said outer shell and said horn member defining an irrigating pathway which allows irrigating fluid to flow to said surgical site, said outer shell being removable from said horn member to facilitate the cleaning of said irrigation pathway.
12. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 11 wherein said drive means includes an electrode being sandwiched between a pair of piezo crystal rings thereby forming a piezoelectric motor. 13. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 12 wherein said irrigation pathway surrounds said horn members and said piezo crystal rings to provide for self-cooling of the horn member.
14. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 11 wherein said outer shell is disposable.
15. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 14 wherein said outer shell is formed of a plastic or plastic-like material.
16. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 11 wherein said cutter means is a disposable phaco needle extending outwardly from said horn member and 



supported by a disposable silicone sleeve member fitting over said horn member.
17. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 16 wherein said horn member narrows in diameter toward an end thereof from which said needle extends to thereby enhance the sightline of the user to the surgical site.
18. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 11 wherein said aspiration pathway is provided straight through said horn member to facilitate cleaning thereof.
19. A phacoemulsification handpiece device for cutting body tissue from a surgical site and providing for aspiration and irrigation during surgery, said phacoemulsification device comprising: cutting means for cutting body tissue; a horn member including drive means, connected to said cutting means, for providing power to said cutting means, and an aspiration pathway for facilitating the application of vacuum to the surgical site; an outer shell covering said horn member with the space between said outer shell and said horn member defining an irrigation pathway which allows irrigating fluid to flow to said surgical site; and said horn member and said outer shell including means for rotating said outer shell relative to said horn member in any angular position in a 180° orientation such that the sight lines of the surgeon to the surgical site are unimpeded.
20. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 19 wherein said rotating means includes interior threads on said outer shell matingly engagable with exterior threads on said horn member which are of a sufficient length such that when engaged the user can 


rotate said outer shell relative to said horn member such that said outer shell can be rotated in any angular position in a 180° orientation.
21. A phacoemulsification handpiece device for cutting body tissue from a surgical site and providing for aspiration and irrigation during surgery, said phacoemulsification device comprising: cutting means for cutting the body tissue; a horn member including drive means, connected to said cutting means, for providing power to said cutting means, and an aspiration pathway for facilitating the application of vacuum to the surgical site; a removable outer shell covering said horn member with the space between said outer shell and said horn member defining an irrigation pathway which allows irrigating fluid to flow to said surgical site; and means for maintaining said outer shell in a centered, concentric position in relation to said aspiration pathway, said maintaining means being attached around said horn member.
22. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 21 wherein said maintaining means is a centering ring extending into the irrigation pathway thereby providing an offset of said horn body with respect to said outer shell.
23. The phacoemulsification handpiece device of claim 22 wherein the outer periphery of said centering ring is ribbed to allow the flow of irrigating fluid through said irrigation pathway. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
