<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Centrally located ballast tank vessel
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B63B2508	B63B2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B63B	B63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B63B25	B63B25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved tanker ship construction design 
includes a plurality of liquid cargo tanks (16) 

distributed in two longitudinal sets along respective 
sides of a tanker ship (19). A plurality of fully 

protected ballast tanks (12) are distributed 
longitudinally between the sets of cargo tanks (16). A 

passive, gravity-responsive, fluid transfer system (26) 
provides very rapid fluid communication between 

selected cargo tanks and adjoining ballast tanks. A 
gravity responsive fluid transfer system (34) is 

provided between the respective ballast tanks. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARINE SAFETY SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MARINE SAFETY SYSTEMS INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRANGE BOOTH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STRANGE, BOOTH B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention is concerned with a hull 
construction for a liquid-cargo tanker ship and relates 
more specifically to the provision of means for self-rescue 
of cargo. Tanker ships in general usually are built with the 
main cargo tanks arranged along each side of the 
centerline of the ship. Ballast tanks interspersed 
with additional cargo tanks form wing tanks outboard of 
the main cargo tanks. When the ship is fully loaded 
with cargo, the ballast tanks are normally empty 
because, if for no other reason, it is now illegal to 
carry cargo in a ballast tank. Thus, in the event of 
collision or grounding of a fully-loaded ship, one or 
more of the empty ballast tanks and/or the outboard 
cargo wing tanks take the brunt of the impact. 
Presumably with that arrangement, the centrally-located 
cargo tanks remain relatively undamaged and rapid cargo 
leakage is minimized. What actually happens however is that a punctured 
external ballast tank(s), or for that matter the void 
in a double-hulled ship, is flooded with sea water, the 
unbalanced weight of which causes the ship to list 
and/or to capsize due to the loading imbalance. Since today's tankers have no emergency transfer 
system, they must wait hours or even days for delivery 
of pumps and containment devices to regain trim, 
balance, load redistribution and floatation. That wait 
may prove to be catastrophic. US patent 4,960,347 issued October 2, 1990 to 
Booth B. Strange and assigned to the assignee of this 
invention, provides a normally empty, emergency, 
holding tank and a cargo transfer system for moving 
liquid cargo from a damaged cargo tank to the holding  
 
tank. The placement of the holding tank is such that 
the ship's stability is not seriously affected. The 
liquid cargo that is removed from the damaged tank is 
replaced to some extent by seawater; a water seal is 
quickly established in the damaged region so that the 
damaged tank need be only partially emptied. 
Therefore, the total ship's displacement is not 
significantly altered. The teachings of the '347 
patent are incorporated herein by reference. US patent 4,389,959 issued June 28, 1983 to C. S. 
Conway teaches a system for removing liquid cargo from 
a damaged tank to create a water seal over the leak 
although he does not provide positive means for 
disposal of whatever liquid cargo is removed. The patents cited assume a single-hulled tanker 
but one that has no outboard ballast tanks such as 
exist in the real world. Those references failed to 
consider the effects on
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A tanker ship construction method, the ship 
(10) including a hull (9), a plurality of cargo tanks 

(16) for containing liquid cargo, the tanks being 
distributed in two longitudinal sets (16) along 

respective sides of said hull (9), and a plurality of 
ballast tanks (12) that are distributed along the 

centerline of said hull (9) midships between said sets 
of cargo tanks (16), characterised in that said ballast 

tanks are contructed as a continuous longitudinal row 
of ballast tanks and are separated from each other by 

transverse bulkheads (25) and from adjacent cargo tanks 
by longitudinal bulkheads (24), the method being 

further characterized by installing a passive, gravity-responsive, 
liquid transfer system means (26,34) 

between said ballast tanks (12) and between each 
said ballast tank (12) and selected ones of said 

plurality of cargo tanks (16). 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by claim 1, wherein said passive gravity-responsive 

transfer system means includes at least one remotely-actuable 
gate valve (26) forming a normally closed port 

in a longitudinal bulkhead (24) between a selected one 
of said cargo tanks (16) and at least one of said 

ballast tanks (12), said remotely-actuable gate valve 
being operable to provide controlled fluid 

communication between said ballast tank (12) and said 
selected cargo tank (16). 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
in claim 2, wherein the or each gate valve has an 

internal horizontally-disposed fluid passageway. 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by claim 3, wherein the hull is marked by a Plimsoll 

line (8) and said horizontally-disposed internal fluid 
passageway of said at least one gate valve includes a 

top portion (27) that is substantially coincident with  
 

said Plimsoll line (8). 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by any one of the preceding claims, and including 

installing as part of the liquid transfer system means 
at least one remotely-controlled gate valve (26) that 

forms a normally closed port in a longitudinal bulkhead 
(24) between each cargo tank (16) and each adjacent 

ballast tank (12). 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by claim 5, wherein there are at least two remotely-controllable 

gate valves (26, 28) that form normally-closed 
ports in a longitudinal bulkhead (24) between 

each said cargo tank (16) and each adjacent ballast 
tank (12). 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by any one of the preceding claims comprising 

installing as part of the liquid transfer system means 
at least one remotely-actuated normally-closed valve 

means (34) in the transverse bulkheads (25) separating 
each said ballast tank (12) for providing gravity-responsive 

fluid intercommunication between said 
plurality of ballast tanks (12). 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by any one of the preceding claims, comprising 

installing a high-volume submersible pump means (42) 
for off-loading from said ballast tanks (12) liquid 

cargo transferred thereto from a damaged cargo tank. 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by any one of the preceding claims, comprising 

installing a means for off-loading accumulated effluent 
from said row of ballast tanks. 
A tanker ship construction method as defined 
by claim 9, wherein said means for off-loading is a 

high-capacity submersible, remotely-actuable, pump (42) 
installed in a sump (46) formed in one tank of said row 

of ballast tanks.  
 
A tanker ship (10) including a hull (9), a 
plurality of cargo tanks (16) for containing liquid 

cargo, the tanks being distributed in two longitudinal 
sets (16) along respective side regions of said hull 

(9), and a plurality of ballast tanks (12) that are 
distributed along the centerline of said hull (9) 

midships between said sets of cargo tanks (16), 
characterised in that said ballast tanks are in a 

continuous longitudinal row separated from each other 
by transverse bulkheads (25) and separated from 

adjacent cargo tanks by longitudinal bulkheads (24), 
and a passive, gravity-responsive, liquid transfer 

system means (26) between each said ballast tank (12) 
and between each said ballast tank and selected ones of 

said plurality of cargo tanks (16). 
A ship as defined by claim 11, wherein 
said passive gravity-responsive transfer system means 

includes at least one large, remotely-actuable, gate 
valve (26), said valve forming a normally closed port 

in a longitudinal bulkhead (24) between a selected one 
of said cargo tanks (16) and at least one of said 

ballast tanks (12), said remotely-actuable gate valve 
(26) being operable to provide controlled rapid flow of 

fluid between said ballast tank (12) and said selected 
cargo tank (16). 
A ship as defined by claim 12, wherein the 
hull is marked by a Plimsoll line (8) and said at least 

one valve has a horizontally-disposed internal fluid 
passageway which includes a top portion (27) that is 

substantially coincident with said Plimsoll line (8). 
A ship as defined by claim 11, 12 or 13 
wherein part of the liquid transfer system means 

comprises at least one remotely-actuated normally-closed 
valve means (34) in each one of said transverse 

bulkheads (25) separating the respective ballast tanks 
(12) for providing optional gravity-responsive fluid  

 
intercommunication between said plurality of ballast 

tanks (12). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
