<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616757</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A soil cultivating machine.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01B4900	A01B4906	A01C500	A01C506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01B	A01B	A01C	A01C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01B49	A01B49	A01C5	A01C5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a soil cultivating 
machine for the purpose of combined working and sowing of 

soil, comprising soil working elements (4) and a following 
packer roller constituted by a plurality of roller elements 

(33) arranged in side-by-side relationship for creating 
furrows in which the sowing can take place, by locally 

compressing the worked soil, the machine further comprising a 
seed drill (25) with seed delivery tubes (54), mounted on or 

at least supported by the packer roller during operation, a 
seed delivery tube (54) being arranged behind each roller 

element (33) for depositing seeds on the precompressed soil 
in a respective furrow. The machine comprises further 

pressure rollers (61), each operating at least predominantly 
in the line of a respective furrow and being arranged behind 

a seed delivery tube (54) and pivotably around a horizontal 
axis in the machine, by means of an arm (59) carrying said 

further pressure roller. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LELY NV C VAN DER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
C. VAN DER LELY N.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN DER LELY, CORNELIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a soil cultivating 
machine for the purpose of combined working and sowing 
of soil, comprising soil working elements and a following 
packer roller constituted by a plurality of roller elements 
arranged in side-by-side relationship for creating furrows in 
which the sowing can take place by locally compressing the 
worked soil, the machine further comprising a seed drill with 
seed delivery tubes, mounted on or at least supported by the 
packer roller during operation, a seed delivery tube being 
arranged behind each roller element for depositing seeds on 
the precompressed soil in a respective furrow. A suchlike machine is known. It has the advantage 
that compaction, which facilitates capillary supply of 
moisture and support for emerging plants, does not occur 
between the rows. In this area weeds might otherwise emerge 
as favourably as the crop seeds deposited within the rows. 
Also, in such a machine, the crop seeds do not undergo the 
sometimes less favourable pressure exerted by the roller elements, 
as compared to alternative constructions wherein the 
crop seeds are deposited to the front of a roller. Alternatively, 
however, the machine has for disadvantage that the 
contact between deposited seed and the compacted soil, 
necessary for absorbing the supplied moisture, is less 
favourable as when the seed were deposited to the front of a 
roller element. The present invention has for its object a 
construction overcoming the above-described disadvantages.  
 
According to the invention, this can be achieved when the 
machine comprises further pressure rollers, each operating at 
least predominantly in the line of a respective furrow and 
being arranged behind a seed delivery tube, and pivotably 
around a horizontal axis in the machine, by means of an arm 
carrying said further pressure roller. In this way it is made 
possible to exert only a relatively low pressure, enough for 
bringing the crop seeds in good contact with the compressed 
soil, however, due to the pivotable connection of the further 
pressure rollers in the machine, without the weight of the 
seed drill and the packer roller or any other machine part. For a better understanding of the present 
invention and to show how the same may be carried into 
effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the 
accompanying drawings, in which: 
Figure 1 is a schematic plan view of an implement 
in accordance with the invention; Figure 2 is a view taken in the direction of the 
arrow II of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A soil cultivating machine for the purpose of 
combined working and sowing of soil, comprising soil working 

elements (4) and a following packer roller constituted by a 
plurality of roller elements (33) arranged in side-by-side 

relationship for creating furrows in which the sowing can 
take place, by locally compressing the worked soil, the 

machine further comprising a seed drill (25) with seed 
delivery tubes (54), mounted on or at least supported by the 

packer roller during operation, a seed delivery tube (54) 
being arranged behind each roller element (33) for depositing 

seeds on the precompressed soil in a respective furrow, 
characterized in that the machine comprises further pressure 

rollers (61), each operating at least predominantly in the 
line of a respective furrow and being arranged behind a seed 

delivery tube (54) and pivotably around a horizontal axis in 
the machine, by means of an arm (59) carrying said further 

pressure roller. 
A soil cultivating machine according to claim 1, 
characterized in that a further pressure roller (61) is 

smaller in size than the leading roller element (33), as seen 
in side view. 
A soil cultivating machine as claimed in claim 1 
or 2, characterized in that means are provided for adjusting 

the height of a seed delivery tube (54) relative to its 
support. 
A soil cultivating machine as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that at least the 

lower part of a seed delivery tube (54) is arranged at least 
predominantly vertically downwardly and in that a further 

pressure roller (61) is located immediately behind a predominantly 
vertically extending seed delivery tube (54), so 

as to form a compact structure, as seen in side view. 
A soil cultivating machine as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that a support (27) 

extending predominantly horizontally is arranged behind the 
packer roller and in front of the further pressure rollers 

 
(61) for the support thereof. 
A soil cultivating machine as claimed in any one 
of the preceding claims, characterized in that a seed delivery 

tube (54) at its lower end is provided with a seed 
coulter, the delivery tube (54) in an adjustable manner being 

connected to a pivotal arm (59) of a further pressure roller 
such that the seed coulter (55) can reach downwardly beyond 

the working level of the pressure roller. 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims, characterized in that for a 

roller element (33) there are present two carrier arms (31, 
35A), one (31) of which is arranged capably of pivoting about 

a pivot shaft (30) and the other (35A) is connected pivotably 
to a pivotal rod (37), around which the pressure spring (44) 

is arranged. 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in claim 
7, characterized in that an arm (31) for a roller element 

(33), which arm (31) is arranged pivotably by means of the 
pivot shaft (30), is also provided with a carrier (48A) for a 

scraper (49). 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a roller 

element (33) consists of two identical portions (34) and at 
the circumference is provided near its centre with an outwardly 

extending edge (35). 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in 
claims 8 and 9, characterized in that, near its centre, the 

scraper (49) is provided with a recess for receiving the edge 
(35) on the roller element (33). 
A soil cultivating machine (1) acclaimed in any 
one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a further 

pressure roller consists of two roller parts arranged in the 
shape of a V and forming a means for dosing the furrow. 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a seed 

coulter (55) is movable in height together with the V-shaped 
pressure roller (61). 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in any 
 

one of the preceding claims, characterized in that, together 
with the seed coulter (55) and the pressure roller (61), the 

roller elements (33) constitute part of a seed drill (25) 
which is connected detachably to the soil cultivating machine 

(1) and is provided with coupling means for coupling to the 
three-point lifting hitch of a tractor. 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the seed 

drill (25) is connected detachably to arms (52), on which 
arms (52) a frame portion (2) carrying the soil working 

members (4) of the soil cultivating machine (1) is supported 
capably of movement in height. 
A soil cultivating machine (1) as claimed in any 
one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it includes 

a plurality of adjacently arranged soil working members 
(4) which are capable of rotating about upwardly directed 

shafts (3) and are accommodated in a frame portion (2), 
which relative to the arms (52) is supp
orted pivotably near 
its leading side and can be coupled to the three-point 

lifting hitch of a tractor. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
