<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623667</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Used mineral motor oil ecological recycling procedure.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C10C300	C10C300	C10C306	C10G700	C10G700	C10G3100	C10G3100	C10G3109	C10M17500	C10M17500	C10M17502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C10C	C10C	C10C	C10G	C10G	C10G	C10G	C10G	C10M	C10M	C10M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C10C3	C10C3	C10C3	C10G7	C10G7	C10G31	C10G31	C10G31	C10M175	C10M175	C10M175	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This procedure includes detecting and rejecting the used 
mineral motor oils containing PCB's and/or PCT's before 

filtering; before the decantation and/or distillation step, 
if necessary, submitting the used mineral motor oil to 

thermal shock treatment. In the recycling process, 
stabilizing the used mineral motor oils that normally 

contain heavy metals by adding to bitumen, using 0 to 15 
percent of used mineral motor oil and 100 to 85 percent 

bitumen for bituminous pavements and 0 to 20 percent of used 
mineral motor oils and 100 to 80 percent bitumen for bitumen 

emulsions and paints. Also in the recycling process the used 
mineral motor oils are mixed with bitumen and paraffinic 

elastomers, stabilizing the heavy metals contained in the 
used mineral motor oils, getting usual bituminous pavements, 

self-draining bituminous pavements, sport pavements, etc. 
EPM, EPDM or Butyl rubber are used as paraffinic elastomers. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RALFER S L
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
RALFER, S.L.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALADA SUBIRATS MIGUEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAJAS FUERTES CARLOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BALADA SUBIRATS, MIGUEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GAJAS FUERTES, CARLOS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention, refers to a used mineral motor oil 
(U.M.M.O.) Ecological Recycling Procedure. The applicant is the holder patent Nº ES P 8904172, 
having a used mineral motor oil recycling procedure as a 
main objective, comprising the following steps: 
a) Filtration: According to the origin of the used 
mineral motor oil and its final destination, the used 
mineral motor oils are submitted to different degrees 
of filtration. b) Dehumidification: According to their origin, 
the used mineral motor oils should be heat dried. c) Distillation: According to their origin, the 
used mineral motor oils are distillated, in order to 
eliminate the most volatile components, they can 
contain. d) Recycling process: The resulting used mineral 
motor oils, are recycled, in the general petroleum 
recycling plants or those plants using bitumen as a 
raw material. The above mentioned used mineral motor 
oils recycling process is carried out mainly in: 
a) The main petroleum material inlet, in 
petroleum refining plants.  b) The raw material inlet, in the mineral oil 
distillation phase, in refining plants. c) The bitumen distillation step, in refining 
plants. d) The mixing process in bitumen production 
plants for road pavings, roof coverings, paints, 
emulsions or similar products. In addition to the above mentioned patent, the following 
patents also exist:
 
   EP 421525 ENIMONT ANIC S.R.L.
 
      Describing an EPM and EPDM copolymerization 
procedure and mentioning neither bitumen used 
mineral motor oil.
 
      This patent does not anticipate the present 
invention.
 
   EP 411627 HIMONT INC.
 
      Describing a production process and the 
specifications of a taylor-made polymer for 
bitumen modification.
 
      This patent does not anticipate the present 
invention.
 
 
   ES 8706764 AUSIMONT s.p.a.
 
      Describing a crosslinked polymeric bitumen mix 
using SBS and EVA. It uses aromatic oils and not 
paraffinic oils.
 
      This patent does not anticipate the present 
invention.
 
   ES 426382 and FR 2228817 SOCIETE NOUVELLE SIPLAST
 
      Describing a polymeric mix using a solid solvent 
and thermoplastic dispersant and not using used 
mineral motor oils.
 
      This patent does not anticipate the present 
invention.
 
   DE 3446174 GIPRODORNNI
 
      Describing a bituminous pavement regeneration 
procedure with out PCB's and PCT's detection and 
rejection phase. It regenerates an aged bitumen 
but it does not produce new bitumens or polymeric 
bitumens.
 
      This patent does not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, 
comprising the following operations: 


a) Filtration of the used mineral motor oils. 
b) Dehumidification of the used mineral motor oils. 
c) Distillation of the used mineral motor oils to 
eliminate the most volatile components, they contain. 
d) Recycling of the used mineral motor oils, to be 
done either in the general petroleum recycling plants 

or in those plants using bitumen as a raw material. 
The above mentioned used mineral motor oil recycling 

process being specifically done in: 

a) The main petroleum raw material inlet, in the 
petroleum refining plants. 
b) The entrance raw materials inlets, in the 
mineral oil distillation step, in the refining 

plants. 
c) The bitumen distillation step, in refining 
plants. 
d) The mixing process in the bitumen production 
plants for road pavings, roof coverings, paints, 

emulsions or similar products. 
 
Characterized in that the recycling procedure includes 

 
the following complementary phases: 


1) Prior to the filtering operation: 
   The used mineral motor oils to be recycled are 

submitted to a selection operation, according to 
the following steps: 


a) Detection of the used mineral motor oils 
containing the cancer-causing and highly 

pollutant PCB's and/or PCT's. 
b) Separation and rejection of used mineral 
motor oils containing PCB's and /or PCT's 

from the recycling procedure. 
2) Before the distillation operation, and if 
necessary, the used mineral motor oils can be 

submitted to a thermal shock operation, based in 
increasing the oil temperature to 290 °C for 

approximately 15 to 20 minutes. This treatment makes 
the separation of the inorganic products easy in the 

next step. 
3) In the recycling process, the heavy metals, such 
as Cu, Cr, Pb, Ni, Zn, Ba and others, usually 

contained in the used mineral motor oils, are 
stabilized by mixing these used mineral motor oils 

with bitumen in such a way that the final mix does 
 

not transfer the heavy metals to the environment in 
a higher proportion than that legally established and 

accepted; consequently, the recycling process must be 
carried out according to the following principles: 


A) In the recycling process, to be carried out in 
the refinery, the used mineral motor oils are 

mixed with the corresponding petrol cut in such 
proportion that the bituminous road pavement 

produced using a bitumen coming from the 
corresponding vacuum residue, after being 

submitted to lixiviation operation, does not 
transfer the heavy metals in a higher amount than 

that legally stablished and accepted. 
B) The used mineral motor oils and the bitumen 
cut mix, carried out in refinery or in the road 

pavement production plant, is done by using 0 to 
15 percent of used mineral motor oils and 100 to 

85 percent of bitumen. 
C) In the bituminous emulsion and bituminous 
paint production in the recycling process the 

above mentioned mix is carried out adding 0 to 20 
percent of used mineral motor oils to a 100 to 80 

percent of penetration bitumen. 
2.- Used mineral motor oil ecological recycling 
procedure, according to claims 1, when the used mineral 

motor oils contain a high water and light hydrocarbons 
 

proportion, including the following complementary 
operations: 


1) Separation of the water, contained in the used 
mineral motor oils, by decantation prior to the drying 

operation. If necessary, the separate water can be 
ultracentrifugated to reduce its oil content under the 

legal specification. 
2) Distillation at 190 °C min to eliminate the light 
hydrocarbon content. 
3.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according to 
claims 1 and 2. using penetration bitumens, with 

penetrations of less than 100 1/10 of mm. 
4.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according to 
claims 1, 2, and 3, using an oxidation hardening, catalytic 

or not, of the bitumen mix in order to obtain the right 
penetration level. 
5.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, including 
the following steps: 


a) Filtration of the used mineral motor oils. 
b) Dehumidification of the used mineral motor oils. 
c) Distillation of the used mineral motor oils to 
eliminate the most volatile components, they contain. 
d) Recycling of the used mineral motor oils, to be 
done, either in the general petroleum recycling plants 

or in those plants using bitumen as a raw material. The 
above mentioned used mineral motor oil recycling 

process is carried out mainly being in: 

a) The main petroleum raw material inlet, in the 
petroleum refining plants. 
b) The entrance raw materials inlet, in the 
mineral oil distillation step, in refining plants. 
c) The bitumen distillation step, in refining 
plants. 
 
Characterized in that, the bitumen mixes carried out, 

in the recycling process, for producing road pavements, 
bitumen roofs, bituminous emulsions and bituminous 

paints, are carried out by mixing penetration bitumen, 
used mineral motor oil and paraffinic thermoplastic 

rubber as main components. These polymeric mixes 
stabilizing the heavy metals, such as Cu, Cr, Pb, Ni, 

Zn, Ba and others, usually contained in used mineral 
motor oils, and not transferring those heavy metals to 

the environment in a higher proportion than that 
regally established and accepted. 
6.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according to 
claim 5, when the used mineral motor oils contain high water 

and light hydrocarbons proportions, including the following 
 

complementary steps: 

1) Separation of the water contained in used mineral 
motor oils, by decantation prior to the drying 

operation. If necessary, the separated water can be 
ultracentrifugated to reduce its oil content 
under the 
legal specification. 
2) Distillation at 190 °C min to eliminating the light 
hydrocarbons content. 
7.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according to 
claims 5 and 6, wherein the used mineral motor oil and the 

penetration bitumen mix is previously done, stabilizing the 
heavy metals and the light hydrocarbons. 
8.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according to 
claims 5, 6 and 7, wherein open pore bituminous pavements 

are obtained, by using open granulometry arids. 
9.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according to 
claims 5, 6, and 7, wherein compact bituminous pavements are 

obtained using a lower amount of polymeric bitumen mix. 
10.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according 
to claims 5, to 9, wherein the following rubbers are 

preferably used: EPM (Ethylene - propylene monomer), EPDM 
(Ethylene - Propylene - Diene monomer), and Butyl rubber. 
11.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according 
 

to claims 5, to 10, wherein polymeric mix is carried out by 
stirring using cutting and/or shearing, heating the mix at 

a temperature preferably between 150 °C and 200 °C. 
12.- Used mlneral motor oil recycling procedure, according 
to claims 5, to 11, wherein during or after the polymeric 

mix production a paraffinic plastic is added to the 
polymeric mix in order to modify the thermal and/or 

mechanical properties. 
13.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according 
to claims 5, to 12, wherein different types of penetration 

bitumens can be used for obtaining a final penetration 
bitumen preferably having a penetration of less than 100 

1/10 of mm. 
14.- Used mineral motor oil recycling procedure, according 
to claims 5 to 13, wherein the used mineral motor oil and 

the bitumen cut mix, usually carried out in the refinery or 
in the road pavement production plant, is carried out by 

using 0 to 15 percent used mineral motor oil and 100 to 85 
percent bitumen. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
