<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ACCUMULATOR FUEL INJECTION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B100	F02B104	F02B7500	F02B7512	F02M4100	F02M4100	F02M4500	F02M4508	F02M4700	F02M4700	F02M4702	F02M4702	F02M5700	F02M5702	F02M5900	F02M5910	F02M6100	F02M6106	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	F02M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B1	F02B1	F02B75	F02B75	F02M41	F02M41	F02M45	F02M45	F02M47	F02M47	F02M47	F02M47	F02M57	F02M57	F02M59	F02M59	F02M61	F02M61	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A series of method and apparatus advances in the accumulator-type fuel injector art, applicable to both intensified and unintensified accumulator injectors, which cooperate to provide major improvements in internal combustion engine fuel economy, reduction of noise, and reduction of undesirable exhaust emissions, including smoke, oxides of nitrogen and hydrocarbons. According to the invention, injector needle closure speed is increased for sharper fuel cutoff and better atomization proximate closure, and needle closure bounce is minimized to minimize fuel dribble proximate closure by reducing both mass and length of the needle (110), which can be accomplished by a longitudinally divided needle (110, 136). Hydraulic damping also damps and cushions both needle closing and needle opening.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SERVOJET ELECTRONIC SYST LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SERVOJET ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK NEILS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON BEVAN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENA JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROACH ALAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BECK NEILS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JOHNSTON BEVAN H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PENA JAMES A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROACH ALAN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ACCUMULATOR FUEL INJECTION SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to fuel injectors for internal combustion engines, and particularly to improvements in accumulator-type fuel injectors, including both intensified and unintensified accumulator injectors, which produce improved fuel economy, noise reduction, and reduction of undesirable exhaust emissions, including smoke, oxides of nitrogen, and hydrocarbons.2. Description of the Prior ArtAccumulator-type fuel injectors have been known in the art for many years, but never have achieved widespread use. It is believed this is because they have heretofore not solved problems present in conventional injectors, and have even introduced additional problems which have been inheren in prior art forms of accumulator injectors.One serious problem with both conventional fuel injectors and prior art accumulator-type fuel injectors has been premixed burning of the fuel. Typically, about 25-50 percent of the total quantity of fuel injected will be atomized and mixed with air prior to the start of combustio The sudden combustion of this premixed fuel causes a rapid rate of heat release at the beginning of ignition, with a resulting excessively high noise level, and undesirable exhaust emissions including smoke, oxides of nitrogen, and hydrocarbon emissions. One answer to this problem is to provide a two-stage injection, with a small pilot charge of fuel first injected and ignited, and then the main charge o fuel injected and immediately ignited by the already ignite 

pilot charge. A system of this type is taught in Loyd U.S. Patent No. 4,414,940. Although the Loyd system does solve the problem, it requires two separate injectors, one for the pilot charge and another for the main charge, making the system undesirably complicated and expensive.Another problem with both conventional fuel injectors and prior art accumulator-type fuel injectors is that they produce a fixed spray pattern regardless of engine power demands, and this necessarily compromises engine efficiency at some power settings. For optimum overall engine efficiency, it would be desirable to tailor the spray configuration variably according to the power demands of the engine by having a relatively wide, flat conical spray configuration at relatively low fuel delivery, such as during engine idle, and to have the cone of the spray narrow progressively as the power setting is progessively increased.The injector needle closure event has been characteristically
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In an internal combustion engine accumulato -type fuel injector, a method of reducing undesirable premixed burning in the engine which comprises: raising injector needle means off its valve seat small low-lift increment for a sufficient interval of time to inject a small pilot fuel charge into the engine; and then raising the needle means to a higher lift position to inject the main fuel charge into the engine; controlling needle lift by controlled venting of pressurized liquid from a pressurized zone located above said needle means; providing said pressurized zone in the form of cavity means above the upper end of said needle means; providing stop plate means in said cavity means normally disposed at a lower position in which there is an axial clearance space between said needle means upper end and a downwardly facing surface of said plate means which defines said low-lift increment; establishing downward force-transmitting means generally axially directed through said plate means to said needle means upper end; sealing said plate means relative to wall means o said cavity means in said lower position of the plate means such that downward force on said needle means upper end fro liquid pressure in said cavity means above said plate means is restricted to said force-transmitting means; establishing sufficient liquid pressure in said cavity means prior to initiation of an injection event for said force-transmitting means to, with the aid of needle closure spring force, hold said needle means down against- its seat against upward force of accumulator pressure on said needle means; venting liquid pressure from said cavity means sufficiently for upward force of accumulator pressure on said needle means to overcome the combined downward forces 


of said force-transmitting means and the needle spring, but insufficient to overcome the downward force of liquid pressure in said cavity means against said plate means, causing said needle means to lift into engagement with said plate means bottom surface in said low-lift increment of needle movement; and further venting liquid pressure from said cavity means sufficiently for upward force of accumulator pressure on said needle means to overcome the combined downward forces of said force-transmitting means, the needle spring, and the force of liquid pressure in said cavity means on said plate means, causing said needle means to lift, together with said plate means, to its full lift position.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said force-transmitting means comprises passage means through said plate means for direct transmission of liquid pressure from said cavity means to said needle means upper end.
3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said sealing of said plate means is provided between a flat upwardly facing bottom surface of said cavity means and a flat downwardly facing bottom surface of said plate means.
4. A method according to claim 1, which comprises defining a position of maximum needle lift by having said plate means engage downwardly facing stop shoulder means of said cavity means.
5. A method according to claim 1, which comprises defining said axial clearance space below a substantially flat downwardly facing surface of said plate means.
6. A method according to claim 1, which comprises locating said upper end of said needle means proximate the level of the bottom of said plate means in the closed position of said needle means, and defining said axial clearance space by substantially the axial depth of a downwardly facing axial recess in the bottom of said plate means.
7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said injector is an intensified-type accumulator injector. 


 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said injector is an unintensified-type accumulator injector.
9. In an internal combustion engine accumulator-type fuel injector, a method of reducing undesirable premixed burning in the engine which comprises: raising injector needle means off its valve seat a small low-lift increment for a sufficient interval of time to inject a small pilot fuel charge into the engine; and then raising the needle means to a higher lift position to inject the main fuel charge into the engine; controlling needle lift by controlled venting of pressurized liquid from a pressurized zone located above said needle means, said controlled venting comprising first relatively slowly venting pressurized liquid from said pressurized zone to produce said low-lift increment of lift of said needle means; and then relatively rapidly venting pressurized liquid from said pressurized zone to produce said raising of said needle means to its said higher lift position. 10. A method according to claim 9, which comprises: placing positive stop means at a first stop position in which it is spaced said low-lift increment above the upper end of said needle means during said relatively slow venting so as to positively stop said needle means at its said low-lift increment of lift; and releasing said stop means from its said low-lift position during said relatively rapid venting so as to enable said needle means to lift to its said higher lift position. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said releasing of said stop means enables said stop means to be raised to a second stop position in which it is spaced a maximum lift amount above the upper end of said needle means during said relatively rapid venting so as to positively stop said needle means at its said full lift position. 


 12. A method according to claim 10, which comprises: holding said stop means in its said first stop position by fluid pressure means during said relatively slow venting; and venting pressure from said fluid pressure means so as to perform said releasing of said stop means.
13. A method according to claim 12, which comprises utilizing a common source of pressurized liquid to produce pressurization in said pressurized zone and in said fluid pressure means.
14. A method according to claim 13, wherein said injector is an intensified-type accumulator injector.
15. A method according to claim 10, which comprises placing said positive stop means below accumulator chamber means of said injector.
16. A method according to claim 15, wherein said needle means comprises a unitary needle.
17. In an internal combustion engine accumulator-type fuel injector, apparatus for injecting a small pilot charge for reducing undesirable premixed burning of the main charge, which comprises: elongated valve element needle means longitudinally slideable in the body means of the injector having a lower tip adapted to close against the valve seat of the injector and having an upper end; cavity means defined within said body means above said needle means upper end; liquid inlet/vent conduit means communicating with said cavity means for sequentially introducing pressurized liquid into said cavity means and venting pressurized liquid from said cavity means; stop plate means in said cavity means normally disposed at a lower, seated position in which there is an axial clearance space between said needle means upper end and a downwardly facing surface of said plate means which defines a low-lift increment of movement of said needle means, said stop plate means having downward 


force-transmitting means generally axially directed therethrough to said needle means upper end; said plate means being sealed relative to wall means of said cavity means in said lower position of said plate means such that downward force on said needle means upper end from fluid pressure in said cavity means above said plate means is restricted to said force-transmitting means; fluid pressure introduced into said cavity means through said conduit means prior to an injection event being sufficient for said force-transmitting means, with the aid of the force of the needle closure spring, to hold said needle means down against its seat against upward force of accumulator pressure on said needle means; fluid pressure remaining in said cavity means after partial venting of fluid pressure from said cavity means through said conduit means being sufficiently reduced for upward force of accumulator pressure on said needle means to overcome the combined downward forces of said force-transmitting means and the needle spring, but still being sufficient for its downward force against said plate means to hold said plate means in its seated position, whereby said needle means will lift into engagement with said plate means downwardly facing surface in said low-lift increment of movement to inject said pilot charge; and further venting of fluid pressure from said cavity means enabling upward force of accumulator pressure on said needle means to overcome the combined downward forces of said force-transmitting means, the needle spring, and the force of fluid pressure in said cavity means on said plate means, whereby said needle means will lift, together with said plate means, to a higher lift position.
18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said force-transmitting means comprises fluid passage means through said plate means for direct transmission of fluid pressure from said cavity means to said needle means upper end. 


 19. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said stop plate seal is between a flat upwardly facing bottom surface of said cavity means and a flat downwardly facing bottom surface of said plate means. 20. Apparatus according to claim 17, which comprises downwardly facing stop shoulder means of said cavity means; engagement of said stop plate means against said shoulder means defining a maximum lift position of said needle means. 21. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said plate means has a substantially flat downwardly facing surface below which said axial clearance space is defined.
22. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said plate means has a downwardly facing axial recess in its bottom; said upper end of said needle means being located proximate the level of the bottom of said plate means in the closed position of said needle means; and said upper end of said needle means entering said axial recess when said needle means rises from its closed position with said axial clearance space being defined by substantially the axial depth of said axial recess.
23. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said injector is an intensified-type accumulator injector. 24. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said injector is an unintensified-type accumulator injector. 25. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said cavity means and plate means are located below accumulator chamber means of said injector. 26. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said needle means comprises a unitary needle.
27. In an internal combustion engine accumulator-type fuel injector, apparatus for injecting a small pilot charge for reducing undesirable premixed burning of the main charge, which comprises: elongated valve element needle means longitudinally slideable in the body means of the injector 


adapted to close against the valve seat of the injector and having an upper end; a liquid pressure zone defined in said body means above said needle means upper end for applying downward force on said needle means upper end which increases with increased liquid pressure in said zone and decreases with decreased liquid pressure in said zone; and hydraulic circuit means in liquid communication with said zone through inlet/vent conduit means for first applying sufficient hydraulic pressure to said zone to hold said needle means down on its seat prior to initiation of an injection event, next partially venting liquid pressure from said zone sufficiently for said needle means to rise off of said seat a small constant low-lift increment for injection of a small pilot fuel charge into the engine, and then further venting liquid pressure from said zone sufficiently for said needle means to rise to a higher lift position for injection of the main fuel charge into the engine.
28. Apparatus according to claim 27, which comprises variable orifice means associated with said conduit means for varying the rate of said partial venting so as to vary the length of time of said low-lift increment and thereby vary the amount of said pilot charge.
29. Apparatus according to claim 27, which comprises means associated with said conduit means for varying the vent pressure applied to. said conduit means for varying the rate of said partial venting so as to vary the length of time of said low-lift increment and thereby vary the amount of said pilot charge. 30. Apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said hydraulic circuit means is adapted to relatively slowly vent pressurized liquid from said zone to produce said low-lift increment of lift of said needle means, and then to relatively rapidly vent pressurized liquid from said zone to produce said raising of said needle means to its said higher lift position. 


 31. Apparatus according to claim 30, which comprises bleed orifice means in said hydraulic circuit means through which pressurized liquid is bled to produce said relatively slow venting. 32. Apparatus according to claim 31, wherein said bleed orifice means is variable in size for adjustment of the rate of said relatively slow venting.
33. Apparatus according to claim 27, wherein said liquid pressure zone is located below accumulator chamber means of said injector.
34. Apparatus according to claim 33, wherein said needle means comprises a unitary needle.
35. Apparatus according to claim 27, which comprises positive stop means in said body means in communication with said hydraulic circuit means and spaced above said upper end of said needle means; said stop means being held by said hydraulic circuit means at a first stop position in which it is spaced said low-lift increment above said upper end of said needle means during said partial venting so as to positively stop said needle means at its said low-lift increment of lift; and said stop means being released by said hydraulic circuit means from its said low-lift position during said further venting so as to enable said needle means to lift to its said full lift position.
36. Apparatus according to claim 35, wherein said stop means has a second stop position in which it is spaced the full lift amount above said upper end of said needle means; said release of said stop means by said hydraulic circuit means enabling said needle means to move said stop means upwardly to its said second stop position at which said stop means positively stops said needle means at its said full lift position. 


 37. Apparatus according to claim 35, wherein said hydraulic circuit means comprises liquid pressure means in communication with said stop means which holds said stop means at its said first stop position; and vent means in communication with said liquid pressure means for venting liquid pressure from said liquid pressure means so as to cause said releasing of said stop means.
38. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein said hydraulic circuit means is arranged to vent liquid pressure from said liquid pressure means through said vent means substantially simultaneously with said further venting of liquid pressure from said zone.
39. Apparatus according to claim 38, wherein the same vent means is employed in said hydraulic circuit means to perform said further venting from said zone and said ventin from said liquid pressure means.
40. Apparatus according to claim 37, which comprises common source of pressurized liquid for producing pressurization in said pressurized zone and in said liquid pressure means.
41. Apparatus according to claim 40, wherein said injector is an intensified-type accumulator injector.
42. Apparatus according to claim 35, wherein said positive stop means is located below accumulator chamber means of said injector.
43. Apparatus according to claim 42, wherein said needle means comprises a unitary needle. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 6 January 1993 (06.01 .93) ; new claims 44-48 added ; other claims unchanged (2 pages)]
44. In an internal combustion engine intensified accumulator-type fuel injector, apparatus for preventing uncontrolled injections in the event of injector nozzle failure, which comprises: low and high pressure intensifier cylinders, with a low pressure piston slidable in said low pressure cylinder and a high pressure plunger slidable in said high pressure cylinder; said high pressure cylinder having one-way fuel outlet means in communication with the accumulator cavity, and having one-way fuel inlet port means above said outlet means; said plunger moving downwardly during each normal intensification stroke to a normal lowermost position defined by balanced fuel pressure in the accumulator cavity and said high pressure cylinder below said plunger, and in which lowermost position said inlet port means remains uncovered by said plunger to provide fuel to said high pressure cylinder for the next succeeding intensification stroke; and in the event of injector nozzle failure, reduced balancing pressure in the accumulator cavity allowing said plunger to move below its said normal lowermost position to an overtravel position in which it blocks said inlet port means so as to prevent further and uncontrolled injection events.
45. Apparatus according to claim 44, which comprises stop means in said low pressure cylinder which limits downward travel of said piston and hence also limits the downward extent of said overtravel position of said plunger.
46. Apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said inlet port means comprises an annulus in the wall of said high pressure cylinder, said annulus remaining uncovered by said plunger in said normal lowermost position of said plunger and being covered by said plunger in said overtravel position of said plunger.
47. In an internal combustion engine intensified accumulator-type fuel injector, a method for preventing uncontrolled injections in the event of injector nozzle failure, which comprises: limiting downward movement of a high pressure intensifier plunger in a high pressure intensifier cylinder during each normal intensification stroke to a normal lowermost position defined by balanced fuel pressure in the accumulator cavity and said cylinder below said plunger, and in which lowermost position inlet port means of said cylinder remains uncovered by said plunger to provide fuel to said cylinder for the next 


succeeding intensification stroke, and in the event of injector nozzle failure, allowing said plunger to move below its said normal lowermost position under the influence of reduced balancing pressure in the accumulator cavity to an overtravel position in which it blocks said inlet port means so as to prevent further and uncontrolled injection events.
48. A method according to claim 47, which comprises limiting the extent of overtravel of said plunger so that the bottom of said plunger remains above the bottom of said cylinder in said overtravel position of said plunger. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
