<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633966</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GRID COMPOSITE FOR BACKFILL BARRIERS AND WASTE APPLICATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E02D2902	E02D2902	E02D3100	E02D3100	E21D1114	E21D1115	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E02D	E02D	E02D	E02D	E21D	E21D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E02D29	E02D29	E02D31	E02D31	E21D11	E21D11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A grid composite (108, 130) includes a regular polymer geogrid structure (40) formed by biaxially drawing a continuous sheet of select polypropylene material (28) which is heat bonded to a polyester fabric (46). The polymer grid composite (108, 130) is ideal for waste containment structures, backfill barriers, and silt barriers in construction and mining applications. In waste containment and backfill barriers, the grid composite (108, 130) is used to form a containment structure. Its principle function is to contain waste material usually consisting of a liquid with some percentage of solids.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TENSAR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE TENSAR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAVIS BRIAN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TRAVIS, BRIAN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GRID COMPOSITE FOR BACKFILL BARRIERS AND WASTE APPLICATIONSField of the InventionThis invention relates to a high strength, lightweight polymer grid laminated with a material consisting of a non-woven polyester. It is utilized in waste containment structures, backfill barriers, and silt barriers in construction and mining applications.Summary of the InventionBy the present invention, a polymer grid • is connected to a grid composite consisting of a polymer grid and a geotextile to provide a longwall screening package for use during longwall shield recovery. The grid composite is formed by use of a polymer grid which is typically heat bonded to an 8.0 oz./yd.2, 100% continuous filament polyester, non-woven needlepunched engineering fabric. The engineering fabric or geotextile is bonded to the polymer grid using an open flame heat source or using a heated roll as a heat source.The grid composite includes a regular polymer geogrid structure formed by biaxially drawing a continuous sheet of select polypropylene material which is heat bonded to a polyester fabric. The polymer geogrid of the grid composite shall typically conform to the following property requirements:PROPERTY TEST METHOD VALUEMaterialASTM D 4101 97% (min) o copolymer Group 2/Class polypropylene 1/G-rade i o colorant and ASTM 4218 2 . 0% (min) UV inhibitor 

InterlockThe geotextile of the grid composite typically conforms to the following property requirements: o Grab ASTM D1682 285/250 lbs tensile strength o EOS ASTM D422 70 US Std Sv Sz o Weight ASTM D1910 8.0 oz/syThe grid composite shall typically conform to the following property requirements: o roll length 200 ft o roll width 10 & 12 ft o roll weight 210 & 260 lb 
1MD (machine direction) dimension is along roll length. CMD (cross machine direction) dimension is across roll width.2Maximum inside dimension in each principal direction measured by calipers. Percent open area measured without magnification by Corps of Engineers method as specific in CW 02215 Civil Works Construction Guide, November 1977.4ASTM D 1388-64 modified to account for wide specimen testing as described in Tensar test method TTM-5.0 "Stiffness of Geosynthetics" .5Secant modulus at 2% elongation measured by Geosynthetic Research Institute test method GG1-87"Geogrid Tensile Strength" . No offset allowances are made in calculating secant modules.6Geogrid junction strength and junction efficiency measured by Geosynthetic Research Institute test method GG2-87 "Geogrid Junction Strength".The polymer grid composite of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM:
1. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid located in a waste containment area, said system comprising: a containment area filled with a solution- of solids and liquid, a grid composite formed of polymer geogrid and a geotextile, a backfill barrier including said grid composite extending substantially vertically from the ground and separating said containment area from a filtrate area, and a plurality of support means spaced along a peripheral edge of said containment area for supporting said backfill barrier substantially vertically between adjacent support means so that said liquid of said solution is allowed to pass through said geotextile of said grid composite to said filtrate area while said solids are retained in said containment area.
2. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 1, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer geogrid at nodes of said polymer geogrid.
3. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 1, wherein said support means includes pillars formed in a room and pillar mining operation.
4. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 1, wherein said support means includes stakes. 


 5. . A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid located in a waste containment area, said method comprising: forming a grid composite from a polymer geogrid and a geotextile, arranging a plurality of supports at a periphery of a containment area containing the solution of solids and liquids, securing said grid composite to said plurality of supports so as to form a backfill barrier extending substantially vertically from the ground and between said plurality of supports, said backfill barrier separating said containment area from a filtrate area, and filtering liquid from the solution of liquid and solids in said containment area as said liquid passes to said filtrate area through said grid composite.
6. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 5, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid.
7. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 6, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid at nodes of said polymer grid.
8. A method for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 5, wherein said plurality of supports includes pillars formed in a room and pillar mining operation. 


 9. A method for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 5, wherein said plurality of supports includes stakes.
10. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid located in a waste containment area, said system comprising: an underground mine area formed by a room and pillar mining operation so that a roof of said underground mine area is supported by a plurality of pillars having 
"
 excavated portions of said underground mine area between said plurality of pillars and having a containment area filled with a solution of solids and liquid in said underground mine area, a grid composite formed of polymer geogrid and a geotextile, ■ and a backfill barrier including said grid composite extending substantially vertically from the ground between adjacent ones of said plurality of pillars and separating said containment area from a filtrate area so that said liquid of said solution is allowed to pass through said geotextile of said grid composite to said filtrate area while said solids are retained in said containment area.
11. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 10, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer geogrid at nodes of said polymer geogrid.
12. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid located in a waste containment area, said method comprising: forming a grid composite from a polymer geogrid and a geotextile, 


 forming an underground mine by a room and pillar mining operation so that • a roof of said underground mine area is supported by a plurality of pillars having excavated portions of said underground mine between said plurality of pillars, positioning said plurality of pillars of said underground mine at a periphery of a waste containment area containing a solution of solids and liquids, securing said grid composite to extend substantially vertically from the ground between said plurality of pillars so as to form a backfill barrier, said backfill barrier separating said containment area from a filtrate area, and filtering liquid from the solution of liquid and solids in said containment area as said liquid passes to said filtrate area through said grid composite.
13. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 12, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid.
14. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 13, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid at nodes of said polymer grid.
15. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid in a waste containment area, said system comprising: a containment area filled with a solution of solids and liquid, a grid composite formed of polymer geogrid and a geotextile, and 


 a backfill barrier including said 
•
 grid composite extending substantially vertically from the ground and separating said containment area from a filtrate area, a plurality of stakes anchored in a trench and spaced along a peripheral edge of said containment area for supporting said backfill barrier substantially vertically between adjacent stakes so that said liquid of said solution is allowed to pass through said geotextile of said grid composite to said filtrate area while said solids are retained in said containment area.
16. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 15, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer geogrid at nodes of said polymer geogrid.
17. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 15, wherein a lowermost end of said backfill barrier is buried in said trench.
18. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid located in a waste containment area, said method comprising: forming a grid composite from a polymer geogrid and a geotextile, arranging a plurality of stakes anchored in a trench at a periphery of a containment area containing a solution of solids and liquids, securing said grid composite to extend substantially vertically from the ground between said plurality of stakes so as to form a backfill barrier, said backfill barrier separating said containment area from a filtrate area, and 


 filtering liquid from the solution of liquid and solids in said containment area as said liquid passes to said filtrate area through said grid composite.
19. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 18, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid.
20. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 19, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid at nodes of said polymer grid.
21. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 18, wherein a lowermost end of said backfill barrier is buried in said trench.
22. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid located in a waste containment area, said system comprising: . a containment area filled with a solution of solids and liquid, a grid composite formed of polymer geogrid and a geotextile, a backfill barrier including said grid composite extending substantially vertically from the ground and separating said containment area from a filtrate area, and a plurality of substantially horizontally oriented cables spaced vertically along a peripheral edge of said containment area for supporting said backfill barrier substantially vertically between adjacent ones of said substantially horizontally 


oriented cables so that said liquid of said solution is allowed to pass through said geotextile of said grid composite to said filtrate area while said solids are retained in said containment area.
23. A system for separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 22, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer geogrid at nodes of said polymer geogrid.
24. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid located in a waste containment area, said method comprising: forming a grid composite from a polymer geogrid and a geotextile, arranging a plurality of substantially horizontally oriented cables at a periphery of a containment area containing a solution of solids and liquids, securing said grid composite to said plurality of substantially horizontally oriented cables so as to form a backfill barrier extending substantially vertically from the ground and between said plurality of substantially horizontally oriented cables, said backfill barrier separating said containment area from a filtrate area, and filtering liquid from the solution of liquid and solids in said containment area as said liquid passes to said filtrate area through said grid composite.
25. A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 24, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid. 


 26.- A method of separating liquid from a solution of solids and liquid as claimed in claim 25, wherein said geotextile is bonded to said polymer grid at nodes of said polymer grid. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
