<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634017</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMMUNOASSAY FOR DETECTING HCV IgM ANTIBODY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	C12Q170	C12Q170	G01N3353	G01N3353	G01N33543	G01N33543	G01N33569	G01N33569	G01N33576	G01N33576	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An assay for determining the presence of HCV IgM in a test sample. A test sample is contacted with at least one HCV antigen, incubated to form antigen/antibody complexes, and then contacted with an indicator reagent in order to produce a detectable signal. The amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample is proportional to the signal generated. The assay also can include the step of contacting the complexes with an enhancer compound prior to the use of an indicator reagent. Also provided is a test kit useful for performing the assay of the invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAU KURT H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEMENS JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIMMS LARRY T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TASKAR SUHAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALLARI DAVID S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHAU, KURT, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CLEMENS, JOHN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIMMS, LARRY, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TASKAR, SUHAS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALLARI, DAVID, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMMUNOASSAY FOR DETECTING HCV IyM ANTIBODYBackground of the InventiopThis invention relates generally to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), and more particularly, relates to the detection of HCV IgM in test samples.Greater than 90% of cases of transfusion hepatitis worldwide are attributed to non-A, non-B hepatitis (NANBH). The predominant etiological agent of NANBH, termed Hepatitis C virus (HCV), has been cloned. An immunodominant region designated as c-100, encoded by the putative nonstructural (NS)-4 genomic region, has been expressed, purified, and incorporated into immunoassays which are useful in the detection of antibody to HCV in infected test samples. See, for example, Q.-L. Choo et al., Science 244:359-362 (1989); H. J. Alter et al., N. Engl. J. Msd. 321:1494-1500 (1989); J. I. Esteban et al., Lancet ii:294-297 (1989); G. Huo et al., Science 244:362-364 (1989); T. Miyamura et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87:983-987 (1990); and C. L. Van der Poel et al., Lancet ϋ:297-298 (1989).Recently, a study of 20 well-documented cases of post-transfusionNANBH reported that the mean delay to the development of anti-HCV was 21.9 weeks after transfusion and 15 weeks after the onset of hepatitis Alter et al., supra. Seroconversion occurred after six months in 40% of these cases and at approximately one year in one patient. Similar result have been reported for post-transfusion NANBH by J. I. Esteban et al., supra, and for chimpanzees that were experimentally infected with the Hepatitis C Virus by Y. K. Shimizu et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87:6441-6444 (1990). The delay in seroconversion to anti-HCV detected by recombinant clOO antigen may account for its relatively low prevalence (15-30%) in individuals diagnosed with acute NANBH. Thus, anti-HCV- negative cases may actually be caused by HCV infection that does not elicit an immune response detectable by current anti-HCV c-100 assays (the so-called first generation assays).Whereas previous studies have established HCV as the primary cause of transfusion-associated hepatitis, immunoglobulin (Ig) G antibodies to HCV detected by the HCV c-100 antigen are likely to be 

absent during acute infection. Vallari et al. recently have discovered that the addition of recombinant HCV CORE and HCV NS3 (33c) polypeptides to IgG anti-HCV assays significantly reduces the post-transfusion period when anti-HCV is undetected. D. Vallari et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (1991, submitted for publication). In this study, the earliest IgG response to HCV was detected more
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An assay for determining the presence and/or amount of IgM to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) which may be present in a test sample, comprising: a. subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block the effect, if any, of rheumatoid factor-like substances which may be present in the test sample and contacting the test sample with HCV antigen comprising at least HCV CORE antigen and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form antigen/antibody complexes; b. contacting the complexes with a probe comprising an enhancer compound conjugated to mammalian anti-human IgM to form a second mixture reaction product; c. contacting the second mixture reaction product with an indicator reagent comprising a signal generating compound conjugated to an enhancer compound binding member and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient for an indicator reagent reaction product; and d. detecting the signal generated as an indication of the presence and or amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample.
2. The assay of claim 1 wherein said HCV antigen further comprises HCV 33c antigen, HCV c-100 antigen, or any combination thereof.
3. The assay of claim 1 wherein said HCV antigen of step (a) is attached to a solid phase.
4. The assay of claim 3 wherein said solid phase is selected from the group consisting of polymeric or glass beads, microparticles, wells of a reaction tray, test tubes, nitrocellulose strips and magnetic beads.
5. The assay of claim 1 wherein said signal generating compound is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a luminescent compound, a chromogen, a radioactive element and a chemiluminescent compound. 


 6. The assay of claim 5 wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of alkaline phosphatase, horseradish peroxidase and beta-galactosidase.
7. The assay of claim 1 wherein subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block the effect of rheumatoid factor comprises contacting the test sample with a quantity of anti-human IgG to form a mixture, incubating the mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form a reaction mixture product substantially free of rheumatoid-like substance.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample is proportional to the generated signal.
9. An assay for determining the presence and/or amount of IgM to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) which may be present in a test sample, comprising: a. subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block th effect, if any, of rheumatoid factor-like substances which may be present in the test sample and contacting the test sample with HCV antigen comprising at least HCV CORE antigen, and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form antigen/antibody complexes; b. contacting the complexes with an indicator reagent comprising a signal generating compound conjugated to anti-human IgM and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient for a reaction to occur; and c. detecting the signal generated as an indication of the presence and/or amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample, wherei the amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample is proportional to the signal generated.
10. The assay of claim 9 wherein said HCV antigen further comprises HCV 33c antigen, HCV c-100 antigen, or any combination thereof. 


 11. The assay of claim 9 wherein said HCV antigen of step (a) is attached to a solid phase.
12. The assay of claim 11 wherein said solid phase is selected from the group consisting of polymeric or glass beads, microparticles, wells of a reaction tray, test tubes, nitrocellulose, and magnetic beads.
13. The assay of claim 9 wherein said signal generating compound is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a luminescent compound, a chromogen, a radioactive element and a chemiluminescent compound.
14. The assay of claim 13 wherein said enzyme is selected from the group consisting of alkaline phosphatase, horseradish peroxidase and beta-galactosidase.
15. The assay of claim 9 wherein subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block the effect of rheumatoid factor comprises contacting the test sample with a quantity of anti-human IgG to form a mixture, incubating the mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form a reaction mixture product substantially free of rheumatoid-like substance.
16. An assay for determining the presence and/or amount of IgM to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) which may be present in a test sample, comprising: a. subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block the effect, if any, of rheumatoid factor-like substances which may be present in the test sample and contacting the test sample with anti-human IgM, and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form resultant complexes; b. contacting the complexes with an indicator reagent comprising a signal generating compound conjugated to HCV antigen comprising at least HCV CORE antigen and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient for a reaction to occur; and 


 c. detecting the signal generated as an indication of the presence and/or amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample, wherei the amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample is proportional to the signal generated.
17. The assay of claim 16 wherein said HCV antigen further comprises HCV 33c antigen, HCV c-100 antigen, or any combination thereof.
18. The assay of claim 16 wherein said anti-human IgM of step
(a) is attached to a solid phase.
19. The assay of claim 18 wherein said solid phase is selected from the group consisting of polymeric or glass beads, microparticles, wells of a reaction tray, test tubes, nitrocellulose, and magnetic beads.
20. The assay of claim 16 wherein said signal generating compound is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a luminescent compound, a chromogen, a radioactive element and a chemiluminescent compound.
21. The assay of claim 16 wherein subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block the effect of rheumatoid factor comprises contacting the test sample with a quantity of anti-human IgG to form a mixture, incubating the mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form a reaction mixture product substantially free of rheumatoid-like substance.
22. An assay for determining the presence and/or amount of IgM to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) which may be present in a test sample, comprising: a. subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block th effect, if any, of rheumatoid factor-like substances which may be present in the test sample and contacting the test sample with anti-human IgM, and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form resultant complexes; 


 b. contacting the complexes with HCV antigen comprising at least HCV CORE antigen and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient for a reaction product to form; c. contacting the reaction product with an indictor reagent comprising anti-HCV CORE antigen conjugated to a signal generating compound, and incubating for a time and under conditions for a reaction to occur; and c . detecting the signal generated as an indication of the presence and/or amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample, wherein the amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample is proportional to the signal generated.
23. The assay of claim 22 wherein said HCV antigen further comprises HCV 33c antigen, HCV c-100 antigen, or any combination thereof.
24. The assay of claim 23 wherein the indictor reagent further comprises anti-HCV 33c, anti-HCV c-100, or any combination thereof.
25. The assay of claim 22 wherein said anti-human IgM of step
(a) is attached to a solid phase.
26. The assay of claim 22 wherein said solid phase is selected from the group consisting of polymeric or glass beads, microparticles, wells of a reaction tray, test tubes, nitrocellulose, and magnetic beads.
27. The assay of claim 22 wherein said signal generating compound is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a luminescent compound, a chromogen, a radioactive element and a chemiluminescent compound.
28. The assay of claim 22 wherein subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block the effect of rheumatoid factor comprises contacting the test sample with a quantity of anti-human IgG to form a mixture, incubating the mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form a reaction mixture product substantially free of rheumatoid-like substance. 


 29. An assay for determining the presence and/or amount of IgM to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) which may be present in a test sample, comprising: a. subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block th effect, if any, of rheumatoid factor-like substances which may be present in the test sample and contacting the test sample with mammalian anti- human IgM and incubating the resultant mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form antigen/antibody complexes; b. contacting the complexes with a probe comprising an enhancer compound conjugated to HCV antigen comprising at least HC CORE antigen to form a second mixture reaction product; c. contacting the second mixture reaction product with an indicator reagent comprising a signal generating compound conjugated to an enhancer compound binding member and incubating the resultan mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient for an indicator reagent reaction product; and d. detecting the signal generated as an indication of the presence and/or amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample.
30. The assay of claim 29 wherein said HCV antigen further comprises HCV 33c antigen, HCV c-100 antigen, or any combination thereof.
31. The assay of claim 29 wherein said anti-human IgM of step
(a) is attached to a solid phase.
32. The assay of claim 31 wherein said solid phase is selected from the group consisting of polymeric or glass beads, microparticles, wells of a reaction tray, test tubes, nitrocellulose strips and magnetic beads.
33. The assay of claim 29 wherein said signal generating compound is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a luminescent compound, a chromogen, a radioactive element and a chemiluminescent compound. 


 34. The assay of claim 29 wherein subjecting the test sample to conditions sufficient to block the effect of rheumatoid factor comprises contacting the test sample with a quantity of anti-human IgG to form a mixture, incubating the mixture for a time and under conditions sufficient to form a reaction mixture product substantially free of rheumatoid-like substance.
35. The method of claim 29 wherein the amount of HCV IgM present in the test sample is proportional to the generated signal.
36. A test kit useful for determining the presence and/or amount of HCV IgM in a test sample, comprising: a. a container containing at least one HCV antigen selected from the group consisting of HCV CORE, HCV 33c and HCV c-100; b. a container containing an amount of anti-human IgG; and c. a container containing an amount of mammalian anti- human IgM.
37. The kit of claim 36 wherein said HCV antigen is attached to a solid phase selected from the group consisting of polymeric or glass beads, microparticles, wells of a reaction tray, test tubes, nitrocellulose and magnetic beads.
38. The kit of claim 36 wherein said mammalian anti-human IgM is attached to a signal generating compound.
39 The kit of claim 38 wherein said signal generating compound is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a luminescent compound, a radioactive element and a chemiluminescent compound.
40. The kit of claim 36 wherein said mammalian anti-human IgM is attached to an enhancer compound.
41. The kit of claim 40 wherein said enhancer compound is selected from the group consisting of biotin, anti-biotin and avidin. 


 42. The kit of claim 41 further comprising a signal generating compound attached to an enhancer compound binding member.
43. The kit of claim 42 wherein said signal generating compound is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a luminescent compound and a chemiluminescent compound.
44. The kit of claim 36 wherein said enhancer compound binding member is selected from the group consisting of biotin, anti-bioti and avidin. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
