<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640227</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FAULT TOLERANT POWER SUPPLY FOR AN ARRAY OF STORAGE DEVICES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F126	G06F126	G06F306	G06F306	G06F1100	G06F1100	G06F1116	G06F1116	G06F1120	G06F1120	G06F1216	G06F1216	G11C2900	G11C2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F1	G06F1	G06F3	G06F3	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F11	G06F12	G06F12	G11C29	G11C29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A fault tolerant power supply system for providing reliable power to a redundant array of channel storage units. The system includes one power supply module (9) for each channel (5) of the array of data storage units (3). A power supply failure will not impact the ability of the data storage system to recover data due to the ability of the data storage system to reconstruct data in an unavailable channel (5) from the data storage units (3) of each other channel (5). The use of independent power supplies (9) provides a power supply system which has a power capability equal to the sum of the power requirements of the data storage units (3), and voltage outputs just sufficient to meet the voltage requirements of the data storage units (3).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDEM COMPUTERS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUI, ALBERT, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FAULT TOLERANT POWER SUPPLY FOR AN ARRAY OF STORAGE DEVICESBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the InventionThis invention relates to fault tolerant power supplies and more particularly to fault tolerant power supplies for supplying electrical power to a redundant array of data storage units.2. Description of Related ArtA typical data processing system generally includes one or more storage units connected to a Central Processor Unit (CPU) either directly or through a control unit. The storage units store data and programs which the CPU uses in performing particular data processing tasks.Various types of storage units are used in current data processing systems. A typical system may include one or more large capacity tape units and/or disk drives (magnetic, optical, or semiconductor) connected to the system through respective control units for storing data. In such systems, a problem exists if one of the large capacity storage units fails such that information contained in that unit is no longer available to the system. Often, such a failure will shut down the entire computer system. Such a failure may arise from a defect in the storage unit, or from a fault in the power supply for the storage unit. Therefore, among other things, it is critical for the power supply for such data storage units to be fault tolerant. It is also critical to be able to recover the data stored in a data storage unit if the storage unit fails for any reason, including loss of power. 

The prior art has suggested several ways of solving the problem of providing reliable data storage. In systems where records are relatively small, it is possible to use error correcting codes which generate error correction code (ECC) syndrome bits that are appended to each data record within a storage unit. With such codes, it is possible to correct a small amount of data that may be read erroneously. However, such codes are generally not suitable for correcting or recreating long records which are in error, and provide no remedy at all if a complete storage unit fails. Therefore, a need exists for providing data reliability external to individual storage units.A number of approaches to such "external" reliability have been described in the art. A research group at the University of California, Berkeley, in a paper entitled "A Case for Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks (RAID)", Patterson, et al., Proc. ACM SIGMOD, June 1988, has catalogued five different approaches for providing such reliability when using disk drives as
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A fault-tolerant power supply system for providing reliable power to a redundant array of failure-independent data storage units arranged in a plurality of channels, including: a plurality of independent power supplies, each coupled to the data storage units of a corresponding one of the channels of the redundant array.
2. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claim 1 , wherein the data storage units are coupled to at least two redundant controller means for controlling Read and Write operations to the data storage units, and wherein the outputs of the independent power supplies are summed together, the summed output being coupled to each redundant controller means.
3. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claim 1 , wherein the data storage units are coupled to at least two redundant controller means for controlling Read and Write operations to the data storage units, and wherein each controller means is coupled to a corresponding one of the independent power supplies.
4. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claim 1 , wherein the voltage of each power supply is substantially equal to the voltage required by each of the coupled data storage units.
5. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claim 1 , wherein the independent power supplies have a combined power output capability that is substantially equal to the combined maximum power requirements of all the coupled data storage units. 


6. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claim 1 , wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a RAID 1 system, such that for each data storage unit present in the redundant array having a set of stored data, there is one corresponding data storage unit having stored data, the stored data of each data storage unit being identical to the stored data of the corresponding data storage unit.
7. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claim 1 , wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a fault tolerant RAID redundancy group including any number of data storage units, each from a distinct channel, each of which stores data which can be used to reconstruct data stored in any one data storage unit within the redundancy group. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received bv the International Bureau on 28 September 1993 (28.09.93) ; original claim 1 deleted; original claims 2-7 amended and renumbered as claims 1-6; new claims 7-13 added (4 pages) ]
1. A fault-tolerant power supply system for providing reliable power to a data storage array, including: (a) a redundant array of failure-independent data storage units, arranged in a plurality of channels;
(b) a plurality of independent power supplies, each coupled to each data storage unit of a corresponding one of the channels of the redundant array; and (c) at least two redundant controllers, coupled to the data storage units, for controlling Read and Write operations to the data storage units; wherein the outputs of the independent power supplies are summed together, and the summed output is coupled to each redundant controller.
2. A fault-tolerant power supply system for providing reliable power to a data storage array, including:
(a) a redundant array of failure-independent data storage units, arranged in a plurality of channels; (b) a plurality of independent power supplies, each coupled to each data storage unit of a corresponding one of the channels of the redundant array; and
(c) at least two redundant controllers, coupled to the data storage units, for controlling Read and Write operations to the data storage units; wherein each controller is coupled to a separate one of such independent power supplies.
3. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the voltage of each power supply is substantially equal to the voltage required by each of the coupled data storage units. 


4. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the independent power supplies have a combined power output capability that is substantially equal to the combined maximum power requirements of all the coupled data storage units.
5. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a RAID 1 system, such that for each data storage unit present in the redundant array having a set of stored data, there is one corresponding data storage unit having stored data, the stored data of each data storage unit being identical to the stored data of the corresponding data storage unit. 

6. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as at least one fault tolerant RAID redundancy group, each redundancy group including at least two data storage units each from a distinct channel, each of such data storage units storing data which can be used to reconstruct data stored in any one data storage unit within the corresponding redundancy group.
7. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a RAID 1 system.
8. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a RAID 2 system.
9. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a RAID 3 system.
10. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a RAID 4 system.
11. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 2 or 3, wherein the redundant array of failure independent data storage units are arranged as a RAID 5 system.
12. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claim 5, wherein the voltage of each power supply is substantially equal to the voltage required by each of the coupled data storage units. 


13. The fault-tolerant power supply system of claims 4, wherein the independent power supplies have a combined power output capability that is substantially equal to the combined maximum power requirements of all the coupled data storage units. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
