<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656137</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SYSTEM CHARACTERIZATION AND ANALYSIS USING FINITE ELEMENT METHODS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1711	G06F1712	G06F1713	G06F1716	G06F1716	G06F1750	G06F1750	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for analyzing and producing systems based upon finite element modeling and partial differential equations is presented. The apparatus includes the capability for parallel processing and decomposition of a model into parts. The method permits a model to be assembled from parts stored in a memory or database. The model is produced by interconnecting into a package the partition subsystems through an interface. The system does not require processing of data relating to an entire model at a single time. It thus permits analyses to be performed with reduced processing times and memory capacity requirements.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARLSON DAVID V
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OCEANAUTES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OSANO MINETADA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CARLSON, DAVID, V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OCEANAUTES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
OSANO, MINETADA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSANO MINETADA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OSANO, MINETADA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DescriptionMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SYSTEM CHARACTERIZATION AND ANALYSIS USING FINITE ELEMENT METHODS 5Technical FieldThe present invention relates to a decomposition method and apparatus for solving partial differential equations and finite element modeling for analyzing a physical system using the decomposition method for solving a 10 linear system with topological or parallel processing.Background of the InventionIn a conventional scheme, when a numerical analysis of a physical phenomenon such as elastic structure analysis, thermal conductance analysis,15 heat transfer analysis, fluid flow analysis, electrical and magnetic field analysis on a computing machine including products or physical systems is performed by solving a partial differential equation, the finite element method (FEM) is one of the most widely used computer aided engineering tools. Thanks to the advent of large-scale computers, particularly supercomputers, the finite element method20 has become an extremely effective technique for analyzing phenomena such as large-scale structures or systems. Its range of applications continues to expand.The FEM method had its beginning as a method for structural analysis, but today it is used in the design and analysis of all kinds of product systems and physical systems.25 In terms of the analysis itself, the finite analysis method assumes that a system to be analyzed can be constructed from numerous elements hinging upon many nodes. A system of simultaneous equations discretized for these elements is created and their solution is calculated. For this system of simultaneous equations, the computing time and the memory requirements grow30 as the number of separate elements increases. Numerous researchers are working to reduce the memory requirements, but despite their efforts, the need,4 for ever larger memory capacity and computing time cannot be avoided.In an analysis using the FEM method, a two- or three-dimensional region to be drawn for a numerical calculation is divided into small regions35 called "meshes" or "elements" and linear equations approximately equivalent to partial differential equations are determined on the vertices called "nodes" of each element under the boundary condition. For example, in a set of linear 

equations that are determined for each node, one element is represented by the following expression which is described by balancing equations, which could represent, for example, an elastic structure analysis,where the subscript "q" shows the qth number of the element;
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CJajms
I claim:
1. An apparatus for analyzing a physical or produced system based on linear systems applied to a terminal part system (TPS) based on a decomposition method for finite element modeling or partial differential modeling, comprising: an input device for receiving information data on a number and shape for decomposing a modeling system to input parts; a generating part device which decomposes a modeling system to a number of parts using the information data; a solver(a) device for each said part; a generating node block which arranges nodes on an object, selects a node for deciding itself, numbers its node as a kth node; a generating element block which constructs only elements of relating to the selected kth node by dividing an object in accordance with a design of the shape data and numbers its elements; a generating element equation block for generating element equations from the elements generated above; an assembly means for assembling the element equations connected to a selected node; a memory block for storing the assembled element equations; a generating block for generating nodal equations which generates the nodal equations for the kth node by selecting the equations connected to the node from the element equations stored in memory block; a PSS equation-making block which assembles the node equations and boundary conditions of kth node into a basic PSS equation; a PSS equation-determining block; a memory block for storing the basic PSS equation; a judgment block for determining if the kth node is the final node. a solver(b) device for each said processing part; a means for producing an interface terminal part for each part; a means for producing a package for groups of similar part; a means for producing an interface terminal part from the package; a solver(c) device for assembling the interface terminal part to produce a system of equations representative of the system before decomposition; a solver(d) device for each said processing part; 


 a means for determining the state of the interface terminal nodes and all nodes by backsolving technique; a storing device for storing a basic PSS equation of each said processing part; and
. representing device for presenting the simulation result obtained.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for analyzing the physical or produced systems based on the linear systems or nonlinear systems, including dynamical systems or time depending systems operates by applying the terminal parts system (TPS) to finite element modeling or partial differential modeling.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: means for iteratively processing until a solution within a predetermined error is obtained for nonlinear system; a solving device for solving large scale matrices having nonzero components or a diagonal band structure of nonzero components.
4. The combination of claim 1, further comprising a means for performing parallel processing on each said processing part.
5. A method for analyzing a physical system using linear equations with finite element modeling or partial differential modeling, comprising the steps of:
(a) inputting information data as to the number and the shape for decomposing a system model to parts;
(b) generating parts decomposed from a system model in accordance with the information data;
(c) arranging nodes of the object to be analyzed in accordance with information of input data;
(d) numbering the arranged nodes;
(e) selecting one node as a kth node to be determined where k is 1 for the first node selected and subsequent nodes are incremented;
(f) constructing only elements connected to the selected kth node within the modeling system data;
(g) numbering the elements constructed;
(h) generating element equations for all elements generated based on a partial differential equation; 


 (i) storing the element equations in memory;
(j) generating nodal equations for the selected kth node by selecting the equations in respect of kth node from the element equations stored in memory ;
(k) assembling the nodal equations and boundary conditions of the kth node into a basic PSS equation;
(1) finding a solution to the basic PSS equation;
(m) storing the solution to the basic PSS equation in memory;
(n) judging the state in reference with the condition that, if the kth node is not last node, returning to step (d) and repeating steps (b) to (m) until the kth node is the last node or if kth node is the last node, then ending the simulation process and outputting the analyzed results.
(o) producing a terminal part by decomposing the object to be analyzed to produce an interface terminal part.
(p) producing with a solver(b) device the interface terminal part from the terminal part;
(q) producing the package by gathering similar parts;
(r) producing the interface terminal parts from the package;
(s) assembling the interface terminal parts with solver(c) device to recover an original system;
(t) determining the state of the interface terminal nodes and all nodes by backsolving for each said processing parts;
(u) storing a basic PSS equation of each processing part; and
(v) outputting an indication of the physical characteristics of the physical system.
6. The method as recited in claim 5 wherein the step of generating said parts comprises the step of decomposing a modeling system to parts which have a group according to physical similarities
7. The method as recited in claim 5, further comprising the steps of: generating a basic PSS equation for the part wherein the terminal part is constructed from three kinds of variable vector groups, including an internal variable group isolated from the interface nodes of other parts, said an internal terminal variable group having internal terminal variables directly connected with the interface terminal variable and an external terminal variable group including external terminal variables connected to the interface nodes of other parts; and 


 wherein generating the terminal part includes the step of generating the interface terminal parts for the part without the interface terminal from the terminal part.
8. The method as recited in claim 7, further including parallel processing of nodes and generating method for generating the terminal parts in parallel.
9. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein generating the interface terminal parts comprises the steps of: selecting the internal terminal variable from the decided variable and external terminal variable from the undecided variable in the basic PSS equation; producing the relation between the internal terminal variables and the external terminal variables for the interface terminal part; and including a constant vector with the boundary conditions.
10. The method as recited in claim 9 wherein generating the package comprises the steps of: examining whether other parts have the constructive similarity; grouping the similar parts in the package; adding in the common status of similar parts to the adjustable new nodes for adjusting the difference nodes or construction and boundary conditions in all similar parts; repeating steps (d) to (q) of claim 5; generating a basic PSS equation for the part wherein the terminal part is constructed from three kinds of variable vector groups, including an internal variable group isolated from the interface nodes of other parts, said an internal terminal variable group having internal terminal variables directly connected with the interface terminal variable and an external terminal variable group including external terminal variables connected to the interface nodes of other parts; generating the interface terminal part; and storing the package in memory.
11. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein producing the terminable parts from the package comprises the step of setting adjustable variables to fixed values for the similar part groups in the package. 


 12. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein assembly of the interface terminal part for recovering an original system comprises the steps of: connecting the internal terminal of each ith part to the external terminal of each other jth parts to each other on the interface terminal; connecting the external terminal of ith parts and internal terminal of the jth parts to each other on the interface terminal; determining the variables relating to the connected terminals using a PSS technique; and producing a new interface terminal part connecting the ith and jth interface parts.
13. The method as recited in claim 12, including sequentially generating the newly constituted interface terminal parts.
14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of generating the newly constituted interface terminal parts is performed by parallel processing.
15. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein the step of generating the newly constituted interface parts is performed by hierarchical processing.
16. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein determining the internal variable vector for each part comprises the step of substituting the value of the determined external variable vector into the external variable of the interface terminal part produced through backsolving and substituting the determining external vector into each basic PSS equation of each part, thereby determining the external variables of the parts.
17. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of generating the part comprises the steps of : producing parts separately and independently; storing the produced parts in storage memory or in storing on memory disks as a database of parts; and retrieving the stored parts directly from the storage device without consuming processing time. 


 18. The combination of claim 1 wherein said device is operative to analyze coupled systems, the coupled systems formed by combining a number of the different physical systems.
19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the coupled systems comprise a plurality of different systems selected from the group of structural systems, fluid systems, mechanical systems and electrical systems.
20. The combination of claim 18 wherein finite element modeling or partial differential modeling relate to analyses selected from the group of nonlinear analysis, transient, analysis, dynamics analysis, time domain analysis and interaction analysis. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
