<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637057</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for depositing metal fine lines on a substrate
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2102	B23K2600	B23K306	H01L2100	H01L21288	H01L310224	B23K306	H05K312	H01L213205	H01L21768	B23K2600	H01L310224	H05K312	H01L2170	H01L2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	B23K	B23K	H01L	H01L	H01L	B23K	H05K	H01L	H01L	B23K	H01L	H05K	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L21	B23K26	B23K3	H01L21	H01L21	H01L31	B23K3	H05K3	H01L21	H01L21	B23K26	H01L31	H05K3	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention is concerned with the method and apparatus 
for forming a desired pattern of a material of either the 

conductive or non conductive type on a great variety of 
substrates. It is based on the use of a pen which essentially 

consists of a refractory tip wetted with the material 
in the molten state. The pen (10) first consists of a 

pointed tungsten tip (11) attached, e.g. by micro welding, 
to the top of a V-shaped tungsten heater (12), forming an 

assembly (14). The tip and the heater top portion are 
roughened at the vicinity of the welding point (13). In 

turn, the extremities of the V-shaped heater are welded to 
the pins (16, 16') of a 3-lead TO-5 package base (15). The 

pen (10) is incorporated in an apparatus adapted to the 
direct writing technique. To that end, the pen is attached 

to a supporting device capable of movements in the X, Y 
and Z directions, while the substrate is placed on an X-Y 

stage for adequate X, Y and Z relative movements 
therebetween. The two pins of the pen are connected to a 

power supply to resistively heat the heater. When the 
welding point of the tip/heater assembly reaches the melting 

point temperature of the material to be deposited, it 
is dipped in a crucible containing the said material in 

the molten state. The welding point nucleates a minute 
drop of the liquid material thus forming a reservoir. A 

thin film of the liquid material flows from the reservoir 
and wets the whole tip surface. Finally, the wetted tip is 

gently brought into contact with the substrate and deposition 
of the material can take place, as soon as the substrate 

is adequately moved, to produce the said desired 
pattern. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
IBM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORSAY PHYSICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ORSAY PHYSICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORBIN ANTOINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEMONCY PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOULU JACQUES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUDRAUD PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORBIN, ANTOINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEMONCY, PHILIPPE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOULU, JACQUES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUDRAUD, PIERRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and an apparatus 
for depositing various materials of either the conductive 
or non conductive type on a great variety of substrates. 
It more particularly relates to a method and an apparatus 
for the direct writing of a desired conductive pattern of 
metallic conductors on an insulating substrate, based on 
the use of a pen which essentially consists of a refractory 
tip wetted with the metal in the molten state. In a 
specific application to VLSI semiconductor integrated 
circuit (IC) chips, the use of an extremely thin pointed 
tip results in the formation of ultra-fine lines of pure 
metal. The deposition process is performed at relatively 
high speed and produces thick lines with an excellent 
resolution. Different conventional methods have been employed so far 
to form patterns of a conductive material on a substrate 
in connection with the fabrication or repair of semiconductor 
IC chips. As a matter of fact, it is often necessary 
to form patterns of a conductive material on a semiconductor 
structure at different times of the chip fabrication, 
to provide the necessary contacts, electrodes, and 
conductors (or lines) that are required to meet the various 
connection/interconnection needs. Conductive materials 
include doped polysilicon, low melting point metals such 
as aluminum (Al) or metal alloys such as aluminum-silicon 
(Al-Si), gold-silicon (Au-Si), and refractory metals such 
as tungsten (W), tantalum (Ta), and chromium (Cr). However, 
low melting point metals and metal alloys are by far,  
 
the most employed conductive materials in the semiconductor 
industry. A typical method of forming patterns of metal is to combine 
lithography and a deposition techniques. E-beam evaporation 
or sputtering deposition and lift-off lithography 
are the standard techniques used to date. Typically, a 
thick photoresist layer is first formed onto the semiconductor 
structure. The resist is exposed using a photomask. 
This exposure step serves to trace a predetermined pattern 
in the resist inducing localized chemical reactions in the 
exposed regions. Then, the resist layer is developed in a 
suitable solvent, and the exposed regions (in case of a 
positive resist) are removed. Next, a metal layer is blanket 
sputtered onto the structure. Finally, the remaining 
portions of the resist layer are removed, leaving the 
desired complementary metal pattern on the structure surface. The above described method is extensively used in the 
industrial production of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (20) for the direct writing of a desired 
pattern of a given material onto a substrate (23) 

having a major surface comprising: 

substrate support means (24) for supporting said 
substrate; 
a solid cone-shaped tip (11) made of a refractory material 
whose melting temperature is superior to the 

melting temperature of the material to be 
deposited, the external surface of said tip being capable to be 

wetted by said material in the molten state; 
tip supporting means (12,15,26) adapted for 
maintaining the tip apex (18) above the said 

major surface of the substrate and at a 
determined spacing distance (h) therefrom while moving 

along directions parallel to the substrate 
supply means (19a) for feeding the external 
surface of the tip including its apex with a film 

(19b) of said material in the molten state by 
capillary forces; 
heating means (12) for maintaining the said film 
slightly above the melting temperature of said 

material; and, 
controlled drive means (25,31) for producing 
relative movements between said substrate and the 

tip. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heating means are 
selected in the group including : electron bom bardment, 

laser bombardment, induction heating and resistive 
heating.  

 
The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said heating means is 
resistive heating means. 
The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said tip supporting 
means includes a tip holding means (17). 
The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said tip holding means 
essentially consists of a TO-5 package base (15) 

provided with two pins (16,16'). 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein the material 
forming said tip is a refractory metal. 
The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the refractory metal is 
tungsten. 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said resistive heat ing 
means consists of a heater (12) made of a V- shaped wire 

of tungsten whose top is welded to the extremity of said 
tip opposite to the apex at a weld ing point (13) and 

whose two others extremities are welded to the 
extremities (16a,16'a) of said pins (16,16') embedded in 

said base for connection to a controlled power supply 
(33). 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said resistive heat ing 
means consists of a heater made of a coil of a tungsten 

wire whose two extremities are welded to the extremities 
(16a,16'a) of the said pins (16,16') and wherein the 

extremity of the tip which is opposite to the apex is 
welded to a winding of the said coil, so that the 

welding point (13) is located at approxi mately in the 
middle of said coil. 
The apparatus of claim 8 or 9 wherein the tip andthe 
heater surface at the vicinity of the said welding point 

has the capability to nucleate a certain amount of the 
when dipped in the material in the molten state, said  

 
amount, in turn, forms a reservoir (19a) of the same 

that wets the tip, when the latter is heated at the 
material melting point temperature. 
The apparatus of any above claim 10 wherein said 
external surface is roughened. 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein said tip 
supporting means (26) is adapted to provide fine 

movements to the tip in the Z direction. 
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said tip supporting 
means further includes a piezo device (29) affixed on a 

module block (30) and having an arm (28) attached to 
said holding means (17). 
The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said piezo device is 
adapted to provide fine movement of the tip in the Z 

direction. 
The apparatus of claim 13 or 14 wherein said piezo 
device is adapted to provide vibrations to the tip. 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein said tip 
supporting means further includes means to provide 

coarse movement in the Z direction to the tip. 
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said means to provide 
coarse movement includes a stepping motor in the module 

block. 
The apparatus of any above claim further including a 
vacuum chamber means (21) connected to a vacuum pump 

(22) for enclosing said apparatus in a clean atmo 
sphere. 
The apparatus of any above claim further including 
crucible means (35) for containing said material (34) in  

 
the molten state. 
The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said crucible means 
are enclosed within said vacuum chamber. 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein said sub strate 
support means comprises an X-Y stage. 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein said sub strate 
support means comprises a moving belt. 
The apparatus of any above claim further including 
current generator means connected to said tip for 

micro-arc welding when a metallic substrate is used. 
The apparatus of any above claim further comprising 
probing means. 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein said materi al 
is selected in the group comprising conductors, 

insulators, semiconductors and superconductors. 
The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said conductors are 
selected in the group of low melting point metals and 

metal alloys, and refractory metals. 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein said sub strate 
is selected in the group including semiconduc tors, 

insulators and metals. 
The apparatus of any above claim wherein said solid 
cone-shaped tip is selected in the group including: 

pointed tips, post shaped tips, needle-shaped tips, 
brush- like tips and doctor-blade tips. 
Method for depositing a given material onto a sub strate 
having a major surface according to a desired pattern 

comprising the steps of:  
 


providing a substrate (23) having a major surface 
located in a determined plane; 
providing a solid one-shaped tip (11) the external 
surface of which including its apex is totally 

wetted by a film (19b) of said material in the 
molten state contained in a reservoir adjacent to 

said external surface and capable to nucleate a 
certain amount thereof; 
gently applying the wetted tip against the substrate 
surface so that the tip apex is maintained 

above said major surface of the substrate at a 
determined spacing distance (b) therefrom; and, 
selectively providing a relative movement between 
the tip and the substrate to cause said material 

to be deposited onto said substrate according the 
desired pattern (40), the tip moving along directions 

parallel to the substrate. 
The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of:
 
   applying a vibratory movement to the tip to 

improve adherence of the deposited material. 
The method of any claim 29 or 30 further comprising the 
step of:
 
   applying micro discharges to the tip. 
The method of any above claim 29 to 31 wherein said 
material is selected in the group comprising conduc 

tors, insulators, semiconductors and superconductors. 
The method of claim 32 wherein said conductors are 
selected in the group of low melting point metals and 

metal alloys, and refractory metals.  
 
The method of any claim claim 29 to 33 wherein said 
substrate is selected in the group including semicon 

ductors, insulators and metals. 
The method of any above claim 29 to 34 wherein the tip 
is made of a refractory metal such as tungsten. 
Application of the method as recited in any above claim 
29 to 35 to the forming of conductive intercon nection 

lines in a VLSI semiconductor chip. 
Application of the method as recited in any above claim 
29 to 35 to the deposition of an opaque material in the 

repair of photomasks consisting of an opaque pattern 
formed onto a glass substrate that are used in the 

photolithographic steps in the course of semiconductor 
wafer processing. 
Application of the method as recited in any above claim 

29 to 35 to the deposition of conductive inter 
connection lines in the customization of VLSI IC chips. 
Application of the method as recited in any above claim 
29 to 35 to the deposition of conductive inter 

connection lines in the small volume production of VLSI 
IC chips. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
