<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629166</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AERODYNAMIC PRESSURE SENSOR SYSTEMS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B64D4500	B64D4500	G01P500	G01P500	G01P514	G01P514	G01P1302	G01P1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B64D	B64D	G01P	G01P	G01P	G01P	G01P	G01P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B64D45	B64D45	G01P5	G01P5	G01P5	G01P5	G01P13	G01P13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An aircraft structural component (13) which during flight of the aircraft produces over a predetermined frontal region (22) thereof aerodynamic pressures thereon which vary in a predetermined manner in response to predetermined variations in an aerodynamic state or states of the aircraft includes an aerodynamic pressure sensor system comprising a sensor array (25) of pressure sensitive elements (26) which occupy predetermined locations in the frontal region and each of which generates an output signal representative of the aerodynamic pressure at the location and signal generating means responsive to the output signals to generate by reference to the aerodynamic pressures which the output signals represent a condition signal or signals representing variations in the aerodynamic state or one or more of the aerodynamic states of the aircraft. The sensor systems are included in wing and tail fin structures.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHORT BROTHERS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHORT BROTHERS PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNDU AJOY KUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNDU, AJOY KUMAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AERODYNAMIC PRESSURE SENSOR SYSTEMSThe present invention relates to aerodynamic pressure sensor systems for sensing aerodynamic pressures applied to a component movable relative to a surrounding gaseous medium and is particularly although not exclusively concerned with sensor systems for use on control surface components of an aircraft such as wing and fin structures where the aerodynamic pressures thereon vary over the surface in response to predetermined variations in one or more aerodynamic states of the component in relation to the medium.One such aerodynamic state is the airspeed of the aircraft which is required for all aircraft. The current practice is to use pitot heads for this purpose.Other aerodynamic states are angle of incidence, α, and its time rate of change, α, which are also required for more sophisticated aircraft, and which are obtained by means of separate systems eg, vanes.Pitot heads and vanes both cause drag, are easily damaged, require duplication for redundancy and are relatively difficult to maintain and integrate with on¬ board computers for data management.A pitot head is a hollow tube that projects forward into the incident airflow and measures the total pressure of the airflow. Because it protudes from the surface it causes additional drag and is liable to damage, particularly on the ground. It is relatively cumbersome to integrate with an overall airdata system, and it requires rigorous maintenance and a separate installation for redundancy. 

 A separate sensing system consisting of a vane mounted on a protruding rod measures the aircraft angle of incidence, α, and its time rate of change, α. It is however also prone to accidental damage and causes additional drag.The use of Fly-by-Wire (FB ) technology in most all new aircraft designs requires information on and , as well as other information, such as sideslip angle. Also in increasing demand is information on the aircraft attitude. Furthermore, there is at present no way to determine in-flight wing deformation due to aeroelastic effects and there is no on-board information on aircraft trimmability.Furthermore, at Mach numbers above 4 (hypersonic flight) the pitot heads and vane systems become impracticable to use.For incompressible flow, which can be assumed for low sub-sonic flight, airspeed measurement makes use of the classical Bernouli's equation which relates total pressure, Pτ, and local static pressure, Ps, to the free stream velocity Vβ as follows:p - p = in v2 where pβ is the free stream air density, orPτ - Ps
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A component movable relative to a surrounding gaseous medium to produce over a predetermined face region thereof aerodynamic pressures thereon which vary in a predetermined manner in response to predetermined variations in an aerodynamic state or states of the component in relation to the medium, wherein the component includes an aerodynamic pressure sensor system comprising a sensor array of pressure sensitive elements which occupy predetermined locations in the face region and each of which generates an output signal representative of the aerodynamic pressure at the location and signal generating means responsive to the output signals to generate by reference to the aerodynamic pressures which the output signals represent a condition signal representing variations in the aerodynamic state or one or more of the aerodynamic states of the component in relation to the medium.
2. A component according to claim 1, wherein the component has a leading edge profile formed by a frontal profile surface which extends outwardly and rearwardly from a predetermined reference plane and wherein the predetermined face region occupied by the sensor array lies in the frontal profile surface.
3. A component according to claim 2, wherein the the sensor array so extends over the frontal profile surface as to provide pressure sensitive elements on the frontal profile surface on each side of the reference plane.
4. A component according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the frontal profile surface of the component is such as 


 to create on the surface an aerodynamic stagnation pressure, the position of which is subject to variation over the surface in response to the predetermined variations in the aerodynamic state or states of the component in relation to the medium and wherein the sensor array so extends over the frontal profile surface that the pressure sensitive elements are responsive to the variations in the position of the stagnation pressure.
5. A component according to any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the pressure sensitive element
'
s are so located as to form a column of pressure sensitive elements in the face region.
6. A component according to claim 5, wherein the pressure sensitive elements of the array are so located as to form one or more further columns of pressure sensitive elements in the face region.
7. A component according to claim 6, wherein each element of the first column of elements forms with each corresponding element of the other column or each of the other columns of elements a row of elements extending over the face region in a direction transverse to the columns of elements.
8. A component according to claim 7, wherein the sensor array comprises pressure sensitive elements so arranged as to form a multiplicity of columns of elements and a multiplicity of rows of elements.
9. A component according to claim 8 as appendent to claim 6 or 7 wherein the columns of elements are juxtaposed in the array. 


 10. A component according to any of claims 5 to 9 wherein the elements are juxtaposed in the column or each column.
11. A component according to any of claims 5 to 10, wherein the sensor array is so positioned over the frontal profile surface that the pressure sensitive elements of the or each column of elements extend over the frontal profile surface on each side of the reference plane.
12. A component according to any of claims 2 to 11, wherein the signal generating means generates in response to the output signals a condition signal representing the speed of the component relative to the medium by reference to the aerodynamic pressures over the frontal profile surface represented by the output signals.
13. A component according to any of claims 2 to 12, wherein the component has a component profile which includes the leading edge profile and a trailing edge profile, wherein the predetermined reference plane passes through the centres of curvature of the leading edge profile and the trailing edge profile and wherein the component profile is such as to generate lift for predetermined angles of incidence of the reference plane to the direction of advance movement of the component with respect to the medium.
14. A component according to claim 13, wherein the component is an aircraft main supporting surface component.
15. A component according to claim 14, wherein the signal generating means generates in response to the 


 output signals from the pressure sensitive elements an incidence signal representing the angle of incidence of the component as measured between .the reference plane and the direction of an advance movement of the component relative to the medium.
16. A component according to claim 15, wherein the signal generating means generates in response to the output signals an angle of incidence rate signal representing a time rate of change of the angle of incidence of the component with respect to the medium.
17. A component according to any of claims 2 to 12, wherein the component is a vertically arranged aircraft control surface component providing directional stability of the aircraft and having a component profile which includes the leading edge profile and a trailing edge profile, wherein the predetermined reference plane passes through the centres of curvature of the leading edge profile and the trailing edge profile and wherein the component profile is such as to generate stabilising side thrust for predetermined angles of incidence of the reference plane to the direction of advance movement of the component with respect to the medium.
18. A component according to claim 17, wherein the signal generating means generates in response to the output signals an angle of sideslip signal representing the angle of side slip of the component as measured between the reference plane and the direction of advance movement of the component relative to the medium.
19. A component according to any of claims 13 to 18, wherein the component is an elongate component which extends in a direction transverse to the direction of 


 advance movement of the component relative to the medium and which is so shaped as to provide under predetermined load conditions and during relative advance movement with respect to the medium angles of incidence which vary along the transverse direction, wherein the sensor array comprises a first sensor sub array which extends over the frontal profile surface of the component at a predetermined first location thereof and a second sensor sub-array which extends over the frontal profile surface at a location spaced in the transverse direction from the first predetermined location and wherein the signal generating means generates in response to the output signals from the pressure sensitive elements of the two sub-arrays incidence signals representing the angle of incidence of the component at each of the locations, whereby an angle of twist signal can be generated to represent the angle of twist of the component between the two locations.
20. A component according to claim 19, wherein the component is an aircraft main supporting surface or control surface component to be cantilevered from an aircraft body and wherein the first sub-array is located in a root region of the component and the second sub- array is located in a tip region of the component.
21. An aircraft including one or more components according to any of claims 1 to 20.
22. An aircraft according to claim 21, and including a main supporting
'
 surface component according to claim 14, 15 or 16.
23. An aircraft according to claim 21 and including a vertically arranged control surface component according 


 to claim 17 or 18 .
24. An aircraft according to claim 21 including a main supporting surface component according to claim 14, 15 or 16 and a vertically arranged control surface component according to claim 17 or 18.
25. An aircraft component substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figs 1 to 4 or 5 and 6 of the accompanying drawings.
26. An aircraft substantially as hereinbefore described with Figs 1 to 6 and including an air data handling system substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Fig 7. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
