<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628176</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WAVEGUIDE HOLOGRAPHIC TELLTALE DISPLAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60K3500	B60K3500	G02B530	G02B530	G02B600	G02B600	G02B2700	G02B2700	G02B2701	G02B2701	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60K	B60K	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60K35	B60K35	G02B5	G02B5	G02B6	G02B6	G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	G02B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A waveguide holographic telltale display (50) for displaying images to a vehicle driver via the vehicle windshield. A light source (56) injects light into the base of a clear inner windshield singlet (52). A mirror hologram (62b) between the inner (52) and outer (54) singlets confines a majority of the injected light to the inner singlet (52). An image hologram between the windshield singlets (52, 54) diffracts light out to the vehicle driver. A halfwave plate (66) between the image hologram (62) and the inner singlet (52) reduces ghosting and allows the driver to view the images even through polarized sunglasses. IR light is blocked by a tinted outer singlet (54) or a holographic solar coating (64). The display (50) does not suffer from ambient turn from the sun, and the light source (56) is hidden away from the vehicle dash.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH RONALD T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, RONALD, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WAVEGUIDE HOLOGRAPHIC TELLTALE DISPLAYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates to holographic displays for projecting head-up images onto a vehicle windshield. A floodlit holographic telltale display, as described in U.S. Patents 4,790,613 and 4,795,223 is capable of producing a set of bright, uniform, multi-colored virtual images in the plane of the windshield. In U.S. Patent 4,790,613 the holograms are illuminated by the output from optical fibers.The holographic telltale display has two disadvan¬ tages. It suffers from ambient turn-on, which is caused by light from the sun passing through the telltale hologram, having 4% reflection off the lower windshield glass/air interface, and illuminating the telltale hologram which diffracts the light to the driver. In addition, objection¬ able virtual images of the light source or holes cut through the dashboard to pass the light to the windshield case can be reflected off the windshield. Ideally, the car manufacturers want to make the dash featureless except for the uniform corrugated visual texture of the dashboard material. Putting holes in the dash for the light sources create a discontinuity in the veiling glare brightness pattern. Therefore, it would be advantageous to provide a display which had all of the advantages of the floodlit 

telltale display but without the disadvantages described above.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONA display in accordance with this invention includes a means for injecting light into the base of a clear windshield, a holographic mirror which confines the light to the bottom windshield singlet, an image hologram which diffracts light out to the driver, a halfwave plate to reduce the ghosting and allow polarized sunglasses to be used by the driver, and a means for blocking IR light from entering the car, such as a tinted upper windshield singlet, a dielectric solar coating or a holographic solar coating.The unique combination of trapped beam technology with a halfwave film layer, a solar control hologram, a mirror hologram, and clear glass permits a previously unattainable display to be achieved. The display allows static holo- graphic images to appear in the plane of the windshield, and provides the advantages of preventing ambient turn-on from the sun, and hiding the bulbs from view, away from the dash, to avoid annoying virtual images of the bulbs in the dash.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGThese and other features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A waveguide holographic telltale display for projecting images via a vehicle windshield comprising inner and outer windshield singlets, comprising: means for injecting light into the base of said inner windshield singlet; a telltale image hologram disposed at a predeter¬ mined area between said singlets for diffracting light injected into said inner singlet out toward the vehicle driver; and a holographic mirror disposed between said inner and outer singlets for confining said injected light from entering said outer singlet, and wherein said holographic mirror does not extend over said predeter¬ mined area.
2. The display of Claim 1 further comprising means for blocking infrared light from entering said vehicle through said windshield.
3. The display of Claim 2 wherein said infrared blocking means comprises tinting means for tinting said outer singlet.
4. The display of Claim 2 wherein said infrared blocking means comprises a dielectric solar coating applied between said outer and inner singlets.
5. The display of Claim 1 wherein said means for injecting light into said singlet base comprises a light source and a light colli ating means for collimating the light from said source. 


 6. The display of Claim 5 wherein said means for injecting light into said singlet base further comprises a wedged prism attached to lower singlet base for directing said collimated light into said base.
7. The display of Claim 1 wherein said holographic mirror comprises a photopolymer zero-degree reflection hologram.
8. The display of Claim 1 further comprising a polyvinyl butyral (PVB) layer disposed between said singlets, and wherein said halfwave plate comprises a polyvinyl alcohol halfwave film disposed between said PVB layer and said holographic mirror and image hologram.
9. The display of Claim 1 wherein said holographic mirror and said telltale image hologram are fabricated within a single hologram layer.
10. A waveguide holographic telltale display for projecting images via a vehicle windshield comprising inner and outer windshield singlets, comprising: means for injecting light into the base of said inner windshield singlet; a telltale image hologram disposed at a predeter¬ mined area between said singlets for diffracting light injected into said inner singlet out toward the vehicle driver; a holographic mirror disposed between said inner and outer singlets for confining said injected light from entering said outer singlet, and wherein said holographic mirror does not extend over said predeter¬ mined area; and 


 17
a halfwave plate disposed between said hologram and said inner singlet for reduction of ghost telltale images.
11. The display of Claim 10 further comprising means for blocking infrared light from entering said vehicle through said windshield.
12. The display of Claim 11 wherein said infrared blocking means comprises tinting means for tinting said outer singlet.
13. The display of Claim 11 wherein said infrared blocking means comprises a dielectric solar coating applied between said outer and inner singlets.
14. The display of Claim 10 wherein said means for injecting light into said singlet base comprises a light source and a light collimating means for collimating the light from said source.
15. The display of Claim 14 wherein said means for injecting light into said singlet base further comprises a wedged prism attached to lower singlet base for directing said collimated light into said base.
16. The display of Claim 10 wherein said holographic mirror comprises a photopolymer zero-degree reflection hologram.
17. The display of Claim 10 wherein said halfwave plate comprises a polyvinyl alcohol halfwave film. 


 18. The display of Claim 10 further comprising a PVB layer disposed between said singlets, and wherein said halfwave plate comprises a polyvinyl alcohol halfwave film disposed between said PVB layer and said holographic mirror and image hologram.
19. The display of Claim 10 wherein said holographic mirror and said telltale image hologram are fabricated within a single hologram layer.
20. A waveguide holographic display, comprising: a vehicle windshield comprising a clear inner singlet and an outer singlet; means for injecting light into said inner singlet; an image hologram disposed at a predetermined display area between said singlets for diffracting light injected into said inner singlet toward a vehicle occupant to form an image; holographic mirror means disposed between said inner and outer singlets between said light emitting means and said display area for confining said light from entering said outer singlet, wherein light travels within said inner singlet by total internal reflection from said light injecting means to said display area; and a halfwave layer disposed between said image hologram and said inner singlet for reduction of ghost images.
21. The display of Claim 20 further comprising means for blocking infrared light from entering said vehicle through said windshield. 


 22. The display of Claim 21 wherein said infrared blocking means comprises tinting means for tinting said outer singlet.
23. The display of Claim 21 wherein said infrared blocking means comprises a dielectric reflective solar coating applied between said outer and inner singlets.
24. The display of Claim 21 wherein said infrared blocking means comprises a infrared reflective hologram layer disposed between said singlets.
25. The display of Claim 20 wherein said means for injecting light into said singlet comprises a light source and a light collecting means for directing the light from said source toward said singlet.
26. The display of Claim 25 wherein said light collecting means further comprises a wedged prism attached to a base of said inner singlet for directing said collect¬ ed light into said base.
27. The display of Claim 25 wherein said light source comprises an incandescent lamp.
28. The display of Claim 20 wherein said image hologram comprises a photopolymer zero-degree reflection hologram layer.
29. The display of Claim 20 wherein said halfwave layer comprises a polyvinyl alcohol halfwave film.
30. The display of 28 further comprising a polyvinyl butyral (PVB) layer disposed between said halfwave layer and said image hologram. 


 20
31. The display of Claim 20 wherein said holographic mirror and said image hologram are fabricated within a single hologram layer.
32. The display of Claim 20 further comprising an infrared reflective solar control hologram means disposed between said singlets outside said image region, and wherein said infrared reflective hologram means, said image hologram and said mirror hologram are fabricated as a single hologram layer.
33. The display of Claim 20 wherein said image comprises a telltale image indicative of vehicle status information.
34. A waveguide holographic display, comprising: a transparent light waveguide for transmitting light by total internal reflection along the interior of said waveguide from a light input area to an image area, said waveguide having opposed first and second surfaces for creating opposed air/waveguide interfaces which are capable of totally reflecting light incident on said interfaces from within said waveguide; a light source for injecting light into said waveguide at said light input area, wherein said injected light propagates along the interior of said waveguide from said input area to said image area; an image hologram disposed against said first waveguide surface at said image area for diffracting light injected into said waveguide toward said second surface at angles to permit said diffracted light to transmit through said second surface and out of said waveguide; and 


 a halfwave layer disposed adjacent said second layer at said image area for reduction of ghost images.
35. The display of Claim 34 wherein said waveguide first surface is disposed adjacent the inner surface of a vehicle windshield, with an air gap between said inner surface and said first surface.
36. The display of Claim 34 wherein said light source comprises an incandescent lamp, a reflector and a wedged prism attached to said waveguide at said input area for directing light generated by said lamp into said waveguide.
37. The display of Claim 34 wherein said waveguide comprises a transparent plastic waveguide member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
