<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617796</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A DIGITAL BEAMFORMING ARRAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S702	G01S1387	G01S1300	G01S702	H01Q326	H01Q338	G01S1348	H01Q330	H01Q326	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	H01Q	H01Q	G01S	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S7	G01S13	G01S13	G01S7	H01Q3	H01Q3	G01S13	H01Q3	H01Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A digital beamforming array for use in radar applications and particularly in radar applications that used phased array technology. The array receives an incoming signal at a plurality of sensor modules, converts them to intermediate frequency, and then converts the intermediate frequency signals to n-bit (preferably 1-bit) digital signals at an oversampling rate, where n is less than the number of bits required to represent the dynamic range of the intermediate frequency signal. The n-bit digital signals are then beamformed by altering their relative phases and combining them to form a resultant n-bit digital signal which is then converted to a digital signal of the number of bits required to represent the dynamic range of the intermediate frequency signal. An advantage of the present invention is that it reduces the complexity and thus the cost of the digitising hardware required.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SECR DEFENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEAN MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEAN, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a digital beamforming array for use in radar applications and in
particular in radar applications that use phased array technology.In many radar applications there is increasing evidence that the next generation of
sensors will use active phased array technology. Such sensors comprise an array of
modules, each having its own independent transmitter and receiver. Electronically
steered transmit and receive beams can be generated by suitable phasing of the input and
output signals of the modules. This enables rapid beam steering without moving
mechanical parts, giving enhanced potential for multi-mode operation and/or low cost
implementation. Numerous developments of this technique have been described in the
prior art. For example US 4 688 045 describes such phased array beamsteering, the
phasing being achieved by selectively delaying the output of each module. The delays
required are determined by a novel algorithm which relates these delays to the desired
steering direction.An important extension of active array technology is the technique of digital
beamforming. Here each module has a dedicated analogue to digital converter and the
beamforming process is accomplished in the digital domain. EP 0 224 014 is concerned
with medical ultrasound imaging in which a high level of focusing accuracy is required.
This document discloses the use of non-uniform sampling rates across array components
in order to overcome the limitation of time delay resolution to the sampling period, and
corresponding bandwidth limitation to one half the sampling rate of the analogue to
digital convener.One particular analogue to digital converter usable in both radar and ultrasonic
applications is the delta sigma converter. Such converters are described in more detail
hereinbelow and in JP 3 114 449. Briefly, they comprise a high-speed one-bit analogue
to digital converter (a delta sigma tracker) and a decimating filter which converts this
one-bit data to a multi-bit output. JP 3 114 449 discloses how a reduction in complexity 
of phased array ultrasonic devices can be achieved by implementing the time delays at the
one-bit stage. The delayed one-bit data streams are summed in an adder and the
decimating filer is then applied to the adder output. Conventionally the time delays had
been applied to the multi-bit delta sigma converter outputs. Since only a single
decimating filter is used, rather than one per channel as used in the conventional method,
the device described in JP 3 114 449 achieves an overall
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A digital beamforming array including:

(a) a plurality of sensor modules (8, 10) for generating intermediate frequency (IF)
signals from received signals;
(b) digitising means (4) to convert the IF signals to n-bit digital signals at an
oversampling rate, where n is less than the number of bits required to represent

the IF signal dynamic range;
(c) beamforming means (14, 16) for altering the phases of the digital signals relative
to one another and combining them to form a resultant signal; and
(d) decimating means (6) for converting the resultant signal to a multi-bit signal
with a number of bits equal to at least that required to represent the IF signal

dynamic range;

characterised in that the array also includes weighting means (4c, 14, 16) to provide
for the digital signals to incorporate non-uniform weighting prior to formation of the

resultant signal.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 1 characterised in that the weighting
means (4c, 14, 16) is arranged to provide for non-uniform amplitude weighting to

counteract variation in sensor module characteristics.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 1 or 2 characterised in that the
weighting means (4c, 14, 16) is arranged to improve array sidelobe characteristics.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 1, 2 or 3 characterised in that the
beamforming means (14, 16) includes respective time delay means (14) for each 

digitising means (4) arranged to delay the digital signals relative to one another and
the beamforming means (14, 16) includes at least one adding means (16) arranged to

add together signals of a set of delayed signals.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 4 characterised in that the
beamforming means (14, 16) includes a plurality of adding means (16) each arranged

to add together signals of a respective set of delayed signals as appropriate to form
multiple beams.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 4 or 5 characterised in that each
time delay means comprises a shift register (14) having a number of elements each

for storing an n-bit digital signal and the beamforming means (14, 16) includes
means for tapping register elements to obtain time delayed signals for addition in the

adding means (16).
A digital beamforming array according to any preceding claim characterised in that
the digitising means (4) includes signal comparing means including an analogue

reference voltage wherein the weighting means (4c) is arranged to implement non-uniform
amplitude weighting by variation of the analogue reference voltage.
A digital beamforming ray according to any one of Claims 1 to 6 characterised in
that the weighting means (14, 16) is ranged to implement non-uniform amplitude

weighting by multiplication of the digital signals by a weighting sequence.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 8 when dependent on Claim 6
characterised in that the weighting means is arranged for multiplication of the digital

signals prior to tapping the shift register elements.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 8 characterised in that the weighting
means is arranged for multiplication of the digital signals after tapping the shift

register elements. 
A digital beamforming array according to any preceding claim characterised in that
the factor by which the digitising means oversamples, Q, is greater than 16.
A digital beamforming array according to any preceding claim characterised in that n
is 1.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 12 characterised in that each
digitising means (4) comprises the first part and the decimating means (6) comprises

the second part of a delta sigma analogue to digital converter.
A digital beamforming array according to any one of Claims 1 to 11 characterised in
that n is greater than 1.
A digital beamforming array according to Claim 14 characterised in that each
digitising means (24) comprises the first part and the decimating means (26)

comprises the second part of a noise shaping analogue to digital converter.
A method for digitally beamforming a signal, comprising the steps of:

(a) receiving the incoming signal at a plurality of sensors of a phased array and
generating a respective IF signal therefrom at each module,
(b) convening the IF signals to n-bit digital signals at an oversampling rate, where n
is less than the number of bits required to represent the dynamic range of the IF

signal,
(c) beamforming the n-bit digital signals by altering their relative phases and
combining them to form a resultant signal, and 
(d) converting the resultant signal to a multi-bit signal of the number of bits
required to represent the IF signal dynamic range;

characterised in that the method includes the additional step of applying a non-uniform
amplitude weighting to the digital signals prior to forming the resultant

signal.
A method according to Claim 16 characterised in that the weighting step is arranged
to counteract variation in sensor characteristics.
A method according to Claim 15 or 16 characterised in that the weighting step is
arranged to improve array sidelobe characteristics.
A method according to Claim 16, 17 or 18 characterised in that beamforming
includes performing a plurality of additions in each of which signals of a respective

set of digital signals are added together as appropriate to form multiple beams.
A method according to Claim 19 characterised in that beamforming includes time
delaying the digital signals in shift registers (14) each having a number of elements,

each element being capable of storing an n-bit digital signal and register elements
being tapped to obtain time-delayed signals for addition.
A method according to any one of Claims 16 to 20 characterised in that the
weighting step is implemented by varying an analogue reference voltage applied to a

signal comparing means (4c) within the digitising means (4).
A method according to any one of Claims 16 to 20 characterised in that the
weighting step is implemented by multiplying the digital signals with a weighting

sequence. 
A method according to Claim 22 when dependent on Claim 20 characterised in that
the weighting step is implemented prior to tapping the shift register elements.
A method according to Claim 23 characterised in that the weighting step is
implemented by multiplying each signal stored in respective shift registers with a

weighting sequence and overwriting each signal by the respective multiplied signal.
A method according to Claim 22 when dependent on Claim 20 characterised in that
tapping the shift register elements is carried out prior to implementing the weighting

step.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
