<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631556</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DEVICE FOR REMOVING WRAPPING STRINGS FROM WRAPPED ARTICLES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B6900	B65B6900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B69	B65B69	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device for removing wrapping strings from wrapped articles comprises an intercepting means (7) which is adapted to intercept and take hold of a separate wrapping string after it has been cut off and while the article is moved in the longitudinal direction in relation to the intercepting means. Further, the intercepting means comprises a hook means (30) which has a hooking edge (31) and which is adapted to be applied against, or be located in the immediate vicinity of, the outside of the article, and a gripping means (33) which has a gripping edge (34) and is movable between an open position, in which the gripping edge is removed from the hooking edge which thus is free to hook onto a wrapping string passing by, and a closed position, in which the hooking edge is blocked and the hooked wrapping strings are squeezed between the hooking edge and the gripping edge. A device for cutting off wrapping strings on wrapped articles is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDMEK I KRAMFORS AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EDMEK I KRAMFORS AKTIEBOLAG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHN PER-ARNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRAHN, PER-ARNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DEVICE FOR REMOVING WRAPPING STRINGS FROM WRAPPEDARTICLESBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a device for remov¬ ing wrapping strings or bands from wrapped articles, such as bales of pulp, comprising an intercepting means which is adapted to intercept and take hold of a separate wrap¬ ping string after it has been cut off. In paper mills, for instance, large amounts of bales of pulp are defibrated. As a rule, the bales are wrapped in paper and kept together by wrapping strings or bands. Before the bales are dissolved, the wrapping strings have to be removed. SE 465,459, for example, discloses a device for cutting off wrapping strings.The cutting device described in SE 465,459 comprises a foot member and a toothed wheel which are arranged on a movable arm and adapted to be applied against a boundary surface of the article passing by the cutting device on a conveyor. The toothed wheel serves to grip the separate wrapping string and lift it onto the upper side of the foot member so as to remove the string somewhat from the article and enable it to be cut off. Cutting may be per¬ formed e.g. between a shearing means and an abutment. One drawback of this cutting device is that the foot member and the toothed wheel have to be applied, and trail and rotate, respectively, against the outside of the pass¬ ing article. As a rule, this does not involve any incon- veniencies when the outside of the article is smooth. How- ever, some articles, e.g. bales of pulp, are usually wrapped in paper which is often torn or folded. As a result, the paper often catches on the foot member, caus¬ ing a stoppage. Further, the bale itself may be damaged, with parts of the paper sheets projecting beyond the normal boundary surface of the bale, thereby making it impossible for the toothed wheel and the foot member to intercept the string. Should the cutting operation fail 

for some reason or other, e.g. because the wrapping paper has got stuck, the bale may catch in the foot member, thereby damaging the equipment. Summary of the Invention The present invention aims at eliminating the need of someone removing the wrapping strings from wrapped articles by hand, and thus provides a device for automa¬ tically removing and collecting the strings while the articles are continuously moved in the longitudinal direc- tion. According to the invention, this and other aims are achieved by a device which is characterised more speci¬ fically in that the intercepting means comprises a hook means which has a hooking edge
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A device for removing wrapping strings or bands from wrapped articles, such as bales of pulp (1), compris¬ ing an intercepting means (7) adapted to intercept and take hold of a separate wrapping string (4) after it has been cut off, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the intercepting means (7) comprises a hook means (30) which has a hooking edge (31) and which is adapted, while the article (1) is moved in the longitudinal direction in relation to the intercepting means, to be applied against, or be located in the immediate vicinity of, the outside of the article with the hooking edge facing against the direction of movement of the article; and a gripping means (33) which has a gripping edge (34) facing in the direc¬ tion of movement of the article and which is movable between an open position, in which the gripping edge is removed from the hooking edge which is thus free to hook onto a wrapping string passing by, and a closed position, in which the gripping edge is approached to the hooking edge and the wrapping strings already hooked are squeezed between the hooking edge and the gripping edge.
2. A device as set forth in claim 1, c h a r a c - t e r i s e d in that it comprises a sensor (38) which senses when a wrapping string (4) approaches the hooking edge (31) and which causes the gripping edge (34) to move away from the hooking edge to enable hooking of the wrap¬ ping string. 3. A device as set forth in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that a toothed wheel (36) is arranged in front of the hook means (30) and is rotatably applicable against the article (1), a wrapping string (4) passing by the toothed wheel being retained between two adjacent teeth thereof. 


 4. A device as set forth in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the intercept¬ ing means (7) is located above a conveying path (2) for the articles (1) and is movable between an upper inoperative position and a lower position in which it is applied against said articles.
5. A device as set forth in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the gripping means (33) is in the form of a pivot arm which is pivotably mounted on the hook means (30).
6. A device as set forth in claim 5, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i s e d in that the pivot arm has an outer, sub¬ stantially circular-arc-shaped end which is provided with a recess, an edge of which forms the gripping edge (34). 7. A device as set forth in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the hook means (30) has an outer, substantially circular-arc-shaped end which is provided with a recess, an edge of which forms the hooking edge (31). 8. A device as set forth in any one of the .preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that a cutting means (39) is arranged on the gripping means (33) and serves to cut up any wrapping layer on the article (1) when the gripping means is in closed position. 9. A device as set forth in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that it further comprises a cutting device (5) having a cutting-edge holder (15) which, from a first inoperative position located outside the boundary surfaces of the wrapped article (1), can be extended or projected along a path of movement towards the article to a second position in which the cutting edge is located at least in the same plane as the boundary surfaces of the article; and a sensor (19) for sensing, during relative movement in the longitudinal direction between the device and the article, the position of a separate wrapping string (4) and causing the cutting- edge holder (15) to project towards the article in order 


to cut off the wrapping string when this crosses the path of movement of the cutting-edge holder.
10. A device as set forth in claim 9, c h a r a c ¬ t e r i s e d in that the cutting device (5) is located beneath a plane of conveyance (17) of the wrapped articles
(1).
11. A device as set forth in claim 9 or 10, c h a ¬ r a c t e r i s e d in that the path of movement of the cutting-edge holder (15) is linear. 12. A device as set forth in any one of claims 9-11, c h a r a c t e r i s e d in that the cutting device (5) comprises a blocking means (20, 21, 23) which has to be activated to enable the projection of the cutting-edge holder (15). 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
