<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646297</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-DISABLING POWER-UP DETECTION CIRCUIT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H03K300	H03K3356	H03K1722	H03K1722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H03K3	H03K3	H03K17	H03K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A CMOS power-up reset circuit provides a power-up output signal, useful to external circuits, when an applied power supply voltage exceeds a first predetermined value, and includes a ratioed transistor divider to generate a voltage on a sensing node which is a portion of the power supply voltage during a power-up transient. The circuit regeneratively latches when the rising power supply voltage and the sensing node voltage differ by more than a second predetermined value, such as a P-channel threshold voltage. A feedback signal subsequently disables current flow through the power-up reset circuit to virtually eliminate static power dissipation, and the power-up output signal is generated. Circuit provisions are incorporated to prevent capacitive coupling from the rising power supply voltage, through the N-wells of the P-channel transistors, to critical internal circuit nodes. The first predetermined value of the applied power supply voltage at which the circuit provides a power-up output signal is configurable by adjusting the ratio of two P-channel transistors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT SEMICONDUCTOR CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAY MICHAEL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAY, MICHAEL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SELF-DISABLING POWER-UP DETECTION CIRCUITBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to power-up reset circuits, and more specifically to CMOS power-rup reset circuits which provide a signal indicating that the power supply voltage applied to such a circuit exceeds a predetermined value.Description of Related ArtPower-up reset circuits are frequently utilized in electronic systems for ensuring predictable operation after a system power-up. In some cases, a power-up reset circuit may generate a reset pulse after its applied power supply voltage has reached a safe operating value, which is then used to reset external circuits. These external circuits may be integrated together with the power-up reset circuit upon the same integrated circuit, or may be fabricated external to the power-up reset circuit. In other cases, a power-up reset circuit may provide a signal which disables operation of external circuits until the power supply voltage has reached a safe operating voltage. For example, such a signal can be applied to the asynchronous reset input of a flip-flop, or applied to an output disable input of a clock generator. After the system power supply reaches a predetermined level, this disabling signal generated by such a power-up reset circuit is then removed, thereby enabling the operation of the external circuits. In this way, external 

 circuits are prevented from operation during times when the system power supply provided to those external circuits is below a voltage necessary to ensure adequate and reliable operation of the external circuits.Frequently, power-up reset circuits have utilized resistor and capacitor time constant techniques to generate a reset signal after a delay governed by the associated RC time constant. Such circuits often incorporate large valued resistors and/or large valued capacitances, which require significant area to implement using most typical integrated circuit processes. Furthermore, these techniques are problematic if the slew rate of the power supply is comparable to, or slower than, the chosen RC time constant. In such cases, the power-up reset circuit will likely enable the external circuits prematurely. Alternatively, if the RC time constant is chosen to be very long, the power-up reset circuit may introduce an unnecessary and a disadvantageously long delay before the external circuits are enabled. A power-up reset circuit which requires no large RC time constants advantageously consumes less area in most
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim :
1. A circuit for providing at an output terminal an output signal indicating when a power supply voltage operatively coupled to the circuit exceeds a first predetermined value during a transition of the power supply voltage, the circuit having a first power supply terminal for receiving the power supply voltage and having a second power supply terminal for receiving a ground reference potential, the output signal having-a first state during a first portion of the transition when the power supply voltage is less than the first predetermined value, and having a second state during a remaining portion of the transition when the power supply voltage exceeds the first predetermined value and thereafter, comprising: generating means coupled between the first and second power supply terminals for operatively generating a voltage on a sensing node which is a portion of the power supply voltage; detecting means coupled to the generating means and coupled between the first and second power supply terminals, being responsive to the voltage on the sensing node, for operatively providing at a detecting node a detecting signal indicating when the voltage on the sensing node exceeds a second predetermined value corresponding to the power supply voltage exceeding the first predetermined value; regeneration means coupled to the generating means and the detecting means and responsive to the detecting signal, for driving the voltage of the sensing node in a direction so as to reinforce the detecting signal; 


 feedback means coupled to the generating means, the detecting means, and rhe regeneration means, being responsive to the regeneration means driving the voltage of the sensing node, for interrupting current flow through each of the generating means, the detecting means, and the regeneration means, thereby eliminating power dissipation therein; and output means coupled to the sensing node and to the output terminal for providing the output-.-- signal in the first state, and for driving the output signal to the second state in response to the regeneration means driving the voltage of the sensing node.
2. A circuit as in claim 1 wherein the generating means comprises two transistors of the same conductivity type connected in series, forming the sensing node therebetween.
3. A circuit as in claim 1 wherein the generating means comprises: a first transistor having a source coupled to the first power supply terminal, a gate coupled to the second power supply terminal, and a drain coupled to the sensing node; and a second transistor having a source coupled to the sensing node, a gate coupled to the second power supply terminal, and a drain coupled to the second power supply terminal.
4. A circuit as in claim 3 wherein the generating means further comprises a third transistor having a drain coupled to the drain of the second transistor, a gate coupled to the first power supply terminal, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal. 


 5. A circuit as in claim 1 wherein the first predetermined value differs from the second predetermined value by an amount substantially equal to a threshold voltage of a transistor.
6. A circuit as in claim 5 wherein the detecting means comprises: a fourth transistor having a drain coupled to the detecting node, a gate coupled to the sensing node, and a source coupled to the first power supply terminal; and a load means connected between the detecting node and the second power supply terminal.
7. A circuit as in claim 6 wherein the load means comprises a fifth transistor having a drain coupled to the detecting node, a gate coupled to the first power supply terminal, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal.
8. A circuit as in claim 6 wherein the regeneration means comprises a sixth transistor having a drain coupled to the sensing node, a gate coupled to the detecting node, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal.
9. A circuit as in claim 8 wherein the regeneration means further comprises a seventh transistor coupling the gate of the sixth transistor to the detecting node, the seventh transistor having a drain coupled to the detecting node, a gate coupled to the first power supply terminal, and a source coupled to the gate of the sixth transistor.
10. A circuit as in claim 1 wherein the feedback means comprises: 


 a first inverter having an input coupled to the sensing node, and an output; a first switch means coupling the generating means to the first power supply terminal, being responsive to the first inverter output; and a second switch means coupling the detecting means to the first power supply terminal, being responsive to the first inverter output.
11. A circuit as in claim 10 wherein the feedback means further comprises a latching transistor having a drain coupled to the first inverter input, a gate coupled to the first inverter output, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal.
12. A circuit as in claim 11 wherein the first inverter comprises: an eighth transistor having a drain coupled to the first inverter output, a gate coupled to the first inverter input, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal; and a plurality of series-connected load transistors coupling the first inverter output to the first power supply terminal.
13. A circuit as in claim 12: wherein each of the plurality of series-connected load transistors has a backside terminal which is connectable independently of other transistors; and wherein the backside terminal of each of the plurality of series-connected load transistors is connected to each load transistor's respective source terminal.
14. A circuit as in claim 13: 


 wherein the gate of a series-connected load transistor coupled to and nearest the output is connected to the first inverter input; and wherein the gates of the remaining series-connected load transistors are coupled to the second power supply terminal.
15. A circuit as in claim 14 wherein the output means comprises a buffer having an input coupled to the first inverter output, and having an output coupledr-to the output terminal.
16. A circuit as in claim 15: wherein the first state of the output signal is a voltage substantially driven to follow the power supply voltage; and wherein the second state of the output signal is a low voltage substantially driven to the ground reference potential. 

17. A method for providing to an output a signal indicating when a power supply voltage operatively coupled to a circuit block exceeds a first predetermined value during a transition of the power supply voltage, the output signal having a first state during a first portion of the transition when the power supply voltage is less than the first predetermined value, and having a second state during a remaining portion of the transition when the power supply voltage exceeds the first predetermined value and thereafter, comprising-the steps of: generating a voltage on a sensing node which is a portion of the power supply voltage during the first portion of the transition; * detecting when the sensing node voltage and the power supply voltage differ by more than a second predetermined amount, wherein the portion of the power supply' voltage generated on the sensing node and the second predetermined value are chosen so that the sensing node voltage and the power supply voltage differ by more than the second predetermined value when the power supply voltage exceeds the first predetermined value; latching the sensing node subsequent to the detecting step; interrupting static current flow through the circuit block subsequent to the latching step, thereby eliminating power dissipation therein; and driving the output signal from the first state to the second state subsequent to the latching step. 


 18. A method as in claim 17 wherein the second predetermined value corresponds to a threshold voltage of a P-channel transistor.
19. A method as in claim 18 wherein the first predetermined value is chosen from a range between 1.5 and 4.0 volts.
20. A method as in claim 19 wherein the first predetermined value is chosen from a range between
~
i-»5 and 2.5 volts. 

- 21 -
21. A CMOS power-up reset circuit for providing at an output terminal a power-up reset signal indicating when a power supply voltage operatively coupled to the circuit exceeds a first predetermined value during a transition of the power supply voltage, the output signal having a first state during a first portion of the transition when the power supply voltage is less than the first predetermined value, and having a second state during a remaining portion of the transition when the power supply voltage exceeds the first predetermined value and thereafter, comprising: a first power supply terminal for receiving the power supply voltage; a second power supply terminal for receiving a ground reference potential; a voltage divider coupled between the first and second power supply terminals having an output coupled to a sensing node; a detector coupled between the first and second power supply terminals, having an input coupled to the sensing node and having an output coupled to a detecting node; a regenerator having an input coupled to the detecting node, and having an output coupled to the sensing node; and a buffer having an input coupled to the sensing node and having an output coupled to the output terminal.
22. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 21 wherein the voltage divider comprises: a first transistor having a source coupled to the first power supply terminal, a gate coupled to the second power supply terminal, and a drain coupled to the sensing node; and 


 a second transistor having a source coupled to the sensing node, a gate coupled to the second power supply terminal, and a drain coupled to the second power supply terminal.
23. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 22 wherein the voltage divider further comprises a third transistor having a drain coupled to the drain of the second transistor, a gate coupled to the first power supply terminal, and a source coupled to the second- power supply terminal.
24. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 23 wherein the detector comprises: a fourth transistor having a drain coupled to the detecting node, a gate coupled to the sensing node, and a source coupled to the first power supply terminal; a fifth transistor having a drain coupled to the detecting node, a gate coupled to the first power supply terminal, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal; and wherein the regenerator comprises a sixth transistor having a drain coupled to the sensing node, a gate coupled to the detecting node, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal.
25. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 24 wherein the regenerator further comprises a seventh transistor coupling the gate of the sixth transistor to the detecting node, the seventh transistor having a drain coupled to the detecting node, a gate coupled to the first power supply terminal, and a source coupled to the gate of the sixth transistor. 


 26. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 25 further comprising: a first inverter having an input coupled to the sensing node, and an output; a first switch transistor coupling the voltage divider to the first power supply terminal, having a gate coupled to the first inverter output; and a second switch transistor coupling the detector to the first power supply terminal, having a-gate coupled to the first inverter output.
27. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 26 further comprising a latching transistor having a drain coupled to the first inverter input, a gate coupled to the first inverter output, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal.
28. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 27 wherein the first inverter comprises: an eighth transistor having a drain coupled to the first inverter output, a gate coupled to the first inverter input, and a source coupled to the second power supply terminal; and a plurality of series-connected load transistors coupling the first inverter output to the first power supply terminal, each having a backside terminal which is connectable independently of other transistors and connected to each load transistor's respective source terminal.
29. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 28: wherein the gate of a series-connected load transistor coupled to and nearest the first 


 - 24 - inverter output is connected to the first inverter input; and wherein the gates of the remaining series-connected load transistors are coupled to the second power supply terminal.
30. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 29: wherein the first, second, and fourth transistors comprise P-channel MOS transistors; and wherein the third, fifth, sixth, and seventh transistors comprise N-channel MOS transistors.
31. A CMOS power-up reset circuit as in claim 30: wherein the first and second switch transistors and the plurality of series-connected load transistors comprise P-channel MOS transistors; and wherein the eighth transistor and the latching transistor comprise N-channel MOS transistors. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
