<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIFFERENTIAL SEPARATION ASSAY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D5702	G01N27447	G01N2164	G01N2177	G01N2177	B01D5702	G01N27447	G01N2164	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	B01D	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D57	G01N27	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	B01D57	G01N27	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOMETRIC IMAGING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOMETRIC IMAGING INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAZAROSSIAN VARTAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANIAN BALA S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GHAZAROSSIAN, VARTAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANIAN, BALA, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an assay for molecular or 
microbiological agents and in particular to a fluorescence 
marker-based electrophoretic system for detecting such 
agents. In U.S. Pat. No. 4,811,218 M. Hunkapiller et al. 
teach a DNA sequencing system using a multiple lane 
electrophoresis apparatus. Fluorescent dyes are attached to 
molecules moving through the lanes. A moving illumination 
and detection system scans the multiple lanes. Four color 
data points are recorded for each of several lanes at a 
particular time at a fixed distance down the gel. Through a 
complex analytic procedure, the four colors are related to 
the concentrations of four dye-labeled DNA components. The 
object is to identify concentrations of A, C, G, or T or T, 
G+A, C+T or C which are DNA piece endings where A = 
adenosine, C = cytosine, G - guanine and T = thymine. Peak 
concentrations of a particular dye label are matched with 
particular bases in DNA sequences. In U.S. Pat. No. 4,890,247 Sarrine et al. describe 
an apparatus which robotically handles a plurality of liquid 
samples in test tubes, applies the samples to electrophoresis 
matrices and then carries out electrophoresis. The 
electrophoretically separated molecules are illuminated with 
fluorescent light. An analog signal is produced, 
representing the scanned field of view. A computer stores 
intensity levels of the analog signal and performs 
densitometric analysis to read the electrophoretic data. 
Densitometry is a conventional prior art technique for 
reading such data.  
 In an article entitled "Affinity Electrophoresis" 
by Vaclav Horejsi, reported in "Enzyme Purification and 
Related Techniques", W. Jakoby ed., Academic Press, 1984, p. 
275 a novel type of electrophoresis is described. One lane 
of the gel medium is impregnated with immobilized ligands 
capable of reacting with a migrating macromolecule, while 
another lane, a control gel, is untreated. Thus, a 
comparison can be made, using electrophoresis, between a 
macromolecule sample retarded by the affinity gel lane and a 
similar sample in the control gel lane. In a variation of 
this technique, the gel may incorporate an antibody which 
interacts with a migrating antigen. The two lanes may be 
calibrated so that different degrees of retardation, for 
different concentrations of the migrating macromolecule, are 
known. Moreover, microscopic beads treated with ligands can 
be entrapped in the gel and similarly serve as a retardant. 
Beads have the advantage of tight packing in the gel if
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting target substances during 
electrophoresis comprising, 


mixing a specific binding agent with a sample which 
may contain a target substance, the binding agent being 

specific to the target substance and having a fluorescent 
characteristic, the amount of binding agent in excess of what 

will react with the target substance so that there is free-and 
bound-binding agent in the sample, both the bound- and 

free-binding agent having expected electrophoretic migration 
times from a starting location to a measuring place, 
conducting electrophoresis of said mixture in a 
path defined by electrodes, 
measuring and recording the times wherein 
substances having said fluorescent characteristic reach the 

measuring place, 
searching said recorded times for bound-binding 
agent in relation to free-binding agent using said expected 

electrophoretic migration times in comparison to said 
measured times wherein finding of said bound-binding agent 

indicates presence of said target substance. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said binding agent is 
selected from the group consisting of a fluorescent antibody, 

antigen, receptor, enzyme substrate, enzyme inhibitor and 
lectin. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said binding agent is 
conjugated with a fluorescent dye. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said measuring place is a 
slit along an electrophoretic trajectory of said bound- and 

unbound-binding agent.  
 
A method for detecting target substances during 
electrophoresis comprising, 


(a) reacting one or more known target analytes 
each with an excess amount of a characteristic fluorescent 

substance, creating a mixture of bound- and free-fluorescent 
substance, 
(b) causing electrophoretic migration in a gel of 
the bound- and free-fluorescent substance starting from a 

known starting position, the fluorescent substance migrating 
toward an electrode along a path, 
(c) directing actinic radiation to said 
fluorescent substance, thereby causing fluorescence, 
(d) detecting the characteristic fluorescence of 
the unbound-fluorescent substance at a fixed position on said 

path, 
(e) detecting the characteristic fluorescence of 
the fluorescent substance bound to the analyte at a time 

different from the time of the free substance measurement at 
said fixed position, thereby creating a time difference, 
(f) recording the time difference to form a time 
window linking the travel times of the bound- and free-substances 

past said fixed position, 
(g) repeating steps (a)-(e) for patient samples in 
which the presence of target analyte is not known, 
(h) using the time window to associate bound-fluorescent 
substance with free-fluorescent substance in 

order to establish the presence of target analyte in the 
patient samples. 
The method of claim 5 wherein said reacting of target 
analyte is by means of a fluorescent dye or dye embedded in 

beads or microspheres attached to binding agent. 
The method of claim 5 wherein said binding agent is 
selected from the group consisting of a fluorescent antibody, 

antigen, receptor, enzyme substrate, enzyme inhibitor and 
lectin.  

 
The method of claim 5 wherein said electrophoretic 
migration is within a single lane. 
The method of claim 5 wherein said electrophoretic 
migration is within a plurality of lanes, one or more of 

which is used for a known amount of target analyte. 
The method of claim 9 where the lanes are gel-filled 
capillaries or cuvettes. 
The method of claim 5 wherein the area under each peak 
of each detected characteristic fluorescence is measured. 
The method of claim 6 wherein said detection of the 
amplitude of characteristic fluorescence is measured through 

a slit or pinhole as analytes migrate past said slit or 
pinhole. 
The method of claim 5 wherein said time window is formed 
with approximately one statistical variance. 
Apparatus for detecting target substances during 
electrophoresis comprising, 


an electrophoresis apparatus having a voltage 
supply terminal, a gel lane and a sample supply source, the 

voltage supply terminal establishing a path of migration for 
mobile substances, 
first optical means including a beam, a slit or 
pinhole, and first optical elements projecting an image of 

the slit or pinhole on the gel lane in said path between the 
voltage supply terminal and the sample supply source, 
a light detector isolated from light of the beam, 
a second optical means including a reflected beam, 
a filter and second optical elements projecting a reflected 

image of the slit onto said detector, said first and second 
optical elements sharing a focusing lens,  

 
a sample of free-fluorescent substance and analyte 
material tagged with fluorescent substance, both being mobile 

substances in said gel lane, 
means for measuring and recording times of signals 
representing detection of fluorescent substances, and 
a data reader means for correlating the presence of 
free-fluorescent substance with bound-fluorescent substance. 
The apparatus of claim 14 further defined by a prism 
having first and second reflective surfaces, the first 

reflective surface inclined at an angle to receive said beam 
and directing said beam to said shared focusing lens and the 

second reflective surface inclined at an angle to receive the 
reflected image of the slit and directing said image to the 

detector. 
The apparatus of claim 14 wherein a plurality of gel 
lanes are arranged in parallel relation, one gel lane being a 

test lane and one or more gel lane being calibration lanes, 
said slit or pinhole image being in the same relative 

location in said lanes. 
A diagnostic system for determining presence of an 
analyte comprising, 


an excess amount of fluorescence-labeled binding 
agent forming a comple
x with a specific target analyte to be 
determined, the combination having free-fluorescence-labeled-binding 

agent and bound-analyte, 
an elongated migration path for the bound-analyte 
and the labeled-binding agent, the bound-analyte and the 

labeled-binding agent having different migration rates, said 
path having a migration start zone and a downstream migration 

analysis zone, 
optical means in communication with the analysis 
zone for timing the migration of fluorescence-labeled 

binding-agent and bound-analyte from the start zone to the 
analysis zone, and  

 
means for comparing the migration times or rates of 
fluorescence-labeled-binding agent and bound-analyte, whereby 

the presence of analyte is determined. 
The system of claim 17 wherein said migration path is an 
electrophoretic path. 
The system of claim 17 wherein said binding agent is 
selected from the group consisting of a fluorescent antibody, 

antigen, receptor, enzyme substrate, enzyme inhibitor and 
lectin. 
The system of claim 17 wherein said complexed target 
analyte comprises a monoclonal antibody. 
The system of claim 17 wherein said fluorescent-labeled-binding 
agent and bound-analyte have substantially different 

charge-to-mass characteristics. 
The system of claim 17 wherein said migration path is 
established in a sheet gel. 
The system of claim 17 wherein said migration path is 
established in a cuvette. 
The system of claim 17 wherein said migration path is 
established in a capillary. 
The system of claim 22 wherein said sheet gel contains a 
plurality of paths, one path having a calibrated amount of 

bound-analyte and a known amount of free-fluorescence-labeled-binding 
agent. 
The system of claim 25 wherein said plurality of paths 
contain a plurality of analytes. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
