<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619856</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ALUMINIDE-SILICIDE COATINGS, COATING COMPOSITIONS, PROCESS FOR COATING AND IMPROVED COATED PRODUCTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C1026	C22C2918	F01D528	F01D528	F01D902	C23C1028	C22C2900	F02C700	F02C700	C23C1052	C23C1000	F01D902	C23C2804	C23C2804	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C22C	F01D	F01D	F01D	C23C	C22C	F02C	F02C	C23C	C23C	F01D	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C10	C22C29	F01D5	F01D5	F01D9	C23C10	C22C29	F02C7	F02C7	C23C10	C23C10	F01D9	C23C28	C23C28	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An improved aluminide coating especially for heat resistant superalloy substrates. Slurry coating compositions of eutectic metal alloy powders and of non-eutectic metal powders. A process for coating the substrates and the coated metal parts. The coatings have improved resistance to developing cracks and to hot corrosion and oxidation.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROLLS ROYCE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SERMATECH INT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROLLS-ROYCE PLC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SERMATECH INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMORDIE BRUCE G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEELU MEHAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, ALAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCMORDIE, BRUCE, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MEELU, MEHAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to aluminide coatings for
aluminizing of heat resistant alloy substrates, to the slurry
coating compositions for the coatings and to a process for
applying such coatings, more specifically to composite
coatings containing aluminum-rich and silicon-rich phases to
improve their resistance to hot corrosion and oxidation.During operation, components in the turbine section of a
gas turbine are exposed to combustion gas temperatures that
can reach 1200°C (2200°F). These components are typically made
of nickel and cobalt base superalloys specially formulated for
strength at these temperatures. However, upon exposure to
oxygen in the combustion gases at such high temperatures,
these heat resistant materials begin to revert to their
natural metal oxide form. The nickel and cobalt oxide scales
that form on the surfaces of these alloys are not tightly
adherent. During thermal cycling, they crack and spall off
the surface exposing more unreacted substrate to the
environment. In this manner, oxidation roughens and
eventually consumes unprotected parts made of these alloys.
See Figure 1. Adding sodium and contaminants containing
chlorine and sulphur to the combustion gases speeds
degradation. Above about 540°C (1004°F), sodium and sulphur
react to form low melting point sulphate salts which not only
dissolve the oxide films on nickel and cobalt, but also can
directly attack the substrates. See Figure 2.One solution to the hot corrosion and oxidation problem
which is widely applied in gas turbine engines, is to allow
aluminum into the surface of a superalloy component, a process
known as aluminizing. Aluminum forms stable intermetallic
compounds with both nickel and cobalt. The oxide layer which
forms on these compounds at high temperature is no longer a
metal oxide of nickel or cobalt, but rather a tough, tightly
adherent, protective layer of alumina, A1203. See Figure 3.A variety of commercial coatings are based upon this
protection scheme. Sometimes aluminum is deposited from a
vapor phase in a process that has come to be known as pack
aluminizing. In pack aluminizing, aluminum powder is reacted
with halide activators to form gaseous compounds which
condense on the metal surface and react producing aluminum
metal. The aluminum atoms diffuse into the substrate,
reacting to produce intermetallic aluminides. This process
has been described in detail in a number of patents, including
U.S. Patent No 3,257,230 (Wochtell et al). This patent is
incorporated herein by reference.State-of-the-art MCrAlY
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An aluminide-silicide coating on a heat-resistant
superalloy substrate (G), the coating having a highly

dispersed distribution of silicide phases throughout the
coating's thickness, the coating having resistance to

developing cracks, having resistance to oxidation and hot
corrosion conditions, the coating comprising a layer (D) which

comprises a continuum of silicide and aluminide phases and a
predominantly aluminide layer (E) below and adjacent said

layer (D), the coating being formed from a slurry comprising
aluminium, silicon and a powder of a silicide-forming metal in

an amount effective to promote the formation and dispersion in
the coating of silicides corresponding to the metal.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 1 which
futher comprises a silicon rich surface layer (C) above and

adjacent to the continuum layer (D) and which surface layer
(C) has an increased silicon content relative to the continuum

layer (D).
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 1 wherein
the layer (D) which comprises a continuum of silicide and

aluminide phases is a layer of interleaved layers of aluminum
and silicide phases.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 2 wherein
the layer of interleaved layers (D) is at least about 12

microns thick.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 1 wherein 
the layer (D) which comprises a continuum of silicide and

aluminide phases is a layering layer which comprises a
substantially continuous interleaved layer of aluminide and

silicide phases which layer is at least about four times the
thickness of the surface layer.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 5 wherein
the layering layer (D) is at least ten times the thickness of

the surface layer.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 1 wherein
the aluminide phase comprises silicide precipitates

substantially evenly dispersed therein.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 1 wherein
the aluminum in the layer (D) which comprises a continuum of

silicide and aluminide phases and in the aluminide layer (E)
is in the range of about 15 to about 30 wt%.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 8 wherein
the aluminum is in the range of about 20 to about 30 wt%.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 8 wherein
the aluminum content throughout the coating varies by no more

than about 12 wt%.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 10 wherein
the aluminum content throughout the coating varies by no more

than about 8 wt%.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 8 wherein in 
the layer (D) and in the aluminide layer (E), the aluminum and

the silicon vary depthwise in about inverse proportion to each
other.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 12 wherein
the aluminum content of the coating does not exceed about 30

wt%.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 22 wherein
the surface layer (C) includes at least one of Ta or Ti in

solid solution with chromium silicide.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 14 wherein
the amount of Ta or Ti in the surface layer (C) exceeds the

weight percentage content of the substrate material.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 15 wherein
Ti or Ta is evenly dispersed through the thickness of the

coating.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 22 which
comprises chromium.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 17 wherein
the chromium does not exceed about 10 wt%.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 1 wherein
the silicide-forming metal comprises at least one of chromium,

tantalum and titanium. 
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 19 wherein
the slurry further comprises chromium and at least one of

tantalum powder and titanium powder.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 1 wherein
the silicide-forming metal comprises at least one of rhenium,

hafnium, manganese and elements of Group 4b and 5b of the
periodic table.
The aluminide-silicon coating of claim 2 wherein the
surface layer (C) contains a maximum of about 25wt% of

silicon.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 22 wherein
the aluminum in the aluminide layer (E) is in the range of

about 15 to 25 wt% and does not vary throughout the coating by
more than about 12 wt%.
The aluminide-silicide coating of claim 19 which
also comprises both Ti and Ta contained in the surface layer.
A slurry for coating on a heat-resistant superalloy
substrate with resistance to developing cracks while

maintaining good resistance to oxidation and hot corrosion
which comprises an eutectic aluminum-silicon alloy powder and

an additional metallic powder in elemental form selected from
at least one metal of the group consisting of Cr, Ti, Ta, Re,

Mn, Hf, V and Nb in a heat-curable liquid binder.
The slurry of claim 25 wherein the amount of
eutectic alloy in the slurry is in the range of about 36 to

about 100 wt% of the total metallic content of the slurry. 
The slurry of claim 25 which comprises additional Si
metal powder in elemental form in the range of about 5 to

about 21% by weight.
The slurry of claim 27 wherein Cr does not exceed
about 10% by weight.
The slurry of claim 28 wherein Ti does not exceed
about 5% by weight.
The slurry of claim 29 wherein Ta does not exceed
about 5% by weight.
The slurry of claim 30 which comprises additional
B metal powder in elemental form and does not exceed about 2%

by weight.
The slurry of claim 31 which comprises Si and Cr.
The slurry of claim 32 which comprises Ta and Ti.
The slurry of any of claims 25 to 33 wherein the
heat curable-binder is an aqueous acidic binder.
The slurry of claim 34 wherein the aqueaous acidic
binder is of the class of inorganic chromate, phosphate,

molybdate or tungstate. 
The slurry of claim 25 which comprises additional
metallic powder of Si or B in elemental form and the heat-curable

binder is an aqueous acidic binder.
The slurry of claim 25 which comprises additional
metallic powder of Si in the range of about 5 to about 18%.
A slurry for an aluminide-silicide coating on a
heat-resistant superalloy substrate with resistance to

oxidation and hot corrosion which comprises a slurry of metal
powders in elemental form comprising aluminum and silicon and

at least one of the following metals: chromium, titanium,
tantalum, rhenium, managanese, hafnium, vanadium and niobium.
The slurry of claim 38 which comprises at least one
of chromium or additional metallic powder of boron and at

least one of titanium or tantalum.
The slurry of claim 38 wherein the aluminum is in
the range of about 30 to about 92.5, silicon in the range of

about 10 to about 25 and chromium is in the range of about 2.5
to 10, all values being in percent by weight.
The slurry of claim 39 which comprises additional
metallic powder of boron in the range of about 0.5 to about

2.5% by weight.
The slurry of claim 39 wherein the titanium and
tantalum is in the range of 0.5 to about 10% by weight.
The slurry of claim 38 wherein the aluminum content
is in the range of less than about 85 to about 65 wt%. 
The slurry of claim 38 wherein the aluminum content
is in the range of more than 85 to about 95 wt%.
The slurry of claim 39 which contains both titanium
and tantalum.
The slurry of claim 38 in a heat-curable binder
which is an aqueous inorganic acidic burner.
The slurry of claim 38 wherein the metal is Cr.
A process for producing an aluminide-silicide
coating from a slurry of an eutectic aluminum-silicon or from

a slurry of metal powders in elemental form in a heat-curable
liquid binder, the slurry comprising a powder of slicide-forming

metal in an amount effective to promote the formation
and dispersion in the coating of silicides corresponding to

the metal, which comprises applying a coat of the slurry
to a superalloy substrate (G), diffusion heating the applied

coating, whereby there is a formed a layering layer (D) which
comprises alternate substantially continuous interleaved

layers of aluminide and silicide phases and a diffusion
interface layer (E) of the coating and the substrate.
The process of claim 48 wherein the diffusion
heating temperature is in the range of about 950°C to about

1120°C.
The process of claim 48 where the diffusion
temperature is in the range of about 850°C to about 1120°C.
The process of claim 48 where the diffusion 
temperature is below 870°C or above 885°C.
The process of claim 48 which comprises curing the
coating during the heating.
The process of claim 48 whereby a surface layer (C)
is formed on the layering layer (D).
A superalloy turbine part (G) coated with an
aluminide-silicide coating which coating has highly dispersed

silicide phases throughout the coating's thickness the coated
part having resistance to developing cracks, resistance to

oxidation and to hot corrosion and which coating comprises a
layering layer (D) having substantially continuous interleaved

layers of aluminide and silicide phases and a predominantly
aluminide layer (E) below and adjacent said layer (D) which

contains pronounced silicide precipitates, which coating is
formed from a slurry comprising aluminium, silicon and a

powder of a silicide-forming metal in an amount effective to
promote the formation and dispersion in the coating of

silicides corresponding to the metal.
The coated superalloy turbine part of claim 54
wherein the coating comprises an outer layer (C) above and

adjacent the layering layer (D).
The coated superalloy turbine part of claim 55
wherein the outer layer is substantially continuous.
The coated superalloy turbine part of claim 56
wherein the silicide concentration in the coating does not

exceed 8% in any one location. 
A diffusion heat treated aluminide-silicide coating
structure for a heat resistant alloy substrate (G) containing

major proportions of at least one of Ni and Co, the coating
having a plurality of zones in depthwise series, including

a pronounced layering layer (D) comprising interleaved
layers of aluminide and silicide phases, and a predominantly

aluminide layer (E) with pronounced silicide precipitates,
located between the layering layer and a diffusion interface

(F) of the coating with the substrate (G) which coating is
formed froma slurry comprising aluminium, silicon and a powder

of silicide-forming metal in an amount effective to promote
the formation and dispersion in the coating in the silicides

corresponding to the metal.
The coating structure of claim 58 wherein the
silicide-forming metal comprises at least one of chromium,

tantalum, titanium, rhenium, zirconium, hafnium, manganese and
elements of Group 4b and 5b of the Periodic Table.
The coating structure of claim 58 wherein there is a
silicon-rich surface layer (C) having a maximum silicon

content of less than 25 wt% on the layering layer (D).
The coating structure of claim 60 wherein the
surface layer (C) is at least 2 microns thick and the layering

layer (D) is at least four times the thickness of the surface
layer (C) , subject to a minimum thickness for the layering

layer (D) of 12 microns.
The coating structure of claim 61, wherein the
layering layer (D) is at least ten times the thickness of the 

silicon-rich surface layer (C).
The coating structure of any of claims 58 to 62
wherein the aluminum content in the layering layer (D) and the

aluminide layer (E) is consistently more than 15 wt.% and not
more than 30 wt.%.
The coating of claim 63, in which the aluminum
content of the coating varies by not more than about 12 wt.%.
The coating of any of claims 58 to 64 wherein in the
layering and aluminide layers (D,E)the aluminum content is not

more than 30 wt.% and the aluminum and silicon contents vary
therein depthwise in approximately inverse proportion to each

other.
A coating of any of claims 58 to 65 wherein the
substrate contains proportions of at least one of Ta and Ti,

the surface layer (C) includes at least one of Ta and Ti in
amounts greater than the weight percentage content of the

substrate material (G).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
