<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653346</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rear gear for a bicycle
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62M912	B62M900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62M9	B62M9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rear derailleur (100) for a bicycle having a bracket (5) connected 
to a bicycle frame (12), 

a guide wheel (1) for shifting a chain, a support member (4) for 
supporting the guide 

wheel (1), a base member (6) pivotably attached to the bracket (5), 
a tension spring (10) for 

biasing the base member (6) in a predetermined pivoting direction, and a 
parallelogram link mechanism (7,8) for linking the support member (4) 

and the base 
member (6). The bracket (5) has a mounting section (5B) formed in a 

region thereof adjacent 
the bicycle frame (12) and opposed to the bicycle frame (12). The 

tension spring (10) is 
attached to the mounting section (5B) so as to lie between the bicycle 

frame (12) and the 
mounting section (5B). The tension spring (10) is a coil spring having 

one end thereof 
fixed to the mounting section (5B), and the other end fixed to the base 

member (6). An 
axis extends through a middle tubular space of the coil spring (10) 

for pivotally 
connecting the base member (6) to the bracket (5). The link mechanism 

(7,8) includes an 
inner pivotal link (8), and an outer pivotal (7) link disposed farther 

from the bicycle 
frame (12) than the inner pivotal link (8) is. The inner pivotal link 

(8) is connected at one 
end thereof to the base member (6) by a first pivot pin (19A). The 

first pivot pin (19A) is 
disposed closer to the bicycle frame (12) than the mounting section (5B) is. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a rear derailleur for a bicycle
according to the preamble of claim 1.In GB-A-61 68 77 a rear derailleur of a bicycle
of the type noted above is
disclosed having a bracket
connected to a bicycle frame which supports the shifting apparatus. The bracket
is pivotably connected to a base member supporting a linkage device being
connected to a guide wheel of the shifting apparatus. The base member is biased
by a tension spring surrounding a pin provided with an enlarged head having
radial notches for receiving one end of the tension spring. The other end of the
tension spring is connected to the base member. The bracket is arranged between
the base member and the guide wheel of the shifting apparatus. In another rear derailleur for a bicycle above, as disclosed in
Japanese Patent Publication No. 47-27656, for example, the tension spring is
disposed outwardly of the bracket, that is to say the tension spring is attached,
in a posture extending transversely of the bicycle, to a mounting section formed
on a side of the bracket facing away from the bicycle frame. Consequently, the
bracket lies between the tension spring and bicycle frame.In the construction noted above in which the tension spring is disposed
outside the bracket with respect to the bicycle frame, the end of the tension
spring disposed inwardly is engaged with the bracket, while the end of the
tension spring disposed outwardly is engaged with the base member. It is
necessary for the base member to include a section opposed to the bracket
across the tension spring for engaging the tension spring. Conventionally,
therefore, where the base member and bracket are connected, the base member
projects to a relatively large extent outwardly from the bracket in the transverse
direction of the bicycle. The object of the present invention is to provide a compact rear derailleur for
a bicycle, which has a construction to reduce the above-noted lateral projection
of the base member.The above object is fulfilled, according to the present invention, by a rear
derailleur of the above mentionned type having the features of
the caracterising portion of claim 1.With this construction, the tension spring does not project outside the
bracket transversely of the bicycle frame. Consequently, this construction avoids
part of the base member projecting to a large extent outside the bracket transversely
of the bicycle frame. With the tension spring disposed inwardly of the bracket,
the entire rear derailleur has a compact construction and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rear derailleur for a bicycle comprising:

a bracket (5) adapted to be connected to a bicycle frame, said bracket having
a mounting section (5b) with a mounting surface facing a rear wheel of said

bicycle,
a pivot member (18) being attached to said bracket (5) and extending
substantially toward said rear wheel of said bicycle defining a pivot axis (B);

a base member (6) being pivotably attached to said mounting surface
through said pivot member (18),
a tension spring (10) arranged on the pivot member (18) so as to lie between
said rear wheel and said mounting section, being fixed at one end to the

base member (6) and biasing said base member (6) in a predetermined
pivoting direction;
a linkage device (7, 8) linking the base member (6) and a support
member (4) supporting a guide wheel (1) for shifting a chain;
characterized in that
said base member (6) contacting said pivot member is located between said
bracket (5) and said rear wheels the other end of the tension spring (10)

being fixed to the mounting section (5b).
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 1, characterized in that said tension
spring is a coil spring having one end thereof fixed to said mounting section,

and the other end fixed to said base member, said coil spring receiving an axis
extending through a middle tubular space thereof for pivotally connecting said

base member to said bracket.
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 2, characterized in that said linkage
means includes an inner pivotal link, and an outer pivotal link disposed farther

from said bicycle frame than said inner pivotal link is, to form a parallelogram
link mechanism with said support member and said base member, said inner

pivotal link being connected at one end thereof to said base member by a first
pivot pin, and at the other end to said support member by a second pivot pin,

said outer pivotal link being connected at one end thereof to said base member
by a third pivot pin, and at the other end to said support member by a fourth

pivot pin, said first pivot pin being disposed closer to said bicycle frame than 
said mounting section is.
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 3, characterized in that said base
member defines bores for receiving said first pivot pin and said third pivot pin,

such that said bracket is disposed between said first pivot pin and said third
pivot pin transversely of the bicycle.
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 4, characterized in that said bracket
includes a first adjusting screw and a second adjusting screw arranged between

said first pivot pin and said third pivot pin, said first adjusting screw being for
use in adjusting a limit to pivotal movement of said inner pivotal link relative to

said base member, said second adjusting screw being for use in adjusting a limit
to pivotal movement of said outer pivotal link relative to said base member.
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 2, characterized in that said base
member defines a skirt extending perpendicular to an inward surface of said

bracket, said tension spring being disposed in said skirt.
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 6, characterized in that said bracket
defines a mounting bore for use in fixing said bracket along with a hub spindle

to a rear fork end of said bicycle frame.
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 6, characterized in that said bracket
defines a mounting bore for use in fixing said bracket to a derailleur mounting

extension formed on a rear fork end of said bicycle frame.
A rear derailleur as defined in claim 1, 
characterized in that
 all portions
of said base member (6) that overlaps with said bracket (5) in a view along

said pivot axis (B) are located between said bracket (5) and said rear wheel.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
