<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652896</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PEPTIDE COMPOUNDS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3900	C07K14005	C07K1400	A61K4748	A61K3900	A61K5112	A61P3704	C07K1409	A61K5112	C07K1400	A61K5108	A61K5102	C07K14295	A61K4748	A61P3700	C07K14195	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	C07K	C07K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	C07K	A61K	C07K	A61K	A61K	C07K	A61K	A61P	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	C07K14	C07K14	A61K47	A61K39	A61K51	A61P37	C07K14	A61K51	C07K14	A61K51	A61K51	C07K14	A61K47	A61P37	C07K14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Synthetic peptides are widely used to generate antibodies. To induce high antibody response, it is known to conjugate the peptide to a carrier protein (e.g. KLH, BSA) or to incorporate it into polylysine to form a multiple antigenic peptide. Anchors may be built in which are based on fatty acids. According to the invention there is provided a novel lipidic amino acid based anchor system which can maximally enhance the antigenicity of a short synthetic peptide. These novel compounds are entirely peptide-based and may therefore be produced automatically by some step wise peptide synthesis, preferably solid phase step wise peptide synthesis. According to the invention there is also provided such a process.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV LONDON PHARMACY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE SCHOOL OF PHARMACY, UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBONS WILLIAM ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOTH ISTVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIBBONS, WILLIAM, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOTH, ISTVAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to peptide compounds 
which comprise a lipophilic anchor section formed from at 
least one fatty amino acid moiety and a matrix core section 
having at least four amino acid functionalities which are 
the same and are selected from -NH2, -COOH, -SH, -OH and 
derivatives thereof. Pharmaceutically active moieties, 
especially peptide antigens, can be bound to the amino acid 
functionalities for use as, for instance, vaccines and 
diagnostic agents. The lipophilic anchor allows the 
compound to be incorporated into lipid vesicles and/or cell 
membranes. The invention includes a process for producing 
the new compound by conventional peptide synthesis, usually 
on a solid matrix. It is well recognised that synthetic peptides can 
induce antibodies reactive with their cognate sequences in 
the native proteins, that is the synthetic peptide and 
native protein comprise the same epitope. Specific 
antibodies are useful as reagents in various 
investigations. Furthermore peptide antigens, made by 
available peptide synthesis techniques, are useful for 
producing immunogens and for immunoprophylaxis and in 
affinity purification of proteins, antibodies, or other 
molecules. Small peptide molecules may not be of sufficient 
molecular weight themselves to be immunogenic at all or to 
a sufficient degree, but can be rendered immunogenic or 
more immunogenic by conjugation to a carrier molecule, for 
instance to a protein or a synthetic polymer. The use of 
proteins, for instance bovine serum albumin (BSA), has been 
described. Although the conjugated product is antigenic, 
it comprises a large number of epitopes other than that 
associated with the synthetic peptide of interest. Di 
Marchi et al in Science (1986) 232, 639-641 describe a 
synthetic peptide comprising two immunologically 
significant regions of a virus coat protein joined by a  
 
spacer which has adequate molecular weight to induce an 
immune response. Again the spacer region can act as an 
epitope, which is undesirable. James P Tam, in Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (1988) 85, 
5409-5413, describes a new approach to increasing the 
molecular weight of synthetic peptide antigens called the 
multiple antigen peptide system (MAP). The MAP comprises 
a core matrix formed of a low number (n) of sequential 
levels of dendritically joined trifunctional amino acids, 
in practice lysine molecules. The core matrix has 2n 
terminal functionalities, in practice amine 
functionalities, each of which can be conjugated with a 
synthetic
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A peptide compound comprising at least 2 amino acid 
moieties joined together by peptide bonds, the compound 

comprising a lipophilic anchor which is connected to an 
amino acid moiety of the compound by a peptide bond and 

which comprises at least two amino acid moieties, each of 
the formula I 


 
wherein each R
1
 is independently a linear or branched chain 
alkyl or alkenyl group having 6-24 carbon atoms, the two 

amino acids of the formula I being joined directly to one 
another by peptide bonds, the compound comprising also a 

matrix core section comprising n levels of dendritically 
and peptide bond linked trifunctional amino acid moieties, 

in which n is an integer of 1 or more, the or each 
trifunctional amino acid moiety comprising either two 

carboxylic acid groups or two amine groups and the matrix 
core further having at least two terminal functionalities 

which are selected from -NH2, -COOH, -OH, -SH and 
derivatives thereof. 
A peptide compound according to claim 1, wherein n is 
2, 3 or 4. 
A peptide compound according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
wherein the lipophilic anchor section is joined to the 

central amino acid of the matrix core section, directly or 
via a linker group. 
A pharmaceutically active compound comprising a 
peptide compound according to any of claims 1 to 3, in 

which a pharmaceutically active substituent is joined to 
each of the terminal functionalities, the substituents in 

the compound in the compound preferably being the same and 
preferably being linked to terminal -NH
2
 OR -COOH 
functionalities by peptide bonds.  

 
A pharmaceutically active compound according to claim 
4, wherein each of the pharmaceutically active substituents 

is a peptide antigen. 
A pharmaceutical composition comprising a 
pharmaceutically active compound according to claim 4 or 

claim 5 and a pharmaceutically active carrier. 
A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 6 
which is a vaccine. 
A liposome composition comprising a compound according 
to any of claims 1 to 5 anchored in a lipid vesicle via the 

lipophilic anchor section. 
A liposome composition according to claim 8 which is 
a vaccine. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 5, 
additionally comprising a resin support linked directly via 

a peptide bond or indirectly via a linker peptide moiety to 
the lipophilic anchor section. 
A compound according to any of claims 1 to 5 having 
the formula 


 
wherein Z, Z
1
 and Z
2
 are independently selected from a bond, 
an amino-acid residue and an oligopeptide residue, R
3
 and 
R
4
 are independently selected from H, an amine protecting 
group, a pharmaceutically active moiety, and a group III  

 

 
wherein R
3'
, R
4'
, Z
1'
 and Z
2'
 are selected from the same 
groups represented by R
3
, R
4
, Z
1
 and Z
2
, respectively,
 
   p is 0 or an integer,
 
the or each R
2
 is independently selected from linear and 
branched chain alkyl and alkenyl groups having 6 to 24 

carbon atoms and naturally-occurring amino acid side 
chains,
 
q is an integer of at least 1
 
the or each R
1
 is independently selected from linear and 
branched chain alkyl and alkenyl groups having 6 to 24 

carbon atoms,
 
Y is OH, NH
2
, a carboxylic acid protecting group or 
comprises an amino acid or oligopeptide moiety and/or a 

resin on which the peptide has been synthesised. 
A process of producing a peptide compound comprising 
a lipophilic anchor which is connected to an amino acid 

moiety of the compound by a peptide bond and which 
comprises at least two amino acid moieties, each of the 

formula I 

 
wherein each R
1
 is independently a linear or branched chain 
alkyl or alkenyl group having 6-24 carbon atoms, the two 

amino acids of the formula I being joined directly to one 
another by peptide bonds, the compound comprising also a 

matrix core section comprising n levels of dendritically 
and peptide bond linked trifunctional amino acid moieties, 

in which n is an integer of 1 or more, the or each  
 

trifunctional amino acid moiety comprising either two 
carboxylic acid groups or two amine groups and the matrix 

core further having at least two terminal functionalities 
which are selected from -NH
2
, -COOH, -OH, -SH and 
derivatives thereof,
 
   said process comprising the reaction of the amine or 

carboxylic acid equivalent of the lipophilic anchor with 
the carboxylic acid or amine equivalent, respectively, of 

said amino acid moiety of the compound to form said peptide 
bond. 
A process according to claim 12, wherein the formation 
of said peptide compound is carried out as a solid phase 

peptide synthesis step in which the forming peptide 
compound is attached to a resin. 
A process according to claim 13, wherein the process 
comprises the formation of peptide bonds between the 

moieties of formula I and of peptide bonds between the 
amino acid moieties of the matrix core section, 

sequentially and without cleavage of the forming peptide 
compound from the resin. 
A process according to claim 14, wherein the peptide 
compound is a pharmaceutically active compound according to 

claim 8 and wherein each terminal functionality is an amine 
or carboxylic acid group or derivative thereof and wherein 

each peptide bond which joins a pharmaceutically active 
substituent to a terminal functionality is formed by the 

reaction of amine or carboxylic acid moiety or derivative 
thereof of said pharmaceutically active substituent with 

said terminal functionality whilst the forming peptide 
compound 
is attached to the resin. 
A process according to any of claims 12 to 15, wherein 
the peptide compound possesses any of the further features 

recited in any of claims 2 to 5, 10 and 11. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
