<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629976</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Compact disc counter.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V810	G01V812	G01V812	G01V820	G06M100	G06M110	G06M900	G06M900	H03K2100	H03K2140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01V	G01V	G01V	G06M	G06M	G06M	G06M	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V8	G01V8	G01V8	G01V8	G06M1	G06M1	G06M9	G06M9	H03K21	H03K21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Apparatus for counting compact discs stacked on a 
spindle with outer portions of adjacent discs normally 

separated by gaps formed by central bosses of the discs in 
which the stack is moved vertically through the space between 

transmitting optics which produce a pair of vertically spaced 
beams having a space therebetween equal to the distance 

between a pair of adjacent gaps of the stack and receiving 
optics including a detector which produces pulses in response 

to radiation from said beams which transverse the gaps. The 
time between a pair of successive pulses is measured and the 

second pulse of the pair is counted as two pulses when the 
measured time exceeds a predetermined time. The apparatus is 

arranged to operate with either of two types of spindles. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEA MFG INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WEA MANUFACTURING INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSS FLOYD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIETRZYKOSKI ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOSS FLOYD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIETRZYKOSKI ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH SCOTT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention is in the field of counters and, more 
particularly, relates to a device for counting compact discs 
on a spindle. As is known in the art, compact discs (CDs) are formed 
with a central opening and with a boss surrounding the opening 
on one side of the disc. Normally, in the course of 
manufacture of the discs, a number of discs are placed on a 
spindle with the bosses forming spaces between adjacent discs 
outside the bosses. Obviously, it is desirable to know the 
number of discs carried by the spindle. Higgison et al Patent 4,994,666 shows a device for 
counting compound discs stacked on a spindle by means of a 
laser beam which traverses the spaces between adjacent discs 
of the stack. More specifically, a base supports a laser, the 
beam of which is translated to a lens system supported on a 
platform. The platform is driven by a lead screw to cause the 
beam to scan a stack of discs. A detector supported by the 
platform and disposed on the opposite side of the stack from 
the transmitting optics produces a signal each time the laser 
beam traverses the space between a pair of adjacent discs, 
thus to produce a count of the number of discs in a stack. While the Higgison et al device is generally  
 
satisfactory, it embodies a number of defects. First, owing 
to the fact that it employs movable optics, the system is 
relatively complex and cumbersome. Secondly, it involves the 
possibility of missing a count because a pair of adjacent 
discs have no space therebetween. This may result from 
production defects or from the fact that not all discs are 
stacked with their bosses facing the same way. One object of our invention is to provide a compact disc 
counter which overcomes the disadvantages of compact disc 
counters of the prior art. Another object of our invention is to provide a compact 
disc counter which is relatively simple in construction and in 
operation. A further object of our invention is to provide a compact 
disc counter in which the possibility of missing a count is 
minimized. Yet another object of our invention is to provide a 
compact disc counter which readily accommodates different 
types of spindles. Other and further objects of our invention will appear 
from the following description.  In the accompanying drawings to which reference is made 
in the instant specification and which are to be read in 
conjunction therewith and in which like reference characters 
are used to identify like parts in the various views: 
FIG. 1 is a plan of a compact disc showing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for counting articles disposed in a stack 
having a longitudinal axis with gaps normally therebetween 

including in combination 
   means for producing a pair of beams of radiation with a 

spacing therebetween in the direction of said axis 
substantially equal to the distance between a pair of adjacent 

normal gaps of said articles of said stack, 
   radiation detecting means, 

   means mounting said radiation detecting means in 
operative relation to said beam producing means and with a 

space therebetween, and 
   means for moving a stack of articles relative to said 

beam producing means and said detecting means through said 
space in the direction of said stack axis and generally 

perpendicular to said beams to cause said beams to traverse 
said gaps whereby said detecting means produces a pulse each 

time a beam traverses a gap. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 in which said articles are 
compact discs each having a body formed with a central boss 

and an outer portion such that said gaps are formed between 
said outer portions by said bosses of adjacent discs. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 in which said radiation is 
light. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 in which said radiation 
producing means comprises a laser. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 in which said beam producing 
means and said detecting means are stationary. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 in which said detecting means 
comprises a first detector arranged at an angle to said beams, 

a second detector oriented to receive radiation reflected from 
said first detector and to reflect radiation back to said 

first detector and means for adding the output of said first 
and second detectors. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 including means for measuring 
the time between successive pulses produced by said detecting 

means and means for counting the second of said successive 
pulses as two pulses where said time exceeds a reference time. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 including means for adjusting 
the spacing between said beams. 
Apparatus as in claim 1 in which said beam-producing 
means comprises means for generating a laser beam, a quarter-wave 

plate for polarizing said laser beam, a beam splitter for 
splitting said polarized laser beam into two beams and a 

telescope for adjusting the spacing between said two beams. 
Apparatus for counting compact discs, each of which 
is formed with a central boss and an outer portion, said discs 

being arranged in a stack on a spindle having a base with 
normal gaps formed by said bosses between outer portions of 

adjacent discs including in combination 
   means forming a pair of spaced beams of radiation with a 

vertical Spacing therebetween substantially equal to the 
distance between a pair of adjacent normal gaps between discs 

 
of said stack, 

   radiation detecting means, 
   means mounting said detecting means in operative 

relationship to said beam producing means and with a space 
therebetween, 

   a support for receiving a spindle base, 
   means mounting said support for vertical movement of a 

stack carried by said spindle base along a path through said 
space between an upper rest position and a lower home 

position, 
   said path being located relative to said beam producing 

means such that said beams scan said gaps at the outer 
portions of said discs 

   and energizable means for driving said support. 
Apparatus as in claim 10 including a source of power 
for said energizable means, 

   means for turning said power source on and off 
   and control means responsive to turning on of said power 

for causing said energizable means to drive said support first 
to its home position and then to its rest position. 
Apparatus as in claim 10 including means responsive 
to placing of a spindle on said support for energizing said 

energizable means. 
Apparatus as in claim 10 adapted to handle spindles 
of different types, said apparatus including means responsive 

to placing of a spindle on said support for indicating which 
type of spindle has been placed on the support. 
Apparatus as in claim 10 in which said support is 
provided with means for ensuring the verticality of a spindle 

placed on said support. 
Apparatus as in claim 10 for handling a spindle 
having a base with a bottom recess formed therein, said 

support being provided with a first set of locating pins for 
engaging the outer surface of the base to locate the base on 

said support and a second set of verticality ensuring pins on 
which said base rests. 
Apparatus as in Claim 10 for handling a spindle 
having a base with a bottom recess formed therein, said 

support being provided with a set of pins for engaging the 
inner surface of the wall of said recess to locate said base 

on said support, the upper surface of said recess resting on 
said pins to ensure the verticality of the spindle. 
Apparatus as in claim 10 for alternative use with a 
first type spindle having a large diameter base with a bottom 

recess therein or a second type spindle having a smaller 
diameter base with a bottom recess therein, said support being 

provided with a first set of pins for engaging the outer 
surface of the first type spindle base to locate the base on 

the support, a second set of pins on which the first type 
spindle base rests to ensure the verticality of the first type 

spindle, and a third set of pins for engaging the inner 
surface of the wall of the second type spindle base recess to 

locate the spindle on the support and for engaging the top of 
the second type spindle recess to ensure the verticality of 

 
the second type spindle. 
Apparatus as in claim 17 including spaced proximity 
switches associated respectively with the first and second 

type spindles for indicating which type of spindle is on the 
support. 
Apparatus as in claim 18 including means responsive 
to said detecting means for producing a count as said stack 

passes through said space and means responsive to actuation of 
said proximity switches for activating said count producing 

means. 
In apparatus for counting articles stacked with gaps 
therebetween by causing a radiation source and associated 

detecting means to scan said stack whereby said detecting 
means produces a pulse each time it receives radiation passing 

from said source through a gap, apparatus including means for 
counting said pulses, means for measuring the time between 

successive pulses, means for comparing said measured time with 
a reference, and means for counting the later of said 

successive pulses twice when said measured time exceeds said 
reference. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
