<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643597</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MECHANISM FOR MANIPULATING A TOOL.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1728	A61B1728	A61B1734	A61B1734	A61F200	A61F200	A61M2501	A61M2501	A61M3700	A61M3700	B26B1500	B26B1500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B26B	B26B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	A61M25	A61M25	A61M37	A61M37	B26B15	B26B15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flexible elongate device (11) comprising a flexible elongate member (16) having proximal (12) and distal (13) extremities and a tool actuator member (46) mounted on the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member. At least one elongate element (12 and 13) having a negative coefficient of expansion is carried by the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member and is connected to the tool actuator member (46) for causing movement of the tool actuating member. A control console (66) is provided for supplying electrical energy to the elongate member.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIRCOR BIOMEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MIRCOR BIOMEDICAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRCOR BIOMEDICAL INC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIRCOR BIOMEDICAL, INC.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MECHANISM FOR MANIPULATING A TOOLThis invention relates to a mechanism for manipulating a tool and to a flexible elongate device using the same.Inmanymedical procedures, particularly those utilizing guidewires and catheters and other minimally invasive surgical procedures, it has been desirable to perform certain physical operations at the distal extremities of the same.This has been difficult to accomplish. In certain applications, pull wires or levers have been utilized to perform operations at the distal extremities. However, they have serious limitations because of the frictional engagement between the pull wires and the device in which they are operating. Also, they have been unsatisfactory because they provide at best a slow response. There is therefore a need for a new and improved mechanism for manipulating a tool at the distal extremity of a flexible elongate device, and particularly for small diameter guidewires and catheters.In general, it is an object of the present invention to provide a mechanism for manipulating a tool.Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character which can be very small and can be provided at the distal extremities of flexible elongate devices.Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character which has a fast response. 

 Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character in which a rectilinear motion can be provided.Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character in which the rectilinear motion can be converted into circular motion.Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character which can be readily controlled. Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character which can be utilized with a flexible elongate device having a steerable distal extremity.Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character in which a fluid can be introduced through the distal extremity of the flexible elongate device.Another object of the invention is to provide a flexible elongate device incorporating the mechanism for manipulation of a tool which permits the use of a relatively small diameter for the flexible elongate device.Another object of the invention is to provide a mechanism of the above character which can be utilized with various types of tools utilized in medical procedures. Additional objects and features of the invention will appear from the following
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In a flexible elongate device, a flexible elongate member having proximal and distal extremities, a tool actuator member mounted on the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member, an elongate element having a negative coefficient of expansion carried by the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member, electrical actuator means for supplying electrical energy to the elongate element, and means connecting the flexible elongate element to the tool actuating member for causing movement of the tool actuating member.
2. A device as in Claim 1 wherein at least one elongate element provides linear motion to the tool actuator member upon electrical energy being supplied to the elongate element.
3. A device as in Claim 1 wherein said elongate element provides rotational movement to the tool actuating member when electrical energy is supplied to the elongate element.
4. A device as in Claim 1 wherein said electrical actuation means includes first and second springs whereby supplying of electrical energy to the first spring causes movement of the tool actuator member in one direction and the supplying of electrical energy to the other of the springs causes movement of the tool actuator member in an opposite direction.
5. A device as in Claim 1 together with additional elongate elements having negative coefficients of expansion disposed in the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member and wherein said means for supplying electrical energy includes means for supplying electrical energy to said additional elongate elements to cause movement of the distal extremity of the flexible elongate element and the tool actuator member carried thereby in directions which are offset with respect to the longitudinal axis of the flexible elongate member. 



 6. A device as in Claim 1 wherein said tool actuator member is cylindrical in form and has said first and second springs coaxially mounted thereon.
7. A device as in Claim 1 together with cooperative means carried by the tool actuator member and the flexible elongate member for imparting rotational movement to the tool actuator member as the tool actuator member is moved rectilinearly.
8. A device as in Claim 1 wherein said elongate element has first and second ends, means securing the first end within the flexible elongate member to prevent rotation thereof, means connecting the other end of the elongate element to the tool actuator member to permit rectilinear movement of the tool actuator member but preventing rotation of the tool actuator member with respect to the second end of the elongate element whereby as the second end of the elongate is rotated, the tool actuator member is rotated.
9. A device as in Claim 1 wherein said tool is in the form of first and second members movable towards and away from each other and a linkage connecting at least of one of said first and said members to said tool actuator member for causing movement of said first and second members toward and away from each other.
10. A device as in Claim 1 together with valve means carried by the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member and being movable between open and closed positions to permit a tool to pass therethrough when the tool is advanced and to prevent a liquid from entering the distal extremity of the flexible elongate device when the tool is retracted behind the valve member.
11. In a mechanism for manipulating a tool carried by the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member and, a tool actuator member disposed in said lumen, at least one elongate element having a negative coefficient of expansion, a flexible elongate member having proximal and distal extremities and having a lumen therein extending through the distal extremity coupled to said tool actuator member 


and electrical means for supplying electrical energy to the elongate element to cause motion to be supplied to tool actuator member to cause it to move in said lumen.
12. A mechanism as in Claim 11 together with a console having manually controlled connected to the proximal extremity of the flexible elongate member, said control console having manually controlled means for controlling the electrical means lor causing the movement oi the Lυol actuator member in said lumen. 13. A mechanism as in Claim 12 wherein said electrical means is formed to cause rectilinear movement of the tool actuator in said lumen.
14. A mechanism as in Claim 12 wherein said electrical means is formed to cause rotational movement of the tool actuator member in said lumen.
15. A mechanism as in Claim 12 wherein said electrical means includes means formed for causing rectilinear and rotational movement of tool actuator member.
16. A mechanism as in Claim 15 wherein said control means includes means for causing rotational movement of the tool actuator member independent of rectilinear of the tool actuator member.
17. A mechanism as in Claim 12 wherein said flexible elongate member has a longitudinal axis together with electrical means connected to the distal extremity of the flexible elongate tubular member for causingmovement offset from the longitudinal axis of the elongate tubular member and extending through 360° for steering the distal extremity of the flexible elongate member. 18. In a mechanism for manipulating a took, a cylindrical enclosure having proximal and distal extremities, and having a bore extending therethrough, a tool actuator member slidably mounted in the bore, first and second aligned springs formed of a material having a negative coefficient of expansion disposed coaxially on said tool actuator member and having proximal and distal extremities, means carried by the cylindrical enclosure for engaging at least one 


extremity of each of said first and second springs for retaining said springs in said bore, means carried by said actuator member for engaging at least one extremity of said first and second springs and means for supplying electrical energy to said first and second springs to cause rectilinear movement of said tool actuator member in said bore.
19. A mechanism as in Claim 18 together with cooperative means carried by the tool actuator member and the cylindrical enclosure for causing rotational movement of the tool actuator member as the tool actuator member is advanced and retracted.
20. A mechanism as in Claim 19 together with an additional element formed of a material having a negative coefficient of expansion, means for securing one end of the element in a fixed position within the bore and means slidably mounted in said bore but preventing relative rotational movement between the other end of the elongate element and the tool actuator member.
21. A mechanism as in Claim 18 wherein said tool comprises first and second members movable between open and closed positions with respect to each other and a linkage interconnecting said first and second members to said tool actuator member for causing said movement between said open and closed positions. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
