<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625336</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
System and method for securing a medical cable.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1704	A61B1704	A61B1768	A61B1770	A61B1770	A61B1782	A61B1788	A61B1788	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system and method for securing a medical cable (10) and 
a loop about a specified portion of a patient's body are 

disclosed. The system may include a medical cable (10), a 
crimp-locking crimp (16), a releasable cable securing device (20), 

and a cable tensioner (18). Additionally, a crimper-cutter 
may be used as part of the system. The releasable cable 

securing device may include a body having a cable-receiving 
channel, a wedging chamber and a wedging member 

that cooperate to allow a cable to be moved in a first 
direction, but not moved in a second direction. The 

cable may be released from the releasable cable securing 
device by depressing a portion of the wedging member. 

The crimper cutter may include a first head formed to 
have a crimping channel and a blade member, and a second 

head formed to force the neck of a crimp into the 
crimping channel and then on to the blade member. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMEI TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMEI TECHNOLOGIES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREISSMAN HOWARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PREISSMAN HOWARD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to surgically implanted wires 
and cables and more particularly relates to improved 
methods and apparatus for use in surgically installing 
wires and cables at selected locations in a patient's 
body.  Surgical or medical wires and cables are used in a 
variety of surgical procedures, for example, 
reconstructive spine surgery such as fusions, spinal 
trauma surgery, total hip arthroplasty, fracture 
fixation, open heart surgery for closures of the sternum, 
oral and facial surgery to fix mandibular fractures and 
the like, and other surgical procedures. Often, medical 
cables and wires are used to encircle or loop about bones 
to hold them together for healing or fusion in some types 
of spinal surgery. For purposes of this application, 
"cable" includes monofilament and single strand wire 
along with multi-filament and multi-strand cable and wire 
ropes. In some surgical procedures, it is desirable to 
provide a tensile force to selected portions of the 
patient's body such as to adjacent vertebrae. This may 
be accomplished by placing loops formed of medical cable 
about the vertebrae. In placing the loops around the 
vertebrae with the desired tension on the vertebrae, it 
is frequently necessary to pass the cables sublaminarly, 
to apply the desired tension on the vertebrae through the 
cables, and then secure the cables in loops. One method 
of accomplishing these tasks is for the surgeon to pass a 
suture sublaminarly, to secure the suture to a mid-section 
of the cable, pull the suture with the attached 
cable back under the lamina of the vertebrae, and then 
cut the suture and cable so that two cables exist under 
the lamina of the patient. The cables can then be looped 
about the vertebrae and tightened by hand with the 
surgeon plucking the cables to determine the tension. 
After pulling the cables until the surgeon determines 
that the desired tension is applied, the surgeon attempts 
to secure the cables in their respective loops while 
maintaining the tension thereon. Problems sometime occur with placing the correct 
tension on the medical cables during installation.  
 
Conventional systems for attaching medical cables to 
selected portions of the patient's body have experienced 
problems with the cables being applied too tightly and 
creating vascular necrosis of the bone around the cables. 
At the same time, medical cables must be tight enough to 
achieve the desired mechanical fixation. Many 
conventional systems are difficult to manipulate and 
surgeons have
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A system for allowing an operator to secure a 
medical cable in a loop about a specified portion of a 

patient's body with a desired tension, the system 
comprising: 

   a tensioner for applying the desired tension to the 
cable after looping the cable around the desired portion 

of the patient's body; 
   a crimp-locking crimp attached to a first end of the 

cable and formed to have a cable-receiving bore for 
receiving the cable after the loop is formed; 

   a neck provided on the crimp-locking crimp for use 
in securing the cable; and 

   a releasable cable securing device for allowing 
movement of the cable in only one direction. 
The system of Claim 1 further comprising a 
crimper-cutter for crimping and cutting the neck of the 

crimp-locking crimp to secure the loop in the cable. 
The system of Claim 2 wherein the crimper-cutter 
comprises: 

   a crimper-cutting head formed with a crimping 
channel for receiving the neck of the crimp-locking 

crimp; 
   a block head formed to mate with the crimping 

channel; 
   means for engaging the crimper-cutting head and the 

block head; and 
   a cutting edge coupled to the crimper-cutting head 

for cutting a portion of the neck of the crimp-locking 
crimp as the block head reaches a bottom portion of the 

crimping channel. 
The system of Claim 1 wherein the releasable 
cable securing device comprises: 

   a body having a cable-receiving channel extending 
through the body; and 

   a wedging means for locking the cable when the cable 
when a first net force is applied to the cable in one 

direction relative to the cable-receiving channel and 
allowing the cable to move when a second net force is 

applied to the cable in a second direction relative to 
the cable-receiving channel. 
The system of Claim 4 wherein the wedging means 
of the releasable cable securing device comprises: 

   a wedging member; and 
   a wedging chamber formed in the body the securing 

device. 
The system of Claim 5, wherein the wedging 
member is a partial cylindrical member with an off center 

pivot point. 
The system of Claim 1, wherein the tensioner 
comprises: 

   an elongated shafting having a first handle secured 
to one end of the shaft; 

   a second handle slidably disposed on the shaft 
intermediate the ends thereof; 

   means for releasably securing a portion of the 
medical cable adjacent the other end of the shaft 

opposite from the first handle; and 
   means for securing another portion of the medical 

cable to the second handle. 
The system of Claim 7, wherein the tensioner 
further comprises: 

   the elongated shaft having a generally rectangular 
cross section; 

   the second handle having an opening sized to allow 
the second handle to slide longitudinally over the 

exterior of the elongated shaft; and 
   means for preventing longitudinal movement of the 

second handle in one direction. 
The system of Claim 1, wherein the crimp-locking 
crimp comprises: 

   a crimp body having a first longitudinal bore 
extending through the crimp body; 

   a head on one end of the crimp body with the first 
longitudinal bore extending therethrough; and 

   a second bore extending through the head and offset 
from the first longitudinal bore. 
The system of Claim 9, wherein the crimp body 
and the head comprise MP35N alloy. 
The system of Claim 9, wherein the crimp body 
and the head comprise stainless steel. 
The system of Claim 1, wherein the crimp-locking 
crimp comprises: 

   a crimp body having a first longitudinal bore 
extending through the crimp body and the first bore 

having a diameter larger than the outside diameter of the 
cable so that the cable can be inserted into the first 

longitudinal bore; 
   a head on one end of the crimp body with the first 

longitudinal bore extending through the head; 
   a neck for developing a securing force about the 

medical cable when crimped, the neck located on one end 
of the crimp body with the first longitudinal bore 

extending through the neck 
   an enlarged cable termination or one end of the 

medical cable; and 
   a second bore extending through the head and offset 

from the first longitudinal bore, the second bore having 
an inside diameter larger than the outside diameter of 

the cable and smaller than the diameter of the enlarged 
cable termination. 
A method for securing a medical cable in a loop 
about a specified portion of a patient's body with a 

desired tension, the method comprising the steps: 
   running a cable about the specified portion of the 

patient's body; 
   releasably attaching a cable securing device to the 

cable; 
   applying the desired tension to the cable by using a 

tensioner; 
   engaging the cable with a crimp-locking crimp; and 

   securing the loop with the desired tension by using 
a crimp-locking crimp. 
The method of claim 13 further comprising the 
step of cutting the cable and crimp-locking crimp. 
A method for secure a medical cable in a loop 
about a specified portion of a patient's body with a 

desired tension, the method comprising the steps of: 
   passing a first end of the cable through a channel 

on a head of a crimp-locking crimp until a second end of 
the cable rests against the crimp-locking crimp; 

   passing the first end of the cable about the 
specified portion of the patient's body; 

   passing the first end of the cable through a 
longitudinal bore of the crimp-locking crimp; 

   passing the first end of the cable through a 
releasable cable securing device for maintaining a 

tension when applied to the cable; 
   releseably attaching a cable tensioner to the cable 

securing device and the cable; 
   applying the desired tension to the loop in the 

cable with the tensioner; and 
   crimping a neck of the crimp-locking crimp about the 

cable to secure the loop with the desired tension. 
The method of Claim 15 further comprising the 
step of cutting the cable and the neck of the crimp-locking 

crimp. 
The method of Claim 16, wherein the steps of 
crimping the neck of the crimp-locking crimp and cutting 

the cable and neck comprise the step of the crimping and 
cutting with a crimper-cutter. 
A medical cable securing device for releasably 
securing a cable, the device comprising: 

   a body formed having a cable-receiving channel for 
receiving the cable and allowing the cable to pass 

through the body of the securing device; 
   a wedging chamber formed in the cable-receiving 

channel; 
   a wedging member disposed in the wedging chamber; 

   biasing means attached to the wedging member and the 
body for urging the wedging member against the interior 

of the wedging chamber with the cable disposed 
therebetween; and 

   the wedging member attached in the wedging chamber 
by an offset pin such that when forces are applied in a 

first direction toward a first end of the body, the cable 
can move and, when forces are applied in a second 

direction, a wedging force is developed that prevents 
substantial movement. 
The cable securing device of Claim 18 further 
comprising a tensioner-gripping opening formed in the 

body at a first end for releseably attaching a tensioner 
to the cable securing device. 
The cable securing device of Claim 18, wherein 
the wedging member is a partial cylindrical member. 
The cable securing device of Claim 18, wherein 
the biasing means is a torsion spring. 
The cable securing device of Claim 18, wherein 
the wedging member is a frusto-conical shaped wedging 

member. 
The cable securing device of Claim 22, wherein 
the biasing means comprises a spring for urging the 

frusto-conical shaped wedging member against a wall of 
the wedging chamber. 
The cable securing device of Claim 23, wherein 
the wall comprises a tapered wall and the wedging member 

comprises a frusto-conical shaped member. 
An apparatus for crimping and cutting a cable 
securing device and the cable disposed therein, the 

apparatus comprising: 
   a first head formed to have a crimping channel 

therein; 
   a blade member attached to the first head proximate 

a first end of the first head; 
   a second head formed to mate with the crimping 

channel of first head; 
   an engaging means for moving the first head toward 

the second head; and 
   the crimping channel sized so that when the first 

head and second head mate under the influence of the 
engaging means, the cable securing device is secured to 

the cable and a portion of the cable securing device and 
cable are cut, the neck of the crimp-locking crimp is 

plastically deformed about the cable and when the neck 
reaches a lower portion of the crimping channel the blade 

member cuts the neck and cable. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
