<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0682566</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
STRESS-BEARING UMBILICUS FOR A COMPACT CENTRIFUGE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M102	B04B500	F02B7502	B04B500	F02B7502	B04B504	A61M102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	B04B	F02B	B04B	F02B	B04B	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M1	B04B5	F02B75	B04B5	F02B75	B04B5	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An umbilicus (24) conveys fluid between a stationary body and a rotating body in a small, compact operating environment. The umbilicus comprises an elongated body (200) including a proximal end, a distal end, and a middle region between the proximal and distal ends. A first support block (204) is attached to the proximal end. A second support block (206) is attached to the distal end. The first support block (204) includes a strain relief sleeve (212). The umbilicus is otherwise free of any other strain relief sleeve. A thrust bearing member (214) in the middle region spaced apart from the strain relief sleeve (212) and the distal end. The umbilicus is otherwise free of any other thrust bearing member. The thrust bearing member (214) has an inner annular body (218), an outer annular body (216) about the inner annular body (218), and an array of ball bearings (220) between the inner and outer annular bodies. The ball bearings (220) support the inner annular body (218) for rotation relative to the outer annular body (216).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN RICHARD I
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CERNY DAVID E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENNEHEY T MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASH DEAN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATEL INDRAJIT T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN, RICHARD, I.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CERNY, DAVID, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DENNEHEY, T., MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLASH, DEAN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PATEL, INDRAJIT, T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to blood processing systems
and apparatus and is as defined by the appended claims.Today people routinely separate whole blood by
centrifugation into its various therapeutic components,
such as red blood cells, platelets, and plasma.Conventional blood processing methods use durable
centrifuge equipment in association with single use,
sterile processing systems, typically made of plastic.
The operator loads the disposable systems upon the
centrifuge before processing and removes them
afterwards.Conventional centrifuges often do not permit easy
access to the areas where the disposable systems reside
during use. As a result, loading and unloading
operations can be time consuming and tedious.Disposable systems are often preformed into
desired shapes to simplify the loading and unloading
process. However, this approach is often counterproductive,
as it increases the cost of the
disposables.US-A-4710161 describes a continuous type
centrifugal separator in which a completely closed
system is realised, which is suitable for separating
heavy and light components of blood.US-A-4194684 describes a centrifugal processing
apparatus with a rotatable processing chamber and an
umbilical cable segment comprising a polyester
elastomer tubing which is fixed at one end
substantially along the axis of the processing chamber,
with the other end being attached on the axis in a
rotationally locked engagement with the processing
chamber.US-A-4109832 describes a centrifugal processing
apparatus and an umbilical cable segment carrying a 
flexible sheath, the sheath having a shank portion
which extends from the axis along a portion of the
cable segment, and having thickness which decreases
along the cable segment in the direction away from the
axis.The invention makes possible improved liquid
processing systems that provide easy access to external
and internal components for loading and unloading
disposable processing components. The invention 
achieves this objective without complicating
or increasing the cost of the disposable components.
The invention allows relatively inexpensive and
straightforward disposable components to be used.One aspect of the invention provides an
umbilicus for conveying fluid between a stationary
body and a rotating body. The umbilicus comprises
an elongated body including a proximal end, a distal
end, and a middle region between the proximal and
distal ends.A first support block is attached to the
proximal end. A second support block is attached to
the distal end. The first
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An umbilicus (24) for conveying fluid between a stationary body
and a rotating body, the umbilicus comprising an elongated body (200)

including a proximal end directed towards the stationary body a distal end directed towards the rotating body and a middle region between the
proximal and distal ends, a first support block (204) with a strain relief

sleeve (212) attached to the proximal end, the umbilicus being free of any
other strain relief sleeve, a second support block (206) attached to the

distal end, and a thrust bearing member (214) in the middle region spaced
apart from the strai
n relief sleeve (212) and the distal end, the umbilicus
being free of any other thrust bearing member.
An umbilicus according to claim 1, wherein the thrust bearing
member (214) comprises an inner annular body (218) including a hub

(222) through which the umbilicus body (200) passes, and an outer
annular body (216) about the inner annular body, and an array of ball

bearings (220) between the inner and the outer annual bodies that support
the inner annular body for rotation relative to the outer annular body.
An umbilicus according to claim 2 wherein the inner annular body
(218) of the thrust bearing member is secured to the umbilicus body (220)

at a predetermined location between the proximal end and the distal end.
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
second support block (206) is free of the strain relief sleeve, and wherein

the thrust bearing member is in the middle region and is spaced apart
from the strain relief sleeve (212) and the second support block (206). 
An umbilicus according to any of Claims 2-4 wherein the inner
annular body (218) of the thrust bearing member (214) is secured to the

umbilicus body at a predetermined location in the middle region.
An umbilicus according to any of claims 2-5 wherein the
hub (222) includes an outwardly projecting collar (224), and wherein a

clip (226) fastens the collar (224) to the umbilicus body, thereby securing
the thrust bearing member (214) to the umbilicus body.
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
thrust bearing member (214) is separated from the strain relief sleeve

(212) of the first support block (204) by a first predetermined distance,
and wherein, the thrust bearing member (212) is separated from the

second support block (206) by a second predetermined distance less than
the first predetermined distance.
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
umbilicus body is made from extruded polyester elastomer material.
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
first and second support blocks are made from an over-molded polyester

elastomer material having a modulus that is less than the modulus of the
umbilicus body.
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
strain relief sleeve (212) is integrally molded to the first support block. 
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
strain relief sleeve (212) extends away from the first support block (204)

in the direction toward the second support block (206).
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
strain relief sleeve (212) is tapered to present a progressively decreasing

diameter as it extends away from the first support block (204).
An umbilicus according to any of the preceding claims, comprising
an umbilicus body (200) made from an extruded first polyester elastomer

material having flexibility, and a second support block (206) made from a second
polyester elastomer material over-molded about the distal end the umbilicus

body, the second polyester elastomer material having flexibility that is
greater than the flexibility of the first polyester elastomeric material, the

distal end of the umbilicus body having a
surface energy that has been increased before over-molding to prevent

delamination and peeling.
An umbilicus according to Claim 13 wherein solvent is used to
increase the surface energy of the region.
An umbilicus according to Claim 13 wherein surface etching is
used to increase the surface energy of the region.
An umbilicus according to any of Claims 13-15 wherein the
umbilicus body includes an interior core and an array of lumens (202)

circumferentially spaced about the interior core, each lumen being 
elliptical in shape, having a major axis measured circumferentially about

the core that is greater than a minor axis measured radially from the core.
An umbilicus according to Claim 16 wherein the umbilicus body
includes five interior lumens (202) each circumferentially spaced about

72°.
An umbilicus according to claim 16 wherein the umbilicus body
has an outer diameter that measures about 8.5 mm (0.333 inch), wherein

the interior core has a diameter that measures about 3.9 mm (0. 155 inch),
and wherein each lumen measures about 2.7 mm (0. 108 inch) along its

major axis and about 16.5 mm (0. 65 inch) along its minor axis.
A method for fabricating the umbilicus of any of claims 1 -18
comprising the steps of forming the

umbilicus body (200) by extruding a first polyester elastomer material
having flexibility, the umbilicus body (200) having a surface energy,

increasing the surface energy of the distal end of the umbilicus body, and
over-molding the second support block (206) about the distal end of the umbilicus body the support block being made from a second polyester

elastomer material having flexibility that is greater than the flexibility of
the first polyester elastomer material.
A method according to Claim 19, wherein the step of increasing the
surface energy includes applying solvent to the umbilicus body.
A method according to Claim 19 or Claim 20 wherein the step of
increasing the surface energy includes surface etching. 
A method according to any of Claims 19-21 wherein the forming
step includes, before extruding, heat drying the first polyester elastomer

material to a moisture content of less than 0.03%.
A centrifuge comprising a yoke element, a motor for rotating the
yoke element about a rotation axis, a processing chamber mounted for

rotation about a second axis aligned with the rotational axis, the
processing chamber being free of a motor for rotating it, an umbilicus that

conveys fluid between a stationary body and a rotating body, the umbilicus having a
body including a proximal end directed towards the stationary body a distal end directed towards the rotating body and a middle region between

the proximal and distal ends, a first support block with a strain relief
sleeve attached to the proximal end, the umbilicus being free of any other strain relief sleeve a second support block attached to

the distal end,
and a thrust bearing member in the middle region spaced apart from the strain relief sleeve and the distal end,

the umbilicus body rolling one rotation about
its axis for each revolution of the yoke assembly to impart rotation to the

processing chamber that is twice the rate of rotation of the yoke assembly.
A centrifuge according to Claim 23 wherein the length of the
umbilicus body (200) and the distance between the thrust bearing member

and the strain relief sleeve of the second support member are selected
such that the maximum radial spacing between the rotational axis and the

centerline of the umbilicus body during rotation of the yoke assembly does
not exceed 12.6 cm (5.5 inches) and the maximum axial spacing between

the centerline of the umbilicus body and the bottom of the processing
chamber is at least 6 mm (0.25 inches). 
A centrifuge according to Claim 23 or Claim 24 wherein the thrust
bearing member (2
14) comprises an inner annular body (218) including a
hub (222) through which the umbilicus body passes, an outer annular

body (216) about the inner annular body, and an array of ball bearings
(220) between the inner and outer annular bodies that support the inner

annular body for rotation relative to the outer annular body.
A centrifuge according to any of Claims 23-25 wherein the
umbilicus body is made from extruded polyester elastomer material.
A centrifuge according to Claim 26 wherein the first and second
support blocks are made from an over-molded polyester elastomer

material having a modulus that is less than the modulus of the umbilicus
body.
A centrifuge according to Claim 27 wherein the surface energy of
at least one of the connection sites between the support blocks and the

umbilicus body is increased before over-molding to prevent delamination
and peeling.
A centrifuge according to Claim 28 wherein solvent is used to
increase the surface energy of at least one of the connection sites.
A centrifuge according to Claim 28 wherein the surface etching is
used to increase the surface energy of at least one of the connection sites. 
A centrifuge according to Claim 27 wherein the strain relief sleeve
is made from an over-molded polyester elastomer material having a

modulus that is less than the modulus of the umbilicus body.
A centrifuge according to Claim 31 wherein the surface energy at
the connection site between the strain relief sleeve and the umbilicus body

is increased before over-molding to prevent delamination and peeling.
A centrifuge according to any of Claims 23-32 wherein the yoke
assembly rotates at about 2000 rpm and the processing chamber rotates at

about 4000 rpm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
