<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A silver halide photographic material.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C08G6300	C08G63181	C08G63189	C08J700	C08J700	G03C1795	G03C1795	G03C181	G03C181	G03C1815	G03C1815	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C08G	C08G	C08G	C08J	C08J	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	G03C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C08G63	C08G63	C08G63	C08J7	C08J7	G03C1	G03C1	G03C1	G03C1	G03C1	G03C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is disclosed a silver halide photographic 
material having a support and at least one silver halide 

emulsion layer on at least one side of the support, 
wherein the support is made of a polyethylene naphthalate 

or its derivative and contains 0.02 to 10 g/m² of at least 
one ultraviolet absorbent, with a thickness of 40 to 500 

µm. As the ultraviolet absorbent, at least one of 
compounds represented by formulae (I) to (VI) is 

preferably used. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUJI PHOTO FILM CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMOTO FUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMOTO, FUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a silver halide 
photographic material excellent in storage stability. Conventionally, for a silver halide photographic 
material (hereinafter referred to as a photographic 
material), its support is required to be transparent and 
excellent in film strength. As materials that meet these 
requirements, nitrocellulose and triacetyl cellulose 
belonging to cellulose series, are used, and in recent 
years, polyethylene terephthalates have been rapidly 
introduced. Since polyethylene terephthalates are excellent 
in water-resistance and film strength, they are useful for 
attaining of dimensional stability and reduction in film 
thickness. However, polyethylene terephthalates have the 
defect that when the film of a polyethylene terephthalate 
is kept in a rolled state for a long period of time or is 
exposed to a high temperature (e.g., in a car in 
midsummer), it is highly apt to undergo a core set curl. To eliminate this defect, JP-A ("JP-A" means  
 
unexamined published Japanese patent application) No. 
51174/1975 describes that a roll of a polyethylene 
terephthalate film is exposed for 24 hours or more to an 
atmosphere whose temperature is kept 15 to 35 °C higher 
than the temperature at which the film has been rolled on 
a slit roll. Further, JP-A No. 95374/1975 suggests that a 
polyester film (a polyethylene terephthalate film is 
described), which has been biaxially stretched and then 
heat set, is aged by heating it at a temperature ranging 
from 40 to 130 °C, so that the flatness may be improved. 
However, even if it is attempted to eliminate core set 
curl by these heat treatments, when the roll is left for a 
long period of time at the above-described high 
temperature (80 °C or over), the attempt has no effect at 
all, which is a practical problem. That is, when a color 
negative film, whose support is made of a polyethylene 
terephthalate that has been heat-treated under the above-described 
conditions, is wound into a cartridge (magazine 
or Patrone) for usual 35-mm film, and then it is allowed 
to stand at 80 °C for 2 hours and is cooled, the film 
removed from the cartridge has core set curl resembling 
the shape of the cartridge, showing no effect of the heat 
treatment at all. As a result, it causes transportation 
trouble in an automatic processor and is apt to curl 
during the printing, which may cause problems.  U.S. Patent No. 4,141,735 and JP-A No. 
95374/1975 suggest means of further eliminating core set 
curl by heat treatment. These techniques
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A silver halide photographic material having 
a support and at least one silver halide emulsion layer on 

at least one side of the support, wherein the support is 
made of a polyethylene naphthalate or its derivative and 

contains 0.02 to 10 g/m² of at least one ultraviolet 
absorbent, with a thickness of 40 to 500 µm. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 1, wherein the ultraviolet absorbent is 

at least one compound represented by the following 
formulae (I), (II), (III), (IV), (V), or (VI): 

 
   wherein, R₁₀₁, R₁₀₂, R₁₀₃, R₁₀₄, and 

R₁₀₅, which are the same or different, each represent a 
hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, a 

cycloalkyl group, an alkoxy group, an aryl group, an 
aryloxy group, an alkenyl group, a nitro group, a carboxyl 

group, a sulfonic group, or a hydroxyl group;  
   wherein R₁₁₁, R₁₁₂, R₁₁₃, R₁₁₄, and R₁₁₅, which 

are the same or different, each represent a hydrogen atom, 
a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, an alkoxy 

group, an aryloxy group, an alkylthio group, an arylthio 
group, an amino group, a hydroxyl group, a cyano group, a 

nitro group, a carbamoyl group, a sulfonyl group, a 
sulfamoyl group, a sulfonamido group, a carboxyl group, a 

sulfonic group, an acyloxy group, or an oxycarbonyl group, 
R₁₁₆ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, X₁₁ and 

Y₁₁ each represent a cyano group, -COOR₁₁₇, -CONHR₁₁₇, 
-COR₁₁₇, -SO₂R₁₁₇, or -SO₂NHR₁₁₇, wherein R₁₁₇ represents 

an alkyl group or an aryl group, and X₁₁ and Y₁₁ may bond 
together to form a 5- to 7-membered ring; 

 
   wherein R₁₂₁, R₁₂₂, R₁₂₃, R₁₂₄, R₁₂₅, and R₁₂₆, 

which are the same or different, each represent a hydrogen 
atom, a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, an 

alkoxy group, an aryloxy group, an alkylthio group, an 
arylthio group, an amino group, a hydroxyl group, a cyano 

 
group, a nitro group, a carbonamido group, a carbamoyl 

group, a sulfonamido group, a sulfamoyl group, a carboxyl 
group, a sulfonic group, an acyloxy group, or an 

oxycarbonyl group, and X₂₁ represents -CO- or -COO-; 
 

   wherein R₁₃₁ and R₁₃₂, which are the same or 
different, each represent a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group, 

an aryl group, or a group of nonmetallic atoms required to 
form a 5- or 6-membered ring by bonding together, and X₃₁ 

and Y₃₁, which are the same or different, have the same 
meanings as those of X₁₁ and Y₁₁ in formula (II); 

 
   wherein R₁₄₁, R₁₄₂, R₁₄₃, R₁₄₄, R₁₄₅, and R₁₄₆, 

which are the same or different, have the same meaning as 
those R₁₁₁ to R₁₁₅ in formula (II), R₁₄₇ and R₁₄₈, which 

are the same or different, each represent a hydrogen atom, 
an alkyl group, or an aryl group, and R₁₄₇ and R₁₄₈ may 

bond together to form a 5- or 6-membered ring;  
   wherein R₁₅₁, R₁₅₂, R₁₅₃, and R₁₅₄, which are 

the same or different, each represent a hydrogen atom, an 
alkyl group, or an aryl group, R₁₅₁ and R₁₅₄ may bond 

together to form a double bond, and when R₁₅₁ and R₁₅₄ 
bond together to form a double bond, R₁₅₂ and R₁₅₃ may 

bond together to form a benzene ring or a naphthalene 
ring, R₁₅₅ represents an alkyl group or an aryl group, Z₄₁ 

represents an oxygen atom, a sulfur atom, a methylene 
group, an ethylene group, 
>
N-R₁₅₆, or 
 

wherein 
R₁₅₆ represents an alkyl group or an aryl group, and R₁₅₇ 

and R₁₅₈, which are the same or different, each represent 
a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, X₄₁ and Y₄₁, which are 

the same or different, have the same meaning as those of 
X₁₁ and Y₁₁ in formula (II) and n is 0 or 1. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 1, wherein the polyethylene naphthalate 

or its derivative is a polyester made up of a 
naphthalene-dicarboxylic acid as a major acid component 

 
and a compound having two alcoholic hydroxyl groups as a 

major dialcohol component. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 1, wherein the glass transition 

temperature of the polyethylene naphthalate or its 

derivative is 90 °C or higher. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 1, wherein the polyethylene naphthalate 

or its derivative is heat-treated at a temperature lower 
than the heat transition temperature of the polyethylene 

naphthalate and its derivative. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 3, wherein a part of the naphthalenedicarboxylic 

acid as an acid component is replaced by one 
or more other difunctional carboxylic acids. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 3, wherein the compound having two 

alcoholic hydroxy groups is selected from the group 
consisting of an aliphatic glycol, a cycloaliphatic 

glycol, and an aromatic diol. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 3, wherein the combination of acid 

component with compound having two alcoholic hydroxyl 
groups is selected such that the film of the obtained 

polyester has a parallel transmission coefficient of 80% 
or more with the film having thickness of 100 µm. 
The silver halide photographic material as 
claimed in claim 1, wherein the average molecular weight 

of the polyethylene naphthalate or its derivative as a 
support is in the range of about 10,000 to 500,000. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
