<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625617</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Insulating strip and method.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B200	E04B200	E04B202	E04B202	E04C100	E04C141	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	E04B	E04B	E04B	E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B2	E04B2	E04B2	E04B2	E04C1	E04C1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of construction of a masonry wall in which 
insulating strips (6) comprising insulating material are 

incorporated into the vertical (4) and horizontal (5) mortar 
joints to improve the thermal performance of the masonry 

wall. Also provided are insulating strips suitable for 
use in the method of construction and walls comprising a 

plurality of bricks or blocks each having an insulating 
strip associated with it. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CAEC HOWARD HOLDINGS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
C.A.E.C. HOWARD (HOLDINGS) LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD BRIAN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWARD,BRIAN EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to insulating strips to 
improve the performance, in the aspects of thermal 
insulation and inhibition of moisture penetration, of the 
mortar joints in masonry walls and to a method of 
building masonry walls which includes use of the 
insulating strips. More especially the invention relates 
to insulating strips and building methods for improving 
the performance of both horizontal and vertical mortar 
joints. With the increasing cost of energy and the increasing 
awareness of the need to control emission levels to 
atmosphere from local and centralised heating plants 
(including those from power stations), many countries, 
including the U.K., are requiring buildings when newly 
built and/or extended to be constructed of fabric which 
improves on the thermal insulation of those in current 
use. There is therefore a need generally in the building 
industry to produce new materials having better insulating 
properties and to develop new building methods which 
lead to better insulated buildings. Many countries, including the U.K., have a strong 
tradition of using masonry walls made of blocks and/or 
bricks with both horizontal and vertical mortar joints. 
Since 1975 there have been increasing calls upon the 
building materials industry in the U.K., to supply  
 
masonry units, generally blocks, to lighter density and 
to higher insulation values. The thermal performance of 
the mortar joints has, however, been generally overlooked. 
As the thermal performance of the constituent 
block element improves the heat leakage through the 
mortar joints becomes more significant. For example, 
typical concrete blocks used in masonry walls may have a 
thermal conductivity as low as 0.19 Wm⁻¹K⁻¹ (with a 
block density of 600 kg/m³) while the typical thermal 
conductivity of mortar is 0.8 Wm⁻¹K⁻¹. The loss of heat 
is known as "cold bridging" and there is still a need to 
reduce the cold bridging across the mortar joints of 
traditional mortar construction. A further problem with traditional masonry walls is 
the capillary action of moisture which occurs in any 
solid mortar bed and leads to an increased presence of 
moisture at the interior face of the blockwork adjacent 
to the mortar. This phenomenon is known as "pattern 
staining" and frequently occurs on the face of rendered 
and plastered walls particularly where blocks of low 
density (which tend to have the lowest thermal 
conductivity) have been used. This visual delineation of 
mortar joints is regarded as deleterious in most render
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of construction of a masonry wall 
in which insulating strips comprising insulating material 

are incorporated into the vertical and horizontal mortar 
joints, the mortar joints comprising two substantially 

parallel bands of mortar spaced apart across the width of 
the joint with part of an insulating strip between them, 

each insulating strip being of the correct length to 
extend completely along the length of one horizontal 

surface of a brick or block, used in the wall, 
substantially parallel to the edges of the brick or 

block, to pass over one edge and to extend completely 
along one adjacent vertical end of the brick or block, 

substantially parallel to the edges of the brick or 
block, each strip being of such a material or of such a 

structure as to allow it to pass smoothly over the edge 
and each strip being incorporated in both a horizontal 

and vertical mortar joint; the horizontal surface and the 
vertical end of the brick or block being defined by the 

normal placement of the brick or block in the wall and 
the length of the horizontal surface being the length 

which would run in the longitudinal direction of the wall 
as the brick or block is placed in the wall. 
A method for the construction of a masonry 
wall as claimed in claim 1, in which the bricks or blocks 

used to build the wall have an insulating strip placed on 
them, the insulating strip being positioned so that it 

 
extends along the length of one horizontal surface, 

smoothly over an edge and down a vertical end the mortar 
then being applied as usual. 
An insulating strip for use in the mortar 
joints of a masonry wall comprising bricks or blocks, the 

strip being comprised of an insulating material and being 
of the correct length to extend completely along the 

length of one horizontal surface of a brick or block 
substantially parallel to the edges of the brick or 

block, to pass smoothly over one edge and to extend 
completely along one adjacent vertical end of the brick 

or block, substantially parallel to the edges of the 
brick or block, the insulating strip being narrower than 

the width of the horizontal surface of the brick or block 
and being such that it bends smoothly over the edge; the 

horizontal surface and the vertical end being defined by 
the normal placement of the brick or block in the wall 

and the length of the horizontal surface being defined as 
the length which would run in the longitudinal direction 

of the wall as the brick or block is normally placed in 
the wall; each strip thereby being capable of providing 

insulation in both a horizontal and a vertical mortar 
joint. 
A masonry wall comprising a plurality of 
bricks or blocks, each brick or block having an insulating 

strip, comprising insulating material, associated 
with it, the strip being in contact with and extending 

 
completely along one horizontal and one vertical mortared 

surface, substantially parallel to the edges of the 
surfaces, the insulating strip being narrower than the 

width of the horizontal surface of the brick or block. 
The use of a plurality of insulating strips 
in a masonry wall, each insulating strip comprising 

insulating material and being of the correct length to 
extend completely along one horizontal and one vertical 

mortared surface, extending substantially parallel to the 
edges of the surfaces, of a block or brick in the wall, 

the width of the insulating strip being less than the 
width of the horizontal surface of the brick or block. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 5, wherein the strip is of a width of 

approximately one third of the width of the horizontal 
surface of the block or brick. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 6, wherein the depth of the strip is 

approximately the same as the depth of the mortar joint 
in which it is to be incorporated. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 7, wherein the strip comprises a means to 

facilitate bending over the edge of a brick or block, 
advantageously, the means comprises one or two 

indentations preformed in the strip in positions where 
the strip might need to be bent over an edge. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
 

claims 1 to 8, wherein the strip comprises a semi-rigid 
material. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 9, wherein the strip comprises a foam 

plastic, advantageously, a urea-formaldehyde, polyvinyl 
chloride, polyethylene, polyester, phenol resin, 

polyurethane, or a polystyrene. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 9, wherein the strip comprises a preformed 

or moulded fibrous mat of mineral or vegetable origin. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 11, wherein the strip comprises a material 

which is non-putrescible. 
The invention as claimed in any one of 
claims 1 to 12, wherein the face of the strip which is to 

be in contact with the brick or block is provided precoated 
with an adhesive. 
A kit for the construction of a wall 
comprising bricks or blocks and corresponding insulating 

strips as claimed in any one of claims 3 and 6 to 13 of 
the correct size to be used with the bricks or blocks. 
The use of an insulating strip, as claimed 
in any one of claims 3 and 6 to 13, in the mortar joints 

of a masonry wall so that the strip provides insulation 
in a vertical and horizontal mortar joint. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
