<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610986</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Vibration-resistant impact valve for vapor recovery line.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B67D532	B67D532	F16K1700	F16K1740	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B67D	B67D	F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B67D5	B67D5	F16K17	F16K17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An impact valve with an easily replaceable, breakable 
valve assembly includes a valve body (30) with 

a valve opening for connecting to a vapor recovery pipeline 
connected between a vapor inlet and a vapor recovery 

tank, or connected between a gasoline product 
pipeline and a gasoline pump dispenser or self-contained 

system (i.e., a nonpressurized system), a housing 
threaded (34) to the valve body (32), a valve plug (40) 

located in the housing, a spring (42) for biasing the 
valve member toward the valve opening in order to close 

the opening, and a plunger (38) for holding the valve 
plug against the bias of the spring to keep the valve 

open, the valve plug having an extension with an end 
portion that securely mates with an end portion of the 

plunger to avoid necessary actuation, and the valve 
body having a weakened circumferential area around the 

plunger so that the valve body will readily break in 
response to impact and readily displace the plunger to 

release the valve plug. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRAVO SERGIO M
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRAVO, SERGIO M.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRAVO SERGIO M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRAVO, SERGIO M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a vibration-resistant 
impact valve with a replaceable, breakable top 
valve assembly. More particularly, the invention relates 
to such an impact valve for a gasoline vapor recovery 
pipeline or for a gasoline supply pipeline, but 
for suction systems or self-contained (own motor) systems 
only (not for pressurized systems). To minimize fire and explosion hazards for gasoline 
dispensers and pipelines associated with such dispensers, 
the gasoline supply pipeline is typically provided 
with an impact valve near the gasoline dispenser. 
Such an impact valve is normally open, but will block 
the gasoline product line in response to sufficient impact 
with the gasoline dispenser. Until now, no such 
valve has been used on, or available for, gasoline vapor 
recovery lines. Such lines also create a risk of 
fire or explosion if broken. However, because impact 
valves are normally quite complicated in structure, difficult 
to replace, expensive, and would not create an 
airtight seal, and because no one is known to have put 
such a valve on the vapor recovery line, there have 
been no such valves for a vapor recovery line. Moreover, 
the valves are constructed so that upon sufficient impact 
to cause them to operate, they often will also 
become broken. Accordingly, they must be replaced. It 
is commonplace to make these valves relatively strong, 
but if there is a collision with the gasoline dispenser, 
the pipeline connected to the valve can also break. In 
addition, the valves are too sensitive in that they can  
 
be set off by a vibration or a minor earthquake or 
other disturbance, even if the pipeline does not break. 
In such a case, gasoline or vapor cannot be properly 
vented and may create a serious hazard or cause the dispenser 
to shut down without a clue as to the problem. 
These are problems for both existing valves on gasoline 
supply lines and for any valve, if it were to be used 
in a vapor recovery line. Accordingly, it is desirable 
to have a simple, inexpensive, easily replaceable impact 
valve which will localize the damage from impact, as 
well as reliably remain open and reliably sean the gasoline 
pipeline or gasoline vapor line in the event of 
impact. An impact valve with an easily replaceable, breakable 
valve assembly includes: A valve body with a valve opening for connecting 
to a vapor recovery pipeline connected between a vapor 
inlet proximate a gasoline dispenser and a vapor recovery 
tank, or connected between a gasoline product pipeline 
and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In an apparatus for recovering flammable vapors, 
the apparatus including a conduit having a vapor 

inlet and means for sucking the vapor through the conduit, 
the improvement comprising a valve (30) disposed 

along the conduit, the valve comprising a valve body 
(32), a valve housing (34) threaded to the valve body, 

a valve plug (40) disposed in the housing, means for 
biasing the valve plug towards a first position for closing 

the valve to vapors, and plunger means (38) disposed 
in the valve body for normally holding the valve 

plug in a second position in which the valve is open to 
vapors, the valve body having means for defining a weakened 

portion (32d) for breaking in response to stress 
more readily than the valve housing and other portions 

of the valve body, wherein the plunger means and valve 
plug have mating surfaces which comprise means for securely 

seating the plunger in the valve plug so that the 
plunger will only be dislodged from the valve plug in 

response to breakage of the valve body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the mating 
surfaces comprise a tapered end portion of the plunger 

means and a corresponding recess (34b) formed in a projection 
from the valve plug. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means for 
biasing comprises a coil spring (42), and the valve plug 

has an end portion which seats inside the coil spring. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the weakened 
portion comprises a reduced diameter and reduced thickness 

portion (32d) in relation to other portions of the 
 

valve body and having a recess (32e) formed therein. 
The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a 
snap ring (44) supported in a recess formed in the valve 

housing for supporting an end of the means for biasing. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plunger 
means comprises an elongate portion extending axially 

through the valve body and an upper portion comprising 
radially extending ribs and webs. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plunger 
means is formed unitarily with the valve body. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the conduit is 
a vapor recovery line connected to a gasoline suction 

system or self-contained system at one end and to a gasoline 
supply pipeline at another end. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the valve and 
at least a portion of the vapor recovery line are disposed 

inside a container for flammable fluids disposed 
underneath the gasoline dispenser, and the conduit is a 

vapor recovery line which has a fitting for connecting to 
a bottom of the container. 
A valve for a flammable fluid vapor recovery 
apparatus, the valve comprising a valve body (32), a 

valve housing (34) threaded to the valve body, a valve 
plug (40) disposed in the housing, means for biasing the 

valve plug towards the first position for closing the 
valve to vapors, and plunger means disposed in the valve 

body for normally holding the valve plug in a second 
position in which the valve is open to vapors, the valve 

body having means for defining a weakened portion for 
 

breaking in response to stress more readily than the 
valve housing and other portions of the valve body, 

wherein the plunger means and valve plug have mating 
surfaces which comprise means for securely seating the 

plunger in the valve plug so that the plunger will only 
be dislodged from the valve plug in response to breakage 

of the valve body. 
The valve of claim 10 wherein the mating surfaces 
comprise a tapered end portion of the plunger 

means and a corresponding recess formed in a projection 
from the valve plug. 
The valve of claim 10 wherein the means for 
biasing comprises a coil spring, and the valve plug has 

an end portion which seats inside the coil spring. 
The valve of claim 10 wherein the weakened 
portion comprises a reduced diameter and reduced thickness 

portion in relation to other portions of the valve 
body and having a recess formed therein. 
The valve of claim 10 further comprising a 
snap ring (44) supported in a recess formed in the valve 

housing for supporting an end of the means for biasing. 
The valve of claim 10 wherein the plunger 
means comprises an elongate portion extending axially
 
through the valve body and an upper portion fixed to an 

end of the elongate portion and comprising radially extending 
ribs and webs. 
The valve of claim 10 wherein the plunger is 
unitarily formed with the valve body. 
The valve of claim 10 wherein the valve housing 
comprises metal, and the valve body comprises plastic. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the valve 
housing comprises metal, and the valve body comprises 

plastic. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
