<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630406</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BIOSYNTHESIS OF METHIONINE USING A REDUCED SOURCE OF SULFUR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N910	C12N910	C12N912	C12N912	C12N988	C12N988	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1554	C12N1554	C12P1300	C12P1304	C12P1312	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N9	C12N9	C12N9	C12N9	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12P13	C12P13	C12P13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There are provided methods for the fermentation synthesis of methionine and homoserine using a reduced source of sulfur such as sulfide or methylmercaptan; and/or by modifying the methionine biosynthetic pathway in a producing microbe. Also provided are methods for the fermentation synthesis of methionine and homoserine using an oxidized sulfur source such as sulfate, sulfite or thiosulfate; and/or by modifying the methionine biosynthetic pathway in a producing microbe.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENENCOR INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENENCOR INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEVENSE JEFFERSON CLAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIEVENSE, JEFFERSON, CLAY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 BIOSYNTHESIS OF MEIHIONINE USING A REDUCED OTIHΠR W SULFURBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMethionine is an essential amino acid in the diet of animals and is used widely as a food and feed supplement. It is conventionally produced by various multi-step chemical syntheses which generally employ acrolein, methyl mercaptan, and cyanide as starting materials. (H.H. Szmant, "Organic Building Blocks of the Chemical Industry," page 182, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1989.) There are two resulting product forms: D,L-methion±ne and its hydroxy analog. Unlike all other amino acids, D-methionine is converted to the required L-form in vivo. As a result, chemical syntheses, which typically result in the D,L mixture, are feasible and cost-effective in this case.However, fermentation production methods, which are common methods for making many low-cost amino acids, do not exist in the case of methionine. (K. Aida, I. Chibata, K. Nakayama, K. Takinami, and H. Yamada, "Biotechnology of Amino Acid Production," Progress in Industrial Microbiology 24. Elsevier, 1986.) This is surprising given that the biochemically related essential amino acids lysine and threonine are both produced cost-effectively by fermentation methods losing inexpensive raw materials such as molasses, starch hydrolysates, corn steep liquor, and soy hydrolysates. (See for example: P.L. Rogers, R.G. Cail, D.F. Midgley, and C. Fryer, "The Prospects for L-Lysine Production in Australia," Food Technology in Australia 38. pp. 514-518, 1986; and S. Furukawa, A. Ozaki, and T. Nakanishi, "L-Threonine Production by L-Aspartate- and Ir-Hcmoserine- resistant mutant of Escheridhia σoli." Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology 29. pp. 550-553, 1988.)Various microbes have been used to produce L-lysine and L-threonine. These have been developed through classical methods of mutagenesis and selection as well as genetic engineering. (K. Aida, supra.) Greatest success has been realized historically with the Corvnebacteria and Brevibacteria. but it is also clear that other microbes such as Escheridhia coli are viable.There is a need for methods to reduce the metabolic cost and complexity of methionine biosynthesis, ideally making it similar to that for lysine or 

threαnine, such that an e∞ncmical fermentation production of methionine is possible.SCMMfiRY OF THE INVENTIONThere are provided feasible fermentation methods for methionine synthesis comprising the use of reduced sulfur compounds instead of sulfate as the fermentation sulfur source and/αr comprising re-designing and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for enhancing methionine production in a fermentation process of microbial cell by modifying the methionine biosynthetic pathway of said cell ccmprising the steps of: i. transforming or transducing a hσmoserine-activating enzyme gene fragment capable of expressing said hcmoserine-activating enzyme and a su___^ur-incαrpαrating enzyme gene fragment capable of eaqpressing said sulf enzyme into said cell; ii. growing said cell under such conditions that transformation or transductiαn of both gene enzymes are effected; iii. recovering a transformed or transduced cell; and iv. adding an exogenous sulfur compound other than cysteine or methioni to said transformed or transduced cell as the sulfur source for methionin production.
2. The method of claim 26 wherein said exogenous sulfur compound is a reduced sulfur coπpαund consisting of hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan or a salt thereof.
3. The method of claim 26 wherein said exogenous sulfur compound is an oxidiz sulfur ccmpound consisting of sulfate, sulfite or thiosulfate.
4. The method of claim 27 or 28 wherein said hσmoserine-activating enzyme is selected frcm the group consisting of homoserine kinase, homoserine acetyltransferase and hcmoserine succiπyltransferase.
5. The method of claim 27 or 28 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme is selected frcm the group consisting of O-succinylhomoserine (thiol)-lyase, O- acetylhcmoserine (thiol)-lyase and plant cystathionine gamma synthase.
6. The method of claim 27 viierein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme converts homoserine and said hydrogen sulfide or a salt thereof directly to hcmocysteine
7. The method of claim 27 wherein said svilfur-incorporating enzyme converts homoserine and said methyl mercaptan or a salt thereof directly to methionine. 


 8. The method of claim 28 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme converts hcmoserine directly to hcmocysteine.
9. A method for enhancing hcmocysteine production in a fermentation process a microbial cell by modifying the methionine biosynthetic pathway of said cell comprising the steps of: i. transforming or transducing a hαmoserine-activating enzyme gene fragment capable of expressing any said hcmoserine-activating enzyme but not including hcmocysteine methylase, and a svαfur-incαrporating enzyme gene fragment capable of expressing said sulfur enzyme into said cell; ii. growing said cell under such conditions that transformation or transduction of both gene enzyme fragments are effected; iii. recovering a transformed or transduced cell; and iv. adding an exogenous sulfur compound other than methionine or cyste to the said transformed or transduced cell as the sulfur source for hcmocysteine production.
10. The method of claim 34 wherein said exogenous sulfur cαπpound is a reduce sulfur compound consisting of hydrogen sulfide, or a salt thereof.
11. The method of claim 34 wherein said exogenous sulfur compound is an oxidi sulfur compound consisting of sulfate, sulfite or thiosulfate.
12. The method of claim 35 or 36 wherein said hαmoserine-activating enzyme is selected frcm the group consisting of homoserine kinase, homoserine acetyltransferase and hcmoserine succinyltransferase.
13. The method of claim 35 or 36 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme is selected frcm the group consisting of O-succinylhαmoserine (thiol)-lyase, o- acetylhcmoserine (thiol)-lyase and plant cystathionine gamma synthase.
14. The method of claim 35 wherein said sxilfur-incorporating enzyme converts hcmoserine and said hydrogen sulfide or a salt thereof directly to hαmocystein
15. The method of claim 36 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme converts hcmoserine directly to hcmocysteine. 


16. The method of claim 26 or 34 wherein said transformed or transduced cell produces an amino acid that is greater than said amino acid of a non-transforme or transduced cell.
17. The method of claim 26 or 34 vftierein said transformed or transduced cell i selected frcm the group consisting of CbryneJaσteria, Brevibacteria or Escherichia coll. 

[received by the International Bureau on 3 August 1993 (03.08.93); original claims 2-8, 10 and 17 amended; other claims unchanged (3 pages)]
1. A method for enhancing methionine production in a fermentation process of microbial cell by modifying the methionine biosynthetic pathway of said cell ocmprising the steps of: i. transforming αr transducing a hcmoserine-activating enzyme gene fragment capable of expressing said hcmoserine-activating enzyme and a sulfur-inσαrporating enzyme gene fragment capable of expressing said sul enzyme into said cell; ii. growing said cell under such conditions that transformation or transduction of both gene enzymes are effected; iii. recovering a transformed αr transduced cell; and iv. adding an exogenous sulfur compound other than cysteine αr methion to said transfarmed ar transduced cell as the sulfur source for methioni production.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said exogenous sulfur compound is a reduce sulfur compound consisting of hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan or a salt thereof.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said exogenous sulfur compound is an oxidi sulfur compound consisting of sulfate, sulfite αr thiosulfate.
4. The method of claim 2 αr 3 wherein said hcmoserine-activating enzyme is selected frcm the group consisting of hcmoserine kinase, hcmoserine acetyltransferase and hcmoserine succiπyltransferase.
5. The method of claim 2 or 3 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme is selected frcm the group consisting of O-suσciπylhcπoserine (thiol)-lyase, O- acetylhcπoserine (thiol)-lyase and plant cystathionine gamma synthase.
6. The method of claim 2 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme converts hcmoserine and said hydrogen sulfide αr a salt thereof directly to hcmocystein
7. The method of claim 2 vtoerein said sulfur-incorpαrating enzyme converts hcmoserine and said methyl mercaptan αr a salt thereof directly to methionine. 


 8. The method of claim 3 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme converts hcmoserine directly to hcmocysteine.
9. A method far enhancing hcmocysteine production in a fermentation process a microbial cell by modifying the methionine biosynthetic pathway of said cell ocmprising the steps of: i. transforming αr transducing a hcmoserine-activating enzyme gene fragment capable of expressing any said hcmoserine-activating enzyme but not including hcmocysteine methylase, and a sulfur-incαrpαrating enzyme gene fragment capable of expressing said sulfur enzyme into said cell; ii. growing said cell under such conditions that transformation αr transduction of both gene enzyme fragments are effected; iii. recovering a transformed αr transduced cell; and iv. adding an exogenous sulfur ccmpound other than methionine or cyste to the said transformed αr transduced cell as the sulfur source for hcmocysteine production.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein said exogenous sulfur ccmpound is a reduce sulfur ccmpound consisting of hydrogen sulfide, αr a salt thereof.
11. The method of claim 9 wherein said exogenous sulfur ccmpound is an oxidi sulfur ccmpound consisting of sulfate, sulfite αr thiosulfate.
12. The method of claim 10 αr 11 wherein said hcmoserine-activating enzyme is selected frcm the group consisting of hcmoserine kinase, hcmoserine acetyltransferase and hcmoserine succinyltransferase.
13. The method of claim10 or11 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme is selected from the group consisting of O-succinyhcmoserine (thiol)-lyase, O- acetylhc oβerine (thiol)-lyase and plant cystathionine gamma synthase.
14. The method of claim 10 wherein said sulfur-incαrpαrating enzyme converts hcmoserine and said hydrogen sulfide αr a salt thereof directly to hcmocystein
15. The method of claim11 wherein said sulfur-incorporating enzyme converts homoserine directly to hcmocysteine. 


16. The method of claim 1 αr 9 wherein said transformed or transduced cell produces an amino acid that is greater than said amino acid of a non-transfarm or transduced cell.
17. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein said transformed αr transduced cell selected from the group consisting of Cttrynefcβc±eria, BreviJbacteria αr ∑scherichia coli. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
