<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619266</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lifting apparatus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B66F906	B66F906	B66F1104	B66F1104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B66F	B66F	B66F	B66F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B66F9	B66F9	B66F11	B66F11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A lifting apparatus capable of lifting operators or 
materials upward and capable of lifting a platform on 

which heavy materials are placed to an elevated spot. 
The lifting apparatus comprises a pair of middle booms 

(11) which are rotatably coupled to each other at the 
center thereof in an X-shape, a lower boom (13) which is 

extended from or contracted in the middle boom (11) and 
is connected to a chassis (1), an upper boom (15) which 

is extended from and contracted in the middle boom (11) 
and is connected to the platform (5), and an operating 

mechanism (8) which is disposed between the chassis (1) 
and the middle booms (11) and is movable from a folded 

position into a vertically straight position for lifting 
the middle booms (11). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAPANIC CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JAPANIC CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KISHI MITSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KISHI, MITSUHIRO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a lifting 
apparatus for use in lifting operators or materials to an 
elevated spot for example for loading and unloading 
materials at an elevated work site and particularly to a 
lifting apparatus having a platform on which the materials 
are placed. A lifting apparatus is known which comprises a 
pantograph mechanism, the pantograph mechanism having a 
first pair of arms pivotally connected with each other at a 
central portion and similar pivotally connected pairs of 
arms pivotally connected with the first pair of arms. To 
increase the maximum height of this apparatus it was 
necessary to increase the length of the arms or increase the 
number of pairs of arms to be connected with one another . 
Consequently, if an apparatus capable of lifting up as high 
as possible was designed, it was necessary to assemble a 
plurality of pantographs vertically, which entails 
increasing the height of the apparatus when folded. This 
makes it more troublesome for an operator to get on or off 
or to move materials on or off the platform. There have been various proposed arrangements to 
solve the problem set forth above, for example the one 
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3 820 631 a lower boom and an 
upper boom are capable of moving into a middle boom, the 
lower boom is pivotally mounted on a chassis at the end 
thereof, the platform is pivotally mounted on the top end of 
the upper boom and these booms are assembled to form an X-shape. 
Because the length of the arms can be increased, the 
height of the platform when folded can be minimised but the 
platform can still be raised to a high elevated spot. 
However, in the mechanism known from US 3820631 the 
mechanism for extending the lower boom and upper boom from 
the middle boom comprises a screw and a thread for engaging  
 
with the screw. The telescopic moving speed of the lower 
and upper booms relative to the middle boom is slow, and 
hence the platform cannot be moved quickly. Furthermore, 
since the sliding motion of the lower boom and the upper 
boom is achieved using a bevel gear provided at the central 
portion of the middle boom, the length of each of the lower 
boom and the upper boom is only half that of the middle boom 
and hence the height range of this apparatus is limited. There are proposed many lifting mechanisms each 
having an arm and a plurality of booms which are 
telescopically inserted into the arm so that one arm can be 
extended in its longitudinal direction. Examples are 
disclosed in Japanese
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lifting apparatus comprising: 
   a movable chassis (1), 

   a lifting mechanism (4) co-operating between the 
chassis (1) and a platform (5) for effecting vertical 

movement of the platform (5) between fully lowered and 
raised positions while maintaining the platform 

substantially horizontal, 
   the lifting mechanism (4) including at least one 

pair of telescopically extensible boom assemblies (10), each 
boom assembly (10) comprising a middle boom (11), a lower 

boom (13) connected at its lower end to the chassis (1) and 
extensible away from the middle boom (11) and an upper boom 

(15) connected at its upper end to the platform (5) and 
telescopically extensible away from the middle boom (11), 

each middle boom (11) of a pair of boom assemblies (10) 
being joined for relative pivoting therebetween so that the 

boom assemblies (10) cross and are generally "X" shaped from 
the side; 

   a kick mechanism (7) mounted on the chassis (1) to 
vertically displace the platform (5) between the lowered 

position and an intermediate position and an operating 
mechanism (8) which can vertically displace the platform (5) 

between the intermediate position and the raised position, 
the operating mechanism (8) being folded up when the 

platform (5) is in the lowered position to minimise the 
height to which the platform (5) can be lowered, and 

unfolding for use in the intermediate position. 
A lifting apparatus according to claim 1 wherein 
the operating mechanism (8) comprises a pair of hydraulic 

cylinders (60,61) coupled together by a hinge to be folded 
to a generally side-by-side condition, 

   the end of one hydraulic cylinder (60) being 
connected to the chassis (1) and the other end of the other 

 
hydraulic cylinder (61) being connected to the central 

portion of the middle booms (11) substantially at the point 
of pivoting, and the pair of hydraulic cylinders (60,61) 

being moved into vertical alignment when the platform (5) 
reaches the intermediate position. 
A lifting apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 
2 wherein the kick mechanism (7) comprises a vertically 

extensible pressure cylinder. 
A lifting apparatus according to claim 3 wherein 
there are two spaced extensible pressure cylinders to 

provide the kick mechanism (7). 
A lifting apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims wherein the kick mechanism engages the 

platform (5). 
A lifting apparatus according to claim 2 wherein 
the hydraulic cylinders (61,62) of the operating mechanism 

(8) are coupled together, in base to base relation, so that 
all hydraulic connections to both hydraulic cylinders 

(60,61) are located in the region of the hinge. 
A lifting apparatus according to any one of claims 
2 to 6 wherein the hinge comprises two plates (62,63) 

coupled at one side by a coupling shaft (64), said plates 
(62,63) being fixed one each to each base of the hydraulic 

cylinders (60,61) of the operating mechanism (8) so that the 
plates (62,63) abut in face to face relation when the 

hydraulic cylinders (60,61) are unfolded and vertically 
aligned. 
A lifting apparatus according to claim 7 wherein 
an engaging member (71) having a pin hole (72) protrudes from 

 
one of the plates (62,63) for reception in a groove (73) in 

the other of the plates (62,63) and a pin is mounted to be 
displaceable by a solenoid (78) upon the other of the plates 

(62,63) to temporarily pin the plates (62,63) together when 
the hydraulic cylinders of the operating mechanism (8) are 

aligned during use of the operating mechanism (8). 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims wherein two pairs of lifting mechanisms are deployed 

on the chassis (1) in parallel to support the platform (5), the 
middle booms (11-A, 11-B, 11-C, 11-D) of each boom assembly 

(10) being joined by an operating shaft (26), and the single 

operating mechanism (8) being connected to the operating 
shaft (26). 
Apparatus according to any one of claims 2 to 9 
wherein the hydraulic cylinders (60,61) are multi-stage 

hydraulic cylinders so that the operating mechanism (8) fits 
into a longitudinally compact space, when folded. 
Apparatus according to any one of the preceding 
claims wherein each boom assembly (10) includes an upper 

middle boom (12) telescopically connecting the upper boom 
(15) and the middle boom (11), and a lower middle boom (12) 

telescopically connecting the lower boom (13) and the middle 
boom (11). 
A lifting apparatus according to any one of the 
preceding claims wherein a synchronising mechanism is 

provided for synchronising extension and retraction of each 
of the booms in an assembly (10). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
