<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637396</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
VALVE POSITION INDICATOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16K3700	F16K3700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16K	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16K37	F16K37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STONEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
STONEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUHEL GERALD A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNZ ROSS S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON GERALD J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOMMES WALLACE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CUHEL, GERALD, A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUNZ, ROSS, S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELSON, GERALD, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
STOMMES, WALLACE, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to an
apparatus for providing signals indicative of the rotation
position of a rotary shaft, such as the shaft on a control
valve, and more particularly to an improved rotary shaft
position indicating mechanism incorporating a visual
display of the shaft position and having self-centering
parts.U.S. Patent No. 4,962,290 which is assigned to the
present applicant discloses a rotary shaft position
indicating switch assembly adapted to be mounted on a valve
or a pneumatic valve actuator having a rotary shaft
projecting therefrom. The assembly includes a frusto-conical
member which is selectively secured to the
underside of the base by a set screw, and which is
downwardly and outwardly flared. A rotatable second
frusto-conical member is concentrically disposed within the
confines of the first frusto-conical member and includes
graphics information thereon viewable through a window
area.Automax, Inc. of Cincinnati, Ohio manufactures and
sells a rotary shaft position indicator in which a cam
shaft passes through the base portion thereof and is
journaled for rotation therein. A shaft passes upward
through the housing cover and into a plastic dome having an
inner member containing printed graphics information
secured to the cam shaft. The outer member of the dome is
generally opaque except for a transparent window through
which the graphics information can be read.The Automax device includes only a single window
through which the graphics information can be observed and
thus is only viewable when the observer is positioned in
the limited zone. Further, the dome can only be removed by
using a tool such as a screwdriver to facilitate access to 
the internal cams and switches. Thus, the dome has to be
visually and carefully oriented every time it is snapped
back onto the cover. This requires the operator to pay
careful attention to what percentage of the "open" or
"closed" indicia should be observable through the window
when the dome is eventually reassembled to the cover.
Thus, a careless operator or serviceman could inadvertently
reassemble the graphics information of the dome at an
orientation 90 degrees from the intended position, thus
indicating an inaccurate valve position.Another company, Proximity Controls, Inc., of Fergus
Falls, Minnesota, manufactures and sells a line of valve
position indicators including a mechanical display. In the
Proximity Controls, Inc.'s devices, the visual indicator is
mounted to the switch enclosure at a location between the
valve being
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Rotary shaft position indicating and display apparatus (10) for use
with a device having a rotatable shaft (14) and a planar mounting surface

(16), comprising:

(a) a housing having a base (24) with a transparent cover (26)
secured to said base and defining a sealed hollow chamber (28);
(b) an actuator shaft (43) journaled for rotation in said base
(24) and extending through said base into said sealed hollow chamber

(28);
(c) a window member (42) disposed within said chamber (28)
having both an opaque portion (109) and an open portion (110), wherein

said window member has a first keying means (111);
(d) a display member (41) selectively coupled to said actuator

shaft (43) and including graphics information viewable through said open
portion (110) of said window member (42) and said cover (26);
(e) coupling means (84-90) secured to said actuator shaft (43)
for coupling said actuator shaft to said rotatable shaft (14) of said device;

and
(f) an alignment member (78) disposed within said chamber
(28) and selectively adjustable about an axis of said actuator shaft (43),

said alignment member having a second keying means (120) adapted to
couple to said first keying means (111) of said window member (42) for

orienting said window member with said alignment member.
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 further comprising:

(a) at least one electromechanical actuating element (43)
mounted on said actuator shaft (43); and 
(b) means (48) coupled to said base (24) within said chamber
(28) for actuation by at least one said electromechanical actuating

element (43).
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 wherein said alignment
member (78) comprises a ring axially disposed about said actuator shaft

(43), and further including

a first fastening means (82) for selectively securing said ring to
said base (24).
The apparatus as specified in claim 3 wherein said ring (78)
includes at least one aperture (81) and said first fastening means (82) is

disposed through said aperture to engage said base (24).
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 further including an
electrical visual display means (49) coupled to said base (24) of said

housing and responsive to a position of said actuator shaft (43) such that
said display means provides a visual output corresponding to the

graphics information viewable through said open portion (110) of said
window member (42).
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 further comprising a
coupling member for securing said actuator shaft (43) to said display

member (41) and having a third keying means (70), wherein said display
member includes a fourth keying means (76) adapted to couple to said

third keying means of said coupling member for orienting said actuator
shaft (43)with said display member (41). 
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 wherein said actuator shaft
(43), said display member (41), said alignment member (78) and said

window member (42) are all axially aligned with one another.
The apparatus as specified in claim 7 wherein said cover (26),
said window member (42) and said display member (41) are each

comprised of drums.
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 further comprising:

electronic means (49, 142) responsive to a relative position of
said actuator shaft (43) for electronically providing a visual output

indicative of a relative position of said rotatable shaft (14), wherein said
visual output is indicative of whether said rotatable shaft is in a first

position, a second position, or a position therebetween relative to said
first position.
The apparatus as specified in claim 9 wherein said electronic
means (49, 142) further provides an error signal when said device is

operating in an abnormal condition.
The apparatus as specified in claim 10 wherein said error signal
comprises a visually ascertainable signal, including where the error

signal comprises flashing said visual output or a colour corresponding to
an operating state of the device, or wherein said error signal comprises

an audio signal.
The apparatus as specified in any preceding claim wherein said
electronic means (49, 142) includes a digital display or an analog

display. 
The apparatus as specified in claim 9 further comprising memory
means (150) coupled to said electronic means (49, 142) for storing a set

of operating parameters of said device (12) for use by said electronic
means.
The apparatus as specified in claim 9 wherein said electronic
means (49, 142) further includes communicating means (152) for

communicating with a remote processing device.
The apparatus as specified in claim 5 further comprising control
means (122) within a position of said actuation shaft (43) for controlling

an external device.
The apparatus as specified in claim 9 further comprising control
means (122) within said chamber (28) responsive to said electronic

means (49, 142) for controlling an external device.
The apparatus as specified in claim 15 or claim 16 wherein said
control means comprises a solenoid (122).
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 wherein said window
member (42), said display member (41) and means (40, 62-66) for

constraining said display member with respect to said window member
together comprise cartridge means selectively coupled to said actuator

shaft (43) in said chamber (28) such that both said display member (41)
and said window member (42) are together removable as a unit. 
The apparatus as specified in claim 18 wherein said means for
constraining comprises a wire guard (40) disposed within said chamber

(28) for protecting other components within said chamber from contact
with said display member (41).
The apparatus as specified in claim 19 wherein said wire guard
(40) is selectively constrained with respect to said window member (42)

such that said display member (41) is movable therebetween.
The apparatus as specified in claim 19 wherein each said display
member (41), said window member (42) and said wire guard (40) are

comprised of drums each concentrically aligned with one another.
The apparatus as specified in claim 18 further comprising means
(40, 62-66) for restricting rotation of said display member (41) relative

to said window member (42) when said cartridge means is removed from
said actuator shaft (43).
The apparatus as specified in claim 22 wherein said restricting
means (40, 62-66) comprises spring means (62) coupled to said display

member (41), wherein said spring means comprises spring fingers
integrally defined in said display member.
The apparatus as specified in claim 23 wherein said spring fingers
(62) leverage against said window member (42) to urge said display

member (41) toward said wire guard means (40).
The apparatus as specified in claim 1 further including:

actuation means (48) disposed within said chamber (28); and 
an actuating element (46) mounted on said actuator shaft (43) for
actuating said actuation means and having an adjustment means (138)

disposed therein for precisely positioning said actuating element (46) in
an arcuate direction.
The apparatus as specified in claim 25 wherein said actuating
element (46) comprises a cam having a periphery and wherein said

adjustment means comprises a set screw (138) for selectively offsetting
said periphery in response to rotating said set screw.
The apparatus as specified in claim 26 wherein said cam (46) has

an elongated aperture (133) defined between an inner portion thereof and
said periphery, wherein said set screw (138) extends in a radial direction

across said aperture and abuts said actuator shaft (43) such that rotating
said set screw in a first direction urges said periphery of said cam

proximate said set screw away from said actuator shaft.
The apparatus as specified in claim 27 wherein said set screw
(138) abuts a shouldered recess (134) defined in said cam (46) such that

rotating said set screw in a second direction urges said periphery of said
cam proximate said set screw toward said actuator shaft (43).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
