<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637167</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Measurement Camera
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N5225	H04N5232	H04N5232	G01B1102	G01C1100	G01C1102	H04N5225	G01B1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	H04N	G01B	G01C	G01C	H04N	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	G01B11	G01C11	G01C11	H04N5	G01B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a measuring camera consisting of objective, camera body and semiconductor image transducer with camera electronics, in which, for the purpose of focusing, the semiconductor image transducer is arranged axially displaceably along the optical axis within the camera body and the position of the centre of projection of the objective is retained with respect to the housing-fixed coordinate system of the camera even during focusing. The semiconductor image transducer is carried by a sensor carrier and is displaceable by means of highly accurate guides without lateral play and can be positioned by motor or manually. The semiconductor image transducer is preferably positioned under computer control. The active optical groups of the objective are provided with distinctly more accurate values with respect to their lateral and also axial positions referred to the object/camera interface than in the case of known cameras in which the means for focusing are provided on the objective side. The objective can be constructed as interchangeable objective. This measuring camera achieves a much better measuring accuracy. It can be used, in particular, in industrial image processing. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SCHNEIDER CO OPTISCHE WERKE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOS. SCHNEIDER OPTISCHE WERKE KREUZNACH GMBH 
&
 CO. KG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOERPERT HEINZ ING GRAD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LENHARDT KARL DR DIPL-PHYS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOERPERT, HEINZ, ING.(GRAD)
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LENHARDT, KARL, DR.DIPL.-PHYS.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
THOMAS, OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A measurement camera comprising a lens, a camera body, a
semiconductor converter with camera electronics and focussing means,

   characterised in that

   the camera body is formed from a camera housing (2) and a
measuring head (3) and that for focussing purposes a semiconductor image

converter (semiconductor image sensor 4) is arranged within the camera
body in such a way that, being held in a sensor carrier (5) and guided in

a laterally play-free manner displaceably and motor-positionably on a
guide configuration by means of a high-precision guide or guides (6a, 6d),

fixed on a carrier (7) projecting from the rearward surface of the
measuring head (3) into the interior of the camera housing (2), it (4) is

axially displaceable along the optical axis so that focussing can be
implemented while maintaining a minimum known and constant operational

error, and the position of the projection centre (P) is maintained even in
the event of a change in the lens (1) in relation to the coordinate system

(K) of the camera, which is fixed with respect to the housing.
A measurement camera according to claim 1 characterised in
that the image plane position and therewith also the focus-dependent

parameters of the internal orientation can always be detected with a high
degree of accuracy by means for separate positional measurement and can be

incorporated into the measurement algorithm.
A measurement camera according to claims 1 and 2 characterised
in that focussing of the semiconductor image converter (semiconductor

image sensor 4) is manually positionable by way of fine-adjustment
elements.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 3
characterised in that semiconductor image converters (semiconductor image

sensors 4) of different formats can be used. 
A measurement camera according to claim 1 characterised in
that the sensor carrier (5) is designed for selectively accommodating

semiconductor image converters (semiconductor image sensors 4) of
different formats.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 5
characterised in that there are provided means for detecting the

respective axial position of the semiconductor image converter
(semiconductor image sensor 4).
A measurement camera according to claim 6 characterised in
that a linear potentiometer (18) is arranged as the means for detecting

the respective axial position.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 7
characterised in that opto-electronic means (light barrier means 17) are

provided for axial zero-position positioning (reference position) of the
semiconductor image converter (semiconductor image sensor 4).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 8
characterised in that the camera can be connected by way of an interface

(20) to a computer from which the semiconductor image converter
(semiconductor image sensor 4) can be positioned by means of software by

way of the motor drive (16).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 9
characterised in that the focus position of the semiconductor image

converter (semiconductor image sensor 4) can be determined by evaluating
structures of the image content.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 10
characterised in that the camera can be connected by way of an interface

(20) to a computer for image processing, by which with suitable evaluation
of the transmitted image a regulating circuit can be afforded for 

positioning the semiconductor image converter (semiconductor image sensor
4) to the best sharp focussing plane and thus automatic focussing can be

implemented.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 11
characterised by a temperature sensor for electronic compensation of the

temperature effect on the camera constant (22).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 12
characterised by a measurement head (3) having a high level of mechanical

stiffness.
A measurement camera according to claim 13 characterised in
that the measurement head (3) has reference elements (8a, 8c, 8e, 9), by

means of which it is possible to produce a precise position of the lens
(1) and the semiconductor image converter (semiconductor image sensor 4).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 14
characterised in that the receiver surface of the semiconductor image

converter (semiconductor image sensor 4) is oriented in parallel
relationship with the reference surface (8a) of the lens-camera interface

(8).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 15
characterised in that the wall (19) of the camera housing (2), the

measurement head (3) and a protective glass (24) covering the lens-side
opening of the measurement head (3) form a protective housing which is

closed on all sides and which isolates the components arranged therein
from external electrical and climatic ambient influences.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 16
characterised in that the camera electronics (21) is of a modular

structure for ease of adaptability of the respective semiconductor image
converter (semiconductor image sensor 4) being used and/or the camera-image

processing interface (20). 
A measurement camera according to claim 1 or one of claims 4
to 17 characterised in that the motor drive (16) is a dc motor, a

piezoelectric drive or a stepping motor.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 18
characterised in that a pressure element or elements (bending spring 11)

is or are arranged at the lens-camera interface (8) at the measurement

head (3) to compensate for the lateral clearance between the reference
surfaces between the lens (1) and the measurement head (3).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 19
characterised in that the lens (1) can be fixed to the measurement head

(3) by means of a bayonet connection (bayonet flange 10 and screw collar
ring 13).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 20
characterised in that various lenses (1) adapted to the respective

measurement function with a unitary interface can be used in the camera.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 21
characterised in that the lens (1) is of a high-precision simple design.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 22
characterised in that the electrical plug connection (12, 12) between the

lens (1) and the measurement head (3) is integrated into the bayonet
connection (10, 13).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 23
characterised in that the lens (1) contains electronic coding for the

call-up of typical and/or individual optical data by a computer.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 24
characterised in that the lens (1) has an aperture drive and/or a position

sender for transferring the aperture setting in the lens (1) by way of the 
camera-image processing interface (20) to the computer and that a

regulating circuit for adapting the aperture in the lens (1) to the level
of object brightness can be formed by the computer by evaluation of the

transmitted image (by means of software).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 25
characterised in that with the selective use of lenses (1) of variable

focal length and with the provision thereof with a focal length drive
and/or a position sender information about the focal length can be

transmitted by way of the camera-image processing interface (20) to the
computer for setting of the focal length (by means of software) by the

computer.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 26
having a zoom lens with position sender characterised in that correction

of the intercept length which is required upon a variation in focal length
can be achieved by computer-controlled displacement of the semiconductor

image converter (semiconductor image sensor 4).
A measurement camera according to claims 1, 3 and 13
characterised in that the high-precision guide or guides include guide

columns (6a, 6a) on which the sensor carrier (5) is axially displaceable
by means of rolling bodies (guide balls 6d).
A measurement camera according to claim 28 characterised in
that the guide columns (6a, 6a) are supported on the one hand in the

measurement head (3) and on the other hand in a perpendicular rear wall
portion of a carrier (7) which projects from the measurement head (3) into

the interior of the camera housing (2).
A measurement camera according to claim 29 characterised in
that the carrier (7) is in the form of a closed frame structure.
A measurement camera according to claim 29 or claim 30
characterised in that the measurement head (3) and the carrier (7) are of

a one-piece structure. 
A measurement camera according to one of claims 28 to 31
characterised in that the sensor carrier (5) has guide bushes (6b, 6b) and

ball cages (6c, 6c), by means of which the sensor carrier (5) is axially
displaceable by way of guide balls (6d) on the guide columns (6a, 6a).
A measurement camera according to one of claims 28 to 32
characterised in that the length of the guide columns (6a, 6a), which can

be used for the axial sliding movement of the sensor carrier (5),
corresponds to the focussing travel of the semiconductor image sensor (4)

from its outermost front position into its outermost rear position (and
vice-versa).
A measurement camera according to claim 33 characterised in
that the length of the focussing travel of the semiconductor image sensor

(4) is determined by the focal length of the lens (1) and the desired
imaging scales.
A measurement camera according to claim 18 characterised in
that to compensate for the axial clearance between the transmission

members (motor drive 16; screw drive means 25, 26; sensor carrier 5) a
compression spring (27) is disposed in alignment with respect to the axis

of the motor drive (16) and applies a pressure against the sensor carrier
(5) from the rear.
A measurement camera according to one of claims 1 to 35
characterised in that the measurement camera is a CCD-camera.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
