<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643646</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
THERMOSENSITIVE RECORDING ELEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M540	B41M542	B41M5327	B41M540	B41M5337	B41M530	B41M530	B41M544	B41M5323	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	B41M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thermosensitive recording element comprising in order (a) a support, (b) at least one thermal layer comprising an organic polymeric binder, a substantially colorless electron donating dye precursor and an electron accepting compound capable of forming color by reacting with said dye precursor, and (c) a layer comprising a non-binder containing solution of a cross-linking agent wherein said agent forms a diol or ether-type bond with the binder is described. These elements have wide application in the printing industry.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT PAPER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREBS ROBERT RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KREBS, ROBERT, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to thermosensitive recording 
elements and processes for preparing said elements. 
More particularly, this invention relates to 
thermosensitive recording elements comprising (a) a 
support, (b) at least one thermal layer, and (c) an 
additional overcoat layer having a non-binder containing 
solution of a crosslinking agent wherein said agent 
forms an ether or diol-type bond with the binder. Thermosensitive recording elements have wide 
application in the printing industry. For example, 
thermosensitive recording elements have been used in 
instruments for recording measurements, facsimiles, 
printers, thermal devices for computers, devices for 
preparing architectural and engineering drawings, and 
automatic vending machines for dispensing railroad 
tickets and luggage tags. In addition, thermosensitive 
recording elements have been used in devices for 
(a) printing thermal labels, (b) recording geophysical 
data, and (c) recording medical data. Conventional thermosensitive recording elements 
generally comprise a support and a thermosensitive 
recording layer provided thereon. The thermosensitive 
recording layer primarily contains a binder, a 
substantially colorless electron donating dye precursor 
and an electron accepting compound also known as a 
developer. Heat is applied to the element by means of a 
thermal head, a thermal pen or laser beam. Upon 
heating, the dye precursor instantaneously reacts with  
 
the electron accepting compound to form a recorded 
image. It has been found that defects in the imaging 
surface of thermosensitive recording elements can be 
easily obtained. For example, rubbing the element 
gently with hard objects such as paper clips, 
fingernails, and dirt particles or even folding the 
element can result in undesirable imprints in the 
imaging surface. This presents a barrier to their use 
in the printing industry. Abrasion resistance can be greatly improved by 
separating the imaging components, i.e., by separating 
the colorless dye precursor from the developer. This is 
achieved by applying, for example, the developer 
containing coating composition to a support that is 
first coated with the dye precursor containing 
composition. However, due to the hydrophilic nature of 
the polymeric binders in the two component compositions, 
these coatings are subject to image development when 
stained with water. Another way of improving abrasion resistance in 
thermosensitive recording elements is the use of high 
gloss coatings. The use of high gloss
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A thermosensitive recording element comprising in 
order: 


(a) a support; 
(b) at least one thermal layer comprising an 
organic polymeric binder, and either a substantially 

colorless electron donating dye precursor, an electron 
accepting compound capable of forming color by reacting 

with said dye precursor or mixtures thereof; and 
(c) an overcoat layer 
 
characterized in that said overcoat layer (c) is 

coated from a non-binder containing solution of a 
crosslinking agent wherein said agent forms a diol or 

ether bond with the binder in the underlying thermal 
layer. 
The thermosensitive recording element of 
claim 1, wherein said thermal layer is a first thermal 

layer comprising an organic polymeric binder and 
either a substantially colorless electron donating dye 

precursor, an electron accepting compound, or mixtures 
thereof, and further comprising a second thermal layer 

comprising an organic polymeric binder compatible with 
the binder in said first thermal layer and either a 

substantially colorless electron donating dye precursor 
or an electron accepting compound;
 
wherein said first layer is interposed between said 

support and said second layer. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein the crosslinking agent forms a diol bond 

with the polymeric binder.  
 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
3 wherein the crosslinking agent is boric acid. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
3 wherein the crosslinking agent is sodium borate. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein the crosslinking agent forms an ether bond 

with the organic polymeric binder. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
6 wherein the crosslinking agent is selected from the 

group consisting of monofunctional aldehydes, 
polyfunctional aldehydes, free dialdehydes, epoxides and 

melamine. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
7 wherein the crosslinking agent is glyoxal. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 or 2 wherein the support is a sheet material. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
9 wherein the support is paper. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
10 wherein the support is coated with a sealant layer. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
11 wherein the sealant layer comprises an inorganic 

pigment and a latex sealant. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein the substantially colorless electron 

donating dye precursor is selected from the group 
consisting of triarylmethane compounds, diphenylmethane 

compounds, xanthene compounds, thiazine compounds and 
spiro compounds. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein the substantially colorless electron 

donating dye precursor is present in the amount of 1 to 
20 percent based on the weight of the coating 

composition.  
 
The thermosensitive recording element according 
to claim 1 wherein the electron accepting compound 

is selected from the group consisting of phenol 
derivatives, aromatic carboxylic acid derivatives, N,N'-diarylthiourea 

derivatives, and polyvalent metal salts. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein the electron accepting compound is present 

in the amount of 50 to 500% by weight based on the weight 
of the dye precursor. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein the organic polymeric binder is a water 

soluble binder having a molecular weight of 10,000 to 
200,000. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein the organic polymeric binder is selected 

from the group consisting of starches, hydroxyethyl 
cellulose, methyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, 

soluble collagen, gelatin, casein, polyacrylamide, 
polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl 

alcohol copolymers, sodium alginate, water soluble phenol 
formaldehyde resins, styrene-maleic anhydride copolymer, 

ethylene-maleic anhydride copolymer, ethylene vinyl 
acetate polymers, styrene-butadiene copolymer, 

acrylonitrile-butadiene copolymer, methyl acrylate-butadiene 
copolymer and acrylic resins. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
18 wherein the organic polymeric binder is present as an 

aqueous solution having a concentration of 1 to 25 
percent by weight. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
2 wherein at least one additional thermal layer is 

present on said second layer. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
20 wherein the additional layer comprises an organic  

 
polymeric binder and either a dye precursor or an 

electron accepting compound. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
2 wherein an additional layer is present between the 

support and the thermal layer adjacent the support, said 
additional layer comprising spherical beads and a resin. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
22 wherein the spherical beads are selected from the 

group consisting of polystyrene, diene copolymer, 
acrylic, methacrylic, glass, and ceramic. 
The thermosensitive recording element of claim 
1 wherein a backcoating is provided on the surface 

of the support opposite the surface having the thermal 
layer. 
A process for preparing a thermosensitive 
recording element comprising the steps of: 


(a) providing a support; 
(b) preparing a first dispersion of an 
aqueous solution comprising an organic polymeric 

binder and a substantially colorless, electron 
donating dye precursor; 
(c) preparing a second dispersion of an 
aqueous solution comprising an organic polymeric 

binder compatible with the binder in (b) and 
containing an electron accepting compound capable of 

forming color by reaction with said dye precursor; 
(d) applying either the first or second 
dispersion or a mixture thereof onto the support; 
(e) drying the dispersion applied in step 
(d) to form a thermal layer on the support; and 
(f) applying a non-binder containing 
solution of a crosslinking agent to the layer formed 

in (e) wherein said agent forms an ether or diol bond 
with the binder in the
 underlying thermal layer. 
The process of claim 25, wherein said 
thermal layer forms a first layer on the support; and 

further applying either the first or the second 
dispersion on the first layer; drying the dispersion 

wherein a second layer is formed; and then applying 
the non-binder containing solution of a crosslinking 

agent to the second layer wherein said agent forms a 
diol or ether bond with the binder in the underlying 

thermal layer. 
The process of claim 25 wherein at least 
one additional dispersion is applied to the layer 

adjacent to the support. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
