<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657587</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Improvements in and relating to collection devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47L908	A47L512	B65G5304	E01H108	A47L910	E01H100	B65G5324	A47L902	A47L514	A01G112	A01G112	A47L910	B65G5328	B65G5306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47L	A47L	B65G	E01H	A47L	E01H	B65G	A47L	A47L	A01G	A01G	A47L	B65G	B65G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47L9	A47L5	B65G53	E01H1	A47L9	E01H1	B65G53	A47L9	A47L5	A01G1	A01G1	A47L9	B65G53	B65G53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention relates to an apparatus for collecting 
debris including grass cuttings, vegetation, fallen leaves 

and other rubbish frequently encountered on gardens, public 
highways and parklands. In particular, apparatus for 

collecting debris from a surface (5) including a collection 
duct (D) having a mouth (CM) for receiving debris and an outlet 

through which debris is discharged into a receptacle (CB), 
means for establishing a flow of pressure air along the 

duct (D) for collecting and conveying entrained debris 
therealong from the mouth (CM) to the outlet of the collection 

duct to the receptacle (CB), and a cutting chamber (CC) including a 
reducing means (RD) disposed within the cutting chamber (CC) for 

reducing the size of at least a portion of the collected 
debris to be discharged into the receptacle (CB). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX OUTDOOR PROD LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ELECTROLUX OUTDOOR PRODUCTS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWELLS PAUL EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOWELLS, PAUL EDWARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for collecting 
debris including grass cuttings, vegetation, fallen leaves 
and other rubbish frequently encountered on gardens, public 
highways and parklands. In our prior European Patent Application No. 
0501675A1, which is incorporated herein in its entirety, 
there is described and claimed a collection device 
comprising a chassis, means for supporting the device above 
ground datum,, a source for establishing a flow of air, a 
duct directly or indirectly supported on the chassis for 
conveying loose material entrained in a stream of air from 
said source towards a downstream region thereof from a 
collection mouth at an upstream and thereof, a removable 
collection container for collecting said loose material and 
disposed in proximity to the downstream region of the duct, 
at least one air outlet disposed adjacent the collection 
mouth, each aperture serving to direct at least a portion 
of the stream of air downstream of the collection mouth so 
as to draw loose material into the mouth and transport the 
same via the duct into the collection container. In our prior Patent Application No. 9224582.8, which 
is incorporated herein in its entirety, there is described 
and claimed an apparatus for collecting material from a  
 
surface comprising a duct for transporting material 
entrained in a stream of pressurised air from a collection 
mouth at an upstream end of the duct to a downstream region 
of the duct for collection; and 
at least one air inlet opening into the duct for 
delivering pressurised air to form a primary air stream 
directed generally downstream of the duct; a source for generating the pressurised air and 
passing the air to the said at least one air inlet, 
characterised in that the duct includes an access port 
disposed downstream from the collection mouth and in that 
the apparatus includes a source for imparting energy to the 
stream of pressurised air in the duct via the access port 
thereby increasing the suction in the duct. Reference is also drawn to European Patent Application 
No. 91301472.6 (claiming priority for U.K. Patent 
Application No. 90044076.7) which is imported in its 
entirety into this specification. In our prior European Patent Application No. 
93304750.8 which is incorporated in its entirety into this 
specification, there is described and claimed an apparatus 
for collecting material from a surface comprising a duct 
for transporting material entrained in a stream of 
pressurised primary air from a collection mouth
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for collecting debris from a surface (S) 
including a collection duct (D) having a mouth (CM) for 

receiving debris and an outlet through which debris is 
discharged into a receptacle (CB), means (M,I) for 

establishing a flow of pressure air, and an air inlet (C1) 
opening into the duct (D) in the region of the mouth (CM) 

for delivering the flow of pressure air into the duct (D) 
in a direction along the duct (D) for collecting and 

conveying entrained debris therealong from the mouth (CM) 
to the outlet of the collection duct (D),
 
   characterised by a cutting chamber including a 

reducing means (RD,CL) disposed within the cutting chamber 
(CC) for reducing the size of at least a portion of the 

collected debris prior to discharge thereof into the 
receptacle (CB). 
An apparatus according to claim 1 further including at 
least one secondary air outlet for delivering pressure air 

to form a secondary air stream directed onto an area of the 
surface confronting the mouth (CM), the secondary air 

stream serving to dislodge debris on the said confronting 
area for entrainment in the primary air stream. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the air 
inlet (C1) delivers the flow of air into the duct (D1)  

 
whereby ambient air is drawn into the collection duct (D) 

through the mouth (CM) for collecting debris. 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein 
the means (M,I) for establishing a flow of pressure air 

draws in ambient air and directs the flow of pressure air 
to the air inlet (C1). 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein 
the means (M,I) for establishing a flow of pressure air is 

dedicated to directing the flow of pressure air to the air 
inlet (C1). 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein 
the entrained debris is collected and reduced without 

passing through a fan (I). 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein 
the reducing means is a rotatably mounted flexible cutter 

line (CL). 
An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the reducing 
means further includes a rotatable hub (RD) carrying a 

spool of cutter line (CL) and from which the flexible 
cutter line (CL) extends. 
An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the hub (RD)  
 

includes a mechanism for advancing cutter line (CL) from 
the spool. 
An apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 9 wherein 
the cutter line (CL) is operable with an arc of rotation 

overlying at least a part of the duct (D). 
An apparatus according to any of claims 7 to 10 
wherein the cutter line (CL) is rotatable at the discharge 

outlet of the duct (D). 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim 
including a motor (M) which drives the means (I) for 

establishing a flow of pressure air. 
An apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the motor 
(M) also drives the reducing means (RD,CL). 
An apparatus according to claim 13 including a common 
drive line from which the source of pressure air and the 

reducing means (RD,CL) are driven. 
An apparatus according to claim 13 or 14 wherein the 
means (I) for establishing a flow of pressure air and the 

cutter line (CL) are driven from the opposite sides of the 
same motor (M).  

 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein 
the cutting chamber (CC) includes at least one baffle 

extending inwardly for restricting passage of debris from 
the cutting chamber (CC) into the receptacle (CB). 
An apparatus according to claim 16 including two 
baffles each extending inwardly of the cutting chamber (CC) 

by differing amounts. 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein 
the cutting chamber (CC) includes a through flow passage 

and at least one subsidiary chamber opening generally 
transversely (when considered in the direction of the 

passage of the entrained debris) into the passage, each 
subsidiary chamber including a baffle extending in said 

transverse direction of the passage to retain at least a 
portion of the debris within the cutting chamber (CC) 

during reduction. 
An apparatus according to claim 18 including two 
subsidiary chambers of differing transverse extent. 
An apparatus according to claim 19 wherein each 
subsidiary chamber is a segment of a cylinder, each segment 

having an open end facing incoming debris and a closed end 
which constitutes a baffle for restraining passage of 

debris through the cutting chamber (CC) during reduction.  
 
An apparatus according to any preceding claim wherein 
the reducing means includes a rotatable cutting blade. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
