<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623187</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WHIPSTOCK FOR OIL AND GAS WELLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E21B704	E21B706	E21B2300	E21B2301	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E21B	E21B	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E21B7	E21B7	E21B23	E21B23	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOUNT CURTIS G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTTOSON JAVAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BLOUNT CURTIS G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OTTOSON JAVAN D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WHIPSTOCK FOR OIL AND GAS WELLSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThe present invention pertains to a whipstock for oil and gas wells, particularly adapted for insertion into a well through a tubing string and including setting mechanism for positioning the whipstock guide surface after placement of the whipstock at a predetermined depth. BackgroundThe increased use of coilable' tubing for performing well operations including "sidetracking" or drilling deviated wells from an existing wellbore has increased the need for a whipstock which may be inserted through a tubing string and then actuated to a set position upon exiting the lower end of the tubing string so that casing milling tools and drilling tools may be properly guided.Improvements in drilling and coring operations and improvements in whipstocks for performing operations to drill and core with coiled tubing through existing well tubing strings are disclosed in U.S. Patent Applications 07/752,704 and 07/752,705, both filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on August 30, 1991 and both assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Although Application Serial No. 07/752,705 discloses and claims a whipstock which may be inserted through a tubing string and set to provide proper orientation of the tool guide surface after exiting the lower end of the tubing string, the present invention provides further improvements in whipstocks which are particularly advantageously used for the methods described in the above-referenced patent applications as well as other applications where whipstocks may be required. 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention provides an improved whipstock for use in providing a tool guide surface in oil or gas wells and the like.In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, a whipstock is provided which may be inserted into a well through a tubing string in the wellbore and, upon exiting the distal end of the tubing string may be actuated to set itself permanently in a position to orient the tool guide surface so that a tool may be guided into a position off the axis of the wellbore and to form additional wellbores or other penetrations into the earth formation.In accordance with another important aspect of the present invention there is provided a whipstock which may be lowered into a wellbore at the lower end of a conventional setting tool and actuated to permanently position its guide surface at a prescribed angle with respect to the wellbore axis so that the guide surface may function
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1. A whipstock for insertion into a wellbore to guide wellbore tools and the like, said whipstock comprising: body means including a guide surface formed thereon; means on said body means for connecting said whipstock to means for inserting said whipstock into a wellbore; and setting mechanism on said whipstock for urging said whipstock into a predetermined position in said wellbore to incline said guide surface with respect to the longitudinal axis of said wellbore.
2. The whipstock set forth in Claim 1 including: means forming an adaptor part for connecting one end of said whipstock to said means for inserting said whipstock into said wellbore and means for releasably retaining said whipstock connected to said adaptor part and responsive to operation of a setting device to release said whipstock from said adaptor part.
3. The whipstock set forth in Claim 2 wherein: said means for retaining said whipstock connected to said adaptor part includes key means engaged with said whipstock and responsive to movement of a shaft associated with said setting device for releasing said whipstock from connection to said adaptor part.
4. The whipstock set forth in Claim 3 wherein: said key means comprises at least one ball key responsive to movement of said shaft to move from a position retaining said whipstock connected to said adaptor part to a position to release said whipstock from said adaptor part. 


 5. The whipstock set forth in Claim 1 wherein: said setting mechanism comprises leg means connected to said body means and moveable into engagement with a wall of said wellbore to urge said body means toward said wall of said wellbore to incline said guide surface with respect to said axis.
6. The whipstock set forth in Claim 5 including: means forming a fulcrum on said body means and engageable with said wall to pivot said body means to incline said guide surface.
7. The whipstock set forth in Claim 5 wherein: said setting mechanism comprises an actuating rod operably connected to said leg means for moving said leg means from a retracted position on said body means to an extended position to urge said whipstock into said predetermined position in said wellbore.
8. The whipstock set forth in Claim 7 wherein: said setting mechanism includes means associated with said rod for permitting movement of said rod in one direction to extend said leg means but preventing movement of said rod in the opposite direction to allow said leg means to retract.
9. The whipstock set forth in Claim 8 including: coupling means including spring means interconnecting said rod and said leg means to tension said rod upon actuation of said ratchet means to maintain said leg means urging said whipstock into said inclined position of said guide surface. 


 10. The whipstock set forth in Claim 8 wherein: said means for permitting movement in one direction comprises wicker means formed on said rod and cooperating wicker members supported on said body means to permit movement of said rod in only one direction during extension of said leg means.
11. The whipstock set forth in Claim 7 wherein: said means for permitting movement in one direction comprises opposed cam means disposed on said body means and engageable with said rod to permit movement of said rod in said one direction.
12. The whipstock set forth in Claim 5 wherein: said leg means comprises a support leg and at least one stabilizing leg pivotally supported on said body means for movement between extended and retracted positions, respectively.
13. The whipstock set forth in Claim 12 wherein: said leg means comprises two opposed stabilizing legs pivotally supported on said body means.
14. The whipstock set forth in Claim 13 wherein: said support leg is disposed on said body means between said stabilizing legs.
15. The whipstock set forth in Claim 12 including: flexible cable means interconnecting said leg means and said rod for moving said leg means to an extended position in response to movement of said rod. 


 16. The whipstock set forth in Claim 7 wherein: said rod includes a frangible coupling portion between said setting device and said leg means and responsive to a predetermined tension exerted on said setting mechanism to separate said setting device from said whipstock to permit withdrawal of said setting device and a portion of said setting mechanism from said wellbore while leaving said whipstock in said predetermined position.
17. A whipstock for insertion into a wellbore through a tubing string smaller in diameter than the diameter of said wellbore to guide wellbore tools and the like, said whipstock comprising: body means including a guide surface formed thereon; means on said body means for connecting said whipstock to a setting device for inserting said whipstock into a wellbore; and setting mechanism on said whipstock for urging said whipstock into a predetermined position in said wellbore to incline said guide surface with respect to the longitudinal axis of said wellbore comprising leg means pivotally connected to said body means and engageable with a wall of said wellbore to urge one end of said body means toward said wall of said wellbore to incline said guide surface with respect to said axis, an actuating rod operably connected to said leg means for moving said leg means from a retracted position on said body means to an extended position to urge said whipstock into said predetermined position in said wellbore, and a frangible coupling portion responsive to a predetermined tension exerted on said rod to separate said setting device from said whipstock to permit withdrawal of said setting device from said wellbore. 


 18. The whipstock set forth in Claim 17 wherein: said leg means comprises a support leg and at least one stabilizing leg pivotally supported on said body means for movement between extended and retracted positions, respectively.
19. The whipstock set forth in Claim 18 herein: said leg means comprises two opposed stabilizing legs pivotally supported on said body means.
20. The whipstock set forth in Claim 19 wherein: said support leg is disposed on said body means between said stabilizing legs.
21. The whipstock set forth in Claim 18 including: flexible cable means interconnecting said let means and said rod for moving said leg means to an extended position in response to movement of said rod. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
