<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654656</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Leak testing with wall projection against clogging
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01M304	G01M332	G01M300	G01M332	G01M304	G01M300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	G01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	G01M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
For leak testing closed containers, such containers are placed 
into a sealingly closed test cavity. From the inside of the 

container to a space between the outer surface of the container 
and the wall of the test cavity, a pressure difference 

is applied which would lead to bowing outwards of flexible 
wall portions of the container. This is prevented by 

projections (133) at the wall of the test cavity which 
supports such wall portions of the container. Recesses (132) 

between the projections (133) make sure that the installed 
pressure in the space between outer surface of container and 

test cavity wall is dissipated all around the container in 
spite of the projection (133). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEHMANN MARTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEHMANN, MARTIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMANN MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEHMANN, MARTIN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates in general to a method for leak
testing of a container, to a test chamber therefor, to a
test machine for in-line testing of such containers and to a corresponding use. More
particularly, the present invention is
for reducing test cycle time and for improving the measuring
accuracy.Methods for leak testing of containers are known in which a
pressure difference is applied between the interior and the
exterior of a container to be tested as an initial value for
latter measuring. Afterwards, a pressure value, which is
dependent on the pressure difference installed as the initial
value and on leakage conditions of the container to be tested,
is measured, as a leak indication.From the article "Lecksuche mittels Differenzdruckmessungen"
by J.T Furness, VFI 4/78, it is generally known to test a
container on leakage by monitoring its internal or its
external pressure. Thereby, it is described that, the smaller
that a volume is selected, wherein the time course of pressure
is monitored, the more accurate such a measuring will become.There exists a clear need for shortening the time span
necessitated for a test cycle of a container and of improving
the accuracy of such tests to be able to detect smallest
leakages of such containers.A method and test chamber for leak testing a container with a
substantially flexible wall portion disclosed in applicants'
earlier U.S. Patent No. 5 042 291 offer a solution to the 
aforementioned need wherein the container is introduced into a
test cavity, so that the wall portion of the container is
spaced from an inner adjacent wall portion of the test cavity
with a gap being defined between the wall portion of the
cavity and the flexible wall portion of the container. A
pressure difference is installed as an initial value between
the interior of the container and the gap by applying a
pressure at least to the gap which is smaller than a pressure
inside the container. The flexible wall portion of the
container is supported from its exterior side within the test
cavity using a grid or a mesh structured inlay to prevent the
flexible wall portion from bending outwardly into contact with
the wall portion of the test cavity as a result of the
pressure difference. The time course of a pressure prevailing
within the gap is measured as a leak indicative signal. A
drawback of this technique is, that provision of a mesh or a
grid necessitate a separate part which is critical with
respect to its form stability, necessitates separate cleaning
from time to time and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of leak testing a container with a flexible wall
portion, wherein the container is introduced into a test

cavity (130), so that said flexible wall portion and an
adjacent rigid wall portion (131) of said cavity form an

intermediate space, a pressure difference being applied from
the inside of said container into said space and 
a signal
depending from said pressure difference being evaluated as a

leak indicative signal and wherein bending outwards of said
flexible wall portion of said container, which would lead to

clogging of said space, is withheld by at least one abutment
surface in said space, characterized by the fact, that said

abutment surface is formed by at least one projection worked
into said adjacent rigid wall portion of said cavity.
The method of claim 1 comprising the step of forming a
distinct pattern of abutment surfaces (133) by projections.
The method of claim 1 comprising providing a multitude of
said projections by surface roughness (134, 135) of said

adjacent wall portion of said cavity.
The method of one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said container
is introduced into said cavity, so as to be spaced from said

at least one projection before applying said pressure
difference.
The method of one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said container
is introduced into said cavity, so as to contact at least one

projection before applying said pressure.
The method of one of claims 1 to 5, wherein a biasing
member (7) is pushed from said cavity on a further flexible

wall portion of said container, so as to mechanically stress 
said further flexible wall portion of said container.
The method of claim 6, wherein said member is formed by a
further wall portion of said cavity.
The method of one of claims 6 or 7, wherein said further
flexible wall portion of said container and said flexible wall

portion of said container are formed by the same flexible wall
portion of said container.
The method of one of claims 6 to 8, wherein said biasing is
performed by closing said cavity.
The method of one of claims 6, 7 or 9, wherein said
further flexible wall portion is linked to said one flexible

wall portion along a distinct link-area, said link-area being
mechanically stressed by said biasing and said stabilizing.
A test chamber for leak testing a container at least one
portion of its wall being flexible, comprising a closable test

cavity (130), with an inner rigid wall (131), wherein said
container can be positioned, at least a portion of said rigid

wall (131) of said cavity being arranged so as to be located
adjacent and spaced from said flexible wall portion of said

container to form a space between said flexible wall portion
of said container and said wall portion of said cavity, a

pressurizing source to establish a pressure difference from
the inside of said container towards said space, at least one

abutment surface located in said space so as to withhold said
flexible wall portion from bowing outwards to an extent where

clogging of said space occurs, characterized by the fact, that
said abutment surface (133, 134) is formed by at least one

projection, worked into said rigid wall portion of said
cavity. 
The test chamber of claim 11 characterized by the fact,
that more than one of said projections (133) are provided

forming a distinct projection-pattern in said space.
The test chamber of claim 11, characterized by the fact,
that a multitude of said projections (134) is formed by

surface roughness of said wall portion of said cavity.
The test chamber of one of claims 11 to 13, wherein at
least one projection (120) is so formed, so that said

container once introduced contacts said abutment surface
before said source being enabled,
The test chamber of one of claims 11 to 13, wherein said
at least one projection (133) is so formed, that said

container does not contact said abutment surface before said
source is enabled.
The test chamber of one of claims 11 to 15, characterized
by the fact, that it further comprises a biasing member (7)

along the wall of said cavity, which biasing member biasing a
further flexible wall portion of said container inwardly, once

said container is introduced into said cavity and said cavity
is closed.
The test chamber of claim 16, characterized by the fact,
that said biasing member (7) is distinct from said at least

one portion (132, 133) of said wall.
The test chamber of claim 16, wherein said biasing member
(7) is formed by at least one portion of said cavity wall,

preferably located at a cover (7) for said cavity and/or at
the bottom of said cavity.
A test machine for leak testing containers comprising a 
conveyor for a stream of said containers characterized by at

least two of said test chambers according to one of claims 11
to 18.
The use of the method according to one of the claims 1 to
10 or of the test chamber according to one of the claims 11 to

18 for flexible prefilled containers, as for yoghurt- or
powder-containers or blisters.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
