<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630956</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Duplex and sandwich fire resistant materials and fire protective coatings from lightweight cold curing syntactic foams
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C09K2100	C09K2114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C09K	C09K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C09K21	C09K21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Fire resistant syntactic foams are formed from a 
resol cold curing phenolic resin reacted with a partial 

phosphate ester, the ester comprising 5 to 15% of the 
weight of the resin calculated on the solids of both the 

partial phosphate ester and the phenolic resin, and 
expanded with hollow glass spheres of effective specific 

gravity between 0.15 and 0.35 and average diameter 
between 30 and 200 microns, mixed with the resin and 

ester at ±15% of the critical pigment volume 

concentration and allowed to cure at below 70°C. The 
foams may be used to form fire resisting duplex or 

sandwich structures. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALDERLEY MATERIALS LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ALDERLEY MATERIALS LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASLIN DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASLIN, DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention concerns the manufacture of lightweight fire
resistant and insulative materials and the use of these materials to fabricate
components that are resistant to fires and intense heat.This current invention relates to the manufacture of wet pastes of
phenolic resin expanded with hollow spheres and the subsequent curing of
those pastes, normally without the application of external heat, with
mixtures containing partial phosphate esters. The cured foams have a
significantly reduced tendency to shrink and crack under fire regimes,
which is the key to their use as insulating layers, cores of sandwich
materials and insulating structures all of which are fire resistant and
maintain their insulating properties under fire regimes, and hence are
capable of a wider field of application than preceding technologies.
Effectively the system allows the production of fire resistant syntactic foams
and composite fire resistant articles and structures containing syntactic
foams by simple low technology processes.Syntactic foams are foams created by filling a resinous matrix with a
particle that itself contains a closed void, such as a hollow sphere, such that
the apparent specific gravity of the particulate material is significantly
below the true specific gravity of the solid material from which the sphere is
made. This property is then imparted to the resinous matrix in proportion
to the volume occupied by the hollow particulate spheres. Because the
density of the syntactic foam is reduced by the presence of the hollow
spheres, the thermal conductivity is correspondingly lowered. Further,
spherical particles have a reinforcing effect, using the same mechanism as
fibrous reinforcements. However spherical reinforcements provide isotropic
properties whereas fibrous or lamina reinforcements provide directional
properties.It is common practice to apply intumescent coatings to structures
such as oil drilling or production platforms to protect these structures from
structural collapse in the event of a fire occurring on the structure. The 
action of these intumescent coatings is to expand from a relatively inert solid to
a lightweight insulating foam of sufficient durability to withstand the
anticipated fire regime. The weight of the fire protection applied to such
floating structures, when using these systems is substantial. The new syntactic
foams described and specified herein may be used to form duplex coating in
combination with intumescent materials and hence substitute for a substantial
proportion of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A fire resistant syntactic foam material comprising the reaction product
of a reaction mixture including a resol cold curing phenolic resin and

incorporating a plurality of hollow spheres, characterised in that the reaction
mixture also includes a solution of a partial phosphate ester and a low viscosity

phosphate plasticiser, the latter being present in an amount up to 8.5% by
weight of the phenolic resin.
A fire resistant syntactic foam material comprising the reaction product
of a reaction mixture including a resol cold curing phenolic resin and a plurality

of hollow spheres, characterised in that the reaction mixture also includes a
partial phosphate ester and a low viscosity phosphate plasticiser, the proportion

by weight of the partial phosphate ester to the phenolic resin in the reaction
mixture being in the range of 5% to 15%, the hollow spheres having a specific

gravity in the range of 0.15 to 0.35 and an average diameter in the range of 30
to 200 microns, the spheres being present in a concentration in the range of

plus or minus 15% of the critical pigment volume concentration and the low
viscosity phosphate plasticiser being present in an amount up to 8.5% by weight

of the phenolic resin.
A fire resistant material according to claim 1 or 2 characterised in that
the reaction mixture includes para-toluene sulphonic acid in an amount up to

5% of the weight of the partial phosphate ester.
A fire resistant material according to claim 1 or 2 characterised in that
the reaction mixture includes trifluoromethanesulfonic acid in an amount up to

5% of the weight of the partial phosphate ester.
A fire resistant material according to any preceding claim characterised
in that the concentration of said spheres is such that the effective specific

gravity of the material is between 0.3 and 0.6. 
A fire resistant material according to any preceding claim characterised
in that said hollow spheres are formed from a material selected from glass, a

refractory material and a ceramic material.
A fire resistant material according to any preceding claim characterised
in that it includes a durability enhancer selected from glass fibres and glass

flake.
A fire resistant material according to any preceding claim characterised
in that it includes a fluxing agent.
A fire resistant material according to claim 8 characterised in that said
fluxing agent is selected from low melting point glass and zinc borate.
A fire resistant material according to any preceding claim characterised
in that the reaction mixture includes a fluorinated surfactant.
A two-part system for the production of a fire resistant syntactic foam
material comprising a first reactant including a resol cold curing phenolic resin

and a second reactant, one or both of which reactants incorporate a plurality of
hollow spheres, characterised in that the second reactant comprises a partial

phosphate ester, said spheres are incorporated in one or both of said reactants
and the system also incorporates a low viscosity phosphate plasticiser in an

amount up to 8.5% by weight of the phenolic resin
A two part system according to claim 11 characterised in that said
phosphate plasticiser is incorporated in said first reactant.
A two part system according to claim 11 or 12 characterised in that said
second reactant incorporates para-toluene suphonic acid in an amount up to 5%

by weight of the partial phosphate ester. 
A two part system according to claim 11 or 12 characterised in that said
second reactant incorporates
 trifluoromethane sulphonic acid in an amount up
to 5% by weight of the partial phosphate ester.
A two part system according to any of claims 11 to 14 characterised in
that said hollow spheres are formed of a material selected from glass, a

refractory material and a ceramic material.
A two part system according to any of claims 11 to 15 characterised in
that the quantity of said hollow spheres is selected such that the specific

gravity of the fire resistant material produced by reaction of said reactants is
between 0.3 and 0.6.
A two part system according to any of claims 11 to 16 characterised in
that said first reactant incorporates a strengthening agent selected from glass

fibres and glass flake.
A two part system according to any of claims 11 to 17 characterised in
that said first reactant incorporates a fluxing agent.
A two part system according to any of claims 11 to 18 characterised in
that the reaction mixure also incorporates a surfactant.
A two part system according to claim 19 characterised in that said
surfactant is a fluorinated surfactant.
A method of producing a fire resistant material from a two part system
according to any of claims 11 to 20 characterised in that said first and second

rectants are reacted together under ambient temperature conditions.
A method of producing a fire resistant syntactic foam material
comprising mixing a resol cold curing phenolic resin incorporating hollow

spheres with a further constituent and allowing the mixture to cure at ambient 
temperature, characterised in that the hollow spheres have an effective specific

gravity of between 0.15 and 0.35 and an average diameter of between 30 and
200 microns and are mixed at plus or minus 15% of critical pigment volume

concentration with the other constituent which comprises a solution of a partial
phosphate ester comprising between 5% and 15% by weight of the phenolic

resin, and in that the resultant material is in paste form and incorporates a
phosphate tri-ester plasticiser in amounts of up to 8.5% by weight of the

phenolic resin.
A method according to claim 22 characterised in that para-toluene
suphonic acid is added to the phenolic resin in amounts of up to 5% by weight

of the partial phosphate ester.
A method according to claim 22 or 23 characterised in that said spheres
are glass spheres.
A method according to any of claims 22 to 24 characterised in that the
addition of said spheres is controlled to produce a material having an effective

specific gravity of between 0.3 and 0.6.
A method according to any of claims 22 to 25 characterised in that there
is added to the uncured material a strengthening agent selected from low

melting point glass, glass fibres and glass flake.
A method according to any of claims 22 to 26 characterised in that there
is added to the phenolic resin a fluorinated surfactant.
A fire resistant component or structure characterised in that the surface
thereof is coated with a fire resistant material according to any preceding claim.
A fire resistant component or structure according to claim 28
characterised in that said material forms a core between reinforced phenolic

outer layers. 
A fire resistant component or structure according to claim 28 or 29
characterised in that it is over coated with an intumescent coating.
A fire resistant component or structure according to claim 30
characterised in that it is between 25% to 75% of the overall thickness of the

coating.
A fire resistant component or structure according to any of claims 28 to
31 characterised in that it is overlaid with a lamina of support material bearing

a fire resistant or radiant coating.
A fire resistant component or structure according to claim 32
characterised in that said support material is stainless steel mesh.
A fire resistant component or structure according to claim 32
characterised in that said support material is a paper composed of ceramic

fibres.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
