<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646466</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Print cartridge body and nozzle member
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41J216	B41J214	B41J2175	B41J214	B41J216	B41J205	B41J2135	B41J2135	B41J205	B41J2175	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	B41J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	B41J2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a preferred embodiment, a nozzle member (18) 
containing an array of orifices (17) has a substrate (28), 

having heater elements (96/98) formed thereon, affixed to 
a back surface of the nozzle member. The back surface of 

the nozzle member extends beyond the outer edges of the 
substrate. Ink (99) is supplied from an ink reservoir 

within a print cartridge body (12) to the orifices by a 
fluid channel (52) within a barrier layer (30) between the 

nozzle member and the substrate. The nozzle member is 
adhesively sealed with respect to the print cartridge body 

by forming an ink seal (90) circumscribing the substrate, 
between the back surface of the nozzle member and the 

body. The print cartridge body is formed so that the 
coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) of the body in the 

vicinity of the nozzle member in a critical direction is 
within about 100 PPM/C of the CTE of the nozzle member in 

the critical direction to reduce thermally induced stress 
on the nozzle member. This prevents delamination of the 

nozzle member from the barrier layer when the body and 
nozzle member cool after being heated. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to inkjet and
other types of printers and, more particularly, to
reducing thermal expansion/contraction induced stress
between a nozzle member and a print cartridge body.Thermal inkjet print cartridges operate by rapidly
heating a small volume of ink to cause the ink to vaporize
and be ejected through one of a plurality of orifices so
as to print a dot of ink on a recording medium, such as a
sheet of paper. Typically, the orifices are arranged in
one or more linear arrays in a nozzle member. The
properly sequenced ejection of ink from each orifice
causes characters or other images to be printed upon the
paper as the printhead is moved relative to the paper.
The paper is typically shifted each time the printhead has
moved across the paper. The thermal inkjet printer is
fast and quiet, as only the ink strikes the paper. These
printers produce high quality printing and can be made
both compact and affordable.In one prior art design, the inkjet printhead
generally includes: (1) ink channels to supply ink from an
ink reservoir to each vaporization chamber proximate to an
orifice; (2) a metal orifice plate or nozzle member in
which the orifices are formed in the required pattern; and 
(3) a silicon substrate containing a series of thin film
resistors, one resistor per vaporization chamber.To print a single dot of ink, an electrical current
from an external power supply is passed through a selected
thin film resistor. The resistor is then heated, in turn
superheating a thin layer of the adjacent ink within a
vaporization chamber, causing explosive vaporization, and,
consequently, causing a droplet of ink to be ejected
through an associated orifice onto the paper.One prior art print cartridge is disclosed in U.S.
Patent No. 4,500,895 to Buck et al., entitled "Disposable
Inkjet Head," issued February 19, 1985 and assigned to the
present assignee.In one type of prior art inkjet printhead, disclosed
in U.S. Patent No. 4,683,481 to Johnson, entitled "Thermal
Ink Jet Common-Slotted Ink Feed Printhead," ink is fed
from an ink reservoir to the various vaporization chambers
through an elongated hole formed in the substrate. The
ink then flows to a manifold area, formed in a barrier
layer between the substrate and a nozzle member, then into
a plurality of ink channels, and finally into the various
vaporization chambers. This prior art design may be
classified as a center feed design, whereby ink is fed to
the vaporization chambers from a central location then
distributed outward
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for an ink printer comprising:

a nozzle member having a plurality of ink orifices formed therein, said
nozzle member being formed of a flexible tape (18) of a first material, said

plurality of orifices forming at least one substantially linear array of ink orifices;
a substrate (28) containing a plurality of ink ejection elements (96/98),
said substrate being rectangular with first and second outer edges being longer

than third and fourth outer edges and being mounted on a back surface of said
flexible tape, each of said ink ejection elements being located proximate to an

associated ink orifice, said back surface of said flexible tape extending over said
first and second outer edges of said substrate; and
a body (12) in fluid communication with an ink reservoir, wherein said
flexible tape is positioned on said body and sealed with respect to said body by

a seal (90) between said body and said back surface of said flexible tape
substantially circumscribing said substrate, said body comprising a plastics

material containing fibers, said body in the vicinity of said nozzle member having
a coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) in a critical direction substantially

perpendicular to the linear array of ink orifices which is within approximately
100 PPM/C, i.e. parts per million per degree Celsius, of the CTE of said flexible

tape in said critical direction due to an orientation of said fibers in said body
generally extending in said critical direction.
The apparatus of Claim 1 further comprising a fluid channel (52)
communicating between said ink reservoir and a back surface of said substrate

(28) circumscribed by said seal (90), said channel allowing ink (99) to flow
around side edges of said substrate (28) and into ink ejection chambers (92/94),

each ink ejection chamber being associated with an orifice (17) in said nozzle
member (18). 
The apparatus of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said seal (90) is formed by an
adhesive sealant (90) which also affixes said nozzle member (18) to said body

(12).
The apparatus of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said nozzle member (18) is
formed of a flexible polymer material.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said plastic is selected
from the group consisting of polysulfone, liquid crystal polymer, and

polyphenylene sulfide.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said CTE of said body (12)
in said critical direction is within approximately 10 to 60 PPM/C of said CTE

of said flexible tape (18) in said critical direction in the vicinity of said substrate
(28).
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said fibers are selected from the group
consisting of glass fibers and carbon fibers.
A method of sealing a nozzle member (18) in an inkjet printhead (14) with
respect to a body (12) and reducing thermally induced stress between the nozzle

member and the body comprising the steps of:

affixing a substrate (28) containing a plurality of ink ejection elements
(96/98) to a back surface of a nozzle member (18) containing a plurality of

orifices (17), said plurality of orifices forming at least one substantially linear
array of ink orifices, said substrate being rectangular with first and second outer

edges being longer than third and fourth outer edges, said back surface of said
nozzle member extending over said first and second outer edges of said substrate, 

said nozzle member being formed of a flexible tape (18) of a first material;
positioning said back surface of said flexible tape with respect to a body
(12) with a sealant (90) between said back surface of said nozzle member and

said body such that sealant substantially circumscribes said substrate and provides
an ink seal between said back surface of said flexible tape and said body, said

body comprising a second material containing fibers, said body in the vicinity of
said nozzle member having a coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) in a critical

direction substantially perpendicular to said linear array which is within
approximately 100 PPM/C, i.e. parts per million per degree Celsius, of the CTE of

said flexible tape in said critical direction due to an orientation of said fibers in
said body generally extending in said critical direction.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
