<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642226</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Translator circuits with symmetrical switching delays.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G11C11409	G11C11409	H01L2966	H01L2994	H03K513	H03K513	H03K19003	H03K19003	H03K190185	H03K190185	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G11C	G11C	H01L	H01L	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	H03K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G11C11	G11C11	H01L29	H01L29	H03K5	H03K5	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	H03K19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A translator circuit for providing symmetrical switching delays for use with 
a power line for a differential amplifier having a first signal line and a 

complementary second signal line, the translator circuit including: a first voltage 
clamp coupled to the first signal line and to the power line for limiting a voltage 

differential between the power line and the first signal line; and a second 
voltage clamp coupled to the power line and the second signal line for limiting 

a voltage differential between the power line and the second signal line. The 
translator circuit provides reduced sensitivity to variations in process 

parameters, power supply voltages, temperature and manufacturing tolerances. 
The translator circuit also provides symmetrical tracking between the rise to rise 

and the fall to fall delays of an emitter coupled logic to complementary metal-oxide 
semiconductor translator circuit. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HO, KENNETH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to logic interface and translator circuits 
and more particularly to ECL to CMOS translators. In the area of computer data processing systems, various types of digital 
logic circuits are used in different parts of the processing system. The various 
circuit types operate at different switching speeds and are used to provide 
optimal performance for the processing system. In order to transfer data from 
one part of the processing system having logic of one circuit type (e.g. emitter 
coupled logic (ECL)) to another part of the processing system having logic of 
another circuit type (e.g. complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS)), 
a translation is often required from one circuit type to another circuit type, 
because the circuit types operate with different input/output voltages 
corresponding to high and low logic levels. Bipolar ECL voltage levels have a relatively small voltage swing of only 
about 0.8 volts. CMOS voltage levels have a larger voltage swing of about 5.0 
volts. Since many of the processing systems are designed with both ECL and 
CMOS logic circuits, there are interface circuits required, such as ECL to 
CMOS translator circuits, to allow these two different types of circuits to 
communicate to each other. For example, ECL to CMOS translators are used 
to shift the voltage levels of the ECL input logic signals to voltage levels which 
can be recognized by the CMOS logic circuits. The conventional translators do not provide a CMOS output that 
symmetrically tracks an ECL input. For example, it is desirable that the delay 
between the ECL signal rise and the CMOS signal rise be equal to the delay  
 
between the ECL signal fall and the CMOS signal fall. The designs of 
conventional ECL to CMOS translators do not provide this symmetrical tracking 
of the signal rise and fall. The delays between the ECL input signal transitions 
and the CMOS output signal transitions are often not symmetrical. For 
example, the fall to fall delay between the ECL input and the CMOS output may 
be less than the rise to rise delay between the ECL input and the CMOS output 
due to the difference in voltage levels required for switching between logic 
levels. In typical prior translators, the difference between fall to fall delay and 
rise to rise delay can be greater than 1 nanosecond (ns). To provide a 
symmetrical delay, the difference between the fall to fall delay and rise to rise 
delay should be .3 ns or less. In addition, conventional translators are sensitive to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A translator circuit for providing symmetrical switching delays 
having a differential amplifier including a first signal line and a second signal 

line complementary to the first signal line, the circuit comprising a first voltage 
clamp means coupled to the first signal line and to the second signal line for 

limiting a voltage differential between the first signal line and the second signal 
line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 1 wherein the first voltage clamp 
means further includes: 

   a first pair of p-n diodes coupled in series between the first signal 
line and the second signal line for limiting the voltage differential between the 

first signal line and the second signal line; and 
   a second pair of p-n diodes coupled in series between the second 

signal line and the first signal line for limiting the voltage differential between 
the second signal and the first signal line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 2 wherein the first signal line and 
the second signal line are complementary metal-oxide semiconductor 

compatible. 
A translator circuit for providing symmetrical switching delays 
having a differential amplifier including a first signal line and a second signal 

line complementary to the first signal line and for use with a power line, the 
circuit comprising: 

   first voltage clamp means coupled to the first signal line and to the 
power line for limiting a voltage differential therebetween; and 

   second voltage clamp means coupled to the power line and the 
 

second signal line for limiting a voltage differential therebetween. 
The translator circuit of Claim 4 further comprising a third voltage 
clamp means coupled to the first signal line and to the second signal line for 

limiting a voltage differential therebetween. 
The translator circuit of Claim 5 wherein the first signal line and 
the second signal line are complementary metal-oxide semiconductor 

compatible. 
The translator circuit of Claim 6 wherein the first voltage clamp 
means further includes: 

   a first transistor having a drain and a gate coupled to the power 
line; and 

   a second transistor having a drain and a gate coupled to a source 
of the first transistor and a source coupled to the first signal line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 7 wherein the second voltage clamp 
means further includes: 

   a third transistor having a drain and a gate coupled to the power 
line; and 

   a fourth transistor having a drain and a gate coupled to a source 
of the third transistor and a source coupled to the second signal line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 8 wherein the third voltage clamp 
means further includes: 

   a first pair of p-n diodes coupled in series between the first signal 
line and the second signal line for limiting the voltage differential between the 

first signal line and the second signal line; and 
   a second pair of p-n diodes coupled in series between the second 

signal line and the first signal line for limiting the voltage differential between 
 

the second signal line and the first signal line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 9 further comprising: 
   first switch means coupled to the first signal line and coupled to 

and responsive to the second signal line for providing an active load and for 
coupling the first signal line to the power line in response to the second signal 

line; and 
   second switch means coupled to the second signal line and 

coupled to and responsive to the first signal line for providing an active load 
and for coupling the second signal line to the power line in response to the first 

signal line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 10 wherein the first switch means 
further comprises a fifth transistor having a source coupled to the first signal 

line, having a gate coupled to and responsive to the second signal line, and 
having a drain coupled to the power line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 11 wherein the second switch 

means further comprises a sixth transistor having a source coupled to the 
second signal line, having a gate coupled to and responsive to the first signal 

line, and having a drain coupled to the power line. 
The translator circuit of Claim 12 further comprising: 
   a seventh transistor having a gate coupled to the second signal 

line, and a drain coupled to the power line; 
   an eighth transistor having a source coupled to a lower power 

voltage; 
   a resistive load coupled between the power line and a drain and 

a gate of the eighth transistor; and 
   a resistive load coupled between a source of the seventh 

 
transistor and the drain and the gate of the eighth transistor. 
The translator circuit of Claim 13 further comprising: 
   a ninth transistor having a gate coupled to the source and the 

drain of the eighth transistor, and a source coupled to the lower power voltage; 
and 

   a tenth transistor having a drain coupled to the power line, a gate 
coupled to the first signal line, and a source coupled to the drain of the ninth 

transistor; 
   wherein the source of the tenth transistor and the drain of the 

ninth transistor is an output signal line which is complementary metal-oxide 
semiconductor compatible. 
The translator circuit of Claim 14 further comprising: 
   two differential emitter coupled logic signal lines; and 

   down converter means coupled to the differential amplifier and to 
the differential emitter coupled logic signal lines for level shifting the differential 

emitter coupled logic signal lines. 
The translator circuit of Claim 15 wherein the differential amplifier 
means further comprises a first current source coupled to a lower power 

voltage. 
The translator circuit of Claim 16 further comprising: 
   second current source means for providing current coupled to the 

down converter means. 
A translator circuit for generating an output signal which is 
complementary metal-oxide semiconductor compatible having a differential 

amplifier responsive to differential input emitter coupled logic signals for 
generating a first signal and a second signal complementary to the first signal, 

 
the translator circuit comprising: 

   first voltage clamp means coupled to a upper power voltage and 
to the first signal for limiting a voltage differential between the upper power 

voltage and the first signal; and 
   second voltage clamp means coupled to the upper power voltage 

and to the second signal for limiting a voltage differential between the upper 
power voltage and the second signal. 
The translator circuit of Claim 18 further comprising a third voltage 
clamp means coupled to the first signal line and to the second signal line for 

limiting a voltage differential therebetween. 
The translator circuit of Claim 19 wherein: 
   the first voltage clamp means further includes a first transistor 

having a drain and a gate coupled to the power line and a second transistor 
having a drain and a gate coupled to a source of the first transistor and a 

source coupled to the first signal line; 
   the second voltage clamp means further includes a third transistor 

having a drain and a gate coupled to the power line and a fourth transistor 
having a drain and a gate coupled to a source of the third transistor and a 

source coupled to the second signal line; and 
   the third voltage clamp means further includes a first pair of p-n 

diodes coupled in series between the first signal line and the second signal line 
for limiting the voltage differential between the first signal line and the second 

signal line and a second pair of p-n diodes coupled in series between the 
second signal line and the first signal line for limiting the voltage differential 

between the second signal line and the first signal line. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
