<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648337</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ASSAY MODULE TRANSPORT APPARATUS FOR USE IN AN AUTOMATED ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N3500	G01N3500	G01N3502	G01N3502	G01N3504	G01N3504	G01N3510	G01N3510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	G01N35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Au automated analytical instrument for conducting assays for components of interest in fluid samples. The instrument includes a rotatably mounted supply unit or segment adapted to hold a plurality of foil-sealed magazines containing assay modules, a testing system for assaying a fluid sample for a component of interest using an assay module, an assay module transport assembly for transporting an assay module from a magazine in the supply unit to the testing system, and a microprocessor for controlling the operation of the automated analytical instrument. In one embodiment, the assay module transport assembly includes a cutter assembly for cuttig away a layer of material such as a thin foil layer covering a desired assay module within the magazine, an assay module receiving platform disposed in front of the magazine, an assay module ejector mechanism for pushing an assay module from the magazine onto the assay module receiving platform, and an assay module transfer mechanism for moving the assay module from the assay module receiving platform to the testing system. The cutter assembly and the assay module receiving platform are movable vertically on a first elevator assembly, and the assay module ejector assembly is movable vertically on a second elevator assembly.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PB DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PB DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACINDOE ROBERT C JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACINDOE, ROBERT, C., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ASSAY MODULE TRANSPORT APPARATUS FOR USE IN AN AUTOMATED ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates generally to automated analytical instruments and more particularly to automated analytical instruments for use in conducting assays for components of interest in fluid samples. In recent years, a number of automated instruments have been developed to perform analyses of fluid samples. As is known in the art, such instruments may be used to test various types of biological fluids for substances of interest, for example, to find evidence of disease, to monitor therapeutic drug levels, and the like. Typically, such automated analytical instruments utilize either liquid reagents or dry reagents to assay for a substance of interest. Various different types of assay devices are known for use in such automated instruments including, for example, dry thin-film multilayer assay elements which are typically mounted in an assay module and capillary assay devices. 

 Generally speaking, the testing system portion of automated analytical instruments which use assay modules to test for a component of interest typically include a fluid dispensing system for metering out a quantity of the fluid sample to be analyzed to an assay module, a temperature controlled chamber for holding the assay modules at the appropriate temperature to allow the reaction to take place, an analyzing system for measuring a detectable change brought about by the presence of the substance of interest in the fluid sample and some mechanism for conveying the assay module to each of the foregoing components in the proper order.The assay modules may be provided by various techniques. In one type of automated analytical instrument an assay module to be used is manually loaded into an assay module transfer device. The assay module is then transferred to the test system. In U.S. Pat. No. 4,152,390, there is described an automated analytical instrument which includes, in addition to the testing system, a supply unit for holding a plurality of assay modules and a transfer apparatus for transferring an assay module from the supply unit to the testing system. The assay modules are stacked in containers, which may be received in a nest of the analyzing apparatus with a spring biased plunger arranged to enter the container through an opening. The plunger engages a movable element located in the container behind the stack of modules to urge the top module forwardly towards the testing system portion of the instrument. The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. An automated analytical instrument for use in conducting assays for a component of interest in a fluid sample, said automated analytical instrument comprising: a) an assay module supply unit, said assay module supply unit being adapted to hold a supply of assay modules; b) a testing system for assaying a fluid sample for a component of interest using an assay module; c) an assay module transport assembly for transporting an assay module from said assay module supply unit to said testing system, said assay module transport assembly comprising i) an assay module receiving platform disposed next to said assay module supply unit, ii) an assay module ejector mechanism for pushing an assay module from said assay module supply unit onto said assay module receiving platform, and iii) an assay module transfer mechanism for moving an assay module from said assay module receiving platform to said testing system; and d) a microprocessor for controlling the operation of said automated analytical instrument.
2. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for moving said assay module receiving platform vertically and means for moving said assay module ejector mechanism vertically whereby assay modules 


disposed at different vertical levels in said assay module supply unit may be accessed.
3. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 1 wherein said assay module supply unit is adapted to receive a magazine, the magazine including an open-faced vessel, an assay module disposed within the open-faced vessel, and a layer of a material covering the open face of the open-faced vessel, said automated analytical instrument further comprising a cutter assembly for cutting the layer of material so as to permit access to the assay module disposed within the open-faced vessel.
4. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 3 further comprising a first elevator for moving said assay module receiving platform and said cutter assembly vertically and a second elevator for moving said assay module ejector mechanism vertically whereby assay modules disposed at different vertical levels in said assay module supply unit may be accessed.
5. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 1 wherein said assay module ejector mechanism comprises a pusher rod and an arrangement for slidably moving said pusher rod .
6. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 5 wherein said arrangement for slidably moving said pusher rod includes a motor, an endless belt driven by said motor, and a slider block attached to said endless belt and to said pusher rod .
7. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 3 wherein said cutter assembly comprises a cutting element and an arrangement for slidably moving said cutting element for engagement with the layer of material. 


 8. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 7 wherein said arrangement for slidably moving said cutting element for engagement with the layer of material comprises a) a block, said cutting element being mounted on said block; b) a rack mounted on said block; c) a motor; and d) a pinion mounted on said motor and engaged with said rack for slidably moving said block.
9. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 3 wherein said cutter assembly comprises a cutting element for cutting the layer of material and a plunger for pushing the cut piece of material into the open-faced vessel out of the way of the assay module disposed therewithin.
10. The automated analytical instrument as defined in claim 1 wherein said assay module transfer mechanism comprises a rotatable platform and a retractable arm engageable with an assay module for pulling an assay module from said 
•
 assay module receiving platform onto said rotatable platform and for pushing the assay module from said rotatable platform into said testing system.
1 1 . An assay module transport assembly for use in transporting an assay module from an assay module supply unit to a testing system within an automated analytical instrument, said assay module transport assembly comprising: a) an assay module receiving platform disposed next to the assay module supply unit; 


 b) an assay module ejector mechanism for pushing an assay module from the assay module supply unit onto said assay module receiving platform; and c) an assay module transfer mechanism for moving an assay module from said assay module receiving platform to the testing system.
12. The assay module transport assembly as defined in claim 1 1 further comprising means for moving said assay module receiving platform vertically and means for moving said assay module ejector mechanism vertically whereby assay modules disposed at different vertical levels in the assay module supply unit may be accessed.
13. The assay module transport assembly as defined in claim 1 1 wherein the assay module supply unit is adapted to receive a magazine, the magazine including an open-faced vessel, an assay module disposed within the open-faced vessel, and a layer of a material covering the open face of the open-faced vessel, said assay module transport assembly further comprising a cutter assembly for cutting the layer of material so as to permit access to the assay module disposed within the open-faced vessel.
14. The assay module transport assembly as defined in claim 1 1 further comprising a first elevator for moving said assay module receiving platform and said cutter assembly vertically and a second elevator for moving said assay module ejector mechanism vertically whereby assay modules disposed at different vertical levels in the assay module supply unit may be accessed. 


 15. The assay module transport assembly as defined in claim 11 wherein said assay module transfer mechanism comprises means for pulling an assay module off said assay module receiving platform and for pushing the assay module into the testing system.
1 6. A cutting assembly for use in tearing away a layer of material covering an open-faced compartment, the cutting assembly comprising: a) a cutting element for making a tear in the layer of material; and b) a plunger for pushing the torn piece of material into the open-faced compartment.
17. The cutting assembly as defined in claim 16 wherein said cutting element is shaped to make a tear in the layer of material along three side edges of the open-faced compartment and wherein said plunger is positioned so as to tuck the torn piece of material within a side of the open-faced compartment. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
