<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610476</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD SHIELD ASSEMBLY
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K900	H04N564	H04N564	H05K900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H04N	H04N	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K9	H04N5	H04N5	H05K9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A shield assembly for installation on a portion of a printed circuit board is presented. The shield (16) assembly includes a shield mounted on the component mounting side of the printed circuit board and has a plurality of support projections (30) inserted through apertures of the printed circuit board to the conductor side where they are mechanically secured and electrically connected to a reference potential. A first shield cover (22) is mounted to the shield at a peripheral edge distal of the printed circuit board. A second shield cover (34) is disposed at the conductor side of the printed circuit board. The second shield cover (34) is provided with two pluralities of protrusions (32, 42). The first plurality of protrusions (32) extends through apertures in the printed circuit board to engage the body of the shield. The second plurality of protrusions (42) engages respective support projections (30) of the shield.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLIOTT CHARLES ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELLIOTT, CHARLES, ANTHONY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to electromagnetic shields, and 
particularly, to radio frequency (RF) shields mounted on printed 
circuit boards. It is often desirable to shield an area of printed circuit 
boards, or a volume associated therewith, with shielding members 
so that electromagnetic energy, e.g., radiated RF signals, are 
contained within the shielded volume or area, or excluded from 
the shielded volume or area. Such shielding is extensively used in 
television receivers, direct satellite broadcast receivers, radio 
receivers such as FM and shortwave, or portions of audio systems 
wherein low signal level circuitry is amenable to being effected by 
stray electromagnetic fields, e.g, 50-60 cycle fields emanating 
from AC power sources. Examples of circuits utilizing such 
shielding include RF tuner circuits which amplify low level signals 
received by an antenna, or low signal level audio circuits in the 
input stage of an audio system. Additionally, if a circuit generates 
a signal which can radiate either to other circuits of the same 
device or external of the device, the electromagnetic shielding will 
contain the radiation. Such a circuit can be an RF tuner local 
oscillator and/or a mixer. From GB-A-2029645 there is known, for example, a high 
frequency circuit device such as an H.F. 
tuner in which circuit elements 
mounted on a circuit board are 
arranged within a casing which acts as 
a shield. The circuit board is 
supported on projections extending 
inwardly from the casing and 
secured to the casing by dip-soldering 
to facilitate manufacture. Partitions may 
be provided to shield different parts of 
the circuit and these are also mounted 
on internal projections and secured by 
dip-soldering. A top cover has an elastic fastening part 
formed around its periphery and is attached 
to the top of the casing with the fastening 
part pressing against the external side 
surface of the casing. The bottom cover 
is of the same structure as the top cover, 
except for slit and bent parts which are 
additionally formed at specific positions 
and which contact the lower edge of the 
casing. The term "printed circuit board" as used herein refers 
to circuit boards having electrical conductors disposed on one or 
more sides of a dielectric board by deposition, etching or any 
other applicable process such as laminating (used for producing 
multi-layered boards). Modern television circuit board assemblies 
are generally manufactured by mounting components on the 
component side of the printed circuit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electronic apparatus having circuitry components 
mounted on a printed circuit board and an electromagnetic shield 

assembly shielding at least a portion of the the printed circuit 
board, the apparatus comprising:
 
   a planar printed circuit board (12) having thickness, a 

component mounting side (18) wherein leads of mounted 
components are inserted through apertures extending through the 

thickness of the board, and a conductor side (36) having 
electrically cond
uctive pathways disposed thereon for providing 
predetermined solderable electrical interconnections between the 

leads of the mounted components,
 
   an electromagnetic shielding means (16) mounted on 

the component mounting side (18) of the printed circuit board 
(12) and having elongated support members (30) extending 

through the thickness of the printed circuit board to the conductor 
side and electrically connected to a reference potential through an 

electrically conductive pathway, the shielding means (16) having 
a body portion proximal the printed circuit board and an edge 

distal of the component side of the printed circuit board, said 
shielding means enclosing a predetermined area of the printed circuit 

board,
 
   a first electromagnetic shielding cover means (22) 

extending over the predetermined area of the printed circuit 
board (12) and removably engaging the engagement edge of the 

shielding means distal of the component side of the printed 
circuit board for electromagnetically shielding the predetermined 

area in cooperation with the shielding means, and
 
   a second electromagnetic shielding cover means (34) 

disposed proximal to the electrically conductive pathway side of 
the printed circuit board and extending over the predetermined 

area, the second electromagnetic shielding cover means having 
two pluralities of protruding members (32,42), the first plurality 

of members (32) extend through apertures in the printed circuit 
board (12) for engaging the body of the shielding means (16) 

proximal the printed circuit board, the second plurality of 
members (42) electrically engaging the support members of the  

 
shielding means, the second electromagnetic shield cover means 

electromagnetically shielding the predetermined area in 
cooperation with the shielding means. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is 
a tuner of a television receiver. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is 
a tuner of a television receiver for receiving direct satellite 

broadcasts. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is 
a tuner of a FM radio receiver. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is 
an audio amplifier. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first cover 
means (22) removably engages the shielding means (16), the first 

plurality of members (32) of the second cover means (34) 
removably engage the shielding means, and the second plurality 

of members (42) of the second cover means (34) removably 
engage the support members (30) of the shielding means (16). 
An RF shield for a printed circuit board comprising:
 
   an electromagnetic shielding means (16) for mounting 

onto a first side of a printed circuit board (12) and having a first 
edge disposable distal of the printed circuit board and a second 

edge disposable proximal the printed circuit board, the shielding 
means having elongated support protrusions (30) at the second 

edge for insertion through apertures in the printed circuit board, 
extending through the thickness of the printed circuit board, and 

electrically contactable to a portion of a second side of the printed 
circuit board,
 
   a first electromagnetic shielding cover means (22) for 

engaging the first edge of the shielding means, and
  
 

   a second electromagnetic shielding cover means (34) 
disposable proximal to the second side of the printed circuit 

board, the second electromagnetic shielding cover means having 
two pluralities of protruding members (32,42), the first plurality 

of members (32) being extendable through apertures of the 
printed circuit board engaging the shielding means (16), and a 

second plurality of members (42) engaging the support 
protrusions (30) of the shielding means (16). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
