<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642587</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SYSTEM FOR MEASURING PROTEOLYTIC ACTIVITY OF PERIODONTOPATHOGENIC BACTERIA.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12Q106	C12Q106	C12Q137	C12Q137	C12Q142	C12Q142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A colorimetric assay detects the presence of proteolytic activity in a specimen of subgingival plaque, for example, with a chromogenic test substance which is hydrolyzed by trypsin-like enzymes produced by periodontopathogenic bacteria in the specimen to release a chromophore. Release of the chromophore is associated with a visible color change and is indicative of the presence of periodontal disease. The results of this chromogenic assay for proteolytic activity are reliable provided at least a minimum number of microorganisms, on the order of 1,000,000 to 10,000,000, are present in the specimen. The colorimetric assay of the present invention indicates whether the specimen includes the requisite number of microorganisms so that false negative results are not occasioned as a result of inadequate specimen size. A nonspecific marker of enzymatic activity of microorganisms in the specimen, illustratively phosphatase or peptidase enzymes, indicates specimen size sufficiency by the release of a chromophore from a nonspecific chromogenic test substance, in response to the nonspecific enzymatic activity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOESCHE WALTER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LOESCHE, WALTER J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SYSTEM FOR MEASURING PROTEOLYTIC ACTIVITY OF PERIODONTOPATHOGENIC BACTERIABackground of the inventionThis invention relates generally to systems for determining the presence of oral diseases in mammals, and more particularly, to a colori¬ metric test which is useful in determining periodontal disease activity in a human being, or in an animal.Periodontal disease is the major affliction of the human dentition. Today, more teeth are lost to the effects of periodontal disease than to caries (tooth decay). Periodontal disease is a group of conditions affecting the gingiva (gum) and the bones that support the teeth. The primary cause of periodontal disease is bacterial plaque which causes an inflammation of the gum which may result in actual destruction of tissue. In some cases, destruction of the bone occurs to the point where teeth lose their attach- ment thereto.In periodontal disease, there is usually a large accumulation of bacteria in plaque attached to the tooth, both above (supragingival) and below (subgingival) the gum line. This plaque can become calcified in its depths, forming what is known as calculus. This plaque and associated calculus can create a pocket between the teeth and the gingiva which is characteristic of the disease. Presently, periodontal disease is diagnosed by clinical observation of indicators such as the presence and depth of pockets, loss of attachment of the teeth to the bone, and papillary bleeding of the gums. Clinical observations, however, are not always reliable indicators. For example, deep pockets are not necessarily infected by bacteria capable of causing inflammatory tissue destruction (periodonto- pathic bacteria). Unfortunately, there are currently no reliable, inexpensive, and objective means for determining whether or not the pocket is infected with periodontopathic bacteria. 

 The lack of a diagnostic test has been a serious problem, particularly in view of the severity of the corrective measures typically required to be taken to treat periodontal disease. Such measures can include, the excising of diseased gum tissue so as to expose and debride affected roots and to eliminate pockets. Recently, more conservative surgical treatment has been developed which typically involves detaching a flap of gum from the tooth, cleaning the freshly exposed tooth surface of all calculus and plaque, and then suturing the gingiva back together over the cleaned surface. Both surgical approaches work equally well as long as the patient continues to have professional maintenance
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method comprising the steps of:
(a) obtaining a sample of bacterial flora containing a multiplicity of microorganisms from the oral cavity of a mammal; (b) determining whether a number of microorganisms in said multiplicity of microorganisms exceeds a predetermined number; and
(c) measuring the proteolytic activity of said bacterial flora, in response to said step of determining, with a chromogenic test substance specific to a proteolytic enzyme produced by suspected periodontopatho- genie bacteria in said bacterial flora.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of determining comprises subjecting said sample of bacterial flora to a second chromogenic test substance hydrolyzable by enzymatic activity of microorganisms in said sample such that a chromophore will be released and observable provided that at least a predetermined number of said microorganisms are present in said sample.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein said predetermined number of microorganisms is on the order of about 1 ,000,000 to 10,000,000.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein said second chromogenic test substance is hydrolyzable by a phosphatase.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein said phosphatase is selected from the group consisting of alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase.
6. The method of claim 4 wherein said second test substance is selected from the group consisting of p-nitrophenol phosphate, o-nitro- phenol phosphate, and o-carboxyphenol phosphate.
7. The method of claim 2 wherein said second chromogenic test substance is hydrolyzable by a peptidase.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein said peptidase is an amino peptidase. 


 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said second test substance is selected form the group consisting of N-L-proline-β-naphthylamide, L- leucine-β-naphthylamide, and L-phenylalanine-β-naphthylamide.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein said chromogenic test substance is specific to trypsin-like activity of suspected periodontopatho¬ genic microorganisms in said sample such that a chromophore will be released and observable provided that said periodontopathogenic microor¬ ganisms are present in said sample.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein said chromogenic test substance comprises a peptide substrate combined with a chromophore.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein said peptide substrate combined with a chromophore is selected from the group consisting of BANA and BAPNA.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of measuring comprises the further step of adding a color developer.
14. The method of claim 11 wherein said peptide substrate combined with a chromophore is 2-arginine-7-amino-4-trifluoromethyl coumarin wherein a chromophore will be released and observable under UV light. 15. A method comprising the steps of: sampling a bacterial specimen suspected of containing periodonto¬ pathogenic bacteria from the oral cavity of a mammal; dispersing said sampled bacterial specimen in a liquid medium; adding to said liquid medium a chromophore-containing substrate susceptible to enzymatic degradation caused by periodontopathogenic bacteria; further adding to said liquid medium a second chromophore- containing substrate susceptible to enzymatic activity of microorganisms in said bacterial specimen such that a chromophore will be released and 



observable provided that at least a predetermined number of said microor¬ ganisms are present in said sampled bacterial specimen; observing said liquid medium whereby a color change is indicative of the presence of said predetermined number of microorganisms in said bacterial specimen; and in response to said observing, further observing said liquid medium for a color change which is indicative of the presence of said periodonto¬ pathogenic bacteria.
16. The method of claim 15 including the further step of incubating said liquid medium with said chromophore-containing substrate and said second chromophore-containing substrate for a time sufficient to permit enzymatic degradation of the respective substrates.
17. The method of claim 15 further including the step of adding a color developer to said liquid medium. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said color developer is added to said incubated liquid prior to said step of observing.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein said color developer is added to said incubated liquid prior to said step of further observing.
20. The method of claim 15 wherein said chromophore-containing substrate is specific to trypsin-like activity by periodontopathogenic bacteria in said bacterial specimen.
21. The method of claim 15 wherein . said second chromophore- containing substrate is specific to phosphatase activity, provided that the color produced by the release of a chromophore due to said phosphatase activity is not incompatible with the color produced in response to enzymatic activity of said periodontopathogenic bacteria.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein said liquid medium has a pH of between 5.0 and 8.5. 


 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said pH is between about 5.0 and 6.0 and said second chromophore-containing substrate is specific to acid phosphatase.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein said second chromophore- containing substrate is o-carboxyphenol phosphate.
25. The method of claim 22 wherein said pH is between about 6.0 and 8.5 and said second chromophore-containing substrate is specific to alkaline phosphatase.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein said second chromophore- containing substrate is selected from the group consisting of o-nitrophenol phosphate and p-nitrophenol phosphate.
27. The method of claim 15 wherein said second chromophore- containing substrate is specific to peptidase activity, provided that the color produced by the release of a chromophore due to said peptidase activity is not incompatible with the color produced in response to enzymatic activity of said periodontopathogenic bacteria.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein said second chromophore- containing substrate is selected from the group consisting of L-proline-β- naphthylamide,L-leucine-β-naphthylamide,andL-phenylalanine-β-naphthyl- amide.
29. A colorimetric assay kit comprising:
(I) a first chromogenic test substance specific to a proteolytic enzyme produced by suspected periodontopathogenic bacteria in bacterial flora from the oral cavity of a mammal; and (2) a second chromogenic test substance nonspecific to enzymes produced by said bacterial flora, said second chromogenic test substance being subject to enzymatic degradation in response to a quantity of microorganisms.
30. The colorimetric assay kit of claim 29 wherein said first chromogenic test substance is specific to trypsin-like enzymatic activity. 


 31. The colorimetric assay kit of claim 30 wherein said first chromogenic test substance is selected from the group consisting of BANA, BAPNA, and 2-arginine-7-amino-4-trifluoromethyl coumarin.
32. The colorimetric assay kit of claim 29 wherein said second chromogenic test substance is specific to the enzyme phosphatase.
33. The colorimetric assay kit of claim 32 wherein said second chromogenic test substance is selected form the group consisting of p- nitrophenol phosphate, o-nitrophenol phosphate, and o-carboxyl phosphate.
34. The colorimetric assay kit of claim 29 wherein said second chromogenic test substance is specific to the enzyme peptidase.
35. The colorimetric assay of claim 34 wherein said second chromogenic test substance is selected from the group consisting of L- proline-β-naphthylamide,L-leucine-β-naphthylamide,andL-phenylalanine-β- naphthylamide. 36. The colorimetric assay kit of claim 29 further comprising a color developer.
37. The colorimetric assay kit of claim 36 wherein said color developer is selected from the group consisting of fast garnet, fast blue, and an acidified solution of p-dimethylaminocinnamaldehyde. 38. A method of determining the proteolytic activity of a specimen of bacterial flora, the method comprising the step of determining whether a predetermined number of microorganisms is present in the specimen of bacterial flora to indicate reliability of said proteolytic activity measurement.
39. The method of claim 38 wherein said determining step comprises measuring nonspecific enzymatic activity by a second chromo¬ genic test substance to indicate the presence of at least said predetermined number of microorganisms.
40. The method of claim 39 wherein phosphatase activity is measured. 41. The method of claim 39 wherein peptidase activity is measured. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
