<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652787</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LOW PROFILE CATHETER WITH EXPANDABLE OUTER TUBULAR MEMBER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2902	A61M2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A dilatation catheter with a catheter shaft (10) having an outer tubular member (13) with an expandable distal section (17) which expands elastically upon the introduction of fluid under a pressure within a first pressure range to a larger diameter and which contracts by elastic recoil upon the withdrawal of the inflation fluid. The expandable distal section is relatively noncompliant at pressures above the first pressure range. Preferably, the dilatation catheter has an inflatable member or balloon (16) disposed distal to the expandable distal section which is formed of the same polymeric material as the expandable distal section and is in fluid communication with the expandable inner lumen within the expandable distal section.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNI KETAN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIRHAN MOTASIM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUNI, KETAN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SIRHAN, MOTASIM, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention generally relates to intraluminal
catheters, such as balloon dilatation catheters used in
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The
invention also relates to a method of forming an outer
tubular member for an intraluminal catheter.PTCA is a widely used procedure for the treatment of coronary heart
disease. In this procedure, a balloon dilatation catheter is advanced into the
patient's coronary artery and the balloon on the catheter is inflated within the
stenotic region of the patient's artery to open up the arterial passageway and
thereby increase the blood flow therethrough. To facilitate the advancement of
the dilatation catheter into the patient's coronary artery, a guiding catheter
having a preshaped distal tip is first percutaneously introduced into the
cardiovascular system of a patient by the Seldinger technique through the
brachial or femoral arteries. The catheter is advanced therein until the 
preshaped distal tip of the guiding catheter is disposed within the aorta adjacent
the ostium of the desired coronary artery. The guiding catheter is twisted or
torqued from the proximal end, which extends out of the patient, to guide the
distal tip of the guiding catheter into the ostium. A balloon dilatation catheter
may then be advanced through the guiding catheter into the patient's coronary
artery until the balloon on the catheter is disposed within the stenotic region
of the patient's artery. The balloon is inflated to open up the arterial
passageway and increase the flow of blood.One type of catheter frequently used in PTCA procedures is an over-the-wire
type balloon dilatation catheter. Commercially available over-the-wire
type dilatation catheters include the SIMPSON ULTRA LOW PROFILE™,
the HARTZLER ACX®, the HARTZLER ACX II®, the PINKERTON .018™ and
the ACS TEN™ balloon dilatation catheters sold by the assignee of the present
invention, Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. (ACS). When using an over-the-wire
dilatation catheter, a guidewire is usually inserted into an inner lumen
of the dilatation catheter before it is introduced into the patient's vascular
system and then both are introduced into and advanced through the guiding
catheter to its distal tip which is seated within the ostium of the desired
coronary artery. The guidewire is first advanced out the seated distal tip of the
guiding catheter into the desired coronary artery until the distal end of the
guidewire extends beyond the lesion to be dilatated. The dilatation catheter is
then advanced out of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An intraluminal catheter comprising:

an elongated catheter shaft (10) having proximal and
distal (17) portions, the shaft having an inner tubular

member (11) and an outer tubular member (13) which is
disposed about said inner tubular member (11) to define

therebetween an annular inner lumen (14) which extends
through the proximal portion of the catheter shaft wherein

the distal portion of the outer tubular member has a first
configuration in which it forms an inflation lumen (20),

and a second configuration in which it is collapsed about
the inner tubular member; and
an inflatable member (16) at a distal end of the
distal portion of the catheter shaft, wherein said

inflation lumen (20) is in fluid communication with the
interior of the inflatable member and the annular lumen

(14) 
characterized in that
:-

the distal portion of the outer tubular member (13)
expands substantially elastically from said second

configuration upon inflation to said first configuration in
a first pressure range, and expands very little in said

first configuration in a second pressure range higher than

the first pressure range.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 wherein the outer
tubular member (13) has the inner tubular member (11)

disposed within the distal expandable portion thereof which
together with the distal expandable portion defines the

expandable inflation lumen (20).
The intraluminal catheter of claim 2 wherein the
expandable inflation lumen (20) has an annular transverse

cross-section.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 2 wherein the inner
tubular member (11) and the expandable distal portion (17) 

of the outer tubular member are bonded along a length
thereof and the expandable inflation lumen defined

therebetween has a crescent-shaped transverse cross-section.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 2 wherein the inner
tubular member has a guidewire receiving inner lumen (12)

extending therein to a guidewire port in the distal end
thereof.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 including means
on the proximal end of the shaft to direct inflation fluid

at elevated pressure from a source through an inner lumen
(12) in the catheter shaft to expand the expandable distal

section (20) to facilitate the flow of inflation fluid to
the interior of the balloon.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 wherein the outer
diameter of the expandable distal section of the outer

tubular member upon inflation expands from 5 to 50% of the
deflated outer diameter.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 wherein the outer
diameter of the expandable distal section (17) of the outer

tubular member upon inflation expands from about 10 to
about 30% of the deflated outer diameter.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 wherein the
inflatable member (16) and the expandable distal section

(17) of the outer tubular member are formed in a one piece
construction from the same polymeric material.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 wherein the
inflatable member (16) is formed independently of the outer

tubular member and has a proximal end secured to a distal
portion of the expandable distal section (17) of the outer 

tubular member.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 wherein the
inflatable member (16) has a distal end secured to the

distal end of the inner tubular member (11) which extends
through the interior of the inflatable member.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 1 including a
guidewire port in the catheter shaft in fluid communication

with the inner lumen (12) of the inner tubular member which
is spaced proximately from the inflatable member and a

substantial distance from the proximal end of the catheter
shaft.
The intraluminal catheter of claim 4 wherein at least
one perfusion portion is provided through the bonded

portion of the inner tubular member (11) and the expandable
distal section which is in fluid communication with the

inner lumen within the inner tubular member.
A method of forming an outer tubular member (13) for
an intraluminal catheter in accordance with any preceding

claim, the outer tubular member (13) having an expandable
distal portion and an inflatable member (16) at a distal

end of the distal portion, the method comprising:

a) extruding through a die an elongated tubular member
(13) formed of a polymer material selected from the group

consisting of sodium, lithium and zinc ionomers and blends
thereof at elevated temperatures;
b) quenching the extruded tubular member as it exits from
the die;
c) irradiating first and second portions of the tubular
member which are to be formed into the expandable distal

portion and the inflatable member (16) respectively, to
cross-link the polymer material thereof; 
d) heat treating the first and second portions of the
tubular member at a temperature 75°C above or

75°C below the crystalline melting point of the polymer
material; and
e) expanding by inflation the first and second portions
and then cooling and heat shrinking the first and second

portions, the second portion being expanded to a larger
diameter than the first portion.
The method of claim 14, the first and second portions
are expanded at a temperature 50°C above or

50°C below the crystalline melting point of the polymer
material.
The method of claim 14 wherein the polymer material is
extruded at a temperature between 121°C (250°F) and

260°C (500°F).
The method of claim 14 wherein the extruded tubular
member (13) is quenched in an aqueous bath at a temperature

between 4°C (40°F) and 15°C (60°F).
The method of claim 17 wherein the quenched tubular
member (13) is stabilized at a temperature between

50°C and 70°C.
The method of claim 17 wherein the portions of the
tubular member which are to be formed into the inflatable

member (16) and the expandable distal portion (17) are
irradiated with 50 to 70 Mrad of electron beam

radiation. 
The method of claim 19 wherein the irradiated tubular
member is heat treated at a temperature of 110°C

(230°F) to 121°C (250°F).
The method of claim 20 wherein the first portion of
the heat treated tubular member which is to be formed into

the expandable distal portion (17) is expanded by inflation
fluid at a pressure between 3.45 x 10
5
-5.86x
5
pa (50
and 85 psi) while the tubular member is maintained at the

heat treatment temperature.
the method of claim 21 wherein the expanded tubular
member is heat shrunk by heating to a temperature of

45°C to 80°C for 5 to 60 minutes.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
