<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636427</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Control system for rotary bottle washing machines.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B08B920	B08B932	B08B934	B08B942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B08B	B08B	B08B	B08B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B08B9	B08B9	B08B9	B08B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A control system for a high-speed rotary washer spraying system designed particularly 
for plastic returnable bottles (11) automatically regulates each process of the wash 

spraying system, namely sequentially feeding bottles from an infeed conveyor means 
(12), inverting them by a worm/inverter means (14), receiving and simultaneously 

rotating each bottle (11) in an inverted position through a plurality of washing, 
neutralizing and sanitizing treatment zones, and inverting each bottle to its original 

neck-up orientation for further processing. During the entire process, a programmable 
logic controller maintains, manages, and controls all pumps, valves, solenoids, and 

drive motor speeds as required by the process, and also provides for monitoring and 
adjusting fluid levels, alkalinity/acidity concentrations, and temperatures of the wash 

and neutralizing solutions. Alarm conditions that may present themselves during the 
washing, neutralizing, and sanitizing processes are flagged for human intervention, 

interaction, or acknowledgement. Such alarm conditions are out of range: fluid-flow, 
temperature, pressure, conductivity and/or pH, fluid levels, and carousel and bottle 

RPM. The control system also includes specialized checks for clogged spray nozzles, 
and out of position fluid lances. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PEPSICO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PEPSICO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERNANDEZ ANTONIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUTA KEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FERNANDEZ, ANTONIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUTA, KEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention generally relates to 
automatic rotary washer spraying systems and 
particularly, to a control system for a high-speed 
rotary plastic returnable bottle (PRB) washing and 
sanitizing system. Existing machines for washing plastic 
returnable bottle (PRB) include one or more pre-treatment 
steps before carrying out an internal and/or 
external spray treatment. These pre-treatment steps 
usually include soaking each bottle in a water pre-softening 
bath or caustic solution pre-softening bath. 
The goal of pretreating each bottle is to remove coarse 
soils and residues from the beverages or products. 
Often these pre-softening steps are time-consuming and 
reduce the throughput desirable in high-output automatic 
PRB washing machines. Moreover, problems such as 
scuffing may occur as bottles in the bath brush up 
against each other or against the holders or cages in 
which they are transported. In addition, the pre-softening 
treatment with high-temperature baths may 
cause premature shrinkage of the PRB, or induce stress 
crack failure in non-oriented portions of the bottle. 
After pretreating, the PRB's are usually conveyed to an 
in-line or rotary carrier where they are held in place 
and subject to additional various external and internal 
spraying by additional detergents, air, and water. Moreover, existing machines do not provide for 
the automatic control of the speed of conveyance of the 
bottles, the pH of the solutions, nor the temperatures  
 
and pressures of the wash solutions. Without adequate 
controls, insufficient washing and an increased 
likelihood of bottle rejection at the outfeed or 
discharge position of the machine will result. Accordingly, it is a primary object of the 
present invention to provide a control system for a 
high-speed endless loop or in-line washer spraying 
system, and more particularly to a control system for a 
high-speed washer spraying system designed particularly 
for plastic returnable bottles. The control system 
automatically regulates each process of the wash 
spraying system, namely, sequentially feeding bottles 
from an infeed conveyor means, inverting them by a 
worm/inverter means, receiving and simultaneously 
rotating each bottle in an inverted position through a 
plurality of washing, neutralizing and sanitizing 
treatment zones, and inverting each bottle to the 
original neck-up orientation by an egress worm/inverter 
means and finally conveying them as a cleaned and 
sanitized bottle to another area for product refilling. 
The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A high-speed system for washing bottles comprising: 

(a) carrier means (10) for sequentially receiving and rotating a plurality of 
bottles (11) in an inverted position; 
(b) a plurality of means (17) for inserting one of a plurality of spray nozzles (23) 
into each inverted rotating bottle (11), each of said spray nozzles (23) directing jets of 

at least a first fluid and second fluid against an internal bottom portion and inner wall 
portion of said bottle (11) for cleansing thereof; 
(c) control means for enabling sequential discharge of at least said first fluid and 
said second fluid from each of said nozzles (23) for respective first and second 

predetermined periods of time and at predetermined pressures, wherein said first fluid is 
a high temperature caustic wash solution which simultaneously chemically and 

physically removes soils from each of said bottles; and 
(d) means for purging said bottle of said high temperature caustic wash solution 
with said second fluid. 
The system according to Claim 1 wherein said control means is a 
programmable logic controller (PLC). 
The system according to Claim 1 or 2 further including a flow sensor (46) for 
sensing a flow rate of said first fluid supplied to said plurality of spray nozzles (23). 
The system according to any of Claims 1-3 further including means for 
comparing said flow rate of said first fluid with a predetermined flow rate to determine 

if one or more of said plurality of spray nozzles (23) are clogged. 
The system according to any of Claims 1-4 further including means for 
tracking each discrete spray nozzle throughout its travel on said carrier (10, 20). 
The system according to any of Claims 1-5 wherein said control means 
furhter includes means for generating a flag associated with a discrete spray nozzles 

when said flow rate varies from said predetermined flow rate, said means including 
memory means for assigning said flag to a discrete nozzle position when said flow rate 

varies. 
The system according to any of Claims 1-6 wherein said control means 
further includes means (21) for rejecting a bottle (11) treated by said flagged discrete 

spray nozzle. 
The system according to any of Claims 1-7 wherein said predetermined flow 
rate ranges from 0.5 Kg/cm² to 1.5 Kg/cm². 
The system according to any of Claims 1-8 wherein said high temperature 
caustic wash solution is a 3% NaOH solution having a pH ranging from 12.0 to 13.0. 
The system according to any of Claims 1-9 wherein said 3% NaOH solution 
further includes wetting and suspension compounds. 
The system according to any of Claims 1-10 further including means for 
self-cleaning said high speed system, said self cleaning means including means for 

supplying an acidic solution to said spray nozzles. 
The system according to any of Claims 1-11 wherein said second fluid is air. 
The system according to any of Claims 1-12 wherein said first 
predetermined period of time ranges from 10 to 30 seconds and said second 

predetermined period of time ranges from 1 to 5 seconds. 
A high-speed system for washing bottles comprising: 

(a) a plurality of carrier means (10, 20) for sequentially receiving and rotating 
bottles (11) in an inverted position; 
(b) a plurality of means (17) for inserting one of a plurality of spray nozzles (23) 
into each inverted rotating bottle (11), each of said spray nozzles (23) directing jets of 

at least a first fluid, second fluid and third fluid against an internal bottom portion and 
inner wall portion of said bottle (11) for cleansing thereof; 
(c) control means for enabling sequential discharge of at least said first fluid, 
said second fluid and said third fluid from each of said nozzles (23) for respective first, 

second and third predetermined periods of time and at predetermined pressures, wherein 
said first fluid is a high temperature caustic wash solution for chemically dissolving and 

physically removing soils from said internal bottom portion; 
(d) means for purging said bottle (11) of said high temperature caustic wash 
solution with said second fluid; and 
(e) means for neutralizing said bottle (11) with said third fluid after purging said 
bottle (11) of said high temperature caustic wash solution. 
The system according to Claim 14 further including a flow sensor (57) for 
sensing a flow rate of said third fluid supplied to said spray nozzles. 
The system according to Claim 14 or 15 further including means for 
comparing said flow rate of said third fluid with a predetermined flow rate to determine 

a clogged spray nozzle condition and means for tracking each discrete spray nozzle 
throughout its travel on said carrier (10). 
The system according to any of Claims 14-16 wherein said control means 
further includes means for generating a flag associated with a discrete spray nozzle 

when said flow rate varies from said predetermined flow rate, said means including 
memory means for assigning said flag to a discrete nozzle position when said flow rate 

varies. 
The system according to any of Claims 14-17 wherein said control means 
further includes means (21) for rejecting a bottle (11) treated by said flagged discrete 

spray nozzle. 
The system according to any of Claims 14-18 wherein said predetermined 
flow rate ranges from 0.5 Kg/cm² to 1.5 Kg/cm². 
The system according to any of Claims 14-19 wherein said third fluid is an 
acidic solution having a pH ranging from 2.0 to 4.0. 
The system according to any of Claims 14-20 further including means for 
maintaining the pressure of said acidic solution between 0.0 Kg/cm² and 4.5 Kg/cm². 
An automatic high-speed system for washing bottles comprising: 

(a) an endless loop bottle carrier (10) with a plurality of moving bottle receiving 
stations (9) mounted thereon for receiving and rotating bottles (11) in an inverted 

position, said carrier (10) having a discharge position for discharging bottles (11) held 
thereby; 
(b) a plurality of means (17) for inserting a spray nozzle (23) into each inverted 
rotating bottle (11), each of said spray nozzles (23) directing jets of at least a first fluid 

and second fluid against an internal bottom portion and inner wall portion of said bottle 
(11) for cleansing thereof; 
(c) control means for enabling sequential discharge of at least said first fluid and 
said second fluid from each of said nozzles (23) for respective first and second 

predetermined periods of time and at predetermined pressures, wherein said first fluid is 

a high temperature caustic wash solution which simultaneously chemically and 
physically removes soils from said internal bottom portion; and 
(d) means for purging said bottle (11) of said high temperature caustic wash 
solution with said second fluid. 
The system according to Claim 22 wherein said endless loop carrier (10) 
comprises at least one rotating carousel (10) containing said bottle stations (9). 
The system according to Claim 22 or 23 wherein said control means 
regulates the rotational speed of said rotating carousel (10). 
The system according to any of Claims 22-24 further including strobe means 
for sequentially assigning a position to each of said moving bottle receiving stations (9), 

each position having associated therewith a plurality of attribute registers corresponding 
to the operational state of said bottle receiving station (9). 
The system according to any of Claims 22-25 further including means for 
identifying said position of each bottle receiving station (9) throughout its travel on said 

carrier (10). 
The system according to any of Claims 22-26 further including means for 
assigning data to one or more of said plurality of attribute registers associated with an 

identified bottle receiving station (9) said data representing the current operational state 
of said bottle receiving station (9). 
The system according to any of Claims 22-28 further including means for 
comparing data contained in the attribute registers associated with a bottle receiving 

station (9) located at said discharge position with predetermined attribute data indicating 
a defective bottle receiving station (9), said comparing means including means for 

 
flagging said bottle when the data present in one attribute register equals said 

predetermined attribute data. 
An automatic high-speed system for washing bottles comprising: 

(a) an endless loop bottle carrier (10) with a plurality of moving bottle receiving 
stations (9) mounted thereon, each of said bottle receiving stations (9) having a first 

means (15) for holding and rotating bottles received thereby; 
(b) mechanical drive means for rotating said bottles (11) and said first means; 
(c) means (17) for inserting a spray nozzle (23) into each inverted rotating 
bottle, each of said spray nozzles (23) directing jets of at least a first fluid and second 

fluid against an internal bottom portion and inner wall portion of said bottle (11) for 
cleansing thereof; 
(d) programmable logic control means (PLC) for controlling the speed of said 
mechanical drive means and for enabling sequential discharge of at least said first and 

second fluid from each of said nozzles (23) for a respective first and second 
predetermined period of time, wherein said first fluid is a high temperature caustic wash 

solution which simultaneously physically and chemically removes soils from said bottle 
(11), and 
(e) means for purging said bottle (11) of said high temperature caustic wash 
solution with said second fluid. 
The system according to Claim 29 wherein said programmable logic 
controller (PLC) includes means for inputting predetermined setpoint values 

corresponding to a desired temperature and pH concentration of said first fluid and 
means for inputting predetermined setpoint values corresponding to a desired rotational 

speed of said first means for holding and rotating said bottles (11). 
The system according to Claims 29 or 30 wherein said programmable logic 
control means (PLC) includes means for comparing a current measured pH 

concentration value of said first fluid with a predetermined pH concentration value, said 
comparing means including means for adjusting the pH concentration of said first fluid 

when said current pH concentration value varies from said predetermined pH 
concentration temperature value and for generating an alarm signal for indication 

thereof. 
The system according to any of Claims 29-31 further including strobe means 
for sequentially assigning a position number to each of said moving bottle receiving 

 
stations (9), each position number having associated therewith a plurality of attribute 

registers corresponding to the operational state of said bottle receiving station (9). 
The system according to any of Claims 29-32 further including means for 
identifying said position number of each bottle receiving station (9) throughout its 

traversal about said carrier (10) and means for assigning data to one or more of said 
plurality of attribute registers associated with an identified bottle receiving station (9), 

said data representing the current operational state of said bottle receiving station (9). 
The system according to any of Claims 29-33 further including means for 
comparing data contained in the attribute registers associated with a bottle receiving 

station (9) located at said discharge position with predetermined attribute data indicating 
a defective bottle receiving station (9), said comparing means including means for 

flagging said bottle when the data present in one attribute register equals said 
predetermined attribute data. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
