<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655947</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DYNAMICAL DESTABILIZATION OF SYSTEMS CHARACTERIZED BY KINETICALLY COUPLED COMPONENTS USING A DIFFERENTIAL FLOW.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J800	B01J800	B01J1900	B01J1900	B01J1908	B01J1908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	B01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J8	B01J8	B01J19	B01J19	B01J19	B01J19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of destabilizing the homogeneous steady state of a dynamical system with two or more dynamically coupled variables through the action of a differential bulk flow of the key species, termed Differential Flow Induced Instability (DIFII), is disclosed. The DIFII is also applicable to systems with time periodic (limit cycle) and aperiodic (chaotic) states. Turing predicted that in systems characterized by activator/inhibitor kinetics a homogeneous, stable steady state of the reactive system may lose its stability and form inhomogeneous patterns due to the interaction of diffusion and reaction when the diffusion coefficient of the inhibitor is sufficiently greater than that of the activator. This mechanism is believed to form the basis of biological morphogenesis. The method of the present invention avoids this constraint on the diffusivities in the dynamically coupled two component system by using a differential bulk flow between the activator and the inhibitor species rather than a differential diffusivity. In systems with three (or more) dynamically coupled components the requirement of the presence of an activator species (or subsystem) is relaxed and if there is no activator species (or subsystem) present, the system may be destabilized by a differential flow of its components, in contrast to systems of two dynamical variables. Technological advantages such as reaction yield enhancement are shown. The method disclosed herein is shown to be applicable to a wide range of systems including chemical, biological and physical.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MENZINGER MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROVINSKY ARKADY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MENZINGER, MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROVINSKY, ARKADY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENZINGER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROVINSKY ARKADY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MENZINGER, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROVINSKY, ARKADY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DYNAMICAL DESTABILIZATION OF SYSTEMS CHARACTERIZED BY KINETICALLY COUPLED COMPONENTS USING A DIFFERENTIAL FLOWFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a method of destabilizing the homogeneous steady state, or periodic or aperiodic states of spatially extended dynamical systems characterized by kinetically or dynamically coupled components through the action of a differential bulk flow of the key components. •BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONTuring predicted that a homogeneous and otherwise stable steady state of a reactive, kinetic system comprising an activator and inhibitor species may lose its stability and form inhorrn^eneous patterns due to the interaction of diffusion and reaci.on1. This prediction has been recently verified experimentally by Castets et al. wherein pattern formation was observed in the chlorite/iodide/malonic acid system2. These results support Turing's prediction that a homogeneous and otherwise stable reactive system may lose its stability (Turing instability) and form inhomogeneous patterns due to the interaction of diffusion and reaction.This mechanism is believed to be fundamental to morphogenesis in biological systems3. Specifically, the Turing instability can occur in an autocatalytlc chemical or biochemical system comprising an activator species A which stimulates its own production and the production of its antagonist, an inhibitor I, if the diffusion coefficient of the inhibitor I is sufficiently greater than that of the activator A3. When such a system is maintained in a homogeneous condition 

such as by stirring or other agitation means, it settles into a steady state through the balance of activation and inhibition. However, when a local concentration fluctuation arises in a non- agitated system, diffusion comes into play in addition to chemical relaxation. Diffusion acts to remove or replenish species that are locally in excess or depleted, respectively, as the case may be. When this process proceeds at different rates for the two species, proportional to their diffusivities, the balance between the activator and inhibitor, that existed in the perfectly stirred system, may be broken in such a way as to permit the activator concentration to grow locally3. Therefore, the primary role of diffusion in the instability is to spatially disengage the counteracting species.The physical constraints under which the Turing instability is achieved are quite severe and can occur in an activator/inhibitor system only if the diffusion coefficient of the inhibitor is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
THEREFORE WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of destabilizing a spatially extended dynamic system having at least two variables which are dynamically coupled, the method comprising: producing a differential flow in the spatially extended dynamic system between at least one of said at least two variables and at least one of the remaining at least two variables, the differential flow being greater than a threshold flow.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the spatially extended dynamic system is selected from the group consisting of stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic biological systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic chemical systems, stable steady state and periodic and_ aperiodic biochemical_ systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic electrochemical systems and stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic physical systems.
3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said at least two variables is two variables with one of said two variables being an activator variable and the other of said two variables is an inhibitor variable.
4. A method according to claim 3 in which the system is an exothermic reaction system, wherein said activator variable comprises heat flow generated by the exothermic reaction system and the inhibitor variable comprises mass flow of reactants and reaction products, and whereby the differential flow causing the destabilization is induced by selective retardation of the heat flow relative to a mass flow through the spatially extended system.
5. A method according to claim 4 wherein said mass flow is 


in a longitudinal direction through a reactor vessel which is packed with a porous packing medium which can absorb heat released by said reaction thereby retarding the flow of said heat relative to said longitudinal mass flow.
6. A method according to claim 5 including injecting the reactant through said reactor vessel along the length thereof in cross-flow relation to the longitudinal mass flow.
7. A method according to claim 6 wherein the porous packing medium exhibits catalytic activity.
8. A method according to claim 3 wherein said spatially extended system comprises an open support structure through which a fluid can flow, wherein the differential flow is achieved by partially immobilizing one of said activator and inhibitor variables in said open support structure and moving the other variable through said open support structure relative to said immobilized variable.
9. A method according to claim 3 wherein said spatially extended system comprises an open support structure through which a fluid can flow, wherein the differential flow is achieved by immobilizing one of said activator and inhibitor variables in said open support structure and moving the other variable through said open support structure relative to said immobilized variable.
10. A method according to claim 3 wherein said physical system is a semiconducting system, including means for inducing a differential flow between said activator and inhibitor variables.
11. A method according to claim 10 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is an electric field. 


12. A method according to claim 10 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is a magnetic field.
13. A method according to claim 10 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is a temperature gradient.
14. A method according to claim 3 wherein said physical system is a superconducting system, including means for inducing a differential flow between said activator and inhibitor variables.
15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is an electric field.
16. A method according to claim 14 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is a magnetic field.
17. A method according to claim 14 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is a temperature gradient.
18. A method of increasing reaction yields in a spatially extended dynamic system comprising dynamically coupled activator and inhibitor variables, the method including destabilizing the spatially extended dynamic system by inducing a differential flow between the activator and inhibitor variables, the differential flow being greater than a threshold flow.
19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the spatially extended dynamic system is selected from the group consisting of stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic biological systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic chemical systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic biochemical systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic electrochemical systems. 


20. A method of preferentially selecting a reaction channel in a reactive system having at least two variables and at least two competing reaction channels, wherein the competing reaction channels can be dynamically destabilized to varying degrees by inducing a differential flow between the at least two variables of the reactive system, the method including inducing a differential flow between the at least two variables of the system in such a way that one reaction channel is destabilized to a greater extent than the other reaction channels thereby increasing the yield and selectivity of said one reaction channel.
21. An apparatus for measuring fluid flow in a spatially extended system, comprising; a) means for injecting into said spatially extended system a dynamically coupled activator/ inhibitor system; b) means for producing a differential flow between the activation and inhibition species, said differential flow being greater than a predeterminable threshold flow to destabilize the dynamically coupled activator and inhibitor species; and c) means for detecting and characterizing said spatiotemporal structures to determine the fluid flow.
22. An apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said dynamically coupled activator/inhibitor system comprises a homogeneous stable steady state.
23. An apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said dynamically coupled activator/inhibitor system comprises time periodic states.
24. A method according to claim 2 in which said at least two variables is greater than or equal to three variables. 


25. A method according to claim 24 wherein at least one of said greater than or equal to three variables is an activator variable and whereby the differential flow is induced between said activator variable and at least one of the other variables.
26. A method according to claim 25 in which the chemical system is an exothermic reaction system, wherein said activator variable comprises heat flow generated by the exothermic reaction system, and whereby the differential flow causing the destabilization is induced by selective retardation of the heat flow relative to a mass flow through the spatially extended system.
27. A method according to claim 26 wherein said mass flow is in a longitudinal direction through a chemical reactor vessel which is packed with a porous packing medium which can absorb heat released by said reaction thereby retarding the flow of said heat relative to said longitudinal mass flow.
28. A method according to claim 27 including injecting the chemical reactant through said chemical reactor vessel along the length thereof in cross-flow relation to the longitudinal mass flow.
29. A method according to claim 28 wherein the porous packing medium exhibits catalytic activity.
30. A method according to claim 25 wherein said spatially extended system comprises an open support structure through which a fluid can flow, wherein the differential flow is achieved by partially immobilizing one of said activator and the at least one of the other variables in said open support structure and moving the other variable through said open support structure relative to said immobilized variable. 


31. A method according to claim 25 wherein said spatially extended system comprises an open support structure through which a fluid can flow, wherein the differential flow is achieved by immobilizing one of said activator and the at least one other variable in said open support structure and moving the other variable through said open support structure relative to said immobilized variable.
32. A method according to claim 25 wherein said physical system is a semiconducting system, including means for inducing a differential flow between said activator and the at least one of the other variables.
33. A method according to claim 32 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is an electric field.
34. A method according to claim 32 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is a magnetic field.
35. A method according to claim 32 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is a temperature gradient.
36. A method according to claim 25 wherein said physical system is a superconducting system, including means for inducing a differential flow between said activator and the at least one of the other variables.
37. A method according to claim 35 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is an electric field.
38. A method according to claim 35 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is a magnetic field.
39. A method according to claim 35 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is a temperature gradient. 


40. A method according to claim 24 in which the chemical system is an exothermic reaction system, wherein one of said variables comprises heat flow generated by the exothermic reaction system and another of said variables is a mass flow through the spatially extended system, and whereby the differential flow causing the destabilization is induced by selective retardation of the heat flow relative to the mass flow through the spatially extended system.
41. A method according to claim 39 wherein said mass flow is in a longitudinal direction through a chemical reactor vessel which is packed with a porous packing medium which can absorb heat released by said reaction thereby retarding the flow of said heat relative to said longitudinal mass flow.
42. A method according to claim 40 including injecting the chemical reactant through said chemical reactor vessel along the length thereof in cross-flow relation to the longitudinal mass flow.
43. A method according to claim 41 wherein the porous packing medium exhibits catalytic activity.
44. A method according to claim 24 wherein said spatially extended system comprises an open support structure through which a fluid can flow, wherein the differential flow is achieved by partially immobilizing at least one of said variables and moving at least one of the other variables through said open support structure relative to said immobilized variable.
45. A method according to claim 24 wherein said spatially extended system comprises an open support structure through which a fluid can flow, wherein the differential flow is achieved by immobilizing one of said variables in said open 


support structure and moving at least one of the other variables through said open support structure relative to said immobilized variable.
46. A method according to claim 24 wherein said physical system is a semiconducting system, including means for inducing a differential flow between at least one of the variables and at least one of the remaining variables.
47. A method according to claim 45 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is an electric field.
48. A method according to claim 45 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is a magnetic field.
49. A method according to claim 45 wherein said means for inducing the differential flow is a temperature gradient.
50. A method according to claim 24 wherein said physical system is a superconducting system, including means for inducing a differential flow between said at least one of the variables and at least one of the remaining variables.
51. A method according to claim 49 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is an electric field.
52. A method according to claim 49 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is a magnetic field.
53. A method according to claim 49 wherein said means for inducing a differential flow is a temperature gradient.
54. A method of increasing reaction yields in a spatially extended dynamic system comprising at least two dynamically coupled variables, the method including destabilizing the 


spatially extended dynamic system by inducing a differential flow between at least one of said at least two dynamically coupled variables and at least one of the remaining variables, the differential flow being greater than a threshold flow.
55. A method according to claim 53 wherein the spatially extended dynamic system is selected from the group consisting of stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic biological systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic chemical systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic biochemical systems, stable steady state and periodic and aperiodic electrochemical systems.
56. A method of transducing an analog signal to a digital signal comprising destabilizing a spatially extended, dynamic, periodic, oscillating system having at least two dynamically coupled variables, wherein the oscillations of said system correspond to discrete events and wherein the periodic, oscillating system is destabilized by inducing a differential flow between at least one of said at least two dynamically coupled variables and at least one other of said at least two dynamically coupled variables such that the destabilized system is characterized by an increased frequency of oscillation proportional to the differential flow, wherein said differential flow corresponds to said analog signal and said digital signal corresponds to said increased frequency of oscillation.
57. A method of transducing a digital signal to an analog signal comprising destabilizing a spatially extended, dynamic, periodic, oscillating system having at least two dynamically coupled variables, wherein the oscillations of the system correspond to discrete events and wherein the periodic, oscillating system is destabilized by inducing a differential flow between at least one of said at least two dynamically coupled variables and at least one other of said at least two 


dynamically coupled variables such that the destabilized system is characterized by an increased frequency of oscillation proportional to the differential flow, wherein said differential flow corresponds to said analog signal and said digital signal corresponds to said increased frequency of oscillation.
58. A method of transducing an analog signal to a digital signal according to claim 55 wherein said differential flow is induced by an electric voltage applied across the spatially extended system.
59. A method of transducing an analog signal to a digital signal according to claim 55 wherein said differential flow is an electric current flowing across the spatially extended system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
