<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651277</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Optical modulators as monolithically integrated optical isolators.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F101	G02F101	G02F1025	H01L2715	H01L2715	H01S300	H01S300	H01S500	H01S5026	H01S50625	H01S550	H04B1004	H04B1004	H04B1006	H04B1006	H04B10142	H04B10142	H04B10152	H04B10152	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G02F	H01L	H01L	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H01S	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G02F1	H01L27	H01L27	H01S3	H01S3	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H01S5	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and technique for providing isolation 
for a signal source utilizing two or more modulators is 

described. In particular, the apparatus generates a timed 
sequence of "open gates" that are synchronized to the data 

signal which permit transmission in a forward direction, 
and which attenuate a reverse direction signal. Another 

embodiment attenuates primarily reflected light signals by 
utilizing
 a passive waveguide and a modulator. The 
passive waveguide provides a propagation delay such that 

signals reflected from its end facet are attenuated by the 
modulator. The apparatus is suitable for use as an 

isolator for a light source in a high-speed optical fiber 
data transmission system. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH THOMAS L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOYAMA FUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIOU KANG-YIH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOCH, THOMAS L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOYAMA, FUMIO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIOU, KANG-YIH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to a method and 
apparatus for use in high-speed optical fiber data 
transmission systems. More particularly, the present 
invention relates to a configuration of modulators for 
providing a timed sequence of optical gates that allow 
data pulse transmission in a forward direction and 
attenuate all signals travelling in the reverse direction. 
The device can therefore function as an optical isolator, 
and is suitable for monolithic integration with other 
semiconductor components in an optical data transmission 
system. When several optical components are connected in 
tandem, an optical isolator is usually required to 
suppress instability of the optical source. Such 
instability may be caused by light reflected back into the 
optical source by a neighboring component, or by light 
originating from a different source that impinges on the 
optical source. Prior art optical isolators typically rely on the 
non-reciprocal nature of magnetic media to achieve 
isolation. These current devices rely on a polarization 
rotation or non-reciprocal beam deflection, and with time 
invariant systems this non-reciprocal behavior is required 
by definition. Other approaches, such as using a linear 
polarizer in conjunction with polarization components that 
function as quarter-wave plates, require that the 
reflection being isolated against is a non-polarization-changing 
reflection. Therefore, if the reflected signal 
is in an arbitrary polarization state, the reciprocal  
 
isolation means discussed above are inadequate. Further, 
interfering light from a different source may have an 
arbitrary polarization state. Thus, any time-invariant 
reciprocal means cannot in general provide isolation. It is known that directly modulated semiconductor 
laser sources suffer from frequency chirp problems due to 
the inherent fluctuations of the complex index of 
refraction that are used to induce the modulation. 
Semiconductor electroabsorption modulators using bulk or 
quantum well structures have been developed to mitigate 
such frequency chirp problems, and monolithically 
integrated devices comprising electroabsorption modulators 
and distributed feedback lasers (DFB lasers) or 
distributed Bragg reflector lasers (DBR lasers) have been 
demonstrated. See, for example, Y. Noda et al., "High-Speed 
Electroabsorption Modulator with Strip-Loaded 
GaInAsP Planar Waveguide", IEEE J. Lightwave Tech., Vol. 
LT-4, pages 1445-53 (1986), and M. Suzuki et al., 
"Monolithic Integration of InGaAs/InP
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for providing isolation for a signal 
source, comprising: 

   a first modulator driven to be synchronous with a 
transmitted data stream from the signal source; and 

   a second modulator driven to be synchronous with the 
transmitted data stream, wherein the second modulator is 

sequentially arranged and spaced a distance apart from the first 
modulator to provide a phase delay between them, and wherein the 

modulators generate a timed sequence of open gates which permit 
transmission of a data signal in a forward direction and 

attenuate a reverse direction signal. 
An apparatus for the transmission of data, comprising: 
   an unmodulated signal source; 

   a first modulator connected to the source for encoding 
the source signal to generate an RZ modulated data signal; and 

   a second modulator sequentially connected to, and 
spaced apart from, the first modulator to provide a phase delay 

between them, wherein the modulators generate a timed sequence of 
open gates which permit data transmission in a forward direction, 

and attenuate a reverse direction signal. 
The apparatus of claims 1 or 2, further comprising: 
   a plurality of modulators driven to be synchronous with 

the transmitted data stream arranged sequentially with the first 
and second modulators. 
The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the plurality of 
modulators are spaced apart from one another such that a reverse 

direction signal is attenuated by two or more modulators. 
A monolithically integrated apparatus for the 
transmission of data, comprising: 

   a source means for transmitting an RZ modulated signal; 
   a first modulator means connected to the source means, 

driven to be synchronous with the RZ signal; and 
   a second modulator means sequentially connected to the 

first modulator means, driven to be synchronous with the RZ 
signal, wherein the second modulator means is spaced apart from 

the first modulator means to provide a phase delay between them 
such that the first and second modulator means generate a timed 

sequence of open gates which permit data transmission in a 
forward direction, and attenuate a reverse direction signal. 
A monolithically integrated apparatus for the 
transmission of data, comprising: 

   an unmodulated source means for providing a light 
signal;

 
   a first modulator means connected to the source means 

driven to encode the light signal to generate an RZ modulated 
data signal; and 

   a second modulator means sequentially connected to the 
first modulator means, driven to be synchronous with the RZ data 

signal, wherein the second modulator means is spaced apart from 
the first modulator means to provide a phase delay between them 

such that the first and second modulator means generate a timed 
sequence of open gates that permit data transmission in a forward 

direction and attenuate a reverse direction signal. 
The apparatus of claims 5 or 6, further comprising: 
   a plurality of modulator means connected to the second 

modulator means, driven to be synchronous with the RZ signal, and 
spaced apart to generate a timed sequence of open gates. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein at least two modulator 
means attenuate a reverse direction signal. 
An apparatus for providing isolation for a signal 
source, comprising: 

   a modulator means; and 
   a passive waveguide connected to the modulator means, 

wherein the length of the passive waveguide is chosen such that a 
reflected signal from an end facet is delayed and then attenuated 

by the modulator means. 
A monolithically integrated apparatus for fiber optic 
transmission of data, comprising: 

   an RZ modulated source means; 
   a modulator means connected to the source means; and 

   a passive waveguide connected to the modulator means, 
wherein the length of the passive waveguide is chosen so that 

light reflected from an end facet is delayed and then attenuated 
by the modulator means to substantially reduce frequency chirp. 
The apparatus of claims 9 or 10, wherein the passive 
waveguide provides a delay of approximately one-half a modulation 

bit period. 
The apparatus of claims 9 or 10, wherein the passive 
waveguide provides a delay equal to an odd-number multiple of 

one-half a modulation bit period. 
The apparatus of claims 7, 9 or 10, wherein the 
modulator means are electroabsorption modulators. 
The apparatus of claims 1, 2, 5, 6, 9 or 10, wherein 
the source means is a DFB laser. 
The apparatus of claims 1, 2, 5, 6, 9 or 10, wherein 
the sourc
e means is a DBR laser. 
A method for providing isolation for a signal source, 
comprising: 

   connecting a first and a second modulator to the signal 
source; 

   sequentially spacing the second modulator at a distance 
from the first modulator to provide a predetermined time delay; 

   driving the first modulator to be synchronous with a 
transmitted data signal from the signal source to produce a first 

sequence of open gates; 
   driving the second modulator to be synchronous with the 

transmitted data signal to produce a second sequence of open 
gates, wherein the second sequence of open gates is delayed in 

time from the first sequence of open gates; 
   transmitting data signals in a forward direction 

through the open gates of the first and second modulators; and 
   attenuating a reverse direction signal. 
The method of claim 16, further comprising: 
   connecting a plurality of sequentially arranged 

modulators to the second modulator; 
   driving the plurality of modulators to be synchronous 

with the transmitted data signal from the signal source, wherein 
each modulator produces a sequence of open gates; and 

   transmitting data signals through the open gates of the 
plurality of modulators. 
A method for providing isolation for a device 
containing a signal source and a plurality of sequentially 

arranged modulators, comprising: 
   generating a signal with the signal source; 

   driving a first modulator of the plurality of 
modulators to encode the signal to produce an encoded data 

signal; 
   driving each of the other modulators to generate a 

timed sequence of open gates that are synchronous with the 
encoded data signal; and 

   arranging the modulators to have a spatial separation 
to realize a sequence of timed open gates having a phase delay 

between them, wherein transmission of the encoded data signal is 
permitted in a forward direction and a reverse direction signal 

is attenuated. 
The method of claims 16, 17 or 18, wherein the time 
delay between each of the plurality of modulators is of a 

duration greater than or equal to one-half of the duration of an 
open gate, and is less than or equal to one-half of the period 

consisting of the encoded data signal duration minus the open 
gate duration. 
The method of claim 18, wherein the device is 
monolithically integrated, and wherein the generated signal is RZ 

modulated. 
A method for providing isolation for an optical signal 
source, comprising: 

   synchronizing a modulator to a transmitted data signal 
of the optical source; 

   delaying light reflected from an end facet with a 
passive waveguide which is connected to the modulator; and 

   attenuating the reflected light with the modulator. 
A method for substantially reducing chirp in a 
monolithically integrated device, comprising the steps of: 

   transmitting an RZ modulated data signal with a light 
source; 

   delaying light reflected by an end facet with a passive 
waveguide; and 

   attenuating the reflected light with a modulator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
