<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625906</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITIONS FOR THE TREATMENT OF PYLORI AND DERMATITIS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F1315	A61F1315	A61K914	A61K914	A61K31185	A61K3119	A61K31715	A61K31715	A61K3300	A61K3300	A61K3306	A61K3306	A61K3314	A61K3314	A61K3342	A61K3342	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F13	A61F13	A61K9	A61K9	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	A61K33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of treating a mammal to inhibit the presence or the activity of H. pylori in the gastrointestinal tract is disclosed. The method encompasses orally administering to said mammal a sufficient amount of a scavenging, reacting or inactivating compound to remove bicarbonate ions, ammonium ions or urea which are present in combination with the microorganisms which colonize and infect the gastric mucosa. Such microorganisms have been implicated in gastritis, gastric ulcer disease and as a risk factor in gastric carcinoma. Also, the invention encompasses a method, utilizing these compounds, for the treatment or prevention of dermatitis, such as diaper rash resulting from exposure to urease, urea, ammonia and/or bicarbonate of urea and feces, wherein these compounds are applied to the skin or used to pretreat the diaper. Also included are compositions which are used for the methods described above.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
URECAP CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
URECAP CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAPPAS ATTALLAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLAK ROBERT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAPPAS, ATTALLAH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
POLAK, ROBERT B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Compositions for the treatment of pylori and dermatitis.This invention relates to a method and composition for the treatment of the presence or activity of urease- containing bacteria which are implicated in various ailments. The invention described herein also encompasses the amelioration, treatment or prevention of skin rash or dermatitis caused by urease-containing bacteria, bacterial components and by-products thereof.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONMicrobial ureases are important enzymes in certain human and animal pathogenic states, in ruminant metabolism and in environmental transformation of certain nitrogenous compounds.Bacterial urease is implicated in the pathogenesis of many clinical conditions. It is directly associated with the formation of infection stones and contributes to the pathogenesis of pyelonephritis, ammonia encephalopathy, hepatic coma, urinary catheter encrustation and peptic ulceration. Bacterial urease in feces also plays a prominent role in diaper dermatitis (also known as diaper rash) . This invention attempts to ameliorate two of these conditions, namely; gastrointestinal diseases associated with Helicobacter pylori ("H. pylori " ) and diaper dermatitis.H . pylori is presently being studied and has been implicated in several gastrointestinal diseases. Formerly known as Ca pylobacter pylori or Pylordis, this organism was first isolated from humans in 1982. The Principals and Practice of Infectious Diseases. Update No. 9, pages 1-10 (1991), contains a cumulative description of the characteristics H . pylori , and its association with gastrointestinal disease. In 

particular, these organisms have been implicated in chronic diffuse and Type A gastritis, as well as gastric and duodenal ulcers.Since H . pylori is closely associated with chronic gastritis, which, in turn, is a well-known risk factor for the development of gastric carcinoma, it has been postulated that there is a role for this organism in the development of such carcinomas. A number of recently published studies appears to further confirm thatH.pylori is a risk factor in the development of gastric cancer. (Parsonnet, et al. New Eng. J. Med. , Oct. 1991: 1127-1131; Nomura, et al., New Eng. J. Med. f Oct. 1991: 1132-1136) .The organism has been isolated from the gastric environment, which is generally hostile to bacterial growth. It has been postulated that the organism colonizes the gastric mucosa and generates a protective layer, or sheath, which contains ammonia, which shields the microorganism from acid
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of treating a mammal to inhibit the presence or activity of H . pylori in the gastrointestinal tract comprising inactivating the H . pylori protective environment by orally administering to said mammal an effective amount of a scavenging, reacting or inactivating compound to remove the bicarbonate ions, ammonium ions or urea which afford the H . pylori protective environment, thereby exposing the H . pylori to deactivation by the acid environment of the gastrointestinal tract.
2. A method according to Claim 1, wherein the compound is a chemical salt which reacts with the bicarbonate ions to form an insoluble bicarbonate compound.
3. A method according to Claim 2 wherein the chemical salt is a magnesium or calcium compound which reacts with bicarbonate ions to form a water-insoluble calcium or magnesium bicarbonate compound.
4. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the compound is a dialdehyde polysaccharide.
5. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the compound is an ion exchange material which inactivates ammonium or bicarbonate ions.
6. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the compound is selected from the group consisting of a dibasic magnesium phosphate, dialdehyde polysaccharide, calcium acetate, calcium chloride, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, magnesium chloride, magnesium citrate and zeolite. 


7. The method according to Claim 6 wherein the zeolite administered is a mixed sodium/potassium zeolite which has ammonium ion selectivity.
8. The method accordinςf to Claim 7 wherein the zeolite is pretreated with a sodium chloride solution in an amount effective for exchanging potassium ions contained therein for sodium ions.
9. The method according to Claim 8 wherein the zeolite is pretreated with a calcium chloride solution in an amount effective for exchanging potassium and sodium ions for calcium ions.
10. The method according to Claim 6 wherein the dibasic magnesium phosphate administered is represented by the formula, exclusive of water of hydration, (Mg)
x
(H)
y
(P0
4
), wherein the Mg to P0
4
 ratio (x/z) is in the range of 1.04 to 1.3, and Y is in the range of about 0.4 and 1.
11. The method according to Claim 10 wherein the Mg to P0
4
 ratio (x/z) is about 1.1.
12. The method according to Claim 6 wherein the compound is administered in combination with a mucoadhesive.
13. A method according to Claim 6 wherein the mucoadhesive is selected from the group consisting of sucralfate, polycarbophil, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, polyacrylic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, polyethylene glycol and polyalkyl cyanoacrylate.
14. A method according to Claim 6 wherein one or more of the selected compounds is contained within microcapsules, each such microcapsule having a water-insoluble wall 


permeable to urea, ammonia, water and other small molecules and ions, but impermeable to proteins, polypeptides, dialdehyde polysaccharide, other large molecules and particulate matter.
15. A method of treating a patient for gastrointestinal disease in which H. pylori is suspected as an etiologic agent comprising inactivating the H . pylori protective environment by orally administering to said patient an effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of dibasic magnesium phosphate, dialdehyde polysaccharide, calcium acetate, calcium chloride, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, magnesium chloride, magnesium citrate and zeolite, sufficient to remove the bicarbonate ions, ammonium ions or urea which result in the H . pylori protective environment, thereby exposing the H . pylori to deactivation by the acid environment of the gastrointestinal tract.
16. A method according to Claim 15 wherein the gastrointestinal disease is gastric or duodenal ulcer disease.
17. A method according to Claim 15 wherein the gastrointestinal disease is gastritis.
18. The method according to Claim 15 wherein the compound is administered in combination with a mucoadhesive.
19. A method according to Claim 18 wherein the mucoadhesive is selected from the group consisting of sucralfate, polycarbophil, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, polyacrylic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, polyethylene glycol and polyalkyl cyanoacrylate. 


20. A method according to Claim 15 wherein one or more of the selected compounds is contained within microcapsules, each such microcapsule having a water- insoluble wall permeable to urea, ammonia, water and other small molecules and ions, but impermeable to proteins, polypeptides, dialdehyde polysaccharide, other large molecules and particulate matter.
21. A pharmaceutical composition for the inhibition of H. pylori which comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of dibasic magnesium phosphate, dialdehyde polysaccharide, and zeolite, said compound being present in the composition in an amount effective for the inactivation of the H . pylori protective environment in the gastrointestinal tract of a patient in need of such treatment, and an oral pharmaceutically acceptable carrier therefor.
22. A composition according to Claim 21, further comprising at least one compound selected from the group consisting of calcium acetate, calcium chloride, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, magnesium chloride and magnesium citrate.
23. The pharmaceutical composition according to Claim 21 in the form of a powder, solution, suspension, slurry, gel, tablet or capsule.
24. A method of treating or preventing skin rash in a mammal resulting from exposure to the urease, urea, ammonia and/or bicarbonate of urine and feces, comprising: exposing the skin to a compound which scavenges, reacts with or deactivates the urea, ammonia or bicarbonate. 


25. A method according to Claim 24 wherein the skin is exposed to the compound by pre-application of said compound to a diaper in an amount effective to prevent or minimize the occurrence or severity of said rash, and wrapping the skin in said diaper.
26. A method according to Claim 24 wherein said compound is selected from the group consisting of dibasic magnesium phosphate, dialdehyde polysaccharide and zeolite.
27. A method according to Claim 26 wherein said compound is used in combination with at least one compound selected from the group consisting of calcium acetate, calcium chloride, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, magnesium chloride and magnesium citrate.
28. A composition for the treatment or prevention of skin rash resulting from exposure to the urease, urea, ammonia and/or bicarbonate of urine and feces which comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of dibasic magnesium phosphate, dialdehyde polysaccharide and zeolite, said compound being present in the composition in an amount effective to deactivate the urease, urea, ammonia and/or bicarbonate, and a carrier therefor.
29. A composition according to Claim 28 in the form of a solution, suspension, slurry, gel, powder, patch, bandage, cloth, paper, ointment or cream.
30. A composition according to Claim 28, further comprising a mucoadhesive compound which forms a film which is permeable to gases and water vapor, but essentially impermeable to large molecules, such as enzymes and particulate matter. 


31. A composition according to Claim 30 wherein the film forming composition is a mucoadhesive material selected from the group consisting of polycarbophil, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, polyacrylic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, polyethylene glycol and polyalkylcyanoacrylate.
32. A composition according to Claim 28, further comprising at least one compound selected from the group consisting of calcium acetate, calcium chloride, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, magnesium chloride and magnesium citrate.
33. A composition according to Claim 31 in the form of a solution, suspension, slurry, gel, powder, patch, bandage, cloth, paper, ointment or cream.
34. A composition according to Claim 32, further comprising a mucoadhesive compound which forms a film which is permeable to gases and water vapor, but essentially impermeable to large molecules, such as enzymes and particulate matter.
35. A composition according to Claim 34 wherein the film forming composition is a mucoadhesive material selected from the group consisting of polycarbophil, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, polyacrylic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, polyethylene glycol and polyalkylcyanoacrylate.
36. A diaper comprised of a substrate material in combination with a composition according to Claim 28.
37. A topical composition for forming a barrier against enzymes, bacteria and particulate matter derived from urea and feces and which are irritating to the skin, said barrier being permeable to gases and water. 


 comprised of a composition which exhibits film forming properties.
38. A composition according to Claim 37 wherein the film forming composition is a mucoadhesive material selected from the group consisting of polycarbophil, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, polyacrylic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, polyethylene glycol and polyalkylcyanoacrylate. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
