<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632757</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MAKING WOOD CURLS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B27G1300	B27G1310	B27L1100	B27L1100	B27L1102	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B27G	B27G	B27L	B27L	B27L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B27G13	B27G13	B27L11	B27L11	B27L11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A mechanized disc flaker for producing curled wood flakes having a rotatable disc plate (10), and one or more cutting knives (22) mounted to the disc plate so as to provide for a slight "rake angle" defined in accordance with the invention as the angle made between the tool face and a plane perpendicular to the direction of tool travel. In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus includes rotatable and removable knife holders (40) which permit the rake angle and the "cutting angle", defined in accordance with the invention as being the angle the cutting edge of the knife makes with the grain of the wood, to be modified to yield curled wood shavings have different geometries and characteristics. The preferred method of practicing the apparatus involves using a workpiece (64) having a certain moisture content which is directed against the work surface of the disc flaker using appropriate pressure all to provide for wood curls of desirable characteristics.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV GEORGIA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA RESEARCH FOUNDATION, INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICE JAMES T SR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICE, JAMES, T., SR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MAKING WOOD CURLSBackground of the Invention1. Field of the InventionThe present invention is concerned with the production of wood curls for various applications, such as potpourri, packing material and animal litter. The apparatus of the invention comprises a modified disc flaker which includes a cutting action at low rake angles to form curled wood shavings. One embodiment of the apparatus includes a rotatable knife which allows for varying the angle of the cutting edge of the knife relative to the motion of the knife and the angle of the cutting edge of the knife relative to the grain of the work piece. Such adjustments provide for the ability to produce curls of various geometries and characteristics and to further produce curls of consistent quality using various work pieces. The invention further includes methods of producing wood curls suitable for use with wood cutting machines of various designs.Description of Prior Art Myriad devices and methods for wood machining are known. Two basic processes predominate this art. A first process known as peripheral milling is largely concerned with manipulating the work piece to a desired shape and surface. Peripheral milling involves a rotary cutting process in which wood is removed in the form of single chips. The chips are formed by the intermittent engagement of the work piece by knives carried on the periphery of a rotating cutter head. The finished surface therefore consists of a series of individual knife traces generated by the successive engagement of each knife. A single surfacer with rotating cutter head illustrates the peripheral milling process. A second process, employed by this invention, is known as orthogonal cutting. This process is primarily concerned with producing wood chips or flakes for various applications. In orthogonal cutting, the cutting edge 

is perpendicular to the direction of the relative motion of tool and work piece and the surface generated is in a plane parallel to the original work surface. The cutting action of a carpenter's hand plane and the cutting action employed by devices for the cutting of veneer used in making plywood illustrate orthogonal cutting.Orthogonal cutting is utilized in various chipping machines. Such machines reduce pulpwood to more or less uniform chips required to manufacture chemical pulp. The uniform chips permit cooking liquor to penetrate the wood quickly, completely, and uniformly. Most chippers include a heavy rotating steel disc that is slotted on the face to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for making wood curls, comprising:
(a) a rotatable disc having a work surface on the face of said disc and one or more elongated and narrow slots through said disc, and having a hollow center suitable for mounting said disc on a shaft;
(b) one or more cutting blades extending through said slots;
(c) a means for mounting said cutting blades on the edge of said slots of said disc whereby a rake angle in the range of zero to thirty degrees (0°-30°) is made between the face of said cutting blades and a plane perpendicular to said work surface of said disc;
(d) a shaft upon which to securely mount said disc;
(e) a feed box for the placement of work pieces to be presented to the work surface of said disc wherein the base of said feed box is tilted vertically so as to provide for an angle between the tool motion vector of said cutting blades and the grain of the work piece in a range of zero to fifteen degrees (0°-15°) and wherein the distance between said disc work surface and the edge of said feed box is in the range of 0.001 inches to 0.010 inches;
(f) a means for directing work pieces placed in said feed box against said work surface of said disc as it rotates about said shaft causing said cutting blades to travel and contact said work pieces; and
(g) sufficiently powerful means for causing said shaft to rotate with sufficient speed and force to permit said cutting blades to cut said work pieces to produce curled wood flakes.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said feed box includes a vertically tillable base which may be adjusted so as to provide for various angles between the tool motion vector of said cutting blades and the grain of the work piece.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said feed box includes sides of uneven length to provide an enhanced base and side support area proximate to the work surface of said disc to fully support the terminal portions of the work piece being cut into curls during operation of the apparatus. 


4. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said feed box includes sides of adjustable length so as to provide an enhanced base support area proximate to the work surface of said disc to fully support the terminal portions of the work piece being cut into curls during operation of the apparatus.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said feed box includes a tilted base and sides of uneven length to provide for various angles between the tool motion vector of the cutting blade and the grain of the work piece and to fully support the terminal portions of the work piece being cut into curls during operation of the apparatus.
6. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said feed box includes a tiltable base and sides of adjustable length to provide for various angles between the tool motion vector of the cutting blade and the grain of the work piece and to fully support the terminal portions of the work piece being cut into curls during operation of the apparatus.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for mounting said cutting blades on the edge of said slots of said disc whereby a slight rake angle is made between the face of said cutting blades and a plane perpendicular to said work surface of said disc includes: a disc having beveled areas rearward from said slot openings which include one or more holes for receiving knife mounting bolts, knife mounting bolts, and cutting knives having one or more knife mounting slots on the side opposite the cutting edge.
8. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for mounting said cutting blades on the edge of said slots of said disc whereby a slight rake angle is made between the surface of said cutting blades and a plane perpendicular to said work surface of said disc includes: a disc having beveled areas rearward from said slot openings which include holes for receiving knife mounting bolts, knife mounting bolts, beveled knife mounting inserts, and cutting knives which include 


one or more holes for receiving knife mounting bolts on the side opposite the cutting edge of said knives.
9. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said means for mounting said cutting blades on the edge of said slots of said disc whereby a slight rake angle is made between the face of said cutting blades and a plane perpendicular to said work surface of said disc includes: a knife holder which includes on one side a hole for receiving a knife mounting bolt, and which on the same side is beveled so as to provide for a low rake angle when a cutting knife is mounted to it, a cutting knife for mounting to said knife holder, and a knife mounting bolt for mounting said cutting knife to said knife holder, and a clamp for mounting said knife holder to said disc.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said surface of said disc contains one or more counterbored holes capable of receiving one or more scoring blades.
11. The apparatus of Claim 1 which further comprises one or more scoring knives mounted linearly and side-by-side in holder blocks mounted to said disc.
12. The apparatus of Claim 1 which further comprises knife holders containing a cutting knife and scoring knives mounted in a linear, side-by-side array.
13. The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein the angle between the tool motion vector of said cutting blades and the grain of the work piece is between zero to ten degrees (0°-10°).
14. A method of producing curled wood flakes comprising the following steps of: (a) providing a device suitable for cutting work pieces which includes one or more cutting blades having rake angles in the range of zero to thirty degrees (0°-30°); 


 (b) providing a means for presenting work pieces to said cutting blades such that the cutting edge of said cutting blades is essentially perpendicular to the grain of the wood of said work pieces and the angle made between the tool motion vector of said cutting blades and the grain of the work pieces is in the range of zero to fifteen degrees (0°-15°);
(c) presenting work pieces to said cutting blades which have a moisture content of at least fifteen percent (15%) on an oven dried basis.
15. The method of Claim 14 wherein the angle made between the tool motion vector of said cutting blades and the grain of the work pieces is in the range of zero to ten degrees (0°-10°).
16. A method of producing curled wood flakes comprising the following steps of: (a) providing a device suitable for cutting work pieces which includes one or more cutting blades having rake angles in the range of zero to thirty degrees (0°-30°);
(b) providing a means for presenting work pieces to said cutting blades such that the cutting edge of said cutting blades is in the range of ninety to forty-five degrees (90°-45°) to the grain of the wood of said work pieces and the angle made between the tool motion vector of said cutting blades and the grain of the work pieces is in the range of zero to fifteen degrees (0°-15°);
(c) presenting work pieces to said cutting blades which have a moisture content of at least fifteen percent (15%) on an oven dried basis.
17. The method of Claim 16 wherein the angle made between the tool motion vector of said cutting blades and the grain of the work pieces is in the range of zero to ten degrees (0°-10°).
18. A method of producing curled wood flakes comprising the following steps of: 


 (a) providing a rotatable disc having at least one cutting blade having a rake angle in the range of zero to thirty degrees (0°-30°) attached to and projecting from said disc surface toward a work piece;
(b) directing said work piece against said disc surface; and (c) continuously rotating said disc to cause said cutting blade to cut the work piece into curled wood flakes.
19. The method as defined by Claim 18 which further comprises the use of a means of presenting work pieces to said cutting blade such that the angle between the cutting edge of said blade and the grain of the work piece is essentially perpendicular/
20. The method as defined by Claim 18 which further comprises the use of a means of presenting work pieces to said cutting blade such that the angle between the cutting edge of said blade and the grain of the work piece is in the range of ninety to forty-five degrees (90°-45°).
21. The method as defined by Claim 18 which further comprises the use of work pieces having a moisture content of at least fifteen percent (15%) on an oven dried basis.
22. The method as defined in Claim 18 which further comprises the step of providing a tilted feed box so as to provide for an angle between the tool motion vector of the cutting blades and the grain of said work piece in a range of zero to fifteen degrees (0°-15°).
23. The method as defined in Claim 18 which further comprises the step of providing a feed box with sides of uneven length so as to provide for an enhanced feed box support area proximate to the work surface of said disc and said shaft of said disc. 


24. The method as defined in Claim 18 which further comprises the step of providing a feed box with a tilted base and sides of uneven length to provide for an appropriate angle of the tool motion vector of the cutting blade and the grain of the work piece and to fully support the terminal portions of the work piece being cut into curls during operation of the apparatus.
25. The method as defined in αai 18 which further comprises the step of providing a feed box and providing a work piece that has been trimmed and is loaded into said feed box so as to provide for an angle between the tool motion vector of the cutting blades and the grain of the work piece in a range of zero to fifteen degrees (0°-15°).
26. The method as defined by Claim 18 which further comprises a means of causing said work piece to experience a force in the range of two to twenty (2- 20) PSI, pushing said work piece against said disc.
27. The method as defined by Claim 18 which further includes using one or more cutting blades mounted on said rotatable disc so that said cutting blades project a distance in the range of 0.001 inches to 0.020 inches away from the work surface of said disc and toward the work piece. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
