<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655037</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
3-POLE BATTERY SWITCHES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01M1042	H01M1004	H01M1044	B60R1602	B60R1603	H01M1004	H02J714	H02J714	B60R1603	B60R1602	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01M	H01M	H01M	B60R	B60R	H01M	H02J	H02J	B60R	B60R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01M10	H01M10	H01M10	B60R16	B60R16	H01M10	H02J7	H02J7	B60R16	B60R16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In 3-pole vehicle batteries with a cranking battery (2) and an auxiliaries battery (8) a device accompanies the battery wherein a switch R1 connects and disconnects the like poles (6, 12) so that may receive charge and a switch R2 which connects and disconnects electrical auxiliaries to and from the auxiliary battery. The device senses the state of charge of the auxiliary battery and the current flowing from the auxiliaries battery to the cranking battery. A microprocessor (my)P uses this and extra data to open R2 and prevent any serious discharge of the auxiliaries battery; to close R1 to permit charging of the cranking battery and to allow the cranking battery to assist a partially discharged auxiliaries battery; to open R1 when overcharge is indicated. In a second version only switch R1 is present but a detector senses the operator's requirement to start the vehicle and closes R1 to join the outputs of the cranking and auxiliaries batteries.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLORYWIN INT GROUP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLORYWIN INTERNATIONAL GROUP LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAUGH IAIN WALLACE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WAUGH, IAIN WALLACE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention concerns switches used in adapting three 
pole batteries to the wiring loom of a vehicle. The switch 
is intended for use in automobiles with petrol or diesel 
motors, vessels, aircraft and other vehicles where battery 
failure could be hazardous. The three pole battery contains two batteries. Firstly a 
deep cycle auxiliaries battery (AUX) used to meet small 
constant loads such as ignition, headlights, radio and 
other ancillary devices and secondly a high output CRA 
battery (CRA) The battery has one negative pole, a positive pole for the 
AUX battery and a positive pole for the CRA battery. This 
dual current capability means that the battery cannot be 
installed into the original wiring loom of the vehicle and 
function automatically without the assistance of a control 
system to control the mutual connection of the two 
batteries , making the current source totally independent 
of operator error. A vehicle ignition system /engine management system can 
draw up to 10A. Ancillary circuits e.g air conditioning and  
 
heated rear window may need 30A or more if they are 
switched on together. These demands are met by the AUX 
battery. Cranking may need a short term current in excess 
of 700A . US 4 883 728 describes an SLI battery with three poles and 
a switch for adapting the battery to the wiring loom of a 
vehicle. This switch deals inadequately with the problems 
which occur in practice in adapting the binary battery to 
the vehicle. The division of the battery into two halves imposes 
specific duties on the switch. Firstly the switch must 
connect the CRA and AUX batteries for charging. Secondly 
the switch must protect the CRA battery from inadvertent 
discharge if some auxiliary is left on and the vehicle is 
unattended. Thirdly the switch must prevent gradual discharge of the 
CRA battery when the vehicle is being driven, for example 
a city taxi in heavy traffic running its heater, wipers, 
radio and lights easily exceeds its alternator output. 
Trucks have winches that draw 100 amps. Emergency service 
vehicles face the same problem but in addition they have 
extra lights, medical apparatus, monitors and the like. The 
device must be able to handle loads such as these. The 
switch must be able to provide to the ignition at least 
from the CRA battery after alternator failure when  
 
insufficient power is available from the AUX battery. The 
switch should also maximise the reserve minutes available 
in an emergency such as alternator failure. Fourthly the switch must connect
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
In a vehicle electrical system having a 3-pole battery 
containing an AUX battery (8) for supplying electrical 

auxiliaries and a CRA battery (2), a device (28) for 
connection between the like poles (6,12) of the battery 

having, 

(a) a normally open switch R1 connecting said CRA and AUX 
batteries (2,8), 
(b) a normally closed switch R2 connecting the AUX battery 
(8) to the electrical auxiliaries (30),
 
characterised by
 
sensing means (µP) which detects the state of charge of the 

AUX battery (8) and any current from the AUX battery (8) to 
the CRA battery (2) and which 


(i) connects and disconnects the CRA battery (2) 
and the AUX battery (8) and 
(ii) connects and disconnects the AUX battery 
(8) to and from the electrical auxiliaries so as to enable 

a generator (A) to charge both the CRA and AUX batteries 
(2,8) and to meet fluctuating loads (30). 
A device as claimed in claim 1 characterised in 
that R1 is a relay. 
A device as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that 
R2 is a bistable relay.  

 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 1-3 
characterised in that
 
switch R2 comprises two current conductors in parallel, 

both requiring maintenance current to maintain conduction, 
the current capacity and the maintenance current for one 

conductor R2 being larger than for the other conductor Q5, 
the sensing means (µP) being capable of selecting which 

conductor is more economical for the prevailing load. 
A device as claimed in claim 4 characterised in that 
R2 is a transistor and relay in parallel so that when R2 

opens the transistor Q5 remains capable of conducting 
current from the AUX battery to the electrical auxiliaries. 
A device as claimed in claim 5 characterised in that 
the relay R2 conducts 30-100 amp currents and has a 

quiescent maintenance draw of 100ma - 1amp. 
A device as claimed in claim 5 characterised in that 
the transistor Q5 conducts 3-30amp currents and has a 

quiescent maintenance draw of 1-10ma. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 1-7 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) comprises
 
data storage means suitable for storing data representing 

battery current, battery voltage and current from the CRA 
battery to the AUX battery,  

 
data entry means suitable for entering data concerning AUX 

battery current; AUX battery voltage ; and current from the 
CRA battery to the AUX battery;
 
and comparing means which compares the entered data with 

the corresponding stored data and generates signals which 
control the operation of R2 and signals which operate R1. 
A device as claimed in claim 8 characterised in that 
the data storage means, data entry means and comparing 

means also process data concerning battery electrolyte 
temperature. 
The invention as claimed in claim 8 or 9 characterised 
in that
 
the sensing means (µP) includes a temperature recorder which 

records temperature and from the immediately preceding 
period adjusts the the state of charge value at which 

disconnection of R2 occurs. 
A device as claimed in claim 10 characterised in that 

the period is 1-7 days. 
A device as claimed in claim 9 characterised in that 
the data entry means, data entry means and comparing means 

also process data concerning vehicle disturbance which 
indicates vehicle operation.  

 
A device as claimed in in any one of claims 8-12 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) includes a piezo device which senses 

vehicle motion and closes R2. 
A device as claimed in in any one of claims 8-12 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) samples voltage and current 25-100 

times/sec. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8 -12 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) detects the auxiliaries output 

voltage. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-14 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) detects the current from the AUX 

battery to the electrical auxiliaries. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-16 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) utilises the entered data to close R1 

when (1) the CRA battery (2) requires charge
 
   (2) the AUX battery (8) is discharged to the level 

where the CRA battery contributes current to the electrical 
auxiliaries.  

 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-17 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means utilises at least part of the entered 

data to open R1 when the current from the AUX battery (8) 
to the CRA battery (2) is less than the predetermined value 

indicating adequate charge. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-18 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) utilises the entered data to open R2 

when the charge in the CRA battery (2) falls to a 
predetermined minimum. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-19 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) utilises the entered data to close R2 

when the electrical system starts up. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-20 
characterised in that
 
R1 is open and R2 is closed when a requirement for a 

vehicle start is anticipated and the state of charge of the 
CRA battery (2) and AUX battery (8) are according to data. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-21 
characterised in that
 
R1 is closed and R2 is closed when a requirement for a 

vehicle start is anticipated and the state of charge of the  
 

CRA battery (2) is adequate but the state of charge of the 
AUX battery (8) is lower than the predetermined value in 

the data. 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-22 
characterised in that
 
in the event of charging failure, R1 is opened and closed 

intermittently and R2 is closed whereby the AUX battery (8) 
is discharged first in order to preserve the capability of 

the CRA battery(2) to start the vehicle, while contributing 
current intermittently to the electrical auxiliaries (30). 
A device as claimed in any one of claims 8-23 
characterised in that
 
the sensing means (µP) has means to monitor the current 

flowing from the AUX battery (8) to the CRA battery (2) 
during starting and causes R1 to open if the current 

exceeds a predetermined level. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
