<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650457</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ENHANCING WORKSHEET SEPARATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65H308	B65H308	B65H348	B65H348	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65H	B65H	B65H	B65H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65H3	B65H3	B65H3	B65H3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
To enhance the separation of sheet material (16) from a de-stacker, an air provider mechanism (30) is attached to a frame of the carriage (2) to bias against the being lifted sheet so as to maintain the air stream provided by an air ejector (28) of the system directed to a location substantially immediately beneath the bottom surface of the being lifted sheet. Accordingly, as the sheet is being picked up, the air ejected from the air ejector system is directed to the gap between the being lifted sheet and its underlying sheets to enhance the separation of the being lifted sheet and the underlying sheets.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FINN-POWER INTERNATIONAL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINDSTROM, MIKKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PALOMAKI, ANTTI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Title of the Invention:-APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ENHANCING WORKSHEET SEPARATION-Field of the InventionThe present invention relates to loading mechanisms for a sheet working machine, or a machine center; and more particularly to an apparatus added to a loading mechanism for enhancing the separation of a worksheet from a stack of sheet materials.Background of the Invention To fabricate a product from a sheet material, oftentimes a sheet machine center comes into play. Such machine center may be comprised of a turret punch, a right angle cutter, a laser cutter, or other machines for fabricating components out of a sheet of material, which may be metal, plastic, wood, etc. Prior to the onset of automatic loader/unloader units that, together with the actual sheet working machine, form a machine center, each workpiece has to be manually loaded onto a work area of the sheet working machine. With an automatic loader, each sheet of material is usually picked up by a number of suction cups, attached to a carriage frame, and fed to the work area of the sheet working machine. Such automatic loader and unloader devices are well known, and are exemplified by, for example, the loader and unloader of the Finn-Power FMM2500, FMM3000, etc. machine centers.In brief, to load a worksheet to the work area of the sheet working machine, the sheet is first picked up from a stack of sheets, from a so called de-stacker, by a number of suction cups attached to a carriage, which is movable vertically and horizontally. Thereafter, the carriage 

transfers the picked-up sheet from the de-stacker position to a position above the work area of the sheet working machine and deposits the sheet thereon. Thus, to transport a worksheet from the de-stacker, or the loading table where the sheets are placed, to the work area of the machine, the carriage first has to be lowered until its suction cups make contact with the worksheet on top of the stack. A suction force is next provided to the suction cups for securing the top sheet. Thereafter, the carriage is raised and moved horizontally from the loading table to the work area of the sheet working machine. The carriage is then lowered and the suction force removed from the suction cups to thereby deposit the worksheet onto the work area of the machine.During the lifting of the top sheet from the stack of sheets, there commonly occurs a situation where the underlying sheet(s) would adhere to the top sheet, due to an under pressure of vacuum condition that may develop between adjacent stacked
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims 1. In a sheet de-stacker in which each top sheet is separated, one at a time, from a stack of sheets for transport to a sheet working machine, said de-stacker including a carriage movable vertically at and bidirectionally between a position superposed over said stack of sheets and a position for depositing a picked-up sheet onto a work area of said sheet working machine, a plurality of pick-up means attached to said carriage for securing a top sheet from said stack of sheets when said carriage is lowered to said stack of sheets, an improvement for enhancing the separation of said top sheet from the other sheets of said stack of sheets, comprising: means for outputting a fluid stream movable in synchronization with said carriage; means for maintaining said fluid stream output means at a position relatively fixed to at least one edge of said top sheet such that said fluid stream output from said fluid stream output means remains directed to said edge at a location substantially immediately beneath the bottom surface of said top sheet irrespective of the position or movement of said top sheet.
2. The improvement of claim 1, wherein said fluid stream output means comprises: a conduit movably attached to said carriage for providing passage for said fluid stream input to one end of said conduit; a nozzle fixed to the other end of said conduit for outputting said fluid stream.
3. The improvement of claim 2, wherein said maintaining means comprises: 


 guide means for keeping said nozzle in fixed relationship to said top sheet to aim said nozzle at said location immediately beneath the bottom surface of said top sheet.
4. The improvement of claim 1, wherein said fluid stream comprises air.
5. The improvement of claim 3 , wherein said guide means comprises : a tongue coupled to and extending beyond the tip of said nozzle, said tongue biasing against the top surface of said top sheet at said edge thereof to position said nozzle to aim at said location immec
:
 - y below the bottom surface of said top sheet.
6. The improvement of claim 2, further comprising: valve means activable to provide said fluid stream, for a predetermined period of time, to said conduit for outputting to said location immediately beneath said top sheet.
7. In a sheet de-stacker in which each top sheet is separated, one at a time, from a stack of sheets for transport to a sheet working machine, said de-stacker including a carriage movable vertically at and bidirectionally between a position superposed over said stack of sheets and a position for depositing a picked-up sheet onto a work area of said sheet working machine, a plurality of pick-up means attached to said carriage for securing a top sheet from said stack of sheets when said carriage is lowered to said stack of sheets, a method of enhancing the separation of said top sheet from the other sheets of said stack of sheets, comprising the steps of: 


 outputting a fluid stream movable in synchronization with said carriage; directing said fluid stream to at least one edge of said top sheet at a location substantially immediately beneath the bottom surface of said top sheet irrespective of the position or movement of said top sheet.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said fluid stream comprises an air stream; and wherein said directing step comprises the step of: guiding said air stream to an edge of said top sheet at a portion thereof undergoing a bending movement effected by at least one of said pick-up means moving relative to other said pick-up means.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of: using the top surface of said top sheet as a reference to effect said guiding step.
10. Apparatus for separating top sheets, one at a time, from a stack of sheets for transport, said apparatus including a carriage movable vertically at and bidirectionally between a position superposed over said stack of sheets and a position for depositing a picked-up sheet, a plurality of pick- up means attached to said carriage for securing a top sheet from said stack of sheets when said carriage is lowered to said stack of sheets, at least one of said pick-up means being movable relative to other said pick-up means for causing the portion of said top sheet secured thereby to undergo a bending movement, said apparatus comprising: conduit means movable in synchronization with said carriage to convey a fluid stream; 


 means for establishing a fixed relationship between an output of said conduit means and at least one edge of said top sheet such that said fluid stream conveyed by said conduit means remains substantially directed to immediately below an edge of said portion of said top sheet undergoing said bending movement irrespective of changes in the positioning or movement of said top sheet.
11. Apparatus of claim 10, wherein said conduit means is movably coupled to said carriage, said output of said conduit means having fitted thereto a nozzle for shaping said fluid stream.
12. Apparatus of claim 11 , wherein said establishing means comprises : a tongue coupled to and extending beyond the tip of said nozzle for biasing against the top surface of said top sheet at said edge thereof to aim said nozzle to immediately below said edge of said portion of said top sheet.
13. Apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: means to provide said fluid stream to said conduit means for the period of time before said top sheet is moved from said position superposed over said stack of sheets to said position for depositing. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
