<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613556</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ULTRASONIC HOLOGRAPHY IMAGING METHOD AND APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03H300	G01N2906	A61B800	G01N2904	G01H300	G01N2906	G01N2904	G01H312	G03H300	A61B800	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03H	G01N	A61B	G01N	G01H	G01N	G01N	G01H	G03H	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03H3	G01N29	A61B8	G01N29	G01H3	G01N29	G01N29	G01H3	G03H3	A61B8	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A preferred embodiment of this invention is illustrated in Fig. 4 showing an offset and tilted object transducer (50) being rotated about a system axis (51) to sequentially insonify the object from various acute incident angles  THETA  to the system axis to provide images of the out-of-focus structures at spaced locations at the hologram detection surface (18) at different spaced times. If the pulse rate of the object transducer is greater than the fusion of the eye, the eye is able to average two or more images into a single perceived image. Likewise, video equipment that receives images at a rate greater than 30 Hertz will average two or more images and display the image at a rate of approximately 30 Hertz. Additionally, external video processing may be utilized to electronically average two or more images electronically to obtain an averaged image at any time constant desired by the operator. Such a system effectively neutralizes or blends the out-of-focus structure of an object spaced from a selected focus plane (27) while maintaining the structure within the plane in sharp consistent contrast to provide consistent, quality images of the internal structure of an object (12).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED IMAGING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED IMAGING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNHAM GLENN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARLICK GEORGE F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNHAM, GLENN, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARLICK, GEORGE, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to ultrasonic holographic imaging processes and 
apparatus and more particularly to such processes and apparatus for imaging 
internal structure in a selected focal plane of an article and to minimize image 
distortions caused by article structures spaced from the selected focal plane or 
"out-of-focus" structures. Although commercial application of ultrasonic holography has been actively 
pursued by many persons in the scientific and industrial communities for many 
years, only limited results have been obtained even though it was once thought 
that ultrasonic holography held great promise. It was felt that the application 
of ultrasonic holography was particularly applicable to the fields of non-destructive 
testing of materials and medical diagnostics of soft tissues that are relatively 
transparent or translucent to ultrasonic radiation. One of the principal problems 
that has been encountered and not effectively resolved is the difficulty of 
obtaining consistent, high quality images. Solutions have been particularly elusive 
in obtaining undistorted, high quality images of selected focused structures in an 
object under investigation because of the interference or shadowing of other 
out-of-focus structures in an object. A typical prior art ultrasonic holographic 
imaging system for inspecting a selected plane in an object is illustrated in 
Fig. 1. Such a typical "real time" ultrasonic holographic imaging system is 
identified in Fig. 1 with numeral 10. The system 10 is intended to inspect the 
interior of an object 12. The system 10 generally has a hologram generating 
sub-system 13 and a hologram viewing sub-system (optical sub-system) 32. 
Principal components are ultrasonic transducers, generally referred to as an object 
transducer 14 for generating ultrasonic plane waves 16 to insonify the object 12 
and a reference transducer 22 for generating an off-axis beam. The ultrasonic energy transmitted through the object 12 is directed through 
a liquid medium to a hologram detection surface 18, which is generally an area 
of a liquid-gas interface or liquid surface, such as a water surface. Generally 
the hologram detection surface 18 is physically isolated in a detection container  
 
20 to minimize distortions caused by vibration. The ultrasonic reference 
transducer 22 generates an off-axis ultrasonic beam that is also directed to the 
hologram detection surface 18 to form a standing wave hologram. It is 
frequently desirable to pulse the transducers 14 and 22 at desired
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An ultrasonic holographic imaging apparatus for 
generating a holographic image of object structure in a 

selected plane (27) of an object that is placed in the path 
of ultrasound while minimizing holographic image distortions 

caused by interfering structure of the object spaced from 
the selected object plane defining an out-of-focus 

structure, the apparatus comprising: 

a. an ultrasonic holographic detection surface (18) 
aligned with an optical axis (51); 
b. ultrasonic transducer means (50, 54, 76, 84, 100a, 
100b, 100c) for directing a coherent object beam of 

ultrasound along the optical axis and through the object to 
the ultrasonic holographic detection surface, and for 

directing a coherent ultrasonic reference beam to the 
holographic detection surface to interfere with the object 

beam to form an ultrasonic hologram at the detection 
surface; and 
c. an ultrasonic imaging lens system (28,30) aligned 
with, and extending along, the optical axis between the 

object and the holographic detection surface for focusing 
ultrasound from the selected object plane onto the 

holographic detection surface; characterised in that 
 
   the ultrasonic transducer means including at least one 

object transducer (50, 54, 76, 84, 100a, 100b, 100c) 
arranged in a manner such that the ultrasonic object beam is 

directed through the object at a plurality of acute incident 
angles relative to the optical axis, and to project images 

of the out-of-focus structure on the detection surface at 
spaced locations corresponding to the acute incident angles. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at 
least one object transducer is arranged in such a manner 

that the plurality of acute incident angles are angularly 
spaced about the optical axis (51) to position the image of  

 
the out-of-focus structure on the detection surface (18) at 

corresponding angularly spaced locations about the optical 
axis. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the acute 
incident angles are each less than 10 degrees. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at 
least one object transducer (50, 54, 70, 84, 100a, 100b, 

100c) is arranged in such a manner that the object beam is 
sequentially directed through the object at the plurality of 

acute incident angles to sequentially project the out-of-focus 
structure on the detection surface (18) at the spaced 

locations. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein there is 
a single plane wave object transducer (50, 54, 76, 84), 

object transducer moving means being provided for 
sequentially moving the object transducer relative to the 

optical axis (51) to sequentially insonify the object, 
including the out-of-focus structure, at the plurality of 

acute incident angles. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the 
object transducer (50, 84) is mounted at an incline relative 

to the optical axis (51), and wherein the object transducer 
moving means rotates the inclined object transducer about 

the optical axis sequentially through the plurality of acute 
incident angles. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
object transducer (84) is centred on the optical axis (51). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the 
object transducer (50, 84) is offset from the optical axis 

(51).  
 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the 
object transducer (54, 84) is mounted for selective tilting 

movement relative to the optical axis (51), and wherein the 
object transducer moving means sequentially tilts the object 

transducer to the plurality of acute angles. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
object transducer (54, 84) is centred on the optical axis 

(51). 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein the 
object transducer moving means sequentially moves the object 

transducer (84) radially outward from the optical axis (51) 
and tilts the object transducer to the plurality of acute 

angles. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein there is 
a single plane wave object transducer (76) centred on the 

optical axis (51) for generating the object beam, a double 
wedge refractor element (78) being positioned intermediate 

the object transducer and the object for receiving the 
object beam and for redirecting the object beam at one of 

the acute angles to the optical axis, and wherein rotating 
means are provided for rotating the refractory element about 

the optical axis to the plurality of acute angles. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein the 
double wedge refractor element (78) is mounted to the object 

transducer (76), and wherein the rotating means rotates the 
object transducer and the refractory element together. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at 
least one object transducer comprises an array of object 

transducers (100a, 100b, 100c) for insonifying the object at 
the plurality of acute incident angles.  

 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the 
ultrasonic transducer means includes activation means (102, 

104, 106) for sequentially activating the object transducer 
(100a, 100b, 100c) for sequentially directing the object 

beam through the object at the plurality of acute incident 
angles to sequentially project the out-of-focus structure 

onto the detection surface (18) at the spaced locations. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said at 
least one object transducer (50, 54, 76, 84, 100a, 100b, 

100c) is arranged to pulse the object beam at a pulse rate 
of 180 Hz or less. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein said at 
least one object transducer (50, 54, 76, 84, 100a, 100b, 

100c) is arranged to pulse the object beam at a pulse rate 
of approximately 30 Hz. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein said at 
least one object transducer (50, 54, 76, 84, 100a, 100b, 

100c) is arranged to pulse the object beam at a pulse rate 
of approximately 120 Hz. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at 
least one object transducer is arranged in such a manner 

that the plurality of acute incident angles are spaced 
sufficiently from the optical axis (51) to space the 

locations of the imaged out-of-focus structure on the 
detection surface (18) at distances between one-fourth and 

10 times the wavelength of the object beam. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein the 
spaced locations are separated at a distance of 

approximately 3-4 times the wavelength of the object beam. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at 
least one object transducer is arranged in such a manner  

 
that the acute incident angles are between 5 and 10 degrees 

inclusive. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further 
comprising (1) optical hologram reconstruction means (118) 

focused on the detection surface (18) for generating a 
sequence of optical images of the selected object in which 

the out-of-focus structure is located at different locations 
in the images, (2) optical-to-electronic conversion means 

(134, 136) for converting the optical images to a sequence 
of digitized electronic images, and (3) electronic signal 

averaging means (138) for averaging the electronic signals 
of the sequence of digitized electronic images to neutralize 

those signals corresponding to the out-of-focus structure. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further 
comprising optical hologram reconstruction means (118) 

focused on the detection surface (18) for generating a 
sequence of optical images of the selected object in which 

the out-of-focus structure is located at different locations 
in the images, and averaging means (38) for averaging the 

sequence of images to neutralize the out-of-focus structure 
relative to the structure in the selected plane. 
An ultrasonic holographic imaging process for 
generating a holographic image of object structure in a 

selected plane (27) of an object that is placed in the path 
of ultrasound while minimizing holographic image distortions 

caused by interfering structure of the object spaced from 
the selected object plane defining an out-of-focus 

structure, the process comprising the steps of: 

a. aligning an ultrasonic holographic detection 
surface (18) with a system axis (51); 
b. directing a coherent object beam of 
ultrasound along the system axis and through the object to 

the ultrasonic holographic detection surface;  
 
c. directing a coherent ultrasonic reference 
beam to the holographic detection surface to interfere with 

the object beam to form an ultrasonic hologram at the 
detection surface; 
d. aligning an ultrasonic imaging lens system 
(28, 30) along the system axis between the object and the 

holographic detection surface for focusing ultrasound from 
the selected object plane onto the holographic detection 

surface; and 
e. directing the ultrasonic object beam through 
the object at a plurality of acute incident angles relative 

to the system axis to project images of the out-of-focus 
structure on the detection surface at spaced locations 

corresponding to the acute incident angles. 
A process as claimed in claim 24, further 
comprising the step of spacing the acute incident angles 

angularly about the system axis (51) to position the image 
of the out-of-focus structure on the detection surface (18) 

at corresponding angularly spaced locations about the system 
axis. 
A process as claimed in claim 24, wherein the 
acute incident angles are between 5 and 10 degrees. 
A process as claimed in claim 24, wherein the 
object beam is sequentially directed through the object at 

the plurality of acute incident angles to sequentially 
project the out-of-focus structure on the detection surface 

(18) at the spaced locations. 
A process as claimed in claim 24, wherein the 
object beam is generated by at least one ultrasonic object 

transducer (50, 54, 76, 84), and the process further 
comprises the step of sequentially moving the object 

transducer relative to the system axis (51) to sequentially  
 

insonify the object, including the out-of-focus structure, 
at the plurality of acute incident angles. 
A process as claimed in claim 24, further 
comprising the steps of generating a sequence of optical 

images of the selected object in which the out-of-focus 
structure is located at different locations in the images, 

converting the optical images to a sequence of digitized 
electronic images, and averaging the electronic signals of 

the sequence of digitized electronic images to neutralize 
those signals corresponding to the out-of-focus structure. 
A process as claimed in claim 24, further 
comprising the steps of generating a sequence of optical 

images of the selected object in which the out-of-focus 
structure is located at different locations in the images, 

and averaging the sequence of images to neutralize the out-of-focus 
structure relative to the structure in the selected 

plane. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
