<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637946</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
TISSUE-SPECIFIC IMPLANTABLE THERAPEUTIC AGENT DELIVERY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K900	A61K900	A61K4500	A61K4508	A61M3100	A61M3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K9	A61K9	A61K45	A61K45	A61M31	A61M31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for tissue-specific delivery of therapeutic agents includes an implantable element biodegradable in situ within human tissue; a vasoinductive agent integrated into a surface of the element; and having the therapeutic agents incorporated into the implantable element. The figure shows a method of construction of a tubule in which there is a plurality of concentric, hollow tubules (e.g. 100, 200, 300). Upon implantation of the implantable element into the tissue, the vasoinductive agent stimulates capillary growth, facilitating delivery of the therapeutic agents to the selected tissue.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GIAMPAPA VINCENT CARMINE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GIAMPAPA, VINCENT, CARMINE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIAMPAPA VINCENT CARMINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIAMPAPA, VINCENT, CARMINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TISSUE- SPECIFIC IMPLANTABLE IHERΔPEUTIC AGENT DELIVERY SYSTEM(BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONBiodegradable materials have been known in the art for a number of years. More particularly, in the literature of medical research relative to such materials reference is made to the following biodegradable materials:Processed sheep dermal collagen (PSDC)j Hench's bio-glass, surgical grade polyurethanes, fibrinogens, polyimino-carbonates, and poly (L- lactic) acid (also known as polylactic acid).Representative articles in the literature relative to the above are: "Structure and Property Relationships for Design of Po yiminocarbonates" , by Pulapura, et al , Bi omaterials , 1990 (119): 666-78, "Rate Controlled Drug Delivery Systems: Controlled Release versus Sustained Released" by Chien in Medical Progress Technology 1989, 15 (1-2) : 11-14; and "Enzymatic Activity Toward, 

Poly L-Lactic) Acid Implants by Schakenraad, et al, Jour.Biomedical Materials Research, 1990 May, 24(5):529-45The earliest known reference to a biodegrad¬ able tissue implant is West German Patent No. 2,424,169 (1974).Much publicity has attended the so-called Norplant elements employed as birth control means and, as such, the Norplant has become well known among contemporary biodegradable materials.Accordingly, medical research has now established, beyond question, the value of sub¬ cutaneous, and other implantation of therapeutic and phar acologic agents within a biodegradable carrier to facilitate the potentiation or concentration of the agent within cellular tissue at a location which will maximize its benefit to the patient. 

 The present invention is accordingly concerned with an improvement in the form and structure of a bio-degradable drug carrier and, particularly, a biodegradable drug carrier which will have application in providing appropriate nourish¬ ment to the human scalp or body skin by means of enhanced delivery of necessary nutrients and pharmakinetics .S.* 

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONA system for tissue-specific delivery of therapeutic agents includes an implantable element biodegradable in situ within human tissue; a vasoinductive agent integrated into a surface of the element; and having the therapeutic agents incorporated into the implantable element. Upon implantation of the implantable element into tissue, the vasoinductive agent stimulates capillary growth, facilitating delivery of the therapeutic agents to the selected tissue.More particularly, the present invention provides for a biodegradable substrate upon which is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 THE CLAIMS
Having thus described my invention what I claim as new, useful and non-obvious is:
1. A system for tissue-specific delivery of therapeutic agents, comprising:
(a) an implantable element bio¬ degradable in situ within human tissue;
(b) a vasoinductive agent integrated into a surface of said element; and
(c) said therapeutic agents incorporated into said implantable element,
whereby, upon implantation of said element into human tissue, said vaso¬ inductive agent will stimulate capillary growth thereby facilitating delivery of said therapeutic agents to said tissue. 


2 . The system as recited in Claim 1 in which said biodegradable element comprises: a substrate having upon a surface thereof a pharmakinetic matrix de ined by a time- length axis and a quantity axis, said substrate rolled spirally about said time axis to thereby approximate the geometry of an elongate cylinder,
whereby enhancement of capillary growth caused by said vasoinductive agent will facilitate time domain of therapeutic and pharmakinetic agents as a function of substrate matrix coordinate.
3. The system as recited in Claim 2 in which said pharmakinetic matrix comprises: a plurality of agents arranged, with respect to said time-length axis, in accordance with the sequence of delivery of such agents which is desired, in which those agents placed upon outer areas of the rolled spiral substrate will 


 z
be delivered earlier and those disposed toward the center of the spiral substrate will be delivered toward the completion of said in situ dissolution of the substrate, further wherein the quantity of respectively applied pharmakinetic agents may be varied as a function of the quantity axis of the substrate.
4. The system as recited in Claim 1 in which said biodegradable element comprises: a series of respectively concentric shells having different pharmacologic agents disposed upon each of said shells such that the outermost shell and associated agent will be delivered earliest while the innermost shell and its agent will be delivered last to the human tissue.
5. The system as recited in Claim 4 further comprising: further vasoinductive agent disposed between each of said concentric shells. 


 D
6. The system as recited in- Claim 2 further comprising: further vasoinductive agent applied to a surface of said substrate by providing such agent within the internal rolled spiral of said cylinder and about the exterior thereof.
7. The system as recited in Claim 1 in which said biodegradable element comprises: a torodial structure in which said vasoinductive agent covers the surface thereof.
8. The system as recited in Claim 7 in which said toroid includes a plurality of polar segments each of said segments having a selectable pharmakinetic agent applied thereto.
9. The system as recited in Claim 8, further comprising: further vasoinductive agent applied radially between each of said polar segments. 


 *£/
10. The system as recited in Claim 1, in which said biodegradable element comprises: an artichoke-like system of layers in which the outermost layers are provided with the pharmacologic agent to be delivered first and the innermost covered with those to be delivered last.
11. The system as recited in Claim 2, said substrate comprising: variable widths along said time-axis to thereby further control the period of delivery of the pharmakinetic agents.
12. The system as recited in Claim 1, in which said biodegradable element comprises: a disk having a pharmakinetic agent adhered to one surface thereof and said vasoinductive agent adhered to another surface thereof. 


 £
13. The system as recited in Claim 1, in which said biodegradable element comprises a material selected from the group consisting essentially of: processed sheep dermal collagen, Hench's bioglass, fibrinogens, polyimino- carbonates, and polylactic acid.
14. The system as recited in Claim 1 in which said vasoinductive agent comprises an angiogenic agent.
15. The system as recited in Claim 14, in which said vasoinductive agent comprises: a growth factor selected from the group consisting essentially of a vascular endothelial growth factor, platelet growth factor, vascular permeability factor, fibroblast growth factor, and transforming growth factor beta. 


 SJ
16. The system as recited in Claim 1 in which said therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting essentially of: chemotherapeutics, analgesics, hormones, enzymes, catalysts, anesthetics, anti- inflammatories, antibiotics, immuno- globulins and free-radical scavengers.
17. The system as recited in Claim 4, in which said concentric shells comprise concentric tubules.
18. A method of tissue-specific delivery of therapeutic agents, comprising the steps of:
(a) furnishing an implantable element that is biodegradable in situ within a human tissue;
(b) integrating into a surface of said element a vasoinductive agent;
(c) incorporating into said element said therapeutic agents to be delivered; and 


 ^
(d) subcutaneously implanting and securing said element into said tissue.
whereby, following implantation of said element into said tissue, said vaso¬ inductive agent will stimulate capillary growth thereby facilitating delivery of said therapeutic agents to said tissue.
19. The method as recited in Claim 18 in which said implantable element furnishing Step (a) comprises: furnishing of a series of respectively concentric shells having different therapeutic agents disposed upon each of said shells such that the outermost shell and associated agents will be delivered earliest while the innermost shell and its agents will be delivered last to the human tissue. 


 
&
f
20. The method as recited in Claim 19, further comprising the step of:
(e) providing further vasoinductive agents disposed between each of said concentric shells.
21. The method as recited in Claim 19 in which said step of furnishing concentric shells comprises the step of: furnishing concentric tubules.
22. The method as recited in Claim 21, in which said therapeutic agents are selected from the group consisting essentially of: chemotherapeutics, analgesics, hormones, enzymes, catalysts, anesthetics, anti- inflammatories, antibiotics, immuno- globulins and free-radical scavengers.
23. The method as recited in Claim 21 further comprising the step of:
(f) providing further vasoinductive agents disposed between each of said concentric tubules. 

24. The method as recited in Claim 18 in which said element furnishing Step (a) comprises the step of furnishing a material selected from the group consisting essentially of: processed sheep dermal collagen, Hench's bioglass, fibrinogen, polyimino- carbonates, and polylactic acid.
25. The method as recited in Claim 18 in which said integrating Step (b) comprises: use of an angiogenic agent as said vasoinductive agent.
26. The method as recited in Claim 18 in which said integrating Step (b) comprises selecting said vasoinductive agent from the group consisting essentially of: vascular endothelial growth factor, platelet growth factor, vascular permeability factor, fibroblast growth factor, and transforming growth factor beta. 


 3
>
 7
27. The method as recited in Claim 18 in which said incorporating Step (c) comprises the provision of therapeutic agents selected from the group consisting essentially of: chemotherapeutics , analgesics, hormones, enzymes, catalysts, anesthetics, anti- inflammatories, antibiotics, immuno- globulins and free-radical scavengers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
