<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654687</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A method of processing measurement while drilling data
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01V128	G01V132	E21B4700	E21B4700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01V	G01V	E21B	E21B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01V1	G01V1	E21B47	E21B47	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and system are disclosed for the transformation of 
measurement while drilling (MWD) data (Fi) acquired during various 

time intervals into corresponding equal depth intervals. Once the 
data are transformed into the depth domain, depth based statistical, 

filtering sensor resolution matching and depth shifting techniques 
are utilized. The transformation process maximizes sensor vertical 

resolution while minimizing observed and statistical errors 
associated with sensor response. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER HUGHES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BAKER HUGHES INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOBART STEVEN L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUTCHINSON MARK W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RANDALL RUSSELL R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOBART, STEVEN L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUTCHINSON, MARK W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RANDALL, RUSSELL R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHNEIDER, DAVID M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to processing of data
obtained during the drilling of a well borehole. These data are
typically produced by sensors positioned in the vicinity of the drill
bit and are telemetered to the surface in real time for
processing, or alternatively recorded down hole in real time for
subsequent processing and analysis.In the exploration and production of hydrocarbons,
numerous techniques are used to analyze earth formations
penetrated by a borehole. Wireline measurements involve a sensor
bearing logging tool or sonde which is lowered and raised at a
constant predetermined rate within the borehole. Data from the
downhole sensors are transmitted to the surface by way of the cable
used to raise and lower the logging tool. The resulting "logs" are
graphical or digital tabulations of the measured parameters of
interest as a function of depth within the well bore and are used to
analyze prospective formations for hydrocarbon content. Data in
wireline logging operations are typically collected over evenly spaced
depth intervals since the final product is a depiction of measured
parameters as a function of depth. Collection of data in this manner is
controlled by depth indicator signals generated by the system as the
speed at which the logging tool is raised or lowered within the well
bore. Wireline measurements must be made after the well bore has
been drilled. Such measurements can be adversely affected by the
build up of mud cake from the drilling fluid and/or other physical 
changes which occur in the vicinity of the borehole in the time
interval between the drilling and logging operation.There are many advantages in making parametric
measurements of interest during the actual drilling operation. The
formation is relatively unperturbed and valuable information
concerning the petrophysics of the penetrated formations and the
physical condition of the borehole can be obtained in real time or
near real time. Sensors can indicate in real time when the geological
formation of interest has been reached. High pressured formations
can be detected at the time of penetration thus permitting steps to
be taken to prevent damage to the well bore, drilling equipment and
personnel. Measurement while drilling (MWD) is accomplished by
placing sensors in the vicinity of the drill bit and either (a)
telemetering data to the surface in real time or (b) recording the data
downhole to be retrieved and processed intermittently during
routine retrieval of the drill string for replacement of the drill bit.
Sens
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of measuring parameters wherein raw data
(f
i
) acquired at spaced time intervals by at least one
sensor (15;16) in a MWD system (10) operating in a well

borehole is translated into corresponding evenly spaced
depth intervals, the method comprising the steps of:


(a) acquiring raw data (f
i
) in spaced time
intervals using at least one sensor (15;16) in a well

borehole and comprising a part of a MWD system;
(b) assigning (29) to said raw data depth values
corresponding to the locations of acquisition;

   
characterised in that
 said method further comprises
the steps of:


(c) placing (30) said raw data onto a first evenly
spaced depth grid;
(d) positioning (34) data onto points of said
first evenly spaced depth grid by filtering said raw

data using a first depth filter thereby creating a
second data set (f
a,i
) ;
(e) for selected points of said first evenly
spaced depth grid not containing data, providing data

for said points by interpolating (40) adjacent points of
said first evenly spaced depth grid containing data;
(f) applying a second filter (44), a deconvolution
process, or both to said second data set thereby

removing any aliasing and thereby creating a third data
set (f
b,i
).
The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps
of:


(g) placing (48) said third data set onto a second
evenly spaced depth grid with spacing greater than said

first evenly spaced depth grid; and
(h) retaining elements of said third data set
which fall upon the grid points of said second evenly

spaced depth grid thereby creating a fourth data set
(F
m
).
The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the errors (e
i
)
associated with said raw data (f
i
) acquired at spaced
time intervals are tracked through each step in the

translation of said raw data (f
i
) to said second data
set.
The method of claim 3 when dependent upon claim 2,
wherein the errors associated with said raw data (f
i
)
acquired at spaced time intervals are tracked through

each step in the translation of said raw data (f
i
) to
said fourth data set (F
m
).
The method of any preceding claim, wherein the
axial resolution (r
i
) associated with said raw data (f
i
)
collected at spaced time intervals is tracked through

each step of the translation of said raw data (f
i
) to
said second data set (f
a,i
).
The method of claim 5 when dependent upon claim 2,
wherein the axial resolution associated with said raw

data (f
i
) collected at spaced time intervals is tracked
through each step in the translation of said raw data

(f
i
) to said fourth data set (F
m
). 
The method of claim 3 or 4, wherein said tracked
errors are used to adaptively adjust the first filter,

the second filter, the deconvolution process or any
combination thereof.
The method of claim 5 or 6, wherein said tracked
resolutions adaptively adjust the first filter, the

second filter, the deconvolution process or any
combination thereof
.
The method of any preceding claims further
comprising the steps of:


(i) acquiring, in timed intervals, at least one
additional set of raw data from at least one additional

sensor mounted on the MWD system; and
(j) processing at least one of the additional sets
of raw data by the steps provided for translating raw

data acquired from a MWD sensor as set out in any
preceding claim to produce a plurality of translated

data sets.
The method of claim 9, wherein said raw data sets
exhibit different axial measure points and axial

resolutions and:

(k) said translated data sets are shifted (54) to
a common axial measure point thereby forming fifth data

sets;
(l) said fifth data sets are processed to match
(56) axial resolutions of the sensors thereby forming

sixth data sets;
(m) said sixth data sets are combined (60) to
yield at least one computed parameter of interest (P
m
) of
the borehole environ or the earth formation traversed by

said MWD system;
(n) errors and axial resolutions associated with
each data set are tracked from said raw data sets (f
i
)
through to said sixth data sets and are used to 

determine parametric error (E
m
) and parametric axial
resolution (R
m
) of said at least one computed parameter
of interest; and
(o) said parameter of interest and said parametric
error and parametric axial resolution are recorded (62)

as a function of depth within said well borehole.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said raw
data (f
i
) is acquired in evenly spaced time intervals.
The method of any preceding claim, wherein said
second filter is an center weighted filter.
The method of any preceding claim when dependent
upon claim 2, wherein the spacing of said second evenly

spaced depth grid is an integer multiple of the spacing
of said first evenly spaced depth grid.
A system for measuring parameters wherein raw data
(f
i
) acquired at spaced time intervals by at least one
sensor (15;16) in a MWD system (10) operating in a well

borehole is translated into corresponding evenly spaced
depth intervals, comprising:


(a) sensor means (15;16) for a MWD system for
acquiring said raw data from a well borehole;
(b) means for receiving (17, 11, 22) said raw data
from said sensor means (15;16);
(c) means for assigning (29) a depth value to each
measured raw data value corresponding to the location of

acquisition;

   
characterised in that
 said system further
comprises:


(d) means for placing (30) said raw data onto a
first evenly spaced depth grid;
(e) means for positioning (34) data onto points of
said first evenly spaced depth grid by filtering said

raw data using a first depth filter thereby creating a 
second data set (f
a,i
) ;
(f) for selected points of said first evenly
spaced depth grid not containing data, means for

providing data for said points by interpolating (40)
adjacent points of said first evenly spaced depth grid

containing data;
(g) means for applying (44) a second filter, a
deconvolution process, or both to said second data set

thereby removing any aliasing and thereby creating a
third data set (f
b,i
) ;
(h) means for recording said third data set.
The system of claim 14, wherein the means for
recording said third data set further comprises means

for placing (48) said third data set onto a second
evenly spaced depth grid with the spacing of said second

evenly spaced depth grid being greater than said first
evenly spaced depth grid, said system further

comprising:

(i) means for retaining elements of each said
third data set which fall upon the grid points of said

second evenly spaced depth grid thereby creating a
fourth data set (F
m
) ; and
(j) means for recording said fourth data set.
The system of claim 14 or 15, further comprising
means of tracking errors (e
i
) associated with said raw
data through each step of the translation of said raw

data (f
i
) to said second data set.
The system of claim 16 when dependent upon claim
15, further comprising means for tracking errors

associated with said raw data through each step of the
translation of said raw data to said fourth data sets. 
The system of any of claims 14-17, further
comprising means for tracking axial resolutions

associated with said raw data through each step of the
translation of said raw data to said second data set.
The system of claim 18 when dependent upon claim
15, further comprising means for tracking axial

resolutions associated with said raw data through each
step of the translation of said raw data to said fourth

data set.
The system of any of claims 14-19, wherein said
tracked errors are used to adaptively adjust the first

filter, the second filter, the deconvolution process or
any combination thereof.
The system of any of claims 14-20, wherein said
tracked resolutions are used to adaptively adjust the

first filter, the second filter, the deconvolution
process or any combination thereof.
The system of any of claims 14-21, wherein two or
more (15, 16) sensors are spaced at different axial

locations within said MWD system.
The system of claim 22 when dependent upon claim
15, further comprising:


(k) means of adjusting said first filter, said
second filter, said deconvolution process or any

combination thereof based upon the values of tracked
errors and tracked resolutions for each said sensor;
(l) means for shifting (54) said fourth data sets
to a common axial measure point thereby forming fifth

data sets corresponding to the response of each said
sensor at common measure points;
(m) means for processing said fifth data sets to
match (56) axial resolutions of said sensors thereby 

forming a sixth data set corresponding to the response
of each said sensor;
(n) means for combining (60) said sixth data sets
from each said sensor to yield at least one computed

parameter of interest of the earth formation or borehole
environ traversed by the MWD system;
(o) means for tracking the errors and the axial
resolutions associated with the raw data sets to said

sixth data sets;
(p) means for converting said errors and said
axial resolutions associated with said sixth data sets

into parametric error (E
m
) and parametric resolution (R
m
)
of said at least one computed parameter of interest; and
(q) means for recording (62) said at least
parameter of interest and said parametric error and said

parametric axial resolution as a function of depth of
said common measure point of the MWD system within said

well borehole.
The system of any of claims 14-23, wherein raw data
is acquired at evenly spaced time intervals.
The system of any of claims 14-24, wherein said at

least one sensor (15;16) acquires raw data induced by a
source of radiation (19) within the MWD system.
The system of any of claims 14-24, wherein said at
least one sensor (15;16) acquires raw data induced by a

source of acoustic energy within the MWD system.
The system of any of claims 14-24, wherein said at
least one sensor (15;16) acquires raw data induced by a

source of electromagnetic data within the MWD system.
The system of any of claims 14-24, wherein said at
least one sensor (15;16) acquires raw data resulting

from naturally occurring radioactive material within
earth formations traversed by the MWD system. 
The system of any of claims 14-28 when dependent
upon claim 15, wherein the spacing of said second evenly

spaced depth grid is an integer multiple of the spacing
of said first evenly spaced depth grid.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
