<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624807</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process of fabrication of a reflector with a metal matrix composite support, and reflector produced this way
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B508	B32B1501	B32B1501	G02B508	G02B7182	G02B510	G02B510	G02B7182	G02B7183	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	B32B	B32B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B5	B32B15	B32B15	G02B5	G02B7	G02B5	G02B5	G02B7	G02B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for fabricating a reflector (10) comprises the following steps: onto a mould surface (1), having a geometrical shape complementary to the desired geometrical shape for the reflector, is deposited a metal layer (3) having a reflective surface with a shape at least approximately identical to the said desired geometrical shape; metallised carbon fibres (4-7), intended to constitute a composite support, are laid-up (draped) over this metal layer; this layer and these metallised fibres are subjected to conditions suitable for pressing the reflective surface intimately against the mould surface and to generate combined bonding (welding) and diffusion, both of the layer with the fibres and fibres between each other, so as to incorporate the layer into the composite support while the said support is being consolidated. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AEROSPATIALE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AEROSPATIALE SOCIETE NATIONALE INDUSTRIELLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABIVEN HENRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ABIVEN, HENRI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A method of manufacturing a reflector (10, 20,
30, 40) formed by a reflective metallic layer on a

metallic matrix composite support, characterised in that:

a metallic layer (3; 13; 23, 23A; 33, 33A) having
a reflective surface whose shape is at least

approximately identical to the required geometrical shape
is disposed on a mould surface (1, 11, 21, 31) having a

geometrical shape complementary to the required
geometrical shape of the reflector,
fibres (4-7, 7'-4'; 14-17, 17'-14'; 24-27, 27'-24';
34-37, 37'-34') adapted to constitute the composite

support are draped on said metallic layer, said fibres
being metallised by the metallic or intermetallic

material adapted to form said metallic matrix,
said layer and said metallised fibres are
subjected to temperature and pressure conditions adapted

to press said reflective surface strongly against said
mould surface and to cause diffusion welding of the layer

with the metallised fibres and of the metallised fibres
with themselves so as to integrate the layer to the

composite support during consolidation of said support.
A manufacturing method according to claim 1

characterised in that the fibres are carbon fibres.
A manufacturing method according to claim 1 or
claim 2 characterised in that the fibres are disposed

symmetrically on either side of a median surface of
symmetry (S).
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 3 characterised in that said fibres are

draped in the free state.
A manufacturing method according to claim 4
characterised in that said fibres are divided into an

even number of layers disposed symmetrically to either
side of a median surface of symmetry (S). 
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 5 characterised in that the metallised fibres

are prepared by vapour phase physical deposition of a
layer of metallisation onto the fibres so that the

metallised fibres are flexible.
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 3 characterised in that said fibres are

stranded.
A manufacturing method according to claim 7
characterised in that the stranded metallised fibres are

metallised by dipping them into a bath of molten metallic
material or by infiltration.
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 3 characterised in that said fibres are

grouped in plates (34-37; 37'-34') in which said fibres
have one, two or three alignment directions.
A manufacturing method according to claim 9
characterised in that the plates of metallised fibres

having one, two or three alignment directions are
obtained by infiltration of the metallic material in the

molten state under pressure.
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 10 characterised in that the metallic or

intermetallic metallisation material is selected from the
group comprising aluminium, aluminium alloy, magnesium,

magnesium alloy, copper, copper alloy, titanium, titanium
alloy and aluminides, in particular titanium aluminide

and nickel aluminide.
A method according to any one of claims 1 to
11 characterised in that said metallic layer is placed on

the mould surface in the form of one or more deformable
films (13; 23A; 33, 33A).
A method according to any one of claims 1 to
11 characterised in that said metallic layer is obtained

by preparation of a metallic blank having a blank surface 
at least approximately identical to the required

geometrical shape, said blank being deformable under said
temperature and pressure conditions at least in a part of

its thickness underlying said blank surface.
A method according to claim 13 characterised
in that said blank is deformable under said temperature

and pressure conditions throughout its thickness.
A method according to claim 13 characterised
in that said metallic blank includes a rigid base layer

and a coating layer formed from a material that is
deformable under said temperature and pressure

conditions.
A method according to claim 15 characterised
in that said coating layer is obtained by plasma spraying

of one or more metallic powders onto said rigid base
layer.
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 11 characterised in that said metallic layer

is applied to the surface of the mould by plasma spraying
of one or more metallic powders.
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 17 characterised in that the metallic layer

includes one or more metallic materials selected from the
group comprising aluminium, aluminium alloy, magnesium,

magnesium alloy, copper, copper alloy, nickel, nickel
alloy, titanium, titanium alloy and aluminides, in

particular titanium aluminide and nickel aluminide.
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 18 characterised in that the reflector is

polished.
A manufacturing method according to any one of
claims 1 to 19 characterised in that a further coating is

applied to the reflective layer.
A manufacturing method according to claim 20
characterised in that said further coating is of gold. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to
21 characterised in that an oxidation protection layer

(28) is deposited on the fibres on the opposite side to
the metallic layer.
A reflector formed by a reflective metallic
layer (3; 13; 23, 23A; 33, 33A) on a metallic or

intermetallic matrix composite support characterised in
that the metallic or intermetallic matrices of the

support and the reflective layer are intermingled.
A reflector according to claim 23
characterised in that the metallic or intermetallic

materials of the support and the reflective layer are
different and their concentrations vary continuously in

the direction from the support to the reflective layer
and vice versa.
A reflector according to claim 23
characterised in that the metallic or intermetallic

materials of the support and the reflective layer are
identical.
A reflector according to any one of claims 23
to 25 characterised in that the support is symmetrical

about a median surface of symmetry (S).
A reflector according to any one of claims 23
to 26 characterised in that the support includes

superposed layers of fibres (4-7, 7'-4'; 14-17,
17'-14'; 24-27, 27'-24'; 34-37, 37'-34') with different

orientations from one layer to the other.
A reflector according to any one of claims 23
to 27 characterised in that the fibres are carbon fibres.
A reflector according to any one of claims 23
to 28 characterised in that the metallic matrix is formed

from one or more materials selected from the group
comprising aluminium, aluminium alloy, magnesium,

magnesium alloy, copper, copper alloy, titanium, titanium
alloy and aluminides, in particular titanium aluminide 

and nickel aluminide.
A reflector according to any one of claims 23
to 29 characterised in that the reflective metallic layer

is formed from one or more materials selected from the
group comprising aluminium, aluminium alloy, magnesium,

magnesium alloy, copper, copper alloy, nickel, nickel
alloy, titanium, titanium alloy and aluminides, in

particular titanium aluminide and nickel aluminide.
A reflector according to any one of claims 23
to 30 characterised in that said matrix has an oxidation

protection layer (28) on the side opposite the metallic
layer.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
