<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617936</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Encapsulated breast prosthesis and method of making same.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F250	A61F250	A61F252	A61L2700	A61L2700	A61L3100	A61L3100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61L27	A61L27	A61L31	A61L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An encapsulated gel breast prosthesis (10) and method of 
manufacturing same is provided wherein a nipple/areola member 

(16) and gelled breast body (18) are disposed within an inner 
skin (24) and outer skin (26) which define the exterior shape 

of the breast prosthesis. The nipple/areola member (16) has 
a shape, color and hardness simulating the natural shape, 

color and hardness of a human breast. The encapsulated gel 
breast prosthesis (10) is fabricated by forming an outer skin 

(26) and an inner skin (24). The outer skin (26) is shaped 
to simulate the natural contour of a woman's breast and 

includes a region corresponding to the nipple and areola of 
the breast. A nipple/areola member (16) having a shape, 

color and hardness, which simulates the natural shape, color 
and hardness of a woman's nipple and areola is disposed 

between the outer (26) and inner skins (24) which are then 
sealed together along their peripheries (28). This forms a 

capsule with the nipple/areola member enclosed therein. The 
capsule is then filled with a gel-forming composition (18) 

through an opening in the capsule. The opening is sealed and 
the gel-forming composition is cured into a gel with the 

nipple/areola member (16) adjacent to the nipple and areola 
portion of the outer skin (26). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPENCO MEDICAL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPENCO MEDICAL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULZ MICHAEL WARREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAW ROBERT EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHULZ, MICHAEL WARREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAW, ROBERT EUGENE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The field of the invention is that of human body prosthetics 
and more particularly an encapsulated breast prosthesis and 
method of fabrication therefor. Breast prostheses are usually made of a synthetic silicone 
resin that cures to a gelatinous state, and the outer surface 
of the prosthesis is shaped so as to simulate the shape of a 
woman's natural breast. As disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 
5,035,758 to Degler, a distinction is made between film-free 
breast prostheses and prostheses encapsulated or sheathed in 
film. Film-free breast prostheses have the disadvantage that 
silicone oil often seeps from the prosthesis. In order to 
overcome this disadvantage, breast prostheses have been 
encapsulated in thermoplastic films such as polyurethane 
films. In general, such breast prostheses are produced by 
placing the uncrosslinked silicone resin composition together 
with the crosslinking agent and a catalyst between two flat 
films that form an envelope for the prosthesis. The films 
are welded together along this edge except for a small 
filling opening. The films are then fixed at the edge of a 
cavity in the area of the welded edge in a die that 
corresponds to the shape of the breast. Silicone resin 
composition is added until the films are pressed against the 
walls of the die cavity, the film edges are then welded 
together in the area of the filling opening, and the silicone 
resin composition is cured to form a gelatinous mass. Breast 
prostheses of this type are described, for example, in U.S. 
Pat. No. 5,035,758 to Degler. However, while known film encapsulated breast prostheses 
simulate the shape of the breast, they do not adequately 
simulate the natural shape, color and hardness of the areola 
and nipple regions of a human breast. The present invention  
 
aims to provide an improved encapsulated gel breast 
prosthesis having a nipple and areola which simulates the 
natural nipple and areola in shape, color and hardness and 
provides a process for producing a breast prosthesis having 
such characteristics so as to provide a prosthesis which 
closely simulates a woman's natural breast. This object is 
solved by the encapsulated breast prosthesis of independent 
claim 1 and a method of making same according to independent 
claim 8 or 16. Further advantageous features, aspects and 
details of the invention are evident from the dependent 
claims, the description and the drawings. The claims are 
intended to be understood as a first non-limiting approach of 
defining the invention in general
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An encapsulated breast prosthesis comprising: 

(a) an outer skin (26) of flexible material having a 
shape which corresponds to the shape of a human 

breast including a region which corresponds to the 
shape of a human nipple and areola, said outer skin 

having a periphery; 
(b) an inner skin (24) of flexible material having a 
periphery, said inner and outer skins being sealed 

along their peripheries (28); 
(c) a gelled body (18) disposed between said inner (24) 
and outer skins (26); and 
(d) a nipple/areola member (16) having a desired color 
and hardness so as to simulate the natural color and 

hardness of a nipple and areola of a human breast, 
said nipple/areola member (16) having a convex side 

(22) shaped in the form of said human nipple and 
areola and being disposed between said inner (24) and 

outer (26) skins with said convex side (22) facing 
outwardly adjacent to said region of said outer skin 

which corresponds to the shape of said human nipple 
and areola. 
The encapsulated breast prosthesis of Claim 1 wherein 
said inner and outer skins (26,28) are made of a 

thermoplastic material. 
The encapsulated breast prosthesis of Claim 2 wherein 
said thermoplastic material is polyurethane based. 
The encapsulated breast prosthesis of any one of the 
preceding claims wherein said nipple/areola member (16) 

is made of a silicone resin composition. 
The encapsulated breast prosthesis of Claim 1 wherein 
said nipple/areola member (16) has a concave side (20) 

facing inwardly adjacent to said gelled body (18). 
The encapsulated breast prosthesis of any one of the 
preceding claim wherein said gelled body (18) comprises a 

cured silicone resin composition. 
The encapsulated breast prosthesis of any one of the 
preceding claims wherein said inner skin (24) has a 

concave exterior shape corresponding to the area of the 
human body where the natural breast was removed. 
A method of producing an encapsulated breast prosthesis 
comprising: 


(a) forming an outer skin of flexible material and having 
a periphery, said outer skin corresponding to the 

shape of a human breast, including a region which 
corresponds to the shape of a human nipple and 

areola; 
(b) forming an inner skin of flexible material having a 
periphery; 
(c) providing a nipple/areola member having a color and 
hardness simulating the color and hardness of a 

nipple and areola of said human breast, said 
nipple/areola member having a convex side shaped in 

the form of said human nipple and areola; 
(d) disposing said nipple/areola member between said 
inner skin and said outer skin and sealing said inner 

and outer skins together about their peripheries, 
thereby forming a capsule with said nipple/areola 

member disposed therein; 
(e) filling said capsule with a gel-forming composition 
through an opening formed in said capsule; 
(f) sealing the opening in said capsule; and 
(g) curing said gel-forming composition to form a gelled 
body with said convex side of said nipple/areola 

member facing outwardly adjacent to said region of 
said outer skin which corresponds to said nipple and 

areola. 
The method of Claim 8 wherein said inner and outer skins 
are made of a thermoplastic material. 
The method of Claim 9 wherein said thermoplastic material 
is polyurethane based. 
The method of any one of claims 8 to 10 wherein said 
nipple/areola member is made of a silicone composition. 
The method of any one of claims 8 to 11 wherein said 
nipple/areola member has a concave side facing inwardly 

adjacent to said gelled body. 
The method of any one of claims 8 to 12 wherein said gel-forming 
composition is a silicone resin composition. 
The method of any one of claims 8 to 13 wherein the 
opening through which said capsule is filled with said 

gel-forming composition is created by leaving a portion 
 

of the peripheries of said inner and outer skins 
unsealed. 
The method of any one of claims 8 to 14 wherein said 
inner skin has a concave exterior shape corresponding to 

the area of the human body where the natural breast was 
removed. 
The method of any one of claims 8 to 15 wherein said 

inner and outer skins are made of a polyurethane based 
thermoplastic material. 
The method of any one of claims 8 to 16 wherein said gel-forming 
composition is a silicone resin composition. 
A method of producing an encapsulated breast prosthesis 
especially according to any one of claims 8 to 17 

comprising: 

(a) forming an outer skin of flexible thermoplastic 
material on a mold having a shape corresponding to a 

human breast with a nipple and areola, said outer 
skin having a periphery; 
(b) forming a concave shaped inner skin of flexible 
thermoplastic material on a mold having a convex 

shape corresponding to the area of the human body 
where the natural breast was removed, said inner skin 

having a periphery; 
(c) forming a nipple/areola member having a color and 
hardness which simulates the natural color and 

hardness of said nipple and areola of a human breast 
and having a convex side shaped in the form of said 

nipple and areola, said nipple/areola member being 
formed by depositing a curable composition of a 

 
desired color into a concave shaped mold having a 

shape corresponding to the natural shape of said 
human nipple and areola, and curing said composition; 
(d) disposing said nipple/areola member between said 
inner and outer skins and sealing said inner and 

outer skins along their peripheries to form a capsule 
with said nipple/areola disposed therein; 
(e) filling said capsule with a gel-forming composition 
having a desired color corresponding to the natural 

color of a human breast through an opening formed in 
said capsule; 
(f) removing any trapped air within said capsule through 
said opening; 
(g) sealing said opening in said capsule; and 
(h) curing said gel-forming composition to form a gelled 
body with said convex side of said nipple/areola 

member facing outwardly and positioned adjacent to a 
region of said outer skin corresponding to said 

nipple and areola. 
The method of Claim 18 wherein said convex side of said 
nipple/areola member is positioned adjacent to said 

region of said outer skin corresponding to the nipple and 
areola by inverting said capsule with said region of said 

outer skin corresponding to said nipple and areola facing 
downward, thereby permitting said nipple/areola member to 

sink through said gel-forming composition, and to be 
positioned adjacent to said region of said outer skin 

corresponding to said nipple and areola. 
The method of Claim 18 or 19 wherein said nipple/areola 
member is made of a silicone resin composition. 
The method of any one of claims 18 to 20 wherein said 
gel-forming composition is a silicone resin composition. 
The method of any one of claims 18 to 21 wherein said 
curable composition which forms said nipple/areola member 

is deposited by spraying said curable composition into 
said concave shaped mold. 
The method of any one of claims 18 to 22 wherein said 
curable composition which forms the nipple/areola member 

is deposited by pouring said curable composition into 
said concave mold. 
An encapsulated breast prosthesis obtainable by the 
method of any one of claims 8 to 23. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
