<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611147</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Fuzzy logic apparatus control
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F25D2106	F25D2106	F25D1100	G05D2319	F25D1102	F25D1100	F25D2900	F25D1102	G05D2319	F25D2900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F25D	F25D	F25D	G05D	F25D	F25D	F25D	F25D	G05D	F25D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F25D21	F25D21	F25D11	G05D23	F25D11	F25D11	F25D29	F25D11	G05D23	F25D29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for sequentially operating 
a refrigeration system with multiple evaporators (38,40) is provided 

in which only one evaporator is operated at a time and is 
run until a set of fuzzy logic rules determines that one of 

the other evaporators should be operated or that the 
operation of the evaporators (38,40) should be terminated. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNEZIC TIMOTHY M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUEHL STEVEN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KNEZIC, TIMOTHY M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUEHL, STEVEN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to refrigeration appliances
and more particularly to a method for operating refrigeration
appliances having multiple evaporators.In typical domestic refrigeration appliances, the appliance
oftentimes has two separate compartments which are maintained at
different temperatures. For example, there may be a freezer
compartment which has a temperature maintained below 0°C and a
fresh food compartment which is maintained at a temperature
somewhat above 0°C.In many commercially available refrigeration devices a
single evaporator is used with an evaporating pressure of
approximately 1,01-1,15 bars (0-2 psig). Air is circulated over the evaporator
from both the freezer compartment and the refrigerator
compartment. This "mixed" air flow scheme results in
dehumidification of the refrigerator compartment and subsequent
frost build-up on the single evaporator coil, necessitating a
periodic defrost cycle to get rid of the accumulated frost.Also, using a single evaporator to provide the cooling for
two compartments which are maintained at different temperatures
results in an inefficient use of the refrigeration system for the
higher temperature compartment.It is known in the art to utilize multiple evaporators in
refrigeration appliances. U.S. Patent No. 2,576,663 discloses
the use of two evaporators, each for its own refrigeration
compartment. The evaporators are alternately supplied with 
refrigerant through a control valve.U.S.Patent No. 3,390,540 discloses the use of
multiple evaporators in a refrigeration system. Each
evaporator is controlled by an expansion valve and it is
possible to operate more than one evaporator at a time.U.S. Patent No. 3,108,453 discloses a multiple
evaporator refrigeration system in which the evaporators may
be used independently of each other. Also a phase change
material is used in connection with at least one of the
evaporators.U.S. Patent No. 3,786,648 discloses the use of
multiple evaporators for controlling the temperature of
multiple compartments with the evaporators operating
independently of each other.U.S. Patent No. 4,439,998 discloses a refrigeration
apparatus having multiple evaporators with an electronically
controlled valve system to deliver refrigerant to one
evaporator in preference to the other, but causing the valve
system to deliver refrigerant to the other evaporator after a
predetermined amount of time.U.S. Patent No. 4,916,916 discloses the use of a
phase change energy storage material in connection with a
multiple evaporator
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating a refrigeration appliance
having a least two separate compartments to be cooled and a

refrigeration device with at least two separate evaporators,
one for each of said compartments, comprising the following steps:


1) measuring a temperature in each compartment;
2) determining a current cycle length value for
each evaporator;
3) determining a temperature difference value in
each compartment from a preselected set temperature;
4) determining a temperature-time gradient value
for each compartment;
5) mapping said determined values to linguistic
values in accordance with predetermined membership functions

to obtain input set values;
6) applying predetermined logic rules to said
input set values to derive values for an output set of

consequents comprising first compartment evaporator on, second
compartment evaporator on, and evaporators off;
7) determining which of said output values is
largest;
8) initiating and terminating operation of said
evaporators in accordance with the largest of said output

values; and
9) returning to step 1.
A method according to claim 1 and further including
the step of operating one of said evaporators at a lower

pressure than the other to produce a cooler temperature in one
of the compartments than the other.
A method according to claim 2 including the step of
evacuating refrigerant from said evaporator operated at a

lower pressure prior to initiating operation of said
evaporator operated at a higher pressure. 
A method according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein a
phase change material is associated with at least one of

said compartments and step 1 includes measuring the
temperature of said phase change material to use as an input

value in step 6.
A method according to claim 4, wherein a fan is
associated with said compartment having said phase change

material and said fan is operated in accordance with said
output values.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, including a second set of rules to apply in the

event that two or more of said consequent values are equal.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein said refrigeration device includes a

condenser cooled by a fan and further including the step of
operating said fan at a higher speed when operating said

higher pressure evaporator.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, including the step of periodically raising the

temperature of at least one of said evaporators to effect a
defrosting of water vapour condensed and frozen on said

evaporator.
A method according to claim 8 wherein said step of
raising the temperature occurs the first time after some

predetermined time period when a compartment associated with
said evaporator next demands cooling.
A method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein a step
of operation of an evaporator not being defrosted is

independent of whether the other evaporator is being defrosted. 
A method according to claim 8, 9 or 10, wherein said
step of raising the temperature of an evaporator to effect a

defrosting thereof is followed by a period of soaking and
draining of that evaporator, and operation of the other of

said evaporators is suspended only when said first evaporator
is having its temperature elevated, not when it 
is soaking or
draining.
A method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein said initiating and terminating operation of

said evaporators is achieved in part by selectively opening
and closing valves in a refrigeration circuit.
A method according to claim 12 wherein said step of
opening and closing valves comprises briefly energizing said

valves to cause them to cycle between an open and closed
position where they will remain until they are again briefly

energized.
A refrigeration appliance having at least two
separate compartments to be cooled and a refrigeration device

with at least two separate evaporators, one for each of said
compartments, comprising:


means for measuring the temperatures in each
compartment;
means for measuring the current cycle length for
each evaporator;
means for determining the temperature differences in
each compartment from a preselected set temperature;
means for determining a temperature-time gradient
for each compartment;
means for mapping said determined values to
linguistic values in accordance with predetermined membership

functions to obtain input set values;
means for applying predetermined logic rules to 
said input set values to derive values for an output set of

consequents comprising first compartment evaporator on,
second compartment evaporator on, and evaporators off;
means for determining which of said output values
is largest; and
means for initiating and terminating operation of
said evaporators in accordance with the largest of said

output values.
A refrigeration appliance according to claim 14
and further including means for operating one of said

evaporators at a lower pressure than the other to produce a
cooler temperature in one of the compartments than the

other.
A refrigeration appliance according to claim 15
wherein said refrigeration device includes a condenser

cooled by a fan and further including means for operating
said fan at a higher speed when operating said higher

pressure evaporator.
A refrigeration appliance according to any one of
claims 14 to 16 including means for periodically raising the

temperature of at least one of said evaporators to effect a
defrosting of water vapour condensed and frozen on said

evaporator.
A refrigeration appliance according to any one of
claims 14 to 17, wherein said refrigeration device includes

conduits for carrying a fluid refrigerant and valves
positioned in said conduits which may be selectively opened

and closed to initiate and terminate operation of said
evaporators.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
