<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652496</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DIAL OF TIMEPIECE AND TIMEPIECE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G04B1900	G04B1926	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G04B	G04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G04B19	G04B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In various kinds of orally transmitted medical sciences, 
it is known that men have a biorhythm in accordance with the 

time. There is as an example in Indian orally transmitted medical 
science "Ayurveda". According to the present invention, a 

dial of a timepiece is divided into three fan-shaped regions of 
different colors in order to indicate which time zone according 

to Ayurveda the actual time belongs to. The regions of different 
colors correspond to Vata V, Kapha K and Pitta P of Ayurveda. 

One of these regions is indicated by an hour hand, whereby the 
indicating of Ayurveda time is done. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMANO KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AMANO, KAZUHIKO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to watches, more specifically to a character panel
for watches having the capability to display information besides the time, such as life
rhythms.From various traditional medical teachings, it is known that humans have a life
rhythm which depends upon the time. As an example, according to the traditional
Indian medical teachings of the "Ayurveda", assuming that sunrise occurs at 6 a.m. and
sundown occurs at 6 p.m., the human life rhythm is as follows.First, the time periods from 6 a.m.-10 a.m. and 6 p.m.-10p.m. are the best
times for thinking, and are called Kapha (K) referring to the quality of
stability/peacefulness in the body. When exercising during these time periods it is best
to exercise lightly, and everyday labor should be performed only lightly as well. In
addition, it is not advisable to eat or drink during these time periods. Kapha (K) is
symbolized by "green".Second, the time periods from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. and 10 p.m.-2 a.m. are the time
periods for digestion and change, and are called Pitta (P) referring to the quality of
activity. That is, the daytime period is an appropriate time period for eating, and is
suited to digestive/metabolic activity. During the nighttime period, the matter absorbed
through digestion is converted into flesh, particularly that of the extremities. Pitta (P) is
symbolized by "red".Third, the time periods from 2 a.m.-6 a.m. and 2 p.m.-6p.m. are the time
periods for activity and exercise, and are called Vata (V) referring to the quality of
freshness/lightness. That is, the daytime Vata (V) is suitable for moving the body
including comparatively heavy exercise. Additionally, regarding the early morning
Vata (V), such phenomena as the bringing about of a good awakening due to the quality
of freshness/lightness are able to be seen. Furthermore, as states of slumber, there are
REM sleep and non-REM sleep. REM sleep is a state of slumber which is
accompanied by bodily activity such as movement of the eyeballs, and the fact that
REM sleep becomes longer during the Vata (V) from 2 to 3 o'clock has been made
clinically clear. The daily bodily quality, activity quality, and seasonal quality are
described by the three qualities of the Vata (V), the Pitta (P), and the Kapha (K).
Slumber is taken in the time period from 10p.m. to a.m., and in the time periods of
the Pitta (P) and the Vata (V) the decay of the dosha which is the bodily balance is 
undone. For example, the changing of one's position during sleep may be seen as such a
phenomenon.The
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A watch having a time display means (17, 18, 19) for displaying the present time
and a rhythm display means (12, 13, 14, 15) for displaying a position within a time

period of a daily varying life rhythm corresponding to the present time, characterised in
that on said rhythm display means (12, 13, 14, 15) each day comprises a fixed number

of time periods (V,K,P) in which different activities are appropriate, and in that said
present time and said position within a time period of a daily varying life rhythm are

displayed simultaneously in accordance with the position of said time display means.
A watch according to claim 1 wherein said time display means and said rhythm
display means are both composed from a single liquid crystal display device (66), and

the display is switched by the operation of a operational element (61).
A watch according to claim 1 and further characterised by having watch hands
(17, 18, 19) for displaying the time;


watch hand movement means (51-57) for moving said watch hands;
a character panel (12) for the watch divided by boundary lines which radiate
outward from the axis of said watch hands, and having a plurality of display regions

arranged in the direction of rotation of said watch hands; and
a control means (3) for displaying separately by colour time periods of said daily
varying life rhythm in said plurality of display regions.
A watch according to claim 3, wherein said life rhythm is Ayurveda time, and
said time periods are Kapha, Pitta, and Vata.
A watch according to claim 3 or claim 4, characterised in that said control means has

a dating means (4) for outputting date information;
a position information output means (6) for outputting position information; and
a means (5) for calculating a time of sunrise and a time of sundown based on said
date information and said position information, determining three wedge shapes by

separating into three equal sections a wedge shape between an hour hand position
corresponding to the calculated time of sunrise and an hour hand position corresponding

to the calculated time of sundown, and making a colour-separated display on said
character panel corresponding to said three wedge shapes.
A watch according to any one of claims 3 to 5, characterised in that said control
means has


a dating means (4) for outputting date information;
a geographical region setting means (7) for setting a geographical region;
a geographical region memory means (8) for storing a latitude, a longitude, and a
deviation from standard time separately for each region;
a watch hand control means (40) for controlling said watch hand movement
means so as to display the time in the relevant geographical region based on the deviation

from standard time of the geographical region set by said geographical region setting
means; and
a means (5) for calculating a time of sunrise and a time of sundown based on said
date information and the above-mentioned latitude information, determining three wedge

shapes by separating into three equal sections a wedge shape between an hour hand
position corresponding to the calculated time of sunrise and an hour hand position 

corresponding to the calculated time of sundown, and making a colour-separated display
on said character panel corresponding to said three wedge shapes.
A watch according to any one of claims 3 to 6 wherein said character panel for a
watch is composed of a character panel (1) for displaying the time, and a colour display

panel (2) having a plurality of display regions arranged in a direction of rotation of the
watch hands.
A watch according to claim 1 and further characterised by having watch hands
(17, 18, 19) for displaying the time; and characterised by also having:


a character panel (1) for a watch having a single display region (2) which displays
a plurality of colours and;
a control means (5) for displaying separately by colour conditions of a daily
varying life rhythm on said display region.
A watch having a time display means for displaying the present time and a rhythm display means for displaying a position within a time period of daily varying life rhythm corresponding to the present time, characterised by having a circular panel (30) separated by colour into a
plurality of wedge-shaped regions corresponding to time periods of a daily varying life

rhythm, wherein each day comprises a fixed number of time periods in which different
activities are appropriate, and displaying the present time period of said life rhythm by

rotating said circular panel with the passage of time.
A watch according to claim 9 characterised in that said circular panel is provided
coaxially with the watch, and rotates with the same period as the watch.
A watch according to claim 10 wherein said circular panel is attached to a
cylindrical gear (53) provided so that it surrounds the axis of the watch, and said 

cylindrical panel is rotated by transmitting rotational activity of a step motor to said
cylindrical gear through a gear sequence. 
A watch according to claim 9 characterised in that said circular panel (31) is
attached to an axis separate from the watch, and rotates with the same period as the

watch.
A watch according to one of claim 1 or claim 9, further characterised in that it
displays the standard time corresponding to a designated geographical region and

displays the time period of a life rhythm corresponding to the present time, such that
when a geographical region is designated a standard time display is given corresponding

to said designated region, and the display of the time period of a life rhythm
corresponding to the present time is gradually over a set time interval shifted to a display

corresponding to the designated region.
A watch according to claim 13 and further characterised by being provided with a
bezel ring (25) rotatably attached to the circumference of the watch face, an encoder for

measuring an angle of rotation of said bezel ring, and a circular panel (30) for displaying
the time period of a life rhythm corresponding to the present time according to its

rotational movement; such that when a geographical region is designated by the
rotational control of said bezel ring, the display of the time period of a life rhythm

corresponding to the present time is gradually over a set time interval shifted to a display
corresponding to the designated region by the gradual shifting over a set time interval of

said circular panel over the rotational angle measured by said encoder.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
