<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624236</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN AIR INJECTION TUBE AND A METHOD FOR AIR INJECTION
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F24F13068	F24F1306	F24F1306	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F24F	F24F	F24F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F24F13	F24F13	F24F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An air injection tube (10) for injecting ventilating, cooling and/or heating air may be installed in a room. The tube (10) has a plurality of small, mutually spaced air injecting openings (13) defined in its peripheral wall along at least one longitudinally extending wall zone of the tube. These air injection openings (13) are arranged in groups or patterns (15) each comprising at least two peripherally spaced rows or openings. The groups or patterns of openings are mutually spaced along the length of the zone, and the longitudinal spacing (d) of adjacent groups or patterns (15) substantially exceeds the mutual longitudinal spacing of the openings (13) in each group or pattern (15) of openings. The maximum angular spacing of the openings (13) in peripherally adjacent rows of each group or pattern is 45 DEG  and preferably 35 DEG .
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KE BURGMANN A S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KE-BURGMANN A/S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANIELSEN FREDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JESPERSEN CARSTEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DANIELSEN, FREDE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JESPERSEN, CARSTEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an air injection tube for 
injecting ventilating, cooling and/or heating air into a room 
in which the tube is installed. Such tubes, which may be made 
from an air-impervious, flexible material, comprise a great 
plurality of uniformly mutually spaced small openings defined 
in a peripheral zone extending along the length of the tube. Tubes of this known type may be used for blowing fresh and/or 
heated air into a large room or hall, such as factory 
buildings, gymnasiums, etc. An air injection tube of this type may, for example, be 
mounted in the upper part of the room or hall so that the air 
injection openings are directed upwardly and/or sideways. For 
special applications the openings may also be directed 
downwardly. When ventilating and/or heating air is fed into 
the tube at a certain pressure above that of the atmosphere a 
high-velocity flow of primary air is directed outwardly 
through each of the air injection openings of the tube. Each 
such high-velocity air flow generates a surrounding zone with 
a subatmospheric pressure, which in turn induces an inflow of 
secondary air from the room towards the injection tube. The 
velocity of the primary air flows is reduced in response to 
the inflow of secondary air from the room in which the 
injection tube is installed. GB-A-846,472 and GB-A-929,285 disclose an injection tube or 
air duct of the above type, wherein the openings defined in 
the tube are arranged in a pair of diametrically opposite 
rows. The tube may be divided into axial sections, and the 
mutual spacing of the openings in each row of openings may be 
smaller in sections adjacent to a closed end of the tube than 
in sections adjacent to an air inlet end of the tube.  
 SE-B-212099 discloses an air injection tube which has a 
square cross-sectional shape and is located at and extends 
along a corner between the ceiling and an adjacent side wall 
of a room. This known air injection tube has a plurality of 
small, mutually spaced air injection openings which are 
arranged in longitudinally spaced groups or patterns. A 
longitudinally extending, slot-like air injection opening is 
positioned between each adjacent pair of groups of openings. 
Air is injected into the room through the groups of openings 
at a relatively low flow rate while the air injected through 
the slot-like openings has a substantially higher flow rate. It is desired to obtain the best possible mixing of the 
injected primary air with the air present in the room without 
inducing
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An air injection tube (10) for injecting ventilating, 
cooling and/or heating air into a room in which the tube (10) 

is installed, a plurality of small, mutually spaced air 
injecting openings (13) being defined in the peripheral wall 

of the tube along at least one longitudinally extending wall 
zone of the tube and being arranged in at least two peripherally 

spaced rows of openings and in groups or patterns 
(15), which are mutually spaced along the length of the zone, 

the longitudinal spacing (d) of adjacent groups or patterns 
(15) substantially exceeding the mutual longitudinal spacing 

of the openings (13) in each group or pattern (15) of openings,
characterized
 in further comprising suspension 
members (11) for suspending the air injection tube (10) from 

a roof structure or ceiling of the room, and in 
that the tube wall zone in which the air injection openings 

(13) are defined has a substantially circular cross-sectional 
shape, that the maximum angular spacing of the air injection 

openings (13) in peripherally adjacent rows of each group or 
pattern (15) of openings (13) is 45째, and in that the groups 

or patterns (15) of air injection openings (13) are spaced 
from the wall surfaces defining the room, whereby primary air 

flows (16) exiting through the air injection openings (13) of 
the axially spaced groups or patterns (15) of openings (13) 

induce a substantial increase in secondary flows (17) of room 
air directed towards the air injection tube (10). 
An air injection tube according to claim 1, wherein the 
peripheral spacing of peripherally adjacent rows of openings 

(13) in each group or pattern (15) does not exceed 120 mm. 
An air injection tube according to claims 1 or 2, wherein 
the angular spacing of peripherally adjacent rows of openings 

(13) in each group or pattern (15) does not exceed 35째.  
 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 1-3, 
wherein the minimum peripheral spacing of the centres of a 

pair of openings (13) in peripherally adjacent rows is 10 mm. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 1-4, 
wherein the peripheral or angular extension of each group or 

pattern (15) of openings (13) does not exceed 180째. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 1-5, 
wherein the groups or patterns (15) are arranged in at least 

two longitudinally co-extending zones which are all positioned 
within a common longitudinally extending zone of the 

tube wall having a peripheral or an angular extension not 
exceeding 180째. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 1-6, 
wherein the peripheral or angular extension of each group or 

pattern (15) of openings (13) is at least 32 mm. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 1-7, 
wherein each of said wall zones is defined between a pair of 

peripherally spaced generatrices (14) of the outer tube wall 

surface. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 1-8, 
wherein the air injection openings (13) of each group or 

pattern (15) are substantially uniformly mutually spaced. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 1-9, 
wherein each pattern or group (15) of openings (13) comprises 

at least four peripherally spaced, axially extending rows of 
openings (13).  

 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 
1-10, wherein the air injection openings (13) have a diameter 

of 2-10 mm, preferably 4-5 mm. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 
1-11, wherein the axial spacing of the centres of adjacent 

air injection openings (13) in each pattern or group (15) is 
10-50 mm, preferably approximately 20 mm. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 
1-12, wherein the axial extension of each group or pattern 

(15) is 200-1000 mm. 
An air injection tube according claim 13, wherein the 
axial extension of each group or pattern (15) of openings 

(13) is 500-800 mm, preferably 400-800 mm. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 
1-14, wherein the mutual longitudinal spacing of adjacent 

groups or patterns (15) of openings (13) is substantially the 
same along the length of the tube (10). 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 
1-15, wherein each group or pattern (15) of openings (13) is 

defined between a pair of peripherally spaced generatrices 
(14) of the tube wall and a pair of axially spaced planes 

extending substantially at right angles to the tube axis, so 
that such group or pattern (15) has a substantially 

rectangular shape when the tube wall is in an unfolded, plane 
condition. 
An air injection tube according to any of the claims 
1-16, wherein the axial spacing (d) of adjacent groups or  

 
patterns (15) of openings (13) is 20-150 percent of the axial 

extension (l) of each group or pattern of openings. 
An injection tube according to claim 17, wherein the 
axial spacing (d) of adjacent groups or patterns (15) of 

openings (13) is approximately 100 percent of the axial 
extension (l) of each group or pattern of openings. 
An injection tube according to any of the claims 1-18, 
wherein the tube wall is made from an air impervious, 

flexible material. 
An injection tube according to claim 19, wherein the wall 
thickness of the tube is 0.2-1 mm and preferably about 0.6 

mm. 
An injection tube according to any of the claims 1-20, 
further comprising an inner filtering member for filtering 

air supplied to the air injection tube. 
A method of injecting ventilating, cooling, and/or 
heating air into a room by means of an air injection tube 

according to any of the claims 1-21 installed in the room, 
said method comprising supplying air to the inner space of 

the tube (10) at a pressure so as to cause air to flow out 
through the air injecting openings (13) defined in the wall 

of the tube at a velocity of 6-15 m/sec, preferably 10-15 
m/sec. 
A method according to claim 22, wherein an air pressure 
of 60-200 Pa, preferably 80-160 Pa is maintained in the inner 

space of the tube (10). 
A method according to claim 22 or 23, wherein the air 
flows (16) from the injection openings (13) are directed 

upwardly in the room. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
