<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623057</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PULSATOR FOR IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND THE LIKE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05B102	B05B108	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05B	B05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05B1	B05B1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A pulsator, adapted for use in irrigation and other systems requiring the uniform discharge of water or other liquids in intermittent pulses and at regular frequencies, comprises a casing (11) having an expansible elastomeric tube (18) disposed therein. The tube is adapted to be exposed to pressurized liquid for movement between contracted and expanded conditions of operation for controlling the intermittent opening of a valve (20), formed in part by the tube. A flow control (21), located at the inlet to the pulsator, functions to modulate the pressure of the incoming liquid to control the flow rate of the liquid communicated to an expansible chamber (19) defined in part by the tube. When the pressure in the chamber exceeds a predetermined level, the valve (20) will open to intermittently discharge pulses of liquid to a distributor, such as an irrigation sprayer.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WADE MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WADE MANUFACTURING CO.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUNNENGRAEBER STEVEN P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAUTH RICHARD G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUNNENGRAEBER, STEVEN, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KRAUTH, RICHARD, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PULSATOR FOR IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND THE LIKETECHNICAL FIELDThis invention relates to a pulsating device for discharging a liquid intermittently and, more particularly, to a pulsating device adapted to intermittently discharge a liquid at regular frequencies and uniform discharges for irrigation and other purposes.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONWater distributing devices, such as fixed sprayers used for irrigation purposes, are limited in respect to the distances at which spray patterns can be discharged.Further, conventional sprayers are incapable of functioning in the desired manner when they are supplied with water at relatively low mainline pressures, such as below 25 psi. Thus, conventional sprayers and other water distributing devices cannot be retro-fitted to systems working under marginal pressure levels provided by existing pumps, mainlines, and sub-mainline infrastructures. The alternative to converting marginal systems of this type to include pumps or other accessories for boosting pressures to an acceptable working level, would be cost prohibitive and impracticable.A proposed solution to these problems has been the advent of pulsating devices, adapted to discharge water 

 from an irrigation sprayer at greater distances then can be achieved with conventional sprayers. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,301,967 discloses a pulsating-type sprinkler system wherein an elastomeric tube or bladder inter- mittently expands and contracts to control the opening and closing, respectively, of a valve to discharge water in intermittent pulses. U.S. Patent No. 4,781,217 discloses a pulsating-type irrigation system that relies on an expandable (Fig. 1) or fixed volume container (Fig. 4) for receiving fluid via a fixed orifice to provide intermittent pulses of water under control of a spring-biased and separate check valve. U.S. Patent No. 4,955,539 discloses a similar system wherein a rigid container is utilized to receive pressure-compensated water and thereafter discharge the water in intermittent pulses under the control of a pre-set check valve comprising an expansible elastomeric sleeve.Pulsating devices of the type described above must necessarily function within very narrow flow and line pressure ranges to be practicable. Further, such systems are normally incapable of operating efficiently at relatively low line pressures, e.g., below 25 psi. In addition, the systems are prone to one or more of the following problems: Inconsistent start-up to initiate a pulsating cycle; utilization of discharge orifices
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM
1. A pulsator comprising a pulsator inlet for receiving pressurized liquid therein, a pulsator outlet adapted to discharge liquid in intermittent pulses therefrom, a casing defining a cavity therein, an elastomeric tube means disposed in said cavity for movement from a normal first position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means falls below a predetermined level to a second position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means exceeds said level, chamber means defined in said pulsator for receiving said liquid to control movement of said tube means between its first and second positions, and normally closed valve means for intermittently opening to discharge liquid from said chamber means through said pulsator outlet in said intermittent pulses in response to the pressure of the liquid in said chamber means exceeding said level and said tube means assuming its second position, the improvement comprising inlet means for continuously communicating liquid from said pulsator inlet and into said chamber means when said tube means is in its first position.
2. The pulsator of claim 1 further comprising flow control means between said pulsator inlet and said chamber means for modulating the pressure of said liquid at said pulsator inlet to control the flow rate of said liquid into said chamber means. 


 3. The pulsator of claim 1 further comprising a mounting member disposed in said cavity and wherein said tube means defines said chamber means therein, said tube means being disposed between said casing and said mounting member and adapted for movement from its normal first position assuming a contracted condition closing said valve means when the pressure of the liquid in said chamber means falls below said predetermined level to its second position assuming an expanded condition opening said valve means when the pressure of the liquid in said chamber means exceeds said level, said valve means being defined between said mounting member and said tube means for intermittently opening to discharge liquid from said chamber means through said pulsator outlet in said intermittent pulses at at least substantially regular frequencies and uniform discharges in response to the pressure of the liquid in said chamber means intermittently exceeding said level and said tube means assuming its expanded condition.
4. The pulsator of claim 3 wherein said inlet means comprises an inlet port defined in said mounting member and having an inlet thereof continuously communicating with said flow control means and further having an outlet thereof continuously positioned in out-of-contact relationship with respect to said tube means to define a clearance between said mounting member and said tube means continuously communicating said inlet port with said chamber means when said tube means is in its contracted condition closing said valve means. 


 5. The pulsator of claim 3 further comprising slot means defined in said mounting member to be continuously exposed to said chamber means for continuously communicating liquid from said inlet means to an inlet side of said valve means.
6. The pulsator of claim 5 wherein said slot means comprises at least one slot formed in said mounting member to extend at least substantially a full length of said chamber means.
7. The pulsator of claim 6 wherein said mounting member comprises a generally tubular pin and wherein said slot means comprises a pair of diametrically opposed and longitudinally extending slots formed on opposite sides of said pin.
8. The pulsator of claim 3 further comprising an outlet port, having an inlet adapted to communicate with said chamber means and an outlet communicating with said pulsator outlet, defined in said mounting member for communicating liquid from said chamber means to said pulsator outlet when said tube means is in its expanded condition, said valve means comprising a first portion of said tube means that normally engages said mounting member to cover upstream and downstream sides of the inlet to said outlet port when said tube means is in its contracted condition and having sufficient flexibility to disengage said mounting member at the upstream side of said inlet to uncover the inlet to said outlet port when said tube means is in its expanded condition, and an annular flange on said 


mounting member defining an annular contact surface positioned on the upstream side of the inlet to said outlet port and normally engaged in at least near line contact with the first portion of said tube means when said tube means is in its contracted condition.
9. The pulsator of claim 8 wherein said contacting surface is defined at a major diameter of said flange and further comprising a contiguous non-contacting surface spaced longitudinally from said contacting surface to be continuously exposed to said chamber means and defined at a minor diameter of said support member, less than said major diameter, a second portion of said tube means being continuously retained in out-of-contact relationship with respect to said non-contacting surface when said tube means is in its contracted condition to induce a near- instantaneous communication of pressurized liquid from said chamber means to the upstream side of the inlet to said outlet port and through said valve means when said tube means expands towards its expanded condition to open said valve means.
10. The pulsator of claim 3 wherein opposite ends of said tube means are fixedly attached to said mounting member.
11. The pulsator of claim 10 wherein the opposite ends of said tube means are clamped between said casing and said mounting member. 


 12. A pulsator comprising a pulsator inlet for receiving pressurized liquid therein, a pulsator outlet adapted to discharge liquid in intermittent pulses therefrom, a casing defining a cavity therein, an elastomeric tube means mounted on a mounting member and disposed in said cavity for movement from a normal first position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means falls below a predetermined level to a second position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means exceeds said level, chamber means defined in said pulsator for receiving said liquid to control movement of said tube means between its first and second positions, normally closed valve means for intermittently opening to discharge liquid from said chamber means through said pulsator outlet in said intermittent pulses in response to the pressure of the liquid in said chamber means exceeding said level and said tube means assuming its second position, and an outlet port, having an inlet adapted to communicate with said chamber means and an outlet communicating with said pulsator outlet, for communicating liquid from said chamber means to said pulsator outlet when said tube means is in its expanded condition, the improvement comprising said valve means comprising a first portion of said tube means that normally engages said mounting member to cover upstream and downstream sides of the inlet to said outlet port when said tube means is in its contracted condition and having sufficient flexibility to disengage said 


mounting member at the upstream side of said inlet to uncover the inlet to said outlet port when said tube means is in its expanded condition, and an annular flange on said mounting member defining an annular contact surface positioned on the upstream side of the inlet to said outlet port and normally engaged in at least near line contact with the first portion of said tube means when said tube means is in its contracted condition.
13. The pulsator of claim 12 wherein said contacting surface is defined at a major diameter of said flange and further comprising a contiguous non-contacting surface spaced longitudinally from said contacting surface to be continuously exposed to said chamber means and defined at a minor diameter of said support member, less than said major diameter, a second portion of said tube means being continuously retained in out-of-contact relationship with respect to said non-contacting surface when said tube means is in its contracted condition to induce a near- instantaneous communication of pressurized liquid from said chamber means to the upstream side of the inlet to said outlet port and through said valve means when said tube means expands towards its expanded condition to open said valve means.
14. The pulsator of claim 12 wherein opposite ends of said tube means are fixedly attached to said mounting member. 


 15. The pulsator of claim 14 wherein the opposite ends of said tube means are clamped between said casing and said mounting member.
16. A pulsator comprising a pulsator inlet for receiving pressurized liquid therein, a pulsator outlet adapted to discharge liquid in intermittent pulses therefrom, a casing defining a cavity therein, an elastomeric tube means attached to a mounting member and disposed in said cavity for movement from a normal first position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means falls below a predetermined level to a second position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means exceeds said level, chamber means defined in said pulsator for receiving said liquid to control movement of said tube means between its first and second positions, flow control means between said pulsator inlet and said chamber means for modulating the pressure of said liquid at said pulsator inlet to control the flow rate of said liquid communicated to said chamber means, and normally closed valve means for intermittently opening to discharge liquid from said chamber means through said pulsator outlet in said intermittent pulses in response to the pressure of the liquid in said chamber means exceeding said level and said tube means assuming its second position, the improvement comprising said mounting member being reciprocally mounted in said casing and wherein a first end of said tube means, adjacent to said flow control means, is fixedly attached to said casing and a second end 



of said tube means is fixedly attached to said mounting member whereby expansion and simultaneous elongation of said tube means will move said mounting member relative to said housing and simultaneously open said valve means in response to the pressure in said chamber means exceeding said predetermined level.
17. A pulsator comprising a pulsator inlet for receiving pressurized liquid therein, a pulsator outlet adapted to discharge liquid in intermittent pulses therefrom, a casing defining a cavity therein, an elastomeric tube means disposed in said cavity for movement from a normal first position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means falls below a predetermined level to a second position when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said tube means exceeds said level, chamber means defined in said pulsator for receiving said liquid to control movement of said tube means between its first and second positions, flow control means between said pulsator inlet and said chamber means for modulating the pressure of said liquid at said pulsator inlet to control the flow rate of said liquid communicated to said chamber means, and normally closed valve means for intermittently opening to discharge liquid from said chamber means through said pulsator outlet in said intermittent pulses in response to the pressure of the liquid in said chamber means exceeding said level and said tube means assuming its second position, the improvement comprising said chamber means being defined between said 


casing and said tube means and wherein said tube means is adapted for movement from said normal first position and an expanded condition when the pressure of the liquid communicated to said chamber means falls below said predetermined level and said second position and a contracted condition when said pressure exceeds said predetermined level.
18. The pulsator of claim 17 wherein said flow control means is formed integrally with said tube means. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 28 January 1993 (28.01.93) ; original claims 16-18 cancelled; other claims unchanged (1 page) ]
15. The pulsator of claim 14 wherein the opposite ends of said tube means are clamped between said casing and said mounting member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
