<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0666586</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
An apparatus for holding a substrate during processing with a corrosive gas.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23Q315	B23Q315	H01L2102	H01L21302	H01L213065	H01L2167	H01L21683	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23Q	B23Q	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23Q3	B23Q3	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The disclosure relates to a corrosion resistant electrostatic 
chuck 10 for holding a silicon wafer 18 during processing with a 

corrosive gas and having an electrically insulative layer 12 
thereon protected from corrosion by a guard 14. The 

insulative layer 12 has a top surface 20 covered by the 
silicon wafer 18 and an exposed side surface 16. The 

guard 14 substantially encloses the exposed side surface 
16 of the insulative layer 12 and protects the insulative 

layer 12 from a corrosive gas. The guard 14 is made of 
sacrificial material that corrodes at least as fast as 

the insulative layer 12 corrodes when exposed to the 
corrosive gas. The sacrificial material positioned near 

the exposed side surface 16 corrodes and reduces the 
concentration of the corrosive gas at the exposed side 

surface 16, thereby reducing the rate of corrosion of the 
insulative layer 12. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAMOUILIAN SHAMOUIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANASE YOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHAMOUILIAN, SHAMOUIL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TANASE, YOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus for holding a 
substrate during processing and in particular to an electrostatic 
chuck for holding semiconductor substrates during 
processing with corrosive gases, the chuck having 
improved corrosion resistance. In the semiconductor industry, electrostatic 
chucks use electrostatic attraction forces to hold 
substrates, such as silicon wafers during processing. 
Electrostatic chucks are described in more detail in for 
example, U.S. Patent No. 4,184,188 to Briglia; U.S. 
Patent No. 4,399,016 to Tokuda; and U.S. Patent No. 
4,384,918, to Abe. A typical electrostatic chuck comprises a 
pedestal having an electrode thereon covered by an 
electrically insulative layer. A voltage source is 
provided for electrically biasing the electrode so that 
electric charge can accumulate in the electrode and in 
the insulator. The accumulated electric charge generates 
an electrostatic force F that attracts and holds the 
substrate against the insulative layer. The force F is 
given by: 
F = 12 ε V²t² A where ε is the dielectric constant of the insulative 
layer, V is the applied voltage, t is the thickness of 
the insulative layer, and A is the area of the conductive 
pedestal that serves as the electrode. Thus, to obtain a  
 
strong electrostatic attractive force, it is desirable to 
have a thin insulative layer which has a high dielectric 
constant ε. Typically, polyimides and other organic 
polymers are used as the insulative layer because of 
their high voltage breakdown strength and their superior 
chemical resistance. Also, the ability of the polyamide 
to conform to the backside of the substrate allows for 
good heat transfer for cooling the substrate during 
processing. However, polyimides and other organic 
polymers corrode rapidly when exposed to corrosive gases 
such as oxygen, chlorine, and fluorine used in processing 
of the silicon wafers. During such processing with corrosive gases, a 
top surface of the insulative layer is substantially 
covered by the silicon wafer and protected from 
corrosion. However, the thin, side surfaces of the 
insulative layer are exposed to the corrosive gases and 
quickly corrode. After a short operation cycle, the thin 
insulative layer can be sufficiently corroded to allow 
the flow of electrons therethrough, causing arcing and 
malfunctioning of the chuck. Protective coatings have been applied to the 
insulative layer in an attempt to slow the corrosion. 
However, these coatings can be expensive to manufacture 
and are not
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for holding a substrate 
during processing with a corrosive gas, the apparatus 

comprising: 

(a) an electrostatic chuck having an 
electrically insulative layer thereon, the insulative 

layer having a top surface and an exposed side surface; 
and 
(b) a guard substantially enclosing the 
exposed side surface of the insulative layer for 

protecting the insulative layer against the corrosive 
gas, the guard being made from a sacrificial material 

that corrodes at least as quickly as the insulative layer 
corrodes when exposed to the corrosive gas. 
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the 
sacrificial material corrodes faster than the insulative 

layer corrodes when exposed to the corrosive gas. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein a 
substrate is positioned on the top surface of the 

insulative layer, and the guard also substantially 

encloses any portion of the top surface of the insulative 
layer not covered by the substrate. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the 
insulative layer is made of polyimide and the sacrificial 

material is made of polyimide. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the 
insulative layer has a horizontal cross-section which is 

circular and the guard is annular. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the 
guard has a bottom surface conformed to and positioned on 

an upper surface of the chuck, and the height of the 
 

guard is at least equal to the thickness of the 
insulative layer. 
The guard of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein at least an 
overlap portion of the substrate extends horizontally 

beyond the insulative layer, wherein the guard comprises 
an extension for extending between the overlap portion of 

the substrate and the cathode. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the 
guard does not contact the insulative layer. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein a 
substrate is positioned on the top surface of the 

insulative layer, and the guard also substantially 
encloses a side surface of the substrate. 
The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the 
guard does not contact the side surface of the substrate. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the guard 
includes a lip extending downwardly for holding the guard on the chuck. 
The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the 
insulative layer is selected from the group consisting of 

polyimides, polyketones, polyetherketones, polysulfones, 
polycarbonates, polystyrenes, nylons, polyvinylchlorides, 

polypropylenes, polyetherketones, polyethersulfones, 
polyethylene terephthalate, fluoroethylene propylene 

copolymers, cellulose, triacetates, silicone and rubber. 
A device useful for etching substrates, 
the device comprising: 


(a) a processing chamber; 
(b) an apparatus as claimed in claim 1 
for holding the substrate in the processing chamber; 
(c) means for introducing a corrosive gas 
into the processing chamber; 
(d) means for placing a substrate on the 
electrostatic chuck for processing; and 
(e) means for removing the substrate 
after processing from the electrostatic chuck. 
An apparatus for holding a substrate 
during processing with a corrosive gas, the apparatus 

comprising: 

(a) an electrostatic chuck having an 
electrically insulative layer thereon, the insulative 

layer having a top surface and an exposed side surface, 
the chuck being circular in a horizontal cross-section; 

and 
(b) a hollow, cylindrically shaped guard 
substantially enclosing the exposed side surface of the 

insulative layer for protecting the insulative layer 
against the corrosive gas, the guard being made from a 

sacrificial material that corrodes at least as quickly as 
the insulative layer corrodes when exposed to the 

ccrrosive gas, the guard having a bottom end conformed to 
and positioned on an upper surface of the chuck. 
The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the 
sacrificial material corrodes faster than the insulative 

layer corrodes when exposed to the corrosive gas. 
The apparatus of claim 14 or claim 15, wherein a 
substrate is positioned on the top surface of the 

insulative layer, and the guard also substantially 
encloses any portion of the top surface of the insulative 

layer not covered by the substrate. 
The apparatus of any of claims 14 to 16, wherein the 
insulative layer is made of polyimide and the sacrificial 

material is made of polyimide. 
The apparatus of any of claims 14 to 17, wherein the 
guard does not contact the insulative layer. 
The apparatus of any of claims 14 to 18, wherein a 
substrate having a horizontal cross-section which is 

circular is positioned on the top surface of the 
insulative layer and the guard also substantially 

encloses a side surface of the substrate. 
The apparatus of any of claims 14 to 19, wherein the 
guard does not contact the side surface of the substrate. 
A guard for reducing the rate of corrosion 
of an electrically insulative layer of an electrostatic 

chuck, the chuck being used for holding a substrate on a 
cathode during processing of the substrate with a 

corrosive gas, the electrically insulative layer of the 
chuck having a top surface upon which the substrate is 

placed and an exposed side surface, the guard comprising, 

(a) an annular body portion for placement 
on a top surface of the cathode; and 
(b) a ring portion extending upwardly 
from the body for protecting the exposed side surface of 

the insulative layer; 
 
wherein the guard is made from a material which 

corrodes at least as fast as the insulative layer 
corrodes when exposed to the corrosive gas. 
The guard of claim 21, wherein at least an 
overlap portion of the substrate extends horizontally 

beyond the insulative layer, wherein the body of the 
guard comprises an extension for extending between the 

overlap portion of the substrate and the cathode. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
