<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646787</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cantilever for use with atomic force microscope and process for the production thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B528	G01B528	G01B734	G01B734	G01B2130	G01B2130	G01N1310	G01N1316	G01N2700	G01N2700	G01N3700	G01N3700	H01J3728	H01J3728	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01B	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B5	G01B5	G01B7	G01B7	G01B21	G01B21	G01N13	G01N13	G01N27	G01N27	G01N37	G01N37	H01J37	H01J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The improved cantilever for use with an atomic 
force microscope comprises a single-crystal silicon base 11 

having adequate mechanical strength, a cantilever beam 12 
that is made from a silicon oxide film and which is joined 

at one end to the base, and a conical stylus 13 with 
a sharp tip that is formed of single-crystal silicon on 

the cantilever beam 12 at the other end which is opposite 
the end joined to the base 11, and all surfaces of the 

cantilever are covered with a thin electroconductive film 
14. If desired, protective plates 15 for protecting the 

cantilever beam against mechanical damage may be provided 
that are processed from the base material in such a way 

that they hold the beam therebetween and which have 
satisfactory strength. The stylus has an abrupt profile 

with a sharp tip and a high aspect ratio, and the 
cantilever beam has an invariable spring constant and 

supports the stylus at an end. The cantilever can be 
produced by a process comprising steps (a) - (k). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGENCY IND SCIENCE TECHN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EBARA RES CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DIRECTOR GENERAL, AGENCY OF INDUSTRIAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EBARA RESEARCH CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITOH JUNJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMA YASUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ITOH, JUNJI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TOMA, YASUSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a cantilever for use 
with an atomic force microscope and a process for producing 
the same. More particularly, the invention relates to 
cantilevers equipped with styli that are indispensable for 
use in scanning atomic force microscopes (AFMs) which are 
becoming increasingly popular as tools for profiling 
surface geometries at atomic resolutions. The invention 
also relates to a process for producing such cantilevers. 
Specifically, the invention relates to cantilevers that 
are effective for use not only with AFMs but especially 
with scanning Maxwell stress microscopes (SMMs), as well 
as a process for producing such cantilevers. Heretofore marketed or discussed cantilevers for use 
with atomic force microscopes of the type contemplated by 
the present invention are classified into three major types 
as illustrated in Figs. 6a, 6b, and 6c. The cantilever 
shown in Fig. 6a is currently available on the market and 
is characterized by comprising a single-crystal silicon 
base 51 which is processed to a cantilever beam 52 and 
a stylus 53 formed primarily by wet etching with an aqueous 
KOH solution. The angle of the tip of the stylus 53 is 
determined by the face direction of the single-crystal 
silicon base 51 and is typically about 70 degrees since 
a commonly employed base has a (100) face. Fig. 6b shows the cantilever published by T.R. 
Albrecht et al., in 1990. Base 51 is made from a (100) 
single-crystal silicon film and has a cantilever beam 52 
and a stylus 53 which are formed of either a thermally 
oxidized film or a nitride film (T.R. Albrecht et al., 
J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A8 (1990) 3386-3396). With this 
cantilever, it is extremely difficult to produce an 
adequately sharp point at the tip of the stylus 53 made 
from the thermally oxidized film and the stylus tip of 
the cantilever is not sufficiently sharp.  The cantilever shown in Fig. 6c was published by 
M.M. Farooqui in 1992 and it comprises an n-type silicon 
base 51 having a highly boron doped layer formed on a 
surface, from which a cantilever beam 52 and a stylus 53 
were formed (M.M. Farooqui et al.; Nanotechnology, 3 (1992) 
91-97). With this cantilever, the thickness of the boron 
diffusion layer is equal to the sum of the height of the 
stylus 53 and the thickness the cantilever beam 52 and 
the portion of that layer which remains after processing 
the stylus 53 by dry etching provides the thickness of the 
cantilever beam 52. Therefore, the thickness of the stylus 
53 and the thickness of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
that comprises a single-crystal silicon base having 

adequate mechanical strength, a cantilever beam that is 
made from a silicon oxide film and which is joined at one 

end to said base, and a conical stylus with a sharp tip 
that is formed on said cantilever beam at the other end 

which is opposite the end joined to said base, and wherein 
all surfaces of said cantilever are covered with a thin 

electroconductive film. 
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
that comprises a single-crystal silicon base having 

adequate mechanical strength, a cantilever beam that is 
made from a silicon oxide film and which is joined at one 

end to said base, a conical stylus with a sharp tip that 
is formed on said cantilever beam at the other end which 

is opposite the end joined to said base, wherein protective 
plates for protecting said cantilever beam against 

mechanical damage that are processed from said single-crystal 
silicon base and that have adequate strength 

are provided on the base side of said cantilever beam 
protruding from said base in such a way that they are 

spaced with good clearance from said cantilever beam but 
that they hold said cantilever beam therebetween, and 

wherein all surfaces of said cantilever are covered with 
a thin electroconductive film. 
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
according to claim 2 wherein at least one of said 

protective plates has an opening through which laser 
light for measuring the amount of deflection of said 

cantilever beam caused by interatomic forces is to be 
applied onto the surface of said cantilever beam. 
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
according to any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said conical 

stylus formed on said cantilever beam formed of a silicon 
oxide film has been processed from single-crystal silicon 

formed on the surface of said silicon oxide film by 
bonding. 
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein said single-crystal 

silicon formed on the surface of said silicon oxide 
film by bonding has a (100) face. 
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein said single-crystal 

silicon formed on the surface of said silicon oxide 
film by bonding has a thickness of 8 - 10 µm and wherein 

said conical stylus has a height equal to the thickness 
of said single-crystal silicon. 
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
according to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said 

cantilever beam formed of said silicon oxide film has 
a thickness of 1 - 3 µm and a width of 15 - 30 µm and 

protrudes from said base by a length of 120 - 150 µm and 
wherein said conical stylus is formed at least 100 µm apart 

from the site at which said cantilever beam is joined to 
said base, and 

   wherein preferably the 
electroconductive material covering all surfaces of said 

cantilever is gold that has been deposited by sputtering 
in a thickness no greater than 10 nm. 
A process for producing a cantilever for use with 
an atomic force microscope as recited in claim 1 or any 

one of claims 4 to 7, which comprises the following steps 
(a) - (k): 


(a) a substrate composed of a (100) single-crystal 
silicon base having adequate mechanical strength, a silicon 

oxide film formed thereon by thermal oxidation, and a (100) 
single-crystal silicon film formed on said thermal oxidized 

film by bonding is oxidized thermally to form a thermally 
oxidized film 0.5 - 1 µm thick on the surface of the 

single-crystal silicon film over said thermally oxidized 
silicon film; 
(b) the thermally oxidized film on the surface 
of said bonded single-crystal silicon film is processed 

to a circle with a diameter of 10 - 15 µm; 
(c) with said circularly processed thermally 
oxidized film being used as a mask, said bonded single-crystal 

silicon film is processed to a generally conical 
stylus geometry by the combination of reactive ion etching 

(RIE) and wet etching with an aqueous KOH solution and, at 
the same time, the thermally oxidized film which underlies 

said bonded single-crystal silicon film is exposed; 
(d) said exposed thermally oxidized film is 
processed to a cantilever beam geometry; 
(e) a thermally oxidized film is formed on all 
surfaces of the structure formed by steps (a) to (d); 
(f) a resist is applied to a thickness of at least 
5 µm so as to protect said roughly processed conical stylus 

and the resist is then processed in registry with the 
cantilever beam geometry as processed in said step (d); 
(g) the thin thermally oxidized film which has 
been formed as the resist in step (e) is processed to the 

cantilever beam geometry so as to have the underlying 
silicon base exposed and said resist is then stripped; 
(h) the silicon base around the cantilever beam 

geometry which has become exposed in said step (g) is 
etched away by wet etching with an aqueous KOH solution so 

that a cantilever beam formed of said thermally oxidized 
film is freely suspended from said silicon base; 
(i) the thin thermally oxidized film which has 
been formed on the surface of the stylus in said step (e) 

is etched to provide a sharp tip; 
(j) the base from which the cantilever beam has 
become freely suspended in said step (h) is cut off at 

the site lying underneath said cantilever beam; and 
(k) all surfaces of the structure that has been 
formed in said steps (a) - (j) are covered with a thin 

electroconductive film. 
A process according to claim 8 which comprises 
steps (a) - (k) for producing a cantilever for use with 

an atomic force microscope as recited in any one of claims 
2 to 7, wherein an opening through which laser light is to 

be applied to the back side of the cantilever beam that is 
 

formed of said thermally oxidized film and which was freely 
suspended from said silicon base in step (h) is formed at a 

desired site of said silicon base by a processing technique 
that is the combination of dry etching and wet etching. 
A cantilever for use with an atomic force microscope 
that comprises a single-crystal silicon base having a 

cantilever beam which is joined to said base, and a 
stylus on said cantilever beam. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
