<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0634796</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Insulated gate bipolar transistor
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L2902	H01L2978	H01L29739	H01L2966	H01L2908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor (IGBT) having a 
new structure capable of performing a low on-voltage and a 

high-speed turn-off is provided. A P-type collector region 
(1) of IGBT is not formed on the entire reverse surface of an 

N-type base region (2), but formed only on its part, and a 
metal collector electrode (9) is
 electrically connected only 
with the surface to which the P-type collector region (1) 

exposes. An area of a diffusion window in a collector 
region is relatively reduced, whereby the impurity 

concentration of the entire collector region is set at a 
lower value and hole injection efficiency is decreased. At 

the same time it is possible to obtain high surface 
concentration with deep diffusion depth of the collector 

region required to form a favorable ohmic contact. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to
an Insulated Gate Bipolar
Transistor (hereinafter, referred to as an IGBT) being a
MOS Bipolar composite functional device capable of
performing high-speed operations in a medium electric power
area of breakdown voltage 1200V or more.Lately, MOS composite devices such as the IGBT, the MOS
Controlled Thyristor (MCT), the Emitter Switched Thyristor
(EST), and the like have been developed. Since these are
voltage-driving power devices and easy to use, requirements
for developing these new MOS composite devices have mainly
been made from the system operation side and its development
has abruptly been advanced in response thereto.The IGBT is a transistor having a unit cell cross-sectional
structure as represented in Fig. 13, and has a
composite structure provided with a MOSFET structure in its
upper part and a bipolar transistor structure in its lower
part. This structure and basic operations are disclosed in
the Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 57-120389
Official Gazette. On the basis of this description, a
conventional N-channel IGBT will be explained. In Fig. 13,
a high-resistivity N- base region 2 having low impurity
concentration is formed in a P-type collector region 1. On
the surface of the N- base region 2, a P-type base region 3
is formed by a Double Diffusion Self Alignment method so as
to expose its surface. Furthermore, an N- emitter region 4
is formed in the P-type base region 3 so as to expose its 
surface. On the surface of the P-type base region 3, a single
polysilicon gate electrode 6 is provided on a thin
insulation film 5 such as SiO2 etc. This gate electrode 6
steps over the P-type base region 3 and is disposed so as
to cover from the N- base region 2 to the N+ emitter region
4. A metal emitter electrode 7 is provided so that the N+
emitter region 4 may be short-circuited with the P-type
base region 3, and a metal gate 8 connecting to the
polysilicon gate electrode 6 and a metal collector
electrode 9 connecting to the P-type collector region 1 are
provided, respectively. Also, in a structure as depicted
in Fig. 14, an N+ buffer region 20 is provided between the
P-type collector region 1 and N- base region 2 and such
IGBT has generally been known. A general method of
manufacturing these conventional N-channel IGBTs will be
described below. First, the P-type silicon semiconductor
substrate 1 having a thickness of about 150µm and impurity
concentration of about 1018 to 1020 cm-3 is used as a P-type
collector region. A semiconductor layer 2 is formed
i
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A single-gate IGBT having a first conductivity type
base region (2) having first and second main surfaces, a

second conductivity type base region (3) exposing onto
the first main surface in the first conductivity type

base region (2), a first conductivity type emitter region

(4) formed within the second conductivity type base
region (3) and exposing onto the first main surface, a

gate insulation film (5) stepping over the emitter region
(4) and the first conductivity type base region (2) on

the first main surface and formed on an upper part of
the second conductivity type base region (3), a gate

electrode (6) formed on the gate insulation film (5), an
emitter electrode (7) formed so as to step over the

emitter region (4) and the second conductivity type base
region (3) at the first main surface and short-circuiting

the emitter region (4) with the second conductivity type
base region (3), a second conductivity type collector

region (1) formed in the first conductivity type base
region (2) and exposing onto the second main surface, and a collector

electrode (9) in electrical contact only with the second
conductivity type collector region (1);

wherein:

said second conductivity type collector region (1)
is located only in a specific part

of the first conductivity type base region
(2);
the single-gate IGBT further comprising an
insulation film (10) formed on the first conductivity

type base region (2) at the second main surface;
the collector region (1) has a depth of 3 to 10 µm
with respect to the second main surface; and 
the collector electrode (9) is in electrical contact
with the collector region (1) through a window part of

the insulation film (10);

wherein the impurity dose of the collector region
(1) is 10
12
 to 10
14
 cm
-2
, whereby injection of minority
carriers

for the first conductivity base region (2)
from the collector region (1) to the first

conductivity type base region (2) is reduced in operation.
A single-gate IGBT as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said insulation film (10) is formed on the second main

surface of the first conductivity type base region (2) except for the collector
region (1) or a portion thereof, whereby said window part

is formed.
A single-gate IGBT as claimed in any of claims 1 or 2,
wherein said second conductivity type collector region

(1) is disposed directly under said gate electrode (6).
A single-gate IGBT as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3
wherein said second conductivity type collector region

(1) is disposed directly under said first conductivity
type emitter region (4).
A single-gate IGBT as claimed in claim 1 or 2,
wherein the surface area of said specific part on said

second main surface is at least 1/25 times as much as the
entire surface area of said second main surface.
A single-gate IGBT as claimed in claim 1 or 2,
wherein the thickness of said insulation film (10) formed

at the second main surface is about 0.1 to 2µm.
A single-gate IGBT as claimed in claim 1, wherein
said single-gate IGBT comprises a plurality of said

collector regions (1), and a carrier life time killer is
present in the first conductivity type base region (2) 

only in an intermediate part
of said first conductivity type base region (2)

between said collector
regions (1).
A single-gate IGBT as claimed in any one of the
preceding claims further comprising a high impurity

concentration layer formed in the collector region (1)
at an interface between said collector region (1) and

said collector electrode (9).
A single-gate IGBT having a first conductivity type
base region (2) having first and second main surfaces, a

second conductivity type base region (3) exposing onto
the first main surface in the first conductivity type

base region (2), a first conductivity type emitter region
(4) formed within the second conductivity type base

region (3) and exposing onto the first main surface, a
gate insulating film (5) stepping over the emitter region

(4) and the first conductivity type base region (2) on
the first main surface and formed on an upper part of the

second conductivity type base region (3), a gate
electrode (6) formed on the gate insulating film (5), an

emitter electrode (7) formed so as to step over the
emitter region (4) and the second conductivity type base

region (3) at the first main surface and short-circuiting
the emitter region (4) and with second conductivity type

base region (3), a second conductivity type collector
region (1) formed in the first conductivity type base

region (2) at the second main surface, and a collector
electrode (9) in electrical contact only with the second

conductivity type collector region (1);

wherein:

said second conductivity type collector region (1)
is located only in a specific part

of the first conductivity type base region
(2); the impurity dose of the collector region (1)

is 10
12
 to 10
14
 cm
-2
 to reduce injection of 
minority carriers

for the first conductivity type base region (2)
from the collector region (1) to the

first conductivity type base region (2) without employing
an injection of majority carriers from the second main

surface of the first conductivity type base region (2) to
the first conductivity type base region (2);
the single-gate IGBT further comprising an
insulation film (10) formed on the first conductivity

type base region (2) at the second main surface; and
the collector electrode (9) is in electrical contact
only with the collector region (1) through a window part

of the insulating film (10).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
