<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615137</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Three dimensional imaging radar
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01S7295	G01S704	G01S7295	G01S1387	G01S740	G01S7292	G01S702	G01S740	G01S7292	G01S703	G01S742	G01S703	G01S7285	G01S1389	G01S732	G01S1300	G01S720	G01S1334	G01S7288	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S13	G01S7	G01S13	G01S7	G01S13	G01S7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A three dimensional imaging radar system and method for generating and 
processing radar information to produce a three dimensional image of objects viewed 

by the system. The system is designed to create three dimensional images of physical 
objects at relatively short range, up to a distance of about 1000 feet. The radar system 

comprises a servo controlled antenna system, wherein the servo system provides 

azimuth and elevation pointing angle output signals. Two radar transmitters provide 
radar signals in two different radar bands that are selectively transmitted by the antenna 

system as a radar beam. A radar receiver preprocesses radar return signals reflected 
from targets. A digital signal processor is provided that processes the radar return 

signals from targets and which embodies system improvements comprising a Fourier 
transform processor, a coherent integrator that provides low pass and high pass filtering 

to reduce noise, a detector comprising a digital Pythagorean processor that converts 
the radar return signals into amplitude values for each range bin, a noncoherent integrator, 

and an adaptive threshold comparator. A buffer memory is is provided that has a 
predetermined number of range cells that store the amplitude of the radar return signal 

at each range. A digital scan converter comprising a three dimensional coordinate 
converter converts the azimuth and elevation pointing angle signals into x, y and z 

addresses of radar signals that are stored in the buffer memory. A computer selectively 
controls the transmission of the radar signals each radar system, adaptively controls the 

movement of the antenna system using the servo system, and processes the x, y and z 
addresses of radar signals stored in the buffer memory to produce a three dimensional 

image for display on a monitor. A digital sweep linearizer is provided which produces 
a highly accurate linear sweep signal that drives a voltage tuned oscillator. The coherent 

integrator provides "noise reducing" low pass or high pass filtering of the signals 
prior to detection. The bandpass of the filters in the coherent integrator is controlled by 

the digital signal processor. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES MISSILE SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUGHES MISSILE SYSTEMS COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSON RONALD F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRAZIER LAWRENCE M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEFFLER JAMES B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CARLSON, RONALD F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRAZIER, LAWRENCE M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHEFFLER, JAMES B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to radar systems, and more particularly, 
to a three dimensional imaging radar system that is adapted to create three dimensional 
images of physical objects at relatively short range. Over the past several decades, different types of radar data displays have been 
developed to help the radar operator interpret the information generated by a radar 
system. The most common of these displays is a two dimensional (top down) display 
known as a plan position indicator (PPI) display. The PPI display provides information 
about the slant range and bearing from the radar to radar targets. In a common two dimensional air traffic control radar, for example, an antenna 
beam is normally shaped to create a vertical fan beam so that all airborne targets from 
near the ground to a maximum altitude of interest are detected as the radar sweeps a 360 
degree path around the radar. This type of radar system provides only azimuth and 
slant range to a target but does not provide any information about the target's height 
above the ground. Each target is represented as an intensified dot on the radar display. 
By observing changes in the position of the dot from radar scan to scan, the operator 
can identify moving targets as well as fixed targets on the display. Many other forms of radars and radar displays have been developed including 
an SPS-39/48 three dimensional radar that provides elevation scanning information to 
determine target altitude. The displays on these radar systems display intensified spots 
of azimuth versus range or elevation angle versus range to targets.  
 The present invention is an improvement to a previously 
developed three dimensional radar system manufactured by the 
assignee of the present invention. The previously developed 
system uses a 30cm (12 inch) diameter, center-fed 
subreflector, comprising a parabolic fixed dish antenna. In 
this previously developed system the radar transmitter 
signal is generated by circuits located directly above the 
fixed antenna. The signals are fed directly to 
a small "circular horn assembly" that is located in the center of the antenna. A small 
subreflector mounted in front of the horn and dish, reflects the energy back to the 
parabolic dish antenna which then radiates the energy with the proper radar beam 
shape. The signal reflected from the dish antenna is beamed straight down to a flat 
splash plate reflector that is located directly below the dish antenna. The dish antenna 
has a problem wherein strong
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A three dimensional imaging radar system (10) 
comprising: 


an antenna system (11); 
a servo control system (18) coupled to the antenna 
system (11) for adaptively controlling movement thereof in 

response to control signals applied thereto, and for 
providing azimuth and elevation pointing angle signals 

derived from the antenna system as output signals therefrom; 
transmitter means (12) coupled to the antenna system 
(11) for providing radar signals in two predetermined radar 

bands that are transmitted by the antenna system to form a 
radar beam; 
a radar receiver (12) coupled to the antenna system that 
is adapted to receive radar signal energy reflected from a 

target at a selected one of the first and second radar 
bands; 
a digital signal processor (16) coupled to the radar 
receiver (12) for processing radar return signals from 

targets from which the radar signals are reflected, wherein 
the digital signal processor (16) comprises: 
an analog to digital converter (31); 
a Fourier transform processor (32) coupled to the analog 
to digital converter (31); 
a buffer memory (37) that comprises a predetermined 
number of range cells that are adapted to respectively store 

the amplitude of the radar return signal at each range; and 
a digital scan converter (39) coupled to the buffer 
memory (37) and to the servo control system (18) for 

converting the azimuth and elevation pointing angle signals 
provided thereby into x and y addresses of radar signals 

stored in the buffer memory (37); 
a computer (38) coupled to the buffer memory (37) of the 
digital signal processor (16), to the transmitter means 

(12), and to the servo control system (18), for causing the 
transmission of the radar signals from the transmission 

means, for adaptively controlling the movement of the  
 

antenna system (11) by way of the servo system (18), and for 
processing the x and y addresses of radar signals stored in 

the buffer memory (37) to produce a three dimensional image 
for display; and 
a display (43) coupled to the computer (38) for 
displaying the three dimensional radar image generated by 

the computer (38); 
 
   characterised in that 


said transmission means comprise first and second 
transmitters in two predetermined radar bands; 
said digital signal processor (16) further comprises: 
a coherent integrator filter (33) coupled to the Fourier 
transform processor (32) for providing low pass and high 

pass filtering of the signals to reduce noise; 
a detector (34) coupled to the coherent integrator 
filter (33) that comprises a digital Pythagorean processor 

that converts the signal to amplitude values for each range 
bin; 
a non-coherent integrator (35) coupled to the detector 
(34); and 
an adaptive threshold comparator (36) coupled to the 
integrator (35); and 
radar return signals are stored in x, y and z coordinate 
addresses in the buffer memory (37), the digital scan 

converter (39) performing the conversion based on the values 
for the three coordinate dimensions. 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1 
wherein the antenna feed arrangement of the present radar 

system uses the off-center fed, partial parabolic dish 
antenna (13). 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 2 
wherein the antenna feed arrangement comprises: 


a parabolic main reflector (13), and 
a moveable and rotatable flat reflector (14). 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1  
 

which further comprises a log compression circuit coupled 
between the non coherent integrator (35) and the threshold 

comparator (36) for improving the dynamic amplitude range of 
the processed signals. 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1 
wherein the adaptive threshold circuit is adapted to 

automatically average the radar signal and noise in a 
predetermined number of range cells to establish a dynamic 

threshold level based upon the signal and noise levels, and 
wherein the amplitude information is compressed into a two 

bit word with amplitude values of 0 through 3 for all 
targets that are detected. 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1 
which further comprises a peak amplitude filter for 

filtering of the noise average to prevent small, high 
amplitude signals from affecting the noise average. 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1 
wherein the adaptive threshold circuit further comprises a 

target edge and peak detector for outlining targets and 
providing information about their shape and characteristics. 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1 
further comprising a remote control and display unit (17) 

that allows operation of the radar at a predetermined 
distance from the radar system. 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1 
which further comprises a digital sweep linearizer (23) 

comprising: 

a fixed frequency oscillator (51); 
a mixer (52) coupled to an output of the oscillator 
(51); 
a frequency divider (53) coupled to an output of the 
mixer (52); 
an amplifier (54) coupled to an output of the frequency  
 

divider (53); 
a digital frequency controller (57) that is adapted to 
receive an input signal from a sawtooth signal generator 

(24); 
a phase lock oscillator (56) coupled to the digital 
frequency controller (57); 
a phase error detector/amplifier (55) coupled to the 
amplifier (54) and to the phase lock oscillator (56) that is 

adapted to process signals received therefrom and coupled to 
the sawtooth signal generator (24) for providing a converted 

sawtooth sweep signal thereto. 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 9 
wherein the sawtooth signal generator (24) further 

comprises: 

a sync generator (61) that provides a start of sweep 
sync pulse; 
a digital counter/scaler (62) coupled to the sync 
generator (61) for receiving the start of sweep sync pulse 

and coupled to the digital frequency controller (57) of the 
digital sweep linearizer (23); 
a digital to analog converter (63) coupled to the 
digital counter/scaler (62); and 
a summing network (64) coupled to the digital to analog 
converter (63) and to the phase error detector/amplifier 

(55) of the digital sweep linearizer (23). 
The three dimensional imaging radar system of claim 1 
wherein the coherent integrator (33) comprises: 


first and second buffer memories (71,73) respectively 
coupled to the Fourier transform processor (32) and which 

respectively receive and store in-phase and quadrature 
signals provided thereby; 
addition and subtraction logic (72,74) respectively 
coupled to the first and second buffer memories (71,73) 

which each selectively add or subtract the in-phase and 
quadrature signals with stored versions thereof in response 

to a selection signal provided by the computer (38); and  
 
a Pythagorean processor (75) coupled to the addition and 
subtraction logic (72,74) and which is adapted to process 

output signals provided thereby to produce amplitude and 
phase output signals that are applied to the detector (34). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
