<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613696</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Medico-surgical tube including improved means for administering liquid or gas treatment
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M2500	A61M1604	A61M2500	A61M1604	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M25	A61M16	A61M25	A61M16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A medical-surgical tube (1) having a major lumen (1a) defined by an 
inner periphery of a wall of the tube, an injection lumen (12) within 

the wall of the tube, and at least one one-way (10) in the wall. The 
valve allows fluid to flow from the injection lumen through an outer or 

inner periphery of the wall of the tube and prevents return of the fluid 
back into the injection lumen. The tube can include a plurality of 

spaced-apart valves. The valve can be a piercing in the wall of the tube 
which is defined by opposed surfaces

 
resiliently biased against each other

 
and extending from the injection lumen to the outer or inner periphery 

of the wall of the tube.
 

Methods of manufacturing a medical-surgical tube having a major lumen 
defined by an inner periphery of a wall of the tube, an injection lumen 

within the wall of the tube, and at least one one-way valve in the wall. 
One method includes projecting a piercer such as a needle into the 

injection lumen, bending the tube in a slightly bent configuration and 
pushing a point of the needle through a portion of the tube wall located 

between the injection lumen and the outer or inner periphery of the tube. 
When a plurality of piercing are made, the needle can be backed up in the 

injection lumen, the tube can be advanced and the needle can again be 
pushed forward to form another piercing in the bent tube. Alternatively, 

the piercer can be pushed into the inner or outer periphery of the tube, 
through the wall and into the injection lumen. The needle can have a 

thin diameter and the method can be performed such that a tapered point 
of the needle passes part way of entirely through the wall of the tube 

when the valve is formed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an improvement in medico-surgical tubes
such as endotracheal tubes and in particular, to an economical and uncomplicated means
for administering gas or liquid treatment to a selected site in a body passage, vessel,
lumen, etc.Various types of medico-surgical tubes employing means for administering
medication to a selected site in a body are known in the art. For instance, such tubes
include catheters and endotracheal tubes.A catheter having means for administering liquid medicaments or other
preparations is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,593,713 ("Bogoff"). Bogoff discloses a
catheter having a tube surrounded by a tubular jacket which includes a perforated or
foraminous area through which a fluid, such as a liquid medicament including antibiotics
and anesthetic, can be dispersed within and along the walls of a body orifice, cavity or
opening in which the catheter is inserted at the time.U.S. Patent No. 3,981,299 ("Murray") discloses a urethral catheter which
includes a thin outer membrane provided with a plurality of pores or openings for
permitting injections of antibiotics, medication, anesthetics or simple irrigation of the
urethral passage.U.S. Patent No. 4,186,745 ("Lewis") discloses a catheter having
conducting passages within a micropore structure for controlled release of substances such
as distilled water, antiseptics, antibiotics, enzymes and other substances. An endotracheal tube having means for introducing medicinal fluids into
the trachea is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,305,392 ("Chester"). Chester discloses an
endotracheal tube having a cylindrical wall, a main lumen defined by an inner surface of
the wall, a first secondary lumen within the wall for inflation of a balloon cuff and a
second secondary lumen within the wall in fluid communication with a suction chamber
having four ports equally spaced about the periphery of the chamber. The ports of
Chester's tube are ovoid in shape and are used for introducing anesthesia or irrigation
fluid into the trachea or for providing suction without grabbing or invaginating the
tracheal mucosa such as for removal of blood clots and other secretions.U.S. Patent No. 4,327,721 ("Goldin") discloses a medical device such as
an endotracheal tube provided with an annular chamber surrounding an insertion tube
wall. A plurality of fenestrations or openings are provided in the chamber and are
appropriately shaped so as to atomize a fluid being delivered under pressure thereto
through a secondary lumen. The openings in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A medical-surgical tube comprising:

a tube (1) having a major lumen (1a) defined by an inner
periphery of a wall of the tube; and
an injection lumen (12) arranged in a longitudinal direction
within the wall of the tube (1), characterised in that the

medical-surgical tube further comprises:
at least one one-way valve means (10) in the wall for
allowing fluid to flow from the injection lumen (12) in the form

of a spray in one direction through the wall of the tube (1), the
valve means (10) preventing the passage of fluid in an opposite

direction through the wall and back into the injection lumen
(12), the valve means (10) comprising a piercing (10a) in the

wall of the tube (1), the piercing (10a) being inclined at an
angle other than 90° with respect to the longitudinal direction

of the injection lumen (12) and having a length through the wall
of the tube that is greater than the thickness of the wall.
The tube of claim 1, further comprising an injection tail
(3) in fluid communication with the injection lumen (12), the

injection tail (3) including a check valve or other means (13)
to prevent return of fluid through a proximal end of the

injection tail (3).
The tube of claim 1, wherein the at least one valve means
(10) comprises a plurality of said valve means (10), each of said

valve means (10) being spaced from an adjacent one of said valve
means (10) along said injection lumen (12).
The tube of claim 1, wherein the piercing (10a) is defined
by opposed surfaces resiliently biased against each other and

extending from the injection lumen (12) to the outer periphery
of the wall of the tube (1). 
The tube of claim 4, wherein the opposed surfaces extend
rectilinearly and are in contact with each other when the valve

(10) is closed, the surfaces forming a gap therebetween when the
valve (10) is open to allow passage of the fluid from the

injection lumen (12) through the gap and outwardly of the outer
periphery of the tube (1).
The tube of claim 3, wherein the piercing (10a) is defined
by opposed surfaces resiliently biased against each other and

extending from the injection lumen (12) to the outer periphery
of the wall of the tube (1).
The tube of claim 6, wherein the injection lumen (12) lies
in a plane passing through a central axis of the tube (1).
The tube of claim 4, wherein said opposed surfaces are
inclined at an angle of less than 45° to a direction of flow of

fluid passing through the injection lumen (12).
The tube of claim 1, wherein said valve means (10) causes
fluid under pressure in the injection lumen (12) to be sprayed

outwardly of the outer periphery of the tube as an atomized
spray.
The tube of claim 1, wherein the piercing (10a) is sized to
provide an atomized spray of fluid under pressure in the

injection lumen (12).
The tube of claim 1, wherein the piercing (10a) is sized to
provide a coarse spray of fluid under pressure in the injection

lumen (12).
The tube of claim 1, wherein the piercing (10a) is sized to
provide a liquid stream of fluid under pressure in the injection

lumen (12). 
The tube of claim 1, wherein the piercing (10a) is
expandable by pressurized fluid passing through the piercing

(10a) to a width of no greater than a diameter of the injection
lumen (12).
The tube of claim 1, further comprising a secondary lumen
(6) in the wall of the tube (1) and a balloon cuff (11) on the

outer periphery of the tube, the secondary lumen (6) being in
fluid communication with the balloon cuff (11) for inflating and

deflating the balloon cuff (11).
The tube of claim 1, wherein the tube (1) is of soft plastic
having a durometer hardness in the range of 40 to 100 Shore A.
The tube of claim 1, wherein the tube (1) comprises a
tracheal tube.
The tube of claim 1, wherein the tube (1) comprises a
thoracic or trocar catheter.
The tube of claim 1, wherein the tube (1) is of flexible
plastic, the piercing (10a) being expandable to a width by

pressurized fluid passing through the piercing (10a), the width
being selected as a function of durometer of the plastic tube,

the thickness of the wall of the tube (1) measured between the
inner and outer peripheries of the tube (1), and the shape and

size of a piercing device used to form the piercing (10a).
The tube of claim 7, wherein the angle is less than 45°.
The tube of claim 7, wherein the angle is less than 30°.
The tube of claim 7, wherein the angle is about 22°. 
The tube of claim 1, wherein the piercing is formed by
opposed surfaces which are more narrow at a portion thereof

adjacent the outer or inner periphery of the tube than at a
portion thereof adjacent the injection lumen (12).
A method of manufacturing a medical-surgical tube of claim
1, the method comprising:


projecting a piercer into the injection lumen (12) along the
axis thereof, bending the tube (1) in a slightly bent

configuration and pushing the point of the piercer through a
portion o
f the tube wall located between the injection lumen (12)
and the outer or inner periphery of the tube so as to form the

valve means (10).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
