<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637356</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MINERAL WOOL BOARD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B318	B32B318	E04B176	E04B176	E04C210	E04C216	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B32B	E04B	E04B	E04C	E04C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B3	B32B3	E04B1	E04B1	E04C2	E04C2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A board (19) for use in a sandwich element (36) used in walls, ceilings, floors or roofs of buildings or ships or other structures comprises mineral wool lamellae (14, 15) arranged side by side so that the fibres (28) of the mineral wool lie perpendicular to the plane of the board and so that the longitudinal length of the lamellae is at an angle in the range 25 to 65 DEG  to a side edge of the board. The board can comprise the lamellae held together, optionally in compression, by a scrim (36, 30, 32, 33) arranged across one or both the planar surfaces formed by the lamellae and adhered to the underlying lamellae. Several boards (19, 26, 27) may be arranged to form a board (29) having facing layers (34, 35) on each planar surface.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCKWOOL LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROCKWOOL LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWALES STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SWALES, STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MINERAL WOOL BOARD The present invention relates to a board comprising mineral wool, suitable as a core of a sandwich element, useful in construction, for instance as a wall forming member, ceiling, floor, roof or cladding member.Mineral wool, that is wool formed from fibres of inorganic materials, usually glass or rock, has long been used to form the insulating core to steel faced composite panels, manufactured predominantly for the construction industry. The theory of the mechanical properties of sandwich elements indicates that the resistance to any load supplied to a composite panel is primarily a function of the stiffness and strength of the steel, or other, facings. The structural purpose of the core material is primarily to keep the surface layers apart so that the laminate can function as a composite, i.e. a light-weight stiff structure.Mineral wool, especially rockwool, is produced in slabs, in which the fibres lie mainly parallel to the plane of the slab. The earliest composite panel designs simply incorporated these rigid slabs of standard insulation material between the two facing panels, adhesive being applied at the interfaces between the slab and the facing materials. In this configuration the primary orientation of the fibres is parallel to that of the surface layer and with this orientation the composite sandwich element exhibits limited resistance to loading applied perpendicular to the element. Improvements to composite panel design were afforded by rearranging the mineral wool so that the fibres lie primarily _at right angles to the plane of the sandwich element. This was achieved by cutting the slab of material produced in the normal manner into slices at regular intervals, usually perpendicular to the machine direction, so as to form substantially rectangular slices of wool, known as lamellae. To form a sandwich element of the 

lamellae, several lamellae were laid side by side, each lamella being positioned such that the fibres of the wool lie in a substantially perpendicular direction with respect to the plane of the element. The facing layers were adhered in the usual fashion, by the application of a layer of adhesive between the facing layer and the underlying mineral wool. With this arrangement of lamellae, the adhesion of the facing layers to the mineral wool was improved, there was an increased compressive strength at right angles to the plane of the panel and the load bearing capacity perpendicular to the panel was improved.The first panels of the type mentioned in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A structural panel 29 which is rectangular having side edges 20, 21 and end edges 22, 23 formed from a plurality of mineral wool lamellae 14, 15 arranged side by side such that the fibres 28 of the mineral wool lie substantially perpendicular to the plane of the panel and such that there is no rectilinear joint between lamellae which extends from one side edge of the panel to the other side edge of the panel parallel to the end edges, characterised in that the lamellae are arranged with their longitudinal length at an angle in the range 25-65° to the side edges of the panel.
2. A panel according to claim 1 which is formed of several boards 19, 26, 27, each comprising a plurality of mineral wool lamellae held together in side by side relationship by a scrim 36, 30, 32, 33, arranged across at least one planar surface of the board and bonded to the mineral fibre, the board having at least one side (GH, EF) which is perpendicular to the long edges of the lamellae of the board and another side edge which is parallel to the side edges of the panel.
3. A panel according to claim 2 at least one board of which is a generally parallelogram shaped board 19, having an acute angle G in the range 25-65°.
4. A panel according to claim 2 or claim 3 in which at least one of the boards is triangular shaped 26, 27, preferably a right angle triangle having an angle in the range 25-65°.
5. A panel according to claim 4 in which the triangle is an equilateral triangle. 6. A panel according to any of claims 2 to 5 which includes at least one parallelogram shaped board 19, one pair of edges (GH, EF) of which are perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the lamellae, and in which one of the pair of sides of the board is parallel to the side edges and the other pair of sides meets one of the panel side edges at an angle (FEH, FGH) in the range 25-65°. 



7. A panel according to any of claims 2 to 6 in which the lamellae in each board are held together by a scrim 36, 30, 32, 33 arranged across and substantially the entire area of each planar surface. 8. A panel according to claim 7 in which the lamellae of each board are held under compression in the plane of the board in a direction substantially perpendicular to the length of the lamellae.
9. A panel according to any preceding claim comprising a facing sheet 34, 35 arranged across at least one, and preferably both, of the planar faces of the panel and adhered thereto.
10. A process for producing a rectangular structural panel having side edges 20, 21 and end edges 22, 23, in which a plurality of mineral wool lamellae 14, 15 are laid side by side such that the mineral fibres lie substantially perpendicular to the plane of the panel and such that there is no rectilinear joint between lamellae which extends from one side edge of the panel to the other side edge of the panel in a direction parallel to the end edges, characterised in that each of the lamellae are arranged with their longitudinal direction at an angle in the range 25-65° to the side edges of the panel.
11. A process according to claim 10 in which the lamellae are formed in a first step into several boards 19, 26, 27 by arranging a plurality of lamellae side by side and adhering a scrim 36, 30, 32, 33 across at least one, and preferably both, of the planar surfaces, the board having at least one side (GH, EF) perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the lamellae, and in which the boards are then arranged in a second step in side by side relationship such that all of the lamellae of all of the boards lie
"
 with their longitudinal direction within the said range. 12. A process according to claim 10 or claim 11 having th further features according to any of claims 2 to 9. 


 PCI7GB92/01262
16
13. A board 19 for forming a structural panel which comprises a plurality of side by side arranged mineral wool lamellae 14, 15, arranged so that the fibres lie substantially perpendicular to the plane of the board, in which the board has at least one side (GH, EF) which lies perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the lamellae and in which the angle between that side edge and at least one of the edges (HE, FG) adjoining it forms an angle (FGH, FEH) in the range 25-65°. 14. A board according to claim 13 having the further features defined in any of claims 2 to 8. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
