<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616826</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Water filter Cartridges.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D2700	B01D2708	B01D2708	B01D2710	C02F100	C02F100	C02F132	C02F132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	C02F	C02F	C02F	C02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D27	B01D27	B01D27	B01D27	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	C02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A self-contained, disposable water filter cartridge 
(10) for a water treatment system for treatment of 

potable water has one-way ball check valves (27,16) at 
the water inlet and water outlet to the cartridge. The 

generally cylindrical water filter cartridge is generally 
spherical on one end while substantially planar on the 

other end and is of a welded plastic construction. 
Asymmetrical lugs (32) radially disposed about the 

periphery of the planar end are adapted to mate with an 
apertured deck (65) of a water treatment system (70). 

The inlet ball check valve (27) is adapted to open under 
water pressure while the outlet ball check valve (16) is 

opened by a pin (9) when the cartridge is mounted on the 
deck (65). When the cartridge is removed from the deck, 

the check valves close to prevent water within the 
cartridge escaping. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMWAY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMWAY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOOL DENNIS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KOOL, DENNIS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is generally directed to water 
filters used to filter chemicals and water-laden 
particulates from potable water. More particularly, the 
present invention is directed to a self-contained 
replaceable water filter cartridge assembly having its 
own carbon block water filter pressure vessel and inlet 
and outlet ports which are provided with one-way check 
valves. The water filter cartridge of the present 
invention is designed to be disposable and easily 
replaced by the user. The one-way check valves disposed 
within the inlet and outlet ports of the cartridge of the 
present invention are designed to prevent reflux of 
contaminated water into the inlet water supply and 
prevent leakage of water from the inlet and outlet ports 
of the cartridge during replacement. Current domestic water treatment systems for the 
treatment of potable water generally employ a cylindrical 
pressure vessel having a removable base. The base is 
provided with inlet and outlet ports on the bottom 
thereof and the top end of the base is adapted with a 
threaded male member to threadingly receive a generally 
cylindrical water filter thereon. With the filter 
elements secured upon the base, the threaded male member 
is in fluid communication with both the outlet port on 
the bottom of the base and the filter element itself. 
When the base is secured to the shell portion of the 
pressure vessel, the inlet port is in communication with 
an area defined by the space between the water filter 
element and the inside of the pressure vessel housing 
shell. In operation, the inlet port is plumbed to a faucet 
or similar device which, when opened, allows water to  
 
flow into the pressure vessel between the filter element 
and the inside of the pressure vessel shell wherein water 
is forced through the filter element by the pressure. 
The carbon filter element generally has a non-porous 
plastic cap on the end located distally from the base 
and, proximate to the base, has a non-porous cap having 
female threads disposed therein adapted to threadingly 
attach to the threaded male member of the base. However, 
the filter, having a hollow core lined with a porous 
plastic material, will allow water to flow therethrough 
under line pressure through the porous plastic in the 
hollow core and continue its flow out through the outlet 
port. The outlet port of the filter cartridge is 
generally either plumbed to a spigot from which the user 
can draw water for consumption or to a second stage of 
water treatment such
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A water filter cartridge (10) comprising a 
substantially cylindrical pressure vessel (20) having a 

substantially spherical first end and a generally planar 
second end, the second end comprising an outlet (11) and 

an inlet (25) in fluid communication with the pressure 
vessel, the outlet comprising a normally closed first 

ball check valve (16) adapted to close the outlet when 
the cartridge is not in service, and the inlet comprising 

a normally closed second ball check valve (27) adapted to 
open upon the application of water pressure to the inlet. 
A cartridge according to claim 1 wherein the 
normally closed first ball check valve (16) is adapted to 

be engaged by opening means (9) when said water filter 
cartridge is mounted in a water treatment system. 
A cartridge according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein 
the outlet or the inlet is disposed coaxially with the 

pressure vessel. 
A water filter cartridge according to any of claims 
1 to 3 wherein said second end further comprises at least 

two asymmetrical lugs (32) radially disposed about its 
periphery and adapted to mate with an apertured deck (65) 

of a water treatment system to hold said water filter 
cartridge in place. 
A water filter cartridge according to any of claims 
1 to 4 wherein said first end further comprises a 

pressure vessel shell (20) and said second end comprises 
a pressure vessel base (30), said pressure vessel shell 

and pressure vessel base preferably being comprised of 
polyphenyleneoxide. 
A water filter cartridge according to any of claims 
1 to 5 wherein said outlet further comprises a generally 

cylindrical hollow nipple (12) disposed coaxially to said 
outlet, a major portion thereof extending from said 

second end and a minor portion thereof extending toward 
said first end. 
A water filter cartridge according to claim 6 
wherein said hollow nipple further comprises an open 

terminus defining a restricted opening (14) having an 
inner surface (15) defining an annular sealing wall 

wherein said first spherical check valve (16) is 
sealingly disposed. 
A water filter cartridge according to claim 6 or 
claim 7 wherein said hollow nipple further comprises a 

radial gasket lands (17) disposed about the outer 
diameter thereof having a gasket (18) disposed thereon. 
A water filter cartridge according to any of claims 
1 to 8 wherein said inlet further comprises a cup (28) 

projecting inwardly in a proximate direction in relation 
to said second end, said cup having sectional inner walls 

in fluid communication with said inlet port (25) and said 
pressure vessel shell, said cup having a major diameter, 

a beveled sealing surface located distally from said 
major diameter termination in a generally cylindrical 

port having a minor diameter, and said cup having 
disposed therein said second spherical check valve (27) 

in sealing contact with said beveled sealing surface. 
A water filter cartridge according to claim 9 
wherein said second spherical check valve is adapted to 

be moved away from said beveled sealing surface by water 
 

pressure. 
A water treatment system (70) comprising a water 
filter cartridge according to any of claims 1 to 10 and 

a mounting for said cartridge, said mounting including a 
pin (9) located to engage and unseat said first ball 

check valve (16) when said cartridge is mounted on said 
mounting. 
A self-containing disposable filter cartridge (10) 
comprising: a substantially cylindrical pressure vessel 

(20); said pressure vessel having a substantially 
spherical first end and a generally planar second end; 

said second end comprising a normally closed inlet ball 
check valve (27) and a normally closed outlet ball check 

valve (16); and wherein said normally closed inlet ball 
check valve opens upon application of water pressure and 

said normally closed outlet ball check valve opens upon 
engagement with a pin (9) disposed on a water treatment 

system which receives said filter cartridge. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
