<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655696</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Information access system and recording medium.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1730	G06F1730	G09B2100	G09B2100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G09B	G09B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	G09B21	G09B21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A book database (5) stores at least phonetic signal information including phoneme 
information and rhythm information as document data, a central system (1) transmits 

phonetic signal information stored on the book database (5) to a terminal (2) and the 
terminal (2) receives the phonetic signal information sent from the central system (1) so 

that speech synthesis based on this phonetic signal information is then carried out at the 
terminal (2) and the document is then recited via synthesized sounds. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKABANE MAKOTO C O SONY CORPOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASANO YASUHARU C O SONY CORPOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHII KAZUO C O SONY CORPORATI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWAHASHI YUSUKE C O SONY CORPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAGAMI TETSUYA C O SONY CORPOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO YASUHIKO C O SONY CORPORA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINAMINO KATSUKI C O SONY CORP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGAWA HIROAKI C O SONY CORPORA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OMOTE MASANORI C O SONY CORPOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE KAZUO C O SONY CORPOR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATARI MASAO C O SONY CORPORAT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AKABANE, MAKOTO, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ASANO, YASUHARU, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ISHII, KAZUO, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
IWAHASHI, YUSUKE, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAGAMI, TETSUYA, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATO, YASUHIKO, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MINAMINO, KATSUKI, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGAWA, HIROAKI, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OMOTE, MASANORI, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATANABE, KAZUO, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WATARI, MASAO, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an information access 
system suitable for use when accessing, from a terminal, a central 
system having a database on which information relating to 
documents such as, for example, newspapers, magazines and 
books etc., musical information or housing information etc. is 
stored. Conventionally, information access systems where the user 
can access a central system database from their own homes have 
consisted of systems, such as home information facsimile services, 
made up of home rental information and transaction information 
etc. In this kind of system, details of house information recorded on 
house information notes are recorded on the central system 
database. The user then accesses this central system via, for 
example, a telephone line. By operating a push button etc., an 
information number for the desired house information may be 
inputted and the details of the desired house information can be 
obtained from a facsimile having a particular telephone number. Also, with this information access system, a depositor etc. of, 
for example, a bank, accesses the central system of the bank by 
telephone (via a telephone line) and a balance inquiry can then be 
made by the person operating push buttons to input their personal 
account number.  By inputting, for example, a date of issue, writer, publisher or 
keyword, a desired book may then be searched for using the 
information access system. In the aforementioned kind of access system, the desired 
information is obtained by operating a terminal i.e. by operating the 
push-buttons on a telephone or facsimile or by operating a 
keyboard. However, the operation of a push button or keyboard is very 
difficult for users who are physically disabled in some way, 
particularly people whose vision is impaired or who are unable to 
move their hands or legs freely. As the present invention set out to resolve these kinds of 
problems, it is an object of this invention to provide an information 
access system having improved operability which is easier for 
people having physical disabilities to use. Also, it is a further object of this invention to provide an 
information access system where the information which is sent and 
received is phonetic signal information, so that speech which is 
sent and received can be compared, the volume of data sent and 
received and therefore communications expenses can be reduced, 
and searches can be carried out quickly. According to the present invention, an information access 
system
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An information access system comprising: 
   a central system (1) having a database (5) on which information is stored; and 

   a terminal (2), connected to the central system (1) by a communications line, which 
can access information on the database (5), wherein the database stores at least phonetic 

signal information including phoneme information and rhythm information; the central 

system (1) transmits phonetic signal information stored on the database (5) to the 
terminal; and the terminal (2) receives the phonetic signal information transmitted from 

the central system. 
An information access system according to claim 1, said terminal (2) being further 
equipped with speech synthesizing means (2-2) for synthesizing speech from the 

phonetic signal information. 
An information access signal according to claim 2, said phonetic signal information 
being items related to publications. 
An information access system according to claim 3, said terminal (2) being further 
equipped with input means for inputting keywords (2-3) from desired documents and 

said central system (1) being further equipped with searching means (3-6) for searching 
the database (5) for phonetic signal information relating to the publications 

corresponding to the keywords sent from the terminal (2), wherein keywords outputted 
by the input means are sent to the central system and searching means search results are 

sent to the terminal. 
An information access system according to claim 4, wherein items relating to an 
abstract from within phonetic signal information relating to the document present in the 

searching means search results are transmitted by the central system to the terminal. 
An information access system according to claim 4, said central system being 
further quipped with central speech recognition means (3-4) for recognizing the speech 

inputted to the input means, wherein the keywords for the desired document are 
inputted to the input means verbally and the search means (3-6) searches for phonetic 

signal information relating to the document on the database (5) using central speech 
recognition means recognition results. 
An information access system according to claim 6, wherein, when a plurality of 
the keywords are inputted verbally at the input means, the speech recognition means (3-4) 

determines whether or not a combination of respective speech recognition results has 
been obtained for the plurality of keywords, and outputs respective speech recognition 

results for the plurality of keywords based on the speech recognition results. 
An information access system according to claim 4, said input means being a 
keyboard (2-3), button (2-4), jog dial (2,5) or shuttle (2-5) ring. 
An information access system according to claim 1, said terminal being further 
equipped with recording means (2-12) for recording the phonetic signal information on 

a recording medium. 
An information access system according to claim 9, said terminal being further 
equipped with playback means (2-12) for playing back the phonetic signal information 

recorded on the recording medium. 
An information access system according to claim 2, wherein the terminal is 
further equipped with a mark application means for applying a mark to a prescribed 

position of the synthesized sound outputted by the speech synthesizing means and the 
speech synthesizing means resynthesizes and outputs the synthesized sounds from the 

position of the applied mark. 
An information access system comprising: 
   a central system (1); and 

   a terminal (2) connected to the central system by a communications line, said 
terminal being equipped with speech inputting means (2-9) for inputting speech and 

sound analyzing means (2-2) for analyzing speech inputted to the speech inputting 
means and sending sound analysis results to the central system, and said central system 

being equipped with central speech recognition means (3-4) for recognizing speech 
using sound analysis means sound analysis results sent from the terminal (2) and central 

control means (6) for carrying out prescribed processing in accordance with speech 
recognition results for the central speech recognition means. 
An information access system according to claim 12, said central control means 
(6) sending speech recognition results from the central speech recognition means (3-4) 

to the terminal (1). 
An information access system according to claim 13, said terminal being further 
equipped with speech recognition result correction means (2-5) for correcting a 

mistakenly recognized portion of the central speech recognition means (3-4) recognition 
results transmitted from the central control means (6), wherein the central speech 

recognition means (3-4) confirms speech by dictation and correction results from the 
speech recognition result correction means are sent to the central system. 
An information access system according to claim 14, wherein the speech 
recognition result correction means is a shuttle ring jog dial. 
An information access system according to claim 13, wherein the central speech 
recognition means (3-4) confirms speech by dictation, the speech inputting means re-inputs 

speech when the speech recognition results from the central speech recognition 
means (3-4) transmitted from the central control means (1) are mistaken and the central 

 
speech recognition means (3-4) recognizes speech which was re-inputted to the speech 

inputting means again, in accordance with the speech recognition results. 
An information access system according to claim 13, wherein the terminal is 
further equipped with speech synthesizing means (2-6) for synthesizing speech in 

accordance with central speech recognition means speech recognition results transmitted 
from the central control means (6). 
An information access system according to claim 13, said terminal being further 
equipped with terminal speech recognition means for recognizing speech based on 

sound analysis means sound analysis results and terminal side control means for 
carrying out prescribed processing corresponding to terminal speech recognition means 

speech recognition results. 
An information access system according to claim 12, wherein the central system 
(1) is further equipped with a database (5) for storing information relating to 

publications and the central control means (6) searches for and transmits to the terminal 
information relating to publications on the database (5) in accordance with central 

speech recognition means speech recognition results. 
An information access system according to claim 19, wherein the terminal (2) is 
further equipped with speech synthesizing means for synthesizing speech in accordance 

with information relating to the document transmitted by the central control means (6). 
An information access system according to claim 13, wherein the terminal (2) 
transmits the scope of vocabulary to become the speech recognition target to the central 

system (1) and the central speech recognition means (3-4) carries out speech recognition 
within the vocabulary scope transmitted by the terminal. 
An information access system according to claim 13, wherein sound analysis 
means sound analysis results are compressed and sent to the central system. 
An information access system according to claim 19, wherein the terminal is 
further equipped with a Braille display (2-7) or Braille printer (2-8) for outputting 

information relating to the document transmitted by the central control means. 
An information access system according to claim 12, wherein the speech is uttered 
in word or syllable units. 
An information access system according to claim 2 or 20, wherein the terminal is 
further equipped with recording means (2-13) for recording on the recording medium 

synthesized sounds composed by the speech synthesizing means. 
An information access system according to claim 20, wherein the terminal is 
further equipped with synthesized sound control means for controlling synthesized 

sounds composed and outputted by the speech synthesizing means. 
An information access control system according to claim 26, wherein the 
synthesized sound control means controls the tonal quality of the synthesized sounds. 
An information access system according to claim 26, wherein the synthesized 
sound control means controls the speed of utterance of the synthesized sounds. 
An information access system according to claim 26, wherein the synthesized 
sound control means controls the amplitudes of the voices for the synthesized sounds. 
An information access system according to claim 26, wherein the synthesized 
sound control means is a jog dial (2-5) or a shuttle ring. 
An information access system according to claim 25, wherein the terminal is 
further equipped with playback means (2-13) for playing back synthesized sounds 

recorded on the recording medium. 
An information access system according to claim 31, wherein the playback means 
(2-13) plays back the synthesized sounds in reverse. 
An information access system according to claim 20, wherein the speech 
synthesizing means is further equipped with characteristic compensating means for 

compensating the synthesized sounds in accordance with prescribed hearing 
characteristics. 
An information access system according to claim 33, wherein the prescribed 
hearing characteristics may be varied. 
An information access system according to claim 33, wherein the characteristic 
compensating means is a filter. 
An information access system according to claim 9, wherein the recording 
medium is capable of being recorded with phonetic signal information including 

phoneme information and rhythm information. 
An information access system according to claim 1, wherein the central system is 
further equipped with an authoring system (4) which produces phonetic signal 

information from information relating to the document and stores the phonetic signal 
information at the database (5). 
An information access system according to claim 37, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with editing means (4-2) for editing the phonetic signal 

information. 
An information access system according to claim 38, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with speech synthesizing means for synthesizing speech 

from the phonetic signal information. 
An information access system according to claim 37, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with analyzing means (4-3) for analyzing the document 

text data and generating phonetic signal information based on the analysis results. 
An information access system according to claim 40, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with mistaken reading correction means for correcting 

words which have been read incorrectly from document text data in the analysis means 
analysis results. 
An information access system according to claim 41, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with mistaken de-voicing correction means for correcting 

mistakes in the de-voicing of vowels when the de-voicing has been mistaken in vowels 
occurring in document text data in the analysis means analysis results. 
An information access system according to claim 42, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with mistaken accent correction means for correcting 

mistakenly accented words occurring in document text data in the analysis means 
analysis results. 
An information access system according to claim 43, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with mistaken pause position correction means for 

correcting mistakenly inserted pause positions in the analysis means analysis results 
document text data. 
An information access system according to claim 44, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with mistaken phrase correction means for correcting 

mistaken phrases occurring in the document text data for the analysis means analysis 
results. 
An information access system according to claim 45, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with mistaken vowel voice length correcting means for 

 
correcting mistaken vowel voice lengths when the voice length of vowels occurring in 

the document text data are mistaken in the analysis means analysis results. 
An information access system according to claim 40, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with speech input means for inputting speech, extracting 

means for extracting rhythm information for speech inputted by the speech input means 
and correction means for correcting mistaken analysis results from the analysis means 

based on rhythm information for the speech extracted by the extracting means. 
An information system according to claim 40, wherein the authoring system (4) is 
further equipped with character reading means for reading characters from the 

document and generating the text data. 
An information access system according to claim 48, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with speech synthesizing means for synthesizing speech 

from the output from the character reading means and correction means for correcting 
errors made in reading characters from the document using the character reading means 

based on synthesized sounds outputted by the speech synthesizing means. 
An information access system according to claim 40, wherein the authoring 
system (4) changes graphics data for the document into text data which describes the 

graphics data and the analysis means analyzes the text data which describes the graphics 
data. 
An information access system according to claim 40, wherein said document text 
data includes a abstract of the items recorded in the document. 
An information access system according to claim 40, wherein the authoring 
system (4) is further equipped with abstract inputting means for taking the abstract of 

the recorded items of the document as text data for the document for inputting to the 
analysis means. 
An information system according to claim 3, said central system being further 
equipped with fast reading information making means (4-4) for making fast reading 

information for reading documents quickly, wherein the fast reading information is 

stored in the database (5) together with phonetic signal information relating to the 
document and the speech synthesizing means outputs quick reading synthesized sounds 

for the document based on the quick reading information. 
An information access system according to claim 53, wherein the fast reading 
information is a keyword extracted from the document. 
An information access system according to claim 53, wherein the fast reading 
information is the contents information for the document. 
An information access system according to claim 55, wherein the central system is 
further equipped with contents producing means for producing contents information for 

the document. 
An information access system according to claim 4, wherein the keyword is 
attribute data expressing the attributes of the document, a relationship table expressing 

the relationship between the attribute data and the document corresponding to the 
attribute data is stored on the database (5), and the search means executes searches with 

reference to the relationship table. 
An information access system according to claim 57, wherein unique document 
identity numbers or attribute identity numbers for identification are assigned 

respectively to the document or the attribute data and the relationship table describes the 
corresponding relationship using the document identity number and the attribute identity 

number. 
An information access system according to claim 58, wherein the central system 
(1) is further equipped with past search information recording means for storing 

 
document identity numbers and attribute identity numbers which were searched in the 

past, wherein the search means searches by initially referring to the past search 
information recording means. 
An information access system according to claim 4, the central system (1) being 
further equipped with search scope storage means for storing the scope of the search, 

wherein the search means carries out the search within the search scope stored in the 
search scope storage means. 
An information access system according to claim 4, said central system (1) being 
further equipped with search frequency storage means for storing the frequency with 

which the phonetic signal information relating to the document is searched for by the 
search means, wherein the search means refers to the search frequency storage means 

and searches sequentially from the group of items of phonetic signal information 
relating to documents of a high search frequency. 
An information access system according to claim 57, wherein the attribute data is 
constituted by items for which speech has been recognized, and the search means 

carries out the search from the phonetic signal information relating to the document 
corresponding to the attribute data for which the plausibility of the speech recognition 

results is highest. 
An information access system according to claim 4, wherein the input means is 
further equipped with keyword output means for outputting from the keywords a 

prescribed number of characters, starting from the front, output control means for 
controlling the outputting of the keywords from the keyword output means, and 

selecting means for selecting the desired items from the keywords outputted from the 
keyword output means. 
An information access system according to claim 57, said attribute data being the 
document title, name of publisher, name of the author, day of issue, page number or 

field. 
An information access system according to claim 1, said terminal being further 
equipped with broadcast receiving means for receiving urgent broadcasts relating to 

urgent precautions and reporting means for bringing news of the urgent precautions. 
An information access system according to claim 65, wherein the central system 
and the terminal carry out wireless communications. 
An information access system according to claim 66, wherein the terminal is 
battery operated. 
An information access system according to claim 67, wherein the central system is 
connected to a further central system via a network and is further equipped with a 

network control means for controlling the exchange of information with the further 
central system. 
An information access system according to claim 68, wherein the central system is 
connected to a plurality of terminals. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
