<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629147</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
APPLICATOR GUIDANCE DEVICE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B05C17005	B05C17005	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B05C	B05C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B05C17	B05C17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The device relates to a method by which mastic can be accurately placed around a workpiece, providing the right shape and in a set position relative to the edge of the said workpiece, (drawing C5). Because the device had an adjustable guide bar it will enable an operator to place a mastic bead in any desired position while allowing "infinite" variations between the two extremes of distance provided by its design, (drawing C1). Used with the guiding device is a nozzle that has graduations marked on its tip to assist an operator select the required size or shape of the mastic bead extruded, (drawing B1).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTER DAVID CHARLES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PORTER, DAVID CHARLES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTER DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PORTER, DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 APPLICATOR GUIDANCE DEVICE The invention relates to a guidance device, and concerns in particular a guidance mechanism for use with a mastic applicator. Most motor manufacturers from around the world use numerous types of mastic sealers during the manufacture of car bodies, mainly for rust prevention and/or to stop water ingression to interior spaces. In general, the sealer is extruded into place, as a strip or bead, from a nozzle affixed to a suitable container, and for the most part this sealer is not visible when the car is constructed and so does not require to be decorative. However, some areas where the sealer is permanently on view can be observed around the inside of the doors, boot, tailgate, and bonnet, at the point where the steel skin is folded onto the frame (this fold is commonly termed a hemming flange). The sealer bead which provides the flexible corrosion barrier is visible when any of these access panels are opened, and because of its semi-exposed position its implementation requires an element of decorative continuity.During the production of new panels and the eventual construction of a new vehicle, manufacturers use machinery to achieve this sealer beading. This then provides continuity of shape and position over the production cycle for many thousands of identical units. The problems of replicating this sealer beading to panels becomes evident when at a later stage of its life the vehicle suffers panel damage as a result of an accident, and the panel skin is deemed uneconomical to repair.The task for the specialist repairer is to replace for example a damaged door skin (the outer part of the door), and duplicate as near as possible the manufacturers original pre-damaged condition of the panel, including the sealer beading.After the old skin is removed along with the original manufacturers sealer bead a new door skin is folded over the old frame (this operation is normally achieved by hand) and after welding the skin to the frame the manufacturers specifications require that a new sealer bead is produced to provide as mentioned a corrosion-free repair and to replicate as best as possible the original sealing.The present invention proposes a guidance device, useable with a nozzle attached mastic container, to ensure - or at least increase the chances of - the strip or bead of sealant being of neat and tidy appearance. More specifically, it suggests a nozzle guidance device which is a combination of nozzle, guide means (to maintain the position of the nozzle relative to the edge of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS (1 ) A mastic applicator guidance device, which device comprises: a nozzle, through which the sealer is to be extruded onto the surface to be coated; guide means, by which the position of the nozzle relative to the workpiece is to be maintained constant; and a spacing arrangement, by which the position of the guide means, and thus the relative position of the nozzle, can be adjusted to suit different workpieces (or different parts of the same workpiece).
(2) A guidance device as claimed in claim 1 ,wherein the nozzle design described takes the shape of tapered rectangle.
(3) A guidance device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the tapered nozzle tip is graduated to enable specific measurements of the mastic bead and thus enables an operator to cut the tip to the dimensional requirements.
(4) A guidance device as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the spacing arrangement used to control the relative position of the nozzle is a wheel, shaped to run along the edge of the workpiece, and so follows the contours of the said workpiece.
(5) A guidance device as claimed in claim 4, wherein there is provided a collar attached to a commercially available sealer nozzle secured by a fixing nut, and from this a rod is angled to mount a guide wheel.
(6) A guidance device as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the spacing arrangement used to control the relative position of the nozzle is by a flatted rectangular and eccentrically- mounted guide block, rotating this around its mounting will provide spacing adjustment.
(7) A guidance device as claimed in claim 6, wherein a flattened rectangular section bar is used as the adjusting and guiding mechanism.
(8) A guidance device as claimed in any of the claims 1 to 3, wherein the spacing arrangement used to control the relative position of the nozzle is an eccentrically mounted cylindrical bar,mounted at an angle to correspond to the. angle of the nozzle used. giving "infinite" variations between the two extremes of distance provided.
(9) A guidance device as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the spacing arrangements used to control the relative position of the nozzle is an eccentrically mounted device that uses a tapered foot as a jamming mechanism (like a violin tuning peg in its socket) to prevent the device moving out of position when in operation on the workpiece.
(10) A guidance device as claimed in any of the preceding claims and substantially as described hereinbefore 


 AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 10 August 1993 (10.08.93); original claims 1-10 replaced by amended claims 1-9 (1 page)]
(1 ) A mastic applicator guidance device, which device comprises: a nozzle, through which the sealer is to be extruded onto the surface to be coated; guide means, by which the position of the nozzle relative to the workpiece is to be maintained constant; and a spacing arrangement, by which the position of the guide means, and thus the relative position of the nozzle, can be adjusted to suit different workpieces (or different parts of the same workpiece) .
(2) A guidance device as claimed in claim 1 ,wherein the nozzle design described takes the shape of tapered rectangle.
(3) A guidance device wherein the profile of the nozzle used is more precisely defined as a flattened tapering rectangle, emanating from a cylindrically profiled base. The tapering effect being restricted to it' s sectional width only.
(4) A guidance device as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the nozzle provides for differing widths of sealant beading according to the manufactured length of its tapered tip. This will provide consistency to the height/depth of material extruded, defined by it's specific application requirements.
(5) A guidance device as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the spacing arrangement used to control the relative position of the nozzle is by a flatted rectangular and eccentrically-mounted guide block, rotating this around its mounting will provide spacing adjustment.
(6) A guidance device as claime in claim 6, wherein a flattened rectangular section bar is used as the adjusting and guiding mechanism.
(7) A guidance device as claimed in any of the claims 1 to 3 , wherein the spacing arrangement used to control the relative position of the nozzle is an eccentrically mounted cylindrical bar,mounted at an angle to correspond to the angle of the nozzle used. giving "infinite" variations between the two extremes of distance provided.
(8) A guidance device as claimed in any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the spacing arrangements used to control the relative position of the nozzle is an eccentrically mounted device that uses a tapered foot as a jamming mechanism (like a violin tuning peg in its socket) to prevent the device moving out of position when in operation on the workpiece.
(9) A guidance device as claimed in any of the pre
'
cedin claims and substantial!'-/ as described hereinbefore 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
