<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630626</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Two-piece ostomy appliance and low-profile ring assembly therefor.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F5445	A61F5448	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F5	A61F5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A two-piece ostomy appliance, and a low-profile coupling 
ring assembly therefor, in which the rings have relatively large 

flat flanges that extend in close proximity when the rings are 
coupled and in which the assembly has a radial/axial aspect 

ratio, with the radial dimension being measured outwardly from 
the stoma-receiving opening of the assembly, of at least 1.5 to 

1, and preferably at least 2.5 to 1. One ring has an integral 
collar with an external latching shoulder and an annular sealing 

surface extending outwardly from the shoulder and merging with 
one of the side surfaces of the flange of that ring. The other 

ring includes a tapered, flexible, axially extending sealing lip 
that faces towards the first ring and is sealingly engagable 

with the sealing surface of the first ring when the rings are 
coupled together. The second ring also has a radially inwardly 

extending latching rib engagable with the shoulder of the first 
ring for retaining the rings in coupled condition, the latching 

rib being of smaller inside diameter than the annular sealing 
lip. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JENSEN OLE R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JENSEN, KIRSTEN HELVIG BERNDORFF JENSEN, OLE ROGER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN OLE ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JENSEN, OLE ROGER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Ostomy appliances of the so-called "two-piece" type are well 
known and consist essentially of an adhesive faceplate for 
adhesive attachment to the peristomal skin surfaces of a patient 
and a collection pouch that is detachably connectable to the 
faceplate. The faceplate and pouch have alignable 
stoma-receiving openings, and a pair of thermoplastic coupling 
rings are secured to the faceplate and pouch about such openings 
for connecting the parts together. The advantage of such a 
two-piece appliance over a conventional one-piece appliance (in 
which a pouch and faceplate are permanently connected) is that a 
number of pouches may be used successively with a single 
faceplate. The user of a two-piece appliance may therefore 
leave a faceplate adhesively attached to the skin for an 
extended period, without the discomfort, inconvenience, and skin 
irritation that frequent removal and replacement of an adhesive 
faceplate may involve, and simply remove a used pouch and 
replace it with a fresh pouch whenever needed. To be effective, however, it is critical that a two-piece 
appliance be free of leakage problems since even slight leakage 
of liquid, solid, or gaseous matter could cause considerable 
inconvenience and embarrassment to the wearer. Much effort has 
been expended in the past to develop coupling systems that are 
reliable and not likely to be inadvertently detached in use, are 
nevertheless easy to assemble and disconnect at will, and do not 
leak even when a number of pouch rings have been successively 
coupled and uncoupled from a single faceplate ring. While some  
 
existing appliances come closer than others to fully achieving 
these objectives, their effectiveness in doing so has generally 
come at the sacrifice of one further objective -- that of 
providing a coupling assembly of low enough profile that it does 
not protrude an appreciable distance from a wearer's body and 
does not produce conspicuous bulges through a wearer's clothing. For example, some two-piece appliances utilize a coupling 
system in which one of the rings is channel-shaped (in radial 
cross section) and the mating ring includes an annular rib that 
is receivable in the channel to make both sealing and latching 
contact with the channel's inner surfaces. Reference may be had 
to patents U.S. 4,419,100, GB 1,571,657, GB 1,583,027 and 
EP 0 089 138 for couplings of the channel-and-rib type. While 
such constructions may provide latching and sealing 
effectiveness, they are all of relatively high profile and fail

</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A low-profile coupling ring assembly for a two-piece 
ostomy appliance, comprising first and second coupling rings 

formed of flexible thermoplastic material and defining alignable 
stoma-receiving openings; said first ring having a flat annular 

flange with generally planar side surfaces and having an 
integral collar extending from said flange immediately adjacent 

to and about the stoma-receiving opening of said first ring; 
said collar having an external annular latching shoulder and 

having an annular sealing surface extending outwardly from said 
shoulder and merging with one of said side surfaces; said second 

ring also having a flat annular flange with generally planar 
side surfaces and having a tapered, flexible, axially-extending 

annular sealing lip facing towards said first ring and engagable 
with said sealing surface when said rings are coupled together; 

said second ring also having a radially inwardly extending 
annular latching rib engagable with said shoulder for retaining 

said rings in coupled condition; said rings when coupled 
together having an overall radial/axial dimensional aspect ratio 

measured outwardly and axially from said stoma-receiving opening 
of said first ring of at least 1.5 to 1. 
The assembly of Claim 1 in which said flanges of said 
first and second coupling rings are of substantially the same 

outside diameter. 
The assembly of Claims 1 or 2 in which said flanges of 
said first and second rings are disposed in close proximity when 

said rings are coupled together. 
The assembly of Claim 3 in which said side surfaces of 
said flanges that face in opposite directions each from the 

other of said rings are spaced apart a distance substantially 
less than the axial dimension of said collar when said rings are 

coupled together. 
The assembly of Claim 1 in which said aspect ratio is at 
least 2.5 to 1. 
The assembly of Claims 1 or 5 in which said collar has 
an axial dimension less than 5 mm. 
The assembly of Claim 6 in which said collar has an 
axial dimension less than 4 mm. 
The assembly of Claim 6 in which said sealing lip has an 
inside diameter greater than the outside diameter of said 

shoulder. 
A two-piece ostomy appliance for peristomal attachment 
to a patient's body, comprising a pouch component and an 

adhesive faceplate component provided with alignable 
stoma-receiving openings and including a pair of flexible, 

thermoplastic, faceplate and pouch coupling rings for detachably 
and sealingly coupling said components together; said faceplate 

coupling ring having a flat annular flange with generally planar 
pouchside and bodyside surfaces and having an integral collar 

extending away from said flange in a pouchside direction 
 

immediately about the stoma-receiving opening of said faceplate; 
said collar having an external annular latching shoulder at its 

pouchside end and having an annular external sealing surface 
sloping radially outwardly from said shoulder to the pouchside 

surface of said flange; said pouch coupling ring also having a 
flat annular flange with generally planar pouchside and bodyside 

surfaces and having an integral, flexible, annular sealing lip 
extending about the stoma-receiving opening of said pouch in a 

bodyside direction towards said faceplate and into forceful 
sealing engagement with said sealing surface when said rings are 

coupled together; said pouch coupling ring having a radially 
inwardly extending annular latching rib engagable with said 

shoulder for holding said rings in latched condition. 
The appliance of Claim 9 in which said rings when 
coupled together having an overall radial/axial dimensional 

aspect ratio, measured radially outwardly and axially from said 
stoma-receiving opening of said faceplate ring, of at least 1.5 

to 1. 
The appliance of Claim 10 in which said aspect ratio is 
at least 2.5 to 1. 
The appliance of Claim 10 in which said collar has an 
axial dimension less than 5 mm. 
The appliance of Claim 12 in which said collar has an 
axial dimension less than about 4 mm. 
The appliance of Claims 9 or 10 in which said flanges 
of said faceplate and pouch coupling rings are of substantially 

the same outside diameter. 
The appliance of Claim 14 in which said flanges of said 
pouch and faceplate coupling rings are disposed in close 

proximity when said rings are coupled together. 
The appliance of Claim 9 in which said sealing lip has 
an inside diameter greater than the outside diameter of said 

shoulder. 
The appliance of Claim 9 in which said pouch coupling 
ring is provided with an annular channel along the pouchside 

surface thereof adjacent said annular latching rib; and an 
insert of elastomeric material secured in said channel. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
