<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628177</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
COMPOSITE PHOTOMETRIC AND RANGE FINDING ELEMENT ARRAY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02B730	G02B730	G02B734	G02B734	G03B7099	G03B7099	G03B1336	G03B1336	H04N5232	H04N5232	H04N5235	H04N5235	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02B	G02B	G02B	G02B	G03B	G03B	G03B	G03B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02B7	G02B7	G02B7	G02B7	G03B7	G03B7	G03B13	G03B13	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multiple photosensitive element array and lens system particularly adapted for use in a camera (10) for providing scene image light intensity signals for use in automatic exposure and automatic focus control. A two-dimensional photometric sensor array (30) of planar photosensitive array segments is centrally disposed on an integrated circuit substrate so that the planar segments each receive light from corresponding segments of the image focused thereon for developing first light intensity related signals in response thereto. At least one pair of linear range arrays (40, 42), each comprising a plurality of photosensitive elements, is mounted on the substrate on either side of the two-dimensional sensor array, such that the linear range arrays are separated by a baseline distance extending across the two-dimensional photometric sensor array. A lens system (20) is provided for focusing an image of a scene to be photographed upon each of the two-dimensional photometric sensor array and the linear photosensitive element range arrays. The photosensitive elements of the pair of linear photosensitive element arrays each receive light from a fractional portion of the image focused thereon and develop second light intensity related signals in response thereto. The segments of the sensor array preferably include a central segment (32), a first plurality of inner segments (34) and a second plurality of outer segments (36), wherein each segment is closely spaced and electrically insulated from adjacent segments. The photosensitive array and lens system is preferably employed in a camera having an autofocus control system for controlling the focus of a camera imaging lens based on the second light intensity related signals and an autoexposure control system for controlling the exposure of an image of the scene based on the first light intensity related signals.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COCCA J DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COCCA, J., DAVID
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 COMPOSΓΓE PHOTOMETRIC AND RANGE FINDING ELEMENT ARRAYFIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to light measuring and range finding devices, and more particularly to a camera having automatic exposure and automatic focus range-finding photosensor arrays fixed on a common substrate.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION In recent years, automatic focus or autofocus (AF) and automatic exposure (AE) video and still photographic cameras have come into common usage as the cost of integrated circuits, photosensors, and miniaturized servo systems for adjusting the focal length of the imaging lens and controlling the exposure time period have become much less expensive. In addition, the availability of inexpensive microprocessors, RAM and ROM chips, and other microcontroller components has allowed designers to incorporate sophisticated algorithms with active or passive range sensors for AF systems and with multi-segmented photometric sensor arrays for AE systems to provide the user with highly accurate "point and shoot" capabilities. These capabilities have been incorporated in relatively simple range finder photographic cameras and highly complex single lens reflex (SLR) photographic still cameras as well as in video cameras. The development and incorporation of multi-segmented photosensor integrated circuit arrays for use in photographic still cameras is summarized in commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 5,146,258 to Bell et al, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The '258 patent discloses an improved multi-segmented photometric sensor coupled to selection circuitry for selecting a combination of the signals derived from each segment of the sensor for setting the exposure conditions of the image captured by the camera. The photometric sensor may also be used in conjunction with an electronic strobe flash for providing a reflected light intensity feedback signal that is processed and employed to set the duration of the flash. 

 In AF control systems, active or passive range finders have been developed to provide signals from which the distance between the camera body and (typically) the subject or structure in the scene that the user has centered the imaging lens on may be determined and employed with a motorized servo-system to adjust the focal length of the imaging lens. Passive range finders employ one or more pairs of linear photo-diode arrays that are positioned a fixed distance apart which forms the baseline of the autoranging triangulation system. In triangulation AF systems, the baseline
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A multiple photosensitive element array positioned on a common substrate and lens system particularly adapted for use in a camera for providing scene image light intensity signals for use in automatic exposure and automatic focus control comprising: a two-dimensional photometric sensor array of one or more planar photosensitive elements positioned on said substrate, wherein each of said planar elements receives light from a segment of the image focused thereon and develop one or more respective first light intensity related signals in response thereto; at least one pair of linear photosensitive element arrays, each linear array comprising a plurality of photosensitive elements, positioned on said substrate either side of said two-dimensional array of planar photosensitive elements, such that said linear arrays are separated by a baseline distance extending across said two-dimensional photometric array and wherein said elements of said pair of linear photosensitive element arrays each receive light from a fractional portion of the image focused thereon and develop a respective pair of second light intensity related signals in response thereto; and a lens system having lens means for focusing a segment of said image upon each photosensitive element of said two-dimensional photometric array and at least a portion of the same image upon said linear photosensitive element arrays.
2. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 1 wherein: said photometric sensor array is formed of said plurality of planar photosensitive elements arranged in a rectangular format corresponding in shape to an image capturing format; and said planar photosensitive elements include a central element and one or more peripheral elements surrounding said central element and within said rectangular format. 


 3. • The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 2 wherein said camera includes an image recording medium and an imaging lens that may be adjusted to focus said image on said recording medium and further comprising: first means for deriving automatic exposure control signals for controlling the exposure of said image on said recording medium in said camera from said first light intensity related signals; and second means for deriving automatic focus control signals for adjusting the focus of said camera imaging lens from said second light intensity related signals.
4. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 3 wherein said first and second means further comprise: amplifiers and signal processing circuits for providing a signal representative of the intensity of light from the segment or portion of the scene focused on each of said photosensitive elements by said lens system.
5. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 1 wherein said camera includes an image recording medium and an imaging lens that may be adjusted to focus said image on said recording medium and further comprising: first means for deriving automatic exposure control signals for controlling the exposure of said image on said recording medium in said camera from said first light intensity related signals; and second means for deriving automatic focus control signals for adjusting the focus of said camera imaging lens from said second light intensity related signals.
6. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 5 wherein said first and second means further comprise: amplifiers and signal processing circuits for providing a signal representative of the intensity of light from the segment or portion of the scene focused on each of said photosensitive elements by said lens system.
7. A multiple photosensitive element array positioned on a common substrate and lens system particularly adapted for use in an image recording 



 camera for providing scene image light intensity signals for use in automatic exposure and automatic focus control comprising: a two-dimensional photometric array of one or more planar photosensitive elements situated between first and second borderlines and positioned on said substrate, wherein said one or more planar elements each receive light from one or more corresponding segments of an image focused thereon for developing one or more first light intensity related signals in response thereto; first and second linear photosensitive element arrays, each array comprising a plurality of photosensitive elements positioned on said substrate, said first linear array extending from a point adjacent to said first borderline and away from said two-dimensional array of planar photosensitive elements, said second linear array extending from a point adjacent to said second borderline and away from said two-dimensional array of planar photosensitive elements, whereby said first and second linear arrays are separated by a baseline distance extending across the two-dimensional photometric array and wherein said photosensitive elements of said first and second linear arrays each receive light from a fractional portion of the image focused thereon and develop second light intensity related signals in response thereto; and a lens system having lens means for focusing said image of said scene to be recorded upon each of said two-dimensional photometric array and said first and second linear arrays.
8. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 7 wherein: said photometric sensor array is formed of said plurality of planar photosensitive elements arranged in a rectangular format corresponding in shape to the recording medium imaging format; and said planar photosensitive elements include a central element and one or more peripheral elements surrounding said central element and within said rectangular format. 


 9. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 8 wherein said camera includes an image recording medium and an imaging lens that may be adjusted to focus said image on said recording medium and further comprising: first means for deriving automatic exposure control signals for controlling the exposure of said image on said recording medium in said camera from said first light intensity related signals; and second means for deriving automatic focus control signals for adjusting the focus of said camera imaging lens from said second light intensity related signals.
10. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 9 wherein said first and second means further comprise: amplifiers and signal processing circuits for providing a signal representative of the intensity of light from the segment or portion of the scene focused on each of said photosensitive elements by said lens system.
11. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 7 wherein said camera includes an image recording medium and an imaging lens that may be adjusted to focus said image on said recording medium and further comprising: first means for deriving automatic exposure control signals for controlling the exposure of said image on said recording medium in said camera from said first light intensity related signals; and second means for deriving automatic focus control signals for adjusting the focus of said camera imaging lens from said second light intensity related signals.
12. The photosensitive array and lens system of Claim 11 wherein said first and second means further comprise: amplifiers and signal processing circuits for providing a signal representative of the intensity of light from the segment or portion of the scene focused on each of said photosensitive elements by said .lens system. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
