<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640466</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Process for compression moulding of a melt impregnated multilayer article.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C4322	B29C4328	B29C4344	B29C4346	B29C4352	B29C4352	B29C7004	B29C7006	B29C7006	B29C7008	B29C7008	B29C7050	B29K6900	B29K30908	B29L900	B32B2704	B32B2704	B32B2736	B32B2736	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29K	B29L	B32B	B32B	B32B	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C43	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29C70	B29K69	B29K309	B29L9	B32B27	B32B27	B32B27	B32B27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to a 
continuous process for producing a fiber 

reinforced thermoplastic resin article having a 
high concentration of thermoplastic resin on at 

least one surface thereof. The continuous process 
of this invention comprises continuously applying 

a thermoplastic resin on at least one surface of a 
fiber mat core, continuously applying a second 

thermoplastic resin on at least one surface of the 
combination of fiber mat core and the first 

thermoplastic resin, passing the combination to a 
molding zone, and then molding the combination 

thereof under heat and pressure into a finished 
article. The finished article can have a Class A 

surface, if desired, or a mat finish. The 
finished article also has a high concentration of 

the second thermoplastic resin on at least one 
surface thereof, depending on whether or not the 

second thermoplastic resin is applied on one or 
both surfaces of the fiber mat core. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GEN ELECTRIC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNTON THOMAS PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUTCH ERICH OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DUNTON, THOMAS PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TEUTCH, ERICH OTTO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a continuous 
process for producing a fiber reinforced thermoplastic 
resin article. The finished article can 
have a Class A surface, if desired, depending on 
the finish of the mold surfaces. While a Class A 
surface does not have a universally accepted definition 
or specification, one accepted definition 
is a glossy, smooth and polished surface which 
should be as smooth as that of a current automobile 
exterior part made from sheet metal. Another definition 
is that the visible surface of the article 
in the finished state is free of exposed glass 
fibers, flash, sharp edges, visible parting lines, 
crazing, porosity, hair line cracks, blisters, and 
obvious repairs. Briefly, the continuous process of this invention 
comprises continuously applying a thermoplastic 
resin on at least one surface of a fiber mat 
core, continuously applying a second thermoplastic 
resin on at least one surface of the combination 
of fiber mat core and the first thermoplastic 
resin, passing the combination to a molding zone, 
and then molding the combination thereof under heat 
and pressure into a finished article. The finished 
article can have a Class A surface, if desired, 
depending upon the finish of the mold surface. The 
finished article also has a high concentration of 
the second thermoplastic resin on at least one 
surface thereof, depending on whether or not the 
second thermoplastic resin is applied on one or 
both surfaces of the fiber mat core. The continuous process of this invention provides 
a process for the continuous production of  
 
fiber reinforced thermoplastic resin articles that 
find such uses as automobile exterior panels 
(fenders, hoods, trunk lids, etc.), roofing tiles, 
siding for buildings, etc. Producing finished articles that have a high 
concentration of thermoplastic resin on the surface 
thereof is known in the art as disclosed in 
U.S. Patent 4,983,247 and also described in other 
U.S. patents, particularly U.S. Patent No. 
4,859,524 and U.S. Patent No. 4,716,072. While 
these references disclose producing articles of 
thermoplastic resin and fiber reinforcement and 
further disclose that such articles have a resin 
rich surface which may be a Class A surface, the 
references nevertheless disclose essentially a 
batch process for forming the articles. U.S. Patent 4,983,247 discloses forming a composite 
that can have a Class A surface by forming a 
fiber free layer of a first thermoplastic resin 
and juxtaposing with a layer at least a portion of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A continuous process for producing a molded 
thermoplastic resin fiber reinforced article comprising 

a fiber mat core and thermoplastic resin 
wherein the surface of the molded article has a 

high concentration of thermoplastic resin, which 
process comprises continuously applying a first 

thermoplastic resin onto at least one surface of a 
fiber mat core, continuously applying a second 

thermoplastic resin onto at least one surface of 
the fiber mat core and first thermoplastic resin, 

passing the combination of fiber mat core with 
first and second thermoplastic resin to a molding 

zone and then molding the combination thereof 
under pressure and heat into a molded thermoplastic 

resin fiber reinforced article having on at 
least one surface thereof a high concentration of 

the second thermoplastic resin; provided that at 
least one thermoplastic resin is selected from the 

group consisting of film and powdered thermoplastic 
resin. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the fiber 
mat core consists essentially of at least two 

layers of fiber mat. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin and the second thermoplastic 

resin are the same thermoplastic resin. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin is a film of an aromatic polycarbonate 

resin having an intrinsic viscosity of 
less than about 0.5 dl/gram and the second thermoplastic 

resin is a molten aromatic polycarbonate 
resin having an intrinsic viscosity of greater than 

about 0.5 dl/gram. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin is an aromatic polycarbonate 

in powdered form. 
The process of claim 5 wherein the combination 
of fiber mat core and first thermoplastic 

resin, which is aromatic polycarbonate film, are 
heated to a temperature sufficient to melt the 

aromatic polycarbonate film and to heat the fiber 
mat core to processing temperature. 
The process of claim 6 wherein the heated 
fiber mat core and melted aromatic polycarbonate 

film are passed through the nip of at least one 
pair of opposing heated wet-out rolls under 

sufficient pressure to impregnate the fiber mat 
core with the aromatic polycarbonate resin. 
The process of claim 1 wherein a material 
selected from the group consisting of powdered 

pigment and a blend of a powdered pigment and a 
powdered thermoplastic resin is applied, prior to 

molding, to the surface of the combination of fiber 
mat core and first and second thermoplastic resin 

having the high concentration of the second thermoplastic 
resin. 
The product prepared by the process of 
claim 8. 
The process of claim 1 wherein the second 
thermoplastic resin applied to the fiber mat core 

is a film and the first thermoplastic resin is in 
the melted state. 
The process of claim 10 wherein the fiber 
mat core having the first thermoplastic resin film 

applied onto at least one surface of the fiber mat 
core, after heating, is passed between at least two 

opposing heated wet-out rolls, wherein the temperature 

of the surface of the rolls are such as to 
avoid sticking of the first thermoplastic resin to 

the surface of the rolls and wherein the pressure 
of the rolls on the fiber mat core and melted first 

thermoplastic resin is sufficient to force said 
thermoplastic resin into the fiber mat core in 

order to coat the fiber surfaces thereof. 
The process of claim 1 wherein both the 
first and second thermoplastic resin are in film 

form. 
The process of claim 11 wherein the combination 
is heated to a temperature sufficient to 

melt at least the first thermoplastic film and to 
heat the fiber mat core to processing temperature 

prior to molding thereof, which processing temperature 
is above the melting temperature of the 

thermoplastic resins. 
A continuous process for producing a 
molded thermoplastic fiber reinforced article 

comprising a fiber mat and thermoplastic resin 
wherein the surface of the molded article has a 

high concentration of thermoplastic resin, which 
process consists essentially of: 

   applying a first thermoplastic resin film onto 
at least one surface of a fiber mat core, 

   heating the fiber mat core and thermoplastic 
resin film to a temperature sufficient to 

melt the thermoplastic resin film and to 
also heat the fiber mat core to processing 

temperature, which processing temperature 
is above the melting temperature of the 

thermoplastic resins, 
   passing the heated fiber mat core and melted 

resin film to a zone wherein a second 
thermoplastic resin film is applied to at 

least one surface of the fiber mat core 
and melted resin film, 

   passing the combination thereof to a molding 
zone wherein the combination is molded 

under heat and pressure to form the 
thermoplastic resin fiber reinforced 

article having at least one surface 
thereof being a high concentration of the 

second thermoplastic resin. 
The process of claim 13 wherein the first 
thermoplastic resin film is applied to both the 

top and bottom surface of the fiber mat core. 
The process of claim 13 wherein the fiber 
core consists of chopped glass fibers of about 

1/8'' to about 2'' in length. 
The product prepared by the process of 
claim 14. 
The process of claim 14 wherein a material 
selected from the group consisting of powdered pigment 

and a blend of powdered pigment and a powdered 
thermoplastic resin is applied to the surface of 

the combination of fiber mat core and first and 
second thermoplastic resin having the high concentration 

of the second thermoplastic resin prior to 
the molding of the said combination. 
The product prepared by the process of 
claim 18. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
