<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650307</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Radio telecommunication apparatus
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04W1206	H04W1200	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04W	H04W	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04W12	H04W12	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Radio communication apparatus stores at least one 
authentication number and at least one system 

identification number. Each of the authentication 
number corresponds to one of the stored system 

identification number. When the apparatus receives a 
system identification number transmitted from a base 

station, the apparatus compares the received system 
identification number with each of the the stored 

system identification number. When the received 
system identification number corresponds to one the 

stored system identification number, one of the stored 
authentication number corresponding to one of the 

stored received system identification number is 
adopted. 


 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a radio
telecommunication apparatus used in a radio
telecommunication system such as a motor vehicle radio
telephone system and a portable radio telephone systems
and more particularly to a radio telecommunication
apparatus having a function so that it is easy for the
user to operate the apparatus.A cellular radio communication system will be
described with reference to FIG. 1. A mobile
telephone switching office defined as MTSO and a
plurality of base stations defined as BS1-BSn are
provided in an area. Each of these base stations BS1
BSn, which has its own radio zone E1-En, is
respectively connected to MTSO. A mobile radio
apparatus 1 may be in communication with the base
stations BS1-BSn via radio links in the radio zones E
En. If the user travels out of zone E1 and enters
another zone E2, the radio link between the apparatus
1 and BS1 is disconnected and a new radio link between
the apparatus 1 and BS2 in the radio zone E2 is
established.MTSO broadcasts a system identification number
defined as an SID to the base stations. Further the
base stations broadcast SID to the mobile radio
apparatus 1.The user is assigned a mobile identification
number defined as MID for the user's ,apparatus. In
case of using the apparatus for business and private
use, the user may be assigned a plurality of MIDs.
When the user operates the apparatus, the apparatus
requests the user to select one of the assigned MIDs
and input it into the apparatus. As a result, the 
user may communicate with another partyFurther in a standard of the mobile radio
telephone system called IS-54, an authentication key
number defined as an A-KEY corresponding to an MID is
assigned to the user. The A-KEY is taught to only the
user by a sevice company managing MTSO. The MID is
published in a telephone directory while the A-key is
not published in the telephone directory. Therefore
other people know the MID while not knowing the A-KEY
corresponding the MID.If the user is assigned a plurality of MIDs, the
user is assigned a plurality of SIDs and A-KEYs. Each
of the SIDs and the A-KEYs correspond to each of the
MIDs. If the user operates the apparatus, the
apparatus requests the user to input one of the SID,
one of the MIDs and one of the A-KEYs. After the SID,
the MID and the A-KEY are inputted, the apparatus and
the base station check whether the user inputs the
given A-KEY corresponding to the inputted MID into the
apparatus. If the user inputs the A-KEY corresponding
to the inputted MID, the apparatus is set to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Radio communication apparatus for use in a radio telecommunication system,
wherein the radio telecommunication system encompasses a plurality of zones each

having at least one base station which broadcasts a system identification number over at
least one radio channel within the zone of the base station, the radio telecommunication

apparatus comprising;

receiving means for receiving a system identification number;
storing means for storing at least one authentication number, at least one mobile
identification number, and at least one system identification number;
comparing means responsive to the receiving means and the storing means for
comparing the received system identification number with each of the stored system

identification number;
adopting means responsive to the comparing means for adopting one of the stored
authentication number and one of the stored mobile identification number, each

corresponding to one of the stored system identification number which is identical to the
received system identification number; and
generating means responsive to the adopting means for generating a data in
response to the adopted mobile identification number and the adopted authentication

number.
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the adopting means further adopts a
predetermined authentication number when the received system identification number

does not coincide with any one of the stored identification number.
The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising transmitting means responsive to
the adopting means and the generating means for transmitting the adopted mobile

identification number and the generated data to the base station.
The apparatus of claim 3 
characterised in that
 the apparatus further comprises
generating means (30) responsive to the adopting means (30) for generating a data in 

response to the adopted mobile identification number and the adopted authentication
number.
The apparatus claim 4 
characterised in that
 the apparatus further comprises
transmitting means (16) responsive to the adopting means (30) and the generating

means (30) for transmitting the adopted mobile identification number and the generated
data to the base station.
The apparatus of claim 3 
characterised in that
 the apparatus further comprises
control means (30) responsive to the adopting means (30) for inputting the adopted

mobile identification number and the adopted authentication number into an algorithm
and for outputting a data corresponding to an output of the algorithm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
