<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642617</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A SYSTEM FOR STONE CLADDING OF BUILDINGS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E04B286	E04B286	E04F1308	E04F1308	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E04B	E04B	E04F	E04F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E04B2	E04B2	E04F13	E04F13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a system (10) for stone cladding of buildings, comprising: a plurality of facing blocks (20) arranged as superposed courses, each block (20) in a first course having a first step (21) defining a lower tread (22), a riser (24), and a top tread surface (26) extending along the length of the top surface of the block (20) and each block (20) in each further course being further provided with a complementary second step (28) extending along the length of the bottom surface (27) thereof and configured to interfit with the step (21) of a block (20) positioned thereunder; a plurality of horizontal-axis, vertically spaced-apart rails (12), configured to be attachable to the wall (14) which is to be faced, each rail (12) being provided with means for directly or indirectly positioning and supporting a plurality of the facing blocks (20) by overriding the top tread surface (26) and riser (24) of a block (20) positioned therebelow while underlying and supporting a bottom surface of an upper block (20) positioned thereabove; and a concrete layer poured between the blocks (20) and the wall (14).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERLANGER ISRAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHALLEY KEVIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ERLANGER, ISRAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WHALLEY, KEVIN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERLANGER ISRAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ERLANGER, ISRAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 A SYSTEM FOR STOKE CLADDING OP BUILDINGSThe present invention relates to a system and method for cladding building walls, and to prefabricated walls prepared therefrom.Wall cladding is carried out on buildings to meet a number of design objectives. Provision of durability is the prime requirement when cladding facing walls made of foamed plastic materials or lightweight cement blocks. Improvement of appearance and compliance with local building codes are the requirements when cladding concrete walls. In addition, wall cladding always provides improved thermal and accoustic insulation and weather resistance,Thus, e.g., U.S. Patents 4,070,835, 4,625,481 and 4,866,896 relate to various systems for securing cladding panels to a wall. U.S. Patents 3,621,635 and 4,551,958 respectively teach the mounting of an aggregate textured type wall covering panel and a polystyrene foam panel and U.S. Patents 4,522,003 and 4,803,821 teach arrangements for attaching tiles to external walls.Many buildings, even today, are built using simple rectangular slabs as facing blocks, which blocks are anchored and attached to each other by a layer of cement at the 'rear of and between the edges of the blocks. This system has been found to be dangerously unreliable for high buildings, which tend to sway under pressure from wind and minor earth tremors; the resulting loosening of facing blocks can cause injury or death to persons in the vicinity of such buildings. In Jerusalem, following the highly dangerous fall of a number of facing blocks from clad buildings to pedestrian areas, the municipality has forced the owners of such buildings to take emergency action to secure facing blocks thereto. Such emergency measures are 

expensive and disruptive of normal activities; it is, of" course, far better to properly secure the facing blocks during construction.Thus, e.g., U.S. Patent 4,987,712 teaches a brick cladding system including a metal strip from which there is punched a plurality of mounting flanges, the mounting flanges receive "brick" tiles which have side slots which receive the mounting flanges in order to secure the tiles to the mounting plate.The traditional method of cladding buildings in Jerusalem and environs in stone consists of laying a few courses of stone which act as external formwork, and casting a concrete backing. This proceeds at a slow rate and delays the completion of the outside shell, further delaying the trades that follow.When an existing wall has to be clad, a steel mesh is attached, the mason again lays
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A system for stone cladding of buildings, comprising: a plurality of facing blocks arrangeable as superposed courses, each block in a first course having a first step defining a lower tread, a riser, and a top tread surface extending along the length of the top surface of said block and each block in each further course being further provided with a complementary second step extending along the length of the bottom surface thereof and configured to interfit with said step of a block positioned thereunder; and a plurality of horizontal-axis, vertically spaced-apart rails, configured to be attachable to the wall which is to be faced, each rail being provided with means for directly or indirectly positioning and supporting said plurality of facing blocks when arranged in superposed courses by overriding the top tread surface and riser of a block positioned therebelow while underlying and supporting a bottom suface of an upper block positioned thereabove; whereby a concrete layer may be poured between said blocks and said all,
2. A system for use in the stone cladding of buildings as claimed in claim 1, wherein said rail is provided with a retention ledge configured to underlie a bottom surface of an upper block as well as overriding the top tread surface if a block positioned thereunder and is further provided with a lower retention lip projecting downwardly therefrom and exceeding the height of the riser of a block positioned thereunder whereby said block may be inserted, lowered into and retained between a lower retention lip of an upper rail and a retention ledge of a lower rail, and may be removed therefrom after lifting said block above said retention ledge.
3. A system for use in the stone cladding of buildings as claimed in claim 1, wherein attachment of said rail to said 


wall is effected through spacer members, whereby a sloping or stepped wall may be clad by an array of vertical facing blocks.
4. A system for the use in stone cladding buildings as claimed in claim 1 comprising a plurality of horizontal-axis, vertically spaced-apart rails, configured to be attachable to the wall which is to be faced, each rail being provided with a lip having its open side facing upwards; and at least one connector bracket attached to each block, said connector bracket being provided with a downwardly-projecting extension configured to be engageable to said lip in said rail and, when engaged, holding said block firmly to said rail.
5. A system for the stone cladding of buildings as claimed in claim 4, wherein said connector brackets support the facing block directly above, and cause the formation of a small space between each block and the block vertically below, said space being subsequently filled by the ingress of concrete from said poured layer.
6. A system for stone cladding of buildings as claimed in claim 1, wherein said facing block is further provided with a third step along a first side edge, coplanar
*
 and contiguous to said first step; and a fourth step along a second side edge, coplanar and contiguous to said second step; said third step being configured to interfit with said fourth step of an adjacent similar block.
7. A system for stone cladding of buildings as claimed in claim 1, wherein said facing blocks are further provided with a groove extending along the length of the bottom surface thereof, a wall of said groove being in contiguity with the riser of said second step, and wherein said rail is provided with a retention- ledge configured to underlie a 


bottom surface of an upper block as well as overriding the top tread surface of a block positioned thereunder and is further provided with a lower retention lip projecting downwardly therefrom and exceeding the height of the riser of said block positioned thereunder as well as being provided with an upward projection coplanar with and contiguous to said lower retention lip, said upper projection being positioned and sized to engage the grooves of a plurality of facing blocks placed side by side thereabove.
8. A system for the stone cladding of buildings as claimed in claim 7, wherein said upper retention ledge and said upward projection support the facing block directly above, and cause the formation of a small space between each block and the block vertically below, said space being subsequently filled by the ingress of concrete from said poured layer.
9. A system for the stone cladding of buildings as claimed in claim 1, wherein said wall to be faced is formed from a plurality of inner blocks arranged as superposed courses, said system further comprising a second plurality of horizontal axis vertically spaced apart rails attached to support means which together form an inner framework occupying a plane substantially parallel to the plane to be formed by said first plurality of rails wherein each of said second plurality of rails is provided with means for directly or indirectly positioning and supporting a plurality of said inner blocks and wherein said first plurality of rails are attached to support means which are attached in turn in spaced apart relationship to said inner framework and wherein said concrete layer naybepouredfcetwaai said facing blocks and said inner blocks to form the same into a unitary wall unit. 


10. A prefabricated wall whenever prepared from the system of claim 9.
11. A method for stone cladding of buildings comprising a. providing a multiplicity of facing blocks, a first plurality of said blocks having a first step defining a lower tread, a riser and a top tread surface extending along the length of the top surface of said block and a second plurality of said blocks being further provided with a complementary second step extending along the length of the bottom surface thereof and configured to interfit with said first step of a block positioned thereunder; said blocks being further provided with a third step along a first side edge, coplanar and contiguous to said first step; and a fourth step along a second side edge, coplanar and contiguous to said second step; said third step being configured to interfit with said fourth step of an adjacent similar block. b. providing a plurality of rails configured to be attachable to the wall which is to be faced, each rail being provided with means for directly or indirectly positioning and supporting a plurality of said facing blocks by overriding the top tread surface and riser of a block positioned therebelow while underlying and supporting a bottom surface of an upper block positioned thereabove; c. attaching a plurality of horizontal-axis vertically spaced-apart rails to a wall to be faced; d. laying a first course of facing blocks upon a suitable base with at least an upper surface of each block being directly or indirectly engaged retained and positioned by a first rail relative to said wall; e. laying a second course of facing blocks upon said first course, with both an upper surface and a lower surface of each block being directly or indirectly engaged, retained and positioned relative to previously laid blocks and to said wall by a pair of spaced-apart rails; and 


 f. pouring concrete between said wall and the rear surfaces of said facing blocks, wherein the interengagement of said first step and second step of vertically aligned blocks and the interengagement of said third step with said fourth step of horizontally aligned adjacent blocks results in said blocks forming a formwork surface which prevents seepage of said poured concrete to the outer surface of said blocks. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
