<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654276</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Cardiovascular flow enhancer and method of operation.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61M110	A61M110	A61M112	A61M3900	A61M3922	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61M1	A61M1	A61M1	A61M39	A61M39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An implanted cardiovascular assist pump is connected with the proximal 
descending thoracic aorta. The pump inlet is connected with the aorta at substantially 

the site of the first pressure/flow node from the heart. The pump outlet is connected 
at substantially the site of the last pressure/flow antinode before the heart. Control 

of pump speed varies blood flow through the pump. As a fail-safe mechanism, a 
pump shunt flow path is provided, through one of a variety of disclosed structures. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TULANE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE ADMINISTRATORS OF THE TULANE EDUCATIONAL FUND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOULDER PETER V TULANE UNIV SC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOULDER, PETER V., TULANE UNIV. SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a cardiovascular flow enhancer particularly 
intended for permanent implantation in a subject whose heart requires assistance. Many heart patients have partial heart function and could benefit from 
a chronic or long-term ventricular assist device. There is no such chronic assist 
device in use at this time. Artificial hearts, either complete or partial, have been 
implanted as a temporary bridge to a heart transplant. These devices replace rather 
than assist normal heart function. Two main categories of assist devices are being 
developed and analyzed. One utilizes portions of an artificial heart or a comparable 
apparatus connected between the heart and aorta. These devices, although they are 
implanted and use an internal power source, are intended as a short term bridge to 
a transplant. The other category are counter pulsation devices which attach to the 
aorta. Blood flows passively to a collapsible chamber during systole. The chamber 
is then collapsed and the blood forcibly returned to the aorta. Acute or 
short term ventricular assist devices presently used are of two principal types. 
Neither is used for chronic use. One has a counter pulsation action and is 
exemplified by use of an intra-aortic balloon. The balloon is collapsed during systole, 
providing an empty space to be filled with blood pumped by the heart. As the space 
is empty, the heart operates against little resistance. The balloon is then expanded, 
forcing blood through the arterial system. This type of ventricular assist is unsuitable 
for chronic use as it requires a pneumatic connection through the subject's skin for 
contraction and expansion of the balloon. Infection is likely to occur. The second 
type of acute assist device utilizes an extracorporeal pump, as the Biomedicus 
centrifugal pump. Again, connection through the skin is required for the pump inlet 
and outlet with a risk of infection.  A principal feature of the invention is an implantable cardiac assist 
device for chronic or long term use. It employs no valves that may promulgate 
clotting and will require only minimal ongoing anticoagulation therapy. More particularly, a prime feature of the invention is a flow enhancer 
which includes an implanted centrifugal pump having an inlet connected at the site 
of the nodal point of the descending thoracic aorta. The nodal Point is a unique site 
offering unique advantages: with a supplemental pump connected at the site of the 
first pressure/flow node, the forward flow of blood from the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of implanting a cardiovascular flow enhancer 
comprising the steps of: 

   providing a centrifugal pump 26 having an inlet 28 and an outlet 29; 
   connecting the pump inlet to receive blood from the descending 

thoracic aorta 27; and 
   connecting the pump outlet to discharge blood to the descending 

thoracic aorta at a point downstream from the inlet connection. 
The method of claim 1 in which the pump inlet is connected to 
receive blood from a site downstream from and proximal to the brachiocephalic 

arteries 34. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the pump inlet is connected to 
receive blood from the descending thoracic aorta 27 from a site 41 at substantially the 

First quiescent section of the descending thoracic aorta downstream from the 
brachiocephalic arteries 34. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the pump inlet is connected to 
receive blood from a site 41 about one to twelve centimeters downstream from the 

juncture of the left subclavian artery 34A and the aorta 27. 
The method of claim 1 wherein the pump inlet 28 is connected 
to receive blood from the First pressure and flow node of the descending thoracic 

aorta. 
The method of claim 5 further comprising: 
   providing an inlet conduit 40 having one end in fluid communication 

with the pump inlet 28;
 

   providing an outlet conduit 42 having one end in fluid communication 
with the pump outlet 29; 

   connecting the other end of the inlet conduit to the descending thoracic 
aorta 27 substantially at the first nodal point; and 

   connecting the other end of the outlet conduit to the descending 
thoracic aorta 27 at a point downstream of the connection of the inlet conduit to the 

descending thoracic aorta. 
The method of claim 6 further comprising providing an inlet 
chamber 205 in fluid connection with the pump inlet and the inlet conduit, an outlet 

chamber 206 in fluid communication with the outlet conduit and the pump outlet, and 
a housing 201 holding the pump, inlet chamber and outlet chamber. 
The method of claim 7 further comprising providing an 
emergency shunt flow path 207 between the inlet chamber and the outlet chamber, 

the emergency shunt flow path being held within said housing. 
The method of claim 7 further comprising providing a drive 
motor 202 within the housing to drive the pump. 
The method of claim 5 further comprising the steps of: 
   sensing physiological conditions of the subject; and 

   varying pump speed in accordance with the sensed physiological 
conditions of the subject. 
The method of Claim 5 further comprising the steps of: 
   providing an inlet conduit 40; 

   providing an outlet conduit 42; 
   connecting the inlet conduit with the pump inlet and with the 

descending thoracic aorta at substantially the site of the pressure node for blood from 
the heart to receive blood from the descending thoracic aorta and direct blood to the 

pump; and
 

   connecting the outlet conduit with the pump outlet and with the 
descending thoracic aorta at a point downstream from the inlet connection to the 

discharge blood into the aorta. 
The method of claim 11 wherein the outlet conduit is connected 
with the descending thoracic aorta at substantially the last blood flow and pressure 

antinode of the descending thoracic aorta before the heart . 
The method of claim 1 in which the pump is located above the 
diaphragm in the lower left hemithorax of the posterior chest (Figs. 1D, 2). 
The method of claim 1 in which the pump is located in the 
upper left hemithorax of the posterior chest (Figs. 1A, 1B). 
The method of Claim 11 further comprising the step of: 
   providing an alternative flow path (e.g. 207,86,67, etc.) in 

shunt with the pump to provide an emergency blood flow path around the pump. 
The method of claim 15 wherein a section of the thoracic aorta 
(e.g. 24) is connected in shunt with the pump. 
The method of claim 15 further comprising providing a 
controllable occluder (e.g. 208) operatively associated with the alternate flow path, 

the occluder being operable to minimize blood flow through the flow path in shunt 
with the pump during normal operation of the pump and to allow greater blood flow 

through the shunt conduit when blood flow through the pump falls below a minimum 
level. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the alternate flow path 
comprises an expandable graft conduit 67 having an inner diameter permitting 

minimal blood flow through the shunt conduit when the pump is in normal operation, 
 

the expandable graft conduit being expandable to allow greater blood flow through 

the conduit when blood flow through the pump falls below a minimum level. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the alternate flow path includes 
a check valve 60,61 to prevent back flow through the alternate flow path, and 

wherein the check valve is openable to allow blood flow through the alternate flow 
path when pressure upstream of the check valve reaches a predetermined maximum 

level. 
A cardiovascular flow enhancer comprising: 
   a centrifugal pump 26 having an inlet 28 and an outlet 29; 

   an inlet conduit 40 having one end in fluid communication with the 
pump inlet; 

   an outlet conduit 42 having one end in fluid communication with the 
pump outlet, the centrifugal pump, inlet conduit and outlet conduit defining a 

primary blood flow path; and 
   a parallel flow conduit (e.g. 207,86,87, etc.) extending between the 

inlet and outlet conduits to provide an emergency blood flow path for a level of blood 
flow when blood flow through the pump falls below a minimum level and to provide 

a secondary blood flow path for a lower level of blood flow during normal operation 
of the pump, the parallel flow conduit being in parallel with the primary blood flow 

path. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 20 further 
comprising a controllable occluder (e.g. 208) operatively associated with the parallel 

flow conduit to limit blood flow through the parallel flow conduit during normal 
operation of the pump and to allow greater blood flow through the parallel flow 

conduit when blood flow through the pump falls below a minimum level. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 20 wherein the 
parallel flow conduit 67,67' is expandable and has an inner diameter permitting 

minimal blood flow through the shunt conduit when the pump is in normal operation, 
 

the parallel flow conduit being expandable to allow greater blood flow through the 
conduit when blood flow through the pump falls below a minimum level. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 20 further 
comprising a flap valve 60,61 to limit blood flow through the Parallel flow conduit, 

the flap valve being openable to allow blood flow through the parallel flow conduit 
when pressure upstream of the flap valve reaches a predetermined maximum level. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 20 further 
comprising a housing 201 made of a biologically inert material configured and sized 

to be implanted in a subject within which the centrifugal pump 26 and parallel flow 
conduit 207 are held, wherein the inlet conduit 40 defines an inlet chamber 205 in 

fluid communication with the pump inlet and the outlet conduit 42 defines an outlet 
chamber 206 in fluid communication with the pump outlet, the inlet and outlet 

chambers being held within the housing and the parallel flow conduit extending 
between the inlet chamber and the outlet chamber. 
Amended claims in accordance with Rule 86(2) EPC.
A cardiovascular flow enhancer comprising: 
   a centrifugal pump 26 having an inlet 28 and an outlet 

29; 
   an inlet conduit 40 having one end in fluid 

communication with the pump inlet; 
   an outlet conduit 42 having one end in fluid 

communication with the pump outlet, the centrifugal pump, 
inlet conduit 40 and outlet conduit 42 defining a primary 

blood flow path; and 
   an alternative flow path (e.g. 207,86,87, etc.) in 

parallel with the pump to provide an emergency blood flow 
path around the pump, the alternative flow path 207 being 

normally nearly closed and permitting only sufficient blood 
flow to prevent clotting, and being adapted to be opened to 

permit a higher level blood flow therethrough. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 1 
wherein the other end of the inlet conduit 40 is adapted for 

connection to the descending thoracic aorta 27 and the other 
end of the outlet conduit is adapted for connection to the 

descending thoracic aorta 27 at a point downstream of the 
connection of the inlet conduit to the descending thoracic 

aorta. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 1 or 
claim 2 wherein the other end of the inlet conduit 40 is 

adapted for connection at the initial curve at the origin of 
the descending thoracic aorta 27. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 2 
wherein the inlet conduit is adapted for connection to the 

descending thoracic aorta 27 substantially at the first 
nodal point. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of any preceding 
claim wherein the alternative flow path is adapted to 

provide an emergency flow path around the pump when blood 
flow through the pump falls below a minimum level and to 

provide a secondary blood flow path for a lower level of 
blood flow during normal operation of the pump, in use. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of any preceding 
claim wherein there is provided an inlet chamber 205 in 

fluid communication with the pump inlet and the inlet 
conduit, an outlet chamber 206 in fluid communication with 

the outlet conduit and the pump outlet, and a housing 201 
housing the pump, inlet chamber and outlet chamber. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 6 
wherein the housing 201 is made of a biologically inert 

material configured and sized to be implanted in a subject. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 6 or 
claim 7 further comprising a drive motor 202 within the 

housing to drive the pump. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of any one of 
claims 6-8 wherein the alternative flow path 207 is an 

emergency parallel flow path 207 between the inlet chamber 
and the outlet chamber, the emergency parallel flow path 

being within the housing. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of any preceding 
claim further comprising a controllable occluder (e.g. 208) 

operatively associated with the alternative flow path, the 
occluder being operable to minimize blood flow through the 

alternative flow path during normal operation of the pump 
and to allow greater blood flow through the alternative flow 

path when blood flow through the pump falls below a minimum 
level in use. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of any 
preceding claim wherein the alternative flow path is 

expandable to allow greater blood flow therethrough when 
blood flow through the pump falls below a minimum level. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 11 
wherein the alternative flow path comprises an expandable 

graft conduit 67 having an inner diameter permitting minimal 
blood flow therethrough when the pump is in normal 

operation, the expandable graft conduit being expandable to 
allow greater blood flow through the conduit when blood flow 

through the pump falls below a minimum level. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of any preceding 
claim wherein the alternative flow path includes a check 

valve 60,61 to prevent back flow through the alternative 
flow path, and wherein the check valve is adapted to be 

opened to allow blood flow through the alternative flow path 
when pressure upstream of the check valve reaches a 

predetermined maximum level. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of claim 13 
 

wherein the check valve comprises a flap valve 60,61. 
The cardiovascular flow enhancer of any preceding 
claim wherein the speed of the pump is adapted to be varied 

in response to selected physiological conditions of the 
subject, in use. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
