<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654186</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ELECTRICAL CONNECTOR SOCKET WITH DAUGHTERCARD EJECTOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01R1200	H01R13633	H01R1218	H05K714	H01R13633	H05K714	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01R	H01R	H01R	H05K	H01R	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01R12	H01R13	H01R12	H05K7	H01R13	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An ejector (28, 134) is provided for ejecting a daughtercard (16) from an elongated slot (14) formed in an electrical connector socket housing (12). The ejector (28, 134) includes spring arms (48, 50) for retaining the daughtercard (16) in the socket housing (12) upon insertion of the daughtercard (16) into the socket housing (12). A post (30, 170) is coupled to a second end of the socket housing (12) in a fixed position relative to the socket housing (12) to guide insertion of the daughtercard (16) into the socket housing (12). The ejector (28, 134) includes a body (32) having a mechanism (44) for ejecting an end (96) of the daughtercard (16) adjacent the ejector (28, 134) out of the elongated slot (14) upon movement of the ejector (28, 134) relative to the socket housing (12). The body (32) is also formed to include first and second crimp surfaces (136, 138) for engaging an end edge (96) of the daughtercard (16) to stabilize the daughtercard (16) in the socket housing (12).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBINSON NUGENT INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROBINSON NUGENT, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONDREAULT ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TONDREAULT, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to an electrical
connector socket having an ejector mechanism for removing a
daughtercard or module from the socket. More particularly,
the present invention relates to an improved electrical
connector which provides a retention force when the
daughtercard is inserted into the socket and also permits
the daughtercard to be easily ejected from the socket when
desired.It is well known to provide electrical connector
sockets, such as Single In-line Memory Module (SIMM)
sockets, for interconnecting a first printed circuit board
or mother board to a second printed circuit board or
daughtercard. Typically, the sockets are formed to include
an elongated slot and a plurality of electrical terminals
coupled to the housing adjacent to the slot. When the
daughtercard is inserted into the slot of the socket,
conductive surfaces on the daughtercard engage the
terminals to couple the daughtercard to the socket
electrically. The terminals are also coupled to conductive
traces on the mother board so that when the daughtercard is
inserted into the socket, the daughtercard is electrically
coupled to the mother board. For examples of SIMM socket
configurations see, for example, U.S. Patent No. 5,013,264
to Tondreault and U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
07/759,409, owned by the assignee of the present invention,
and incorporated herein by reference.One problem associated with conventional
electrical connectors is that it is often difficult to
extract a daughtercard that is held in a socket formed in
an electrical connector. It is understood that a plurality
of sockets may be located adjacent each other with
daughtercards in each of the sockets. In such tight 
quarters it is often difficult for a technician to remove a
selected daughtercard from the connector socket manually by
hand or using a tool. Unless precautions are taken, the
daughtercard can be damaged during extraction of the
daughtercard from the socket. Therefore, it is desirable
to provide an ejector mechanism coupled to the socket to
facilitate ejection of the daughter card from the socket.It is known to provide ejectors coupled to the
sockets to assist with the removal of daughtercards from
the socket. One such ejector is disclosed in U.S. Patent
No. 5,147,211 to Tondreault et al. The '221 patent
discloses an ejector for selectively ejecting one of first
and second daughtercards located in adjacent elongated
slots of a socket. The device disclosed in the '211 patent
therefore provides means for selectively ejecting first and
sec
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An electrical connector for receiving a daughtercard (16), the daughtercard (16) having

a plurality of conductive surfaces formed thereon, the connector comprising:

a socket (10) having symmetrical first and second ends (20, 22) the socket being
formed so that it includes an elongated slot (14) extending between the first and second

ends for receiving the daughtercard therein and including a plurality of electrical terminals
(18) for engaging the plurality of conductive surfaces formed on the daughtercard for

electrically coupling the daughtercard to the socket;
a retention post (30) separate from the socket coupled to one of the first and second
ends of the socket in a pivotally fixed position relative to the socket during insertion of the

daughtercard into the socket to guide the daughtercard so that the plurality of conductive
surfaces formed on the daughtercard are aligned with the plurality of electrical terminals of

the socket, the post being formed so that it includes retaining means (72, 74) for engaging
opposite sides of the daughtercard adjacent the post to retain the daughtercard within the

socket, and
an ejector (28) also separate from the socket coupled to the other of the first and second
ends of the socket, the ejector comprising a body (32) including retaining means (48, 50)

for retaining the daughtercard in the socket upon insertion of the daughtercard into the
socket and means (44) for ejecting an end of the daughtercard adjacent the ejector body out

of the elongated slot upon movement of the ejector body relative to the socket while
leaving an opposite end of the daughtercard adjacent the retention post in the elongated slot

of the socket, the ejector (28) further comprising a head (34) formed integrally with the
body (32) to facilitate pivotal movement of the ejector (28) by providing means on which

to push when actuating the ejector (28), said retention post not having such a head (34),

   wherein the symmetrical first and second ends of the socket are configured such that
the post may be inserted into one of the first or second ends of the slot and the ejector may

be inserted into the other of the first or second ends of the socket. 
The connector of claim 1, wherein the retaining means of the ejector includes
first and second spring arms for engaging opposite sides of the daughtercard upon

insertion of the daughtercard into the socket.
The connector of claim 2, wherein the first and second spring
arms of the ejector each include a head portion configured to enter an

aperture formed in the daughtercard adjacent the ejector from opposite
sides of the daughtercard, the head portions including a ramp shaped

edge surface configured to engage the daughtercard and apply a force
normal to the daughtercard and a bottom surface for applying a force

against the daughtercard downwardly into said elongated slot of the
socket.
The connector of claim 3, wherein the head portions include
side ramped surfaces to force the first and second spring arms of the

ejector apart automatically during insertion of the daughtercard into
socket or during ejection of the daughtercard from the socket.
The connector of claim 1, wherein the ejector includes a bottom surface
configured to engage a bottom surface of the daughtercard to force an end

of the daughtercard adjacent the first end of the socket out of the elongated
slot upon movement of the ejector relative to the socket.
The connector of claim 5, wherein the ejector is pivotably
coupled to the first end of the socket and movable from an upright

retention position in which the retaining means engages opposite sides
of the daughtercard to retain the daughtercard in the socket to an

outwardly pivoted ejection position so that the ejecting means forces
said end of the daughtercard adjacent the ejector out of the elongated

slot.
The connector of claim 6, wherein the spring arms of the
ejector are formed to include means for permitting the daughtercard to

be inserted into the socket with the ejector in either its upright
retention position or its ejection position.
The connector of claim 1, wherein the engaging means of the
post includes a pair of spring arms projecting away from the post for 

engaging opposite sides of the daughtercard adjacent the second end of
the socket to retain the daughtercard within the socket.
The connector of claim 8, wherein the spring arms of the post
each include a head portion configured to enter an aperture formed in

the daughtercard to retain and stabilize the daughtercard in the
socket, the head portions of the post spring arms including a ramp

shaped edge surface configured to engage the daughtercard and apply a
force normal to the daughtercard and a bottom surface for applying a

force against the daughtercard downwardly into said elongated slot of
the socket.
The connector of claim 9, wherein the head portions of the
post spring arms include side ramped surfaces to force the post spring

arms apart automatically during insertion of the daughtercard into the
socket or during ejection of the daughtercard from the socket.
The connector of claim 1, wherein the ejector is formed to
include means for polarizing the daughtercard in the socket.
The connector of claim 1, wherein the post is formed to
include means for polarizing the daughtercard in the socket.
The connector of claim 1, wherein the ejector body (32) is
formed to include first and second pinch surfaces (136, 138) for

engaging an end edge (96) of the daughtercard (16) to stabilize the
daughtercard in the socket.
The connector of claim 13, further comprising means (142, 144,
145, 150) for biasing the ejector body in a direction (152) toward the

daughtercard to hold the first and second pinch surfaces against the
daughtercard.
The connector of claim 14, wherein the biasing means includes
first and second wedges (142) formed on opposite side surfaces of the

ejector body and first and second locking tabs (144, 145) formed on
the socket (10) for engaging the first and second wedges,

respectively, to apply a biasing force to the ejector body in a 
direction toward the daughtercard.
The connector of claim 15, wherein the first and second
locking tabs also engage the opposite side surfaces (140) of the

ejector body to apply opposing, inwardly directed forces to the
ejector body, thereby centralizing and stabilizing the ejector body

within the socket.
The connector of claim 13, wherein the ejector body includes first and
second opposite side surfaces (140), and the connector further comprises means

(144, 145) for applying inwardly directed forces to the first and second opposite
side surfaces to centralize and stabilize the ejector body within the socket.
The connector of claim 17, wherein the means for applying
inwardly directed forces includes first and second locking tabs (144,

145) formed on the socket, the first and second locking tabs being
configured to engage the first and second opposite side surfaces of

the ejector body, respectively.
The connector of claim 18, further comprising first and second
raised surfaces (140) formed on the opposite side surfaces of the

ejector body and configured so that the first and second locking tabs
engage the fist and second raised surfaces, respectively.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
