<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648616</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Secure tickets and method of making tickets
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B42D1500	B42D1500	D21H2142	D21H2140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B42D	B42D	D21H	D21H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B42D15	B42D15	D21H21	D21H21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Tickets (10) for concerts, conventions, sports, and 
like events, have a security feature to assist in preventing 

counterfeiting. A stretchable security thread (25, 26) is 
disposed in a piece of paper stock extending so that it 

intersects, with portions lying on either side of, a line of 
separation (20, 21, 22) in the piece of paper stock (and/or 

is parallel to the length of the ticket). The line of 
separation typically is a perforation. The security thread 

is a stretchable material, such as polyester, and may have 
microprinting. When the ticket is detached at the line of 

separation, the security thread does not initially separate 
but rather stretches to provide a visual (and tactile) 

indication between the separated portions of the paper stock 
before it breaks. Such tickets are produced from a web of 

material having the security threads, which web is printed, 
and then cut into sheets for delivery to a customer who then 

can apply variable printing. In making perforations, care is 
taken not to make a perforation gap at the intersection of a 

security thread with a line of separation. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOORE BUSINESS FORMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MOORE BUSINESS FORMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COE ROBERT P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COE, ROBERT P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Counterfeiting of event tickets for concerts, galas,
sporting events, and the like is common. There are a
number of different techniques used in commerce today to
attempt to thwart such counterfeiting. For example, for
sporting events tickets are often printed on a paper stock
that has a "slick" cast coated finish. Another
commercially available product to attempt to thwart
counterfeiting is the use of a laminated stock which has
colored tissue laminated between sheets of white paper.
While these proposals can be successful, they usually
require a ticket taker who is sharp, and they may produce
final products which are undesirable for some situations.GB-A-440421 and GB 483142, each describes a paper
sheet comprising a bank note having a thread or filament
coated or impregnated with metal extending therethrough.
The thread is opaque and detectable electrically or by
examining the document by transmitted light.According to the present invention, a method and
product are provided which can simply, yet effectively,
thwart counterfeiting of tickets and the like. The product
according to the present invention is designed so that the 
anti-counterfeiting feature thereof becomes particularly
visible to the ticket taker when the ticket taker is taking
the action that requires his or her most concentration,
proper separation of the ticket body from the ticket stub.
The tickets are also produced in a simple manner, and while
the paper stock from which the tickets are made is a
special paper stock, it is relatively inexpensive,
differing from conventional ticket paper stock only
slightly (that is in the provision of a few security
threads therein, typically only one thread per ticket).According to one aspect, the present invention
provides a piece of paper stock having a security feature,
comprising:
a piece of paper stock having length and width
dimensions much greater than its thickness anda security thread disposed in said piece of paper
stock and extending so that it is generally parallel to
said length dimensions characterised in that the thread is
stretchable so that as the piece of paper stock is
separated perpendicular to said length dimension, said
security thread does not initially separate, but in
stretched form provides a visual indication between the
separated portions of the paper stock that it is there.
Means are provided defining a line of separation (such as
a line of weakness, like a perforation; or an indicia line)
in the paper stock at which the stock is adapted to be torn
or otherwise separated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A piece of paper stock having a security feature,
comprising:


a piece of paper stock (10) having length and
width dimensions (11, 12) much greater than its

thickness and
a security thread (25, 26) disposed in said piece
of paper stock and extending so that it is generally

parallel to said length dimensions characterised in
that the thread (25, 26) is stretchable so that as the

piece of paper stock is separated perpendicular to
said length dimension, said security thread does not

initially separate, but in stretched form provides a
visual indication between the separated portions of

the paper stock that it is there.
A piece of paper stock as recited in Claim 1
characterised in that it is a ticket for an event and

is printed with information relating to the event or
an agency distributing it.
A piece of paper stock as recited in Claim 1 or Claim
2 characterised in that said security thread stretches

about 6mm (¼ inch) before breaking; providing a
tactile as well as a visual indication.
A piece of paper as recited in any of Claims 1 to 3
characterised by means (19-23) defining a line of

separation in said piece of paper stock, at which said
paper stock is adapted to be torn or otherwise

separated to separate the piece of paper stock into
distinct pieces of stock, portions of said security

thread lying on either side of said line of
separation.
A piece of paper stock as recited in Claim 4 
characterised in that said means defining a line of

separation comprises means defining a line of weakness
(20-23) or an indicia line.
A piece of paper stock as recited in Claim 4 or Claim
5 characterised in that the line of separation is

defined by perforations, said line of perforations
(20-23) being provided so that no perforation gap is

provided where said security thread intersects said
line of separation.
A piece of paper stock as recited in any of Claims 4
to 6 characterised in that there are a plurality of

security threads, each intersecting said means
defining a line of separation.
A method of producing a ticket for an event, from a
web of paper having edges, and security threads

encased therewithin, comprising the steps of:

(a) providing the web of paper with security threads
disposed therein so that the edges of the web are

substantially parallel to the security threads,
and so that the edges and threads are spaced from

each other a predetermined distance in a first
dimension;
(b) continuously printing the web to provide a
plurality of printed tickets;
(c) cutting the web into sheets; and
(d) providing means defining a line of separation in
each individual printed ticket extending

generally perpendicular to a security thread in
that ticket, characterised in that the thread is

stretchable so that when a ticket is divided
along the line of separation, the security thread

is not initially detached but rather in stretched
form provides a visual indication between

detached portions of the ticket on either side 
thereof that the security thread is present.
A method as recited in Claim 8 characterised by the
further steps, after (c), of: rotating the cut sheets

90 degrees; gluing each cut sheet to a preceding sheet
and; punching line holes in the sheets.
A method as recited in Claim 8 or Claim 9
characterised in that steps (a) - (d) are practised so

as to provide one security thread in each printed
ticket.
A method as recited in any of Claims 8 to 10
characterised in that step (d) is practised by

providing perforations at the line of separation, the
perforations including perforation gaps, but no

perforation gap being provided at the intersection of
a security thread with the line of separation.
A method as recited in any of Claims 8 to 11
characterised in that step (d) is practised prior to

step (c).
A method as recited in any of Claims 8 to 12
characterised by the further steps of (e) printing

variable information on the sheets after steps (a) -
(d); and then (f) separating the sheets into

individual tickets.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
