<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650526</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FORMATION OF TRIPLE HELIX COMPLEXES OF SINGLE STRANDED NUCLEIC ACIDS USING NUCLEOSIDE OLIGOMERS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H2100	C07H2100	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1511	C12N1511	C12Q168	C12Q168	C12Q170	C12Q170	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C07H	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H21	C07H21	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A specific segment of single stranded nucleic acid may be detected or recognized by formation of a triple helix structure using first and second oligomers comprised of nucleosidyl units linked by internucleosidyl phosphorus linkages. Function or expression of single stranded nucleic acid segments may be prevented by triple helix formation. Novel oligomers comprising modified nucleosidyl units are useful in triple helix formation, and may be optionally derivatized with DNA modifying groups.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENTA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV JOHNS HOPKINS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENTA INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS THOMAS HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNOLD LYLE J JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TS O PAUL ON-PONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ADAMS, THOMAS, HENRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ARNOLD, LYLE, J., JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TS'O, PAUL, ON-PONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTIONFormation of Triple Helix Complexes of Single StrandedNucleic Acids Using Nucleoside OligomersCross-Reference to Related ApplicationsThis application is a continuation-in-part of U.S.S.N. 368,027, filed June 19, 1989, which is a continu¬ ation in part of U.S. Serial No. 924,234, filed Octo¬ ber 28, 1986, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.Background of the InventionThis invention was made with governmental support, including a grant from National Institutes of Health U.S.A., Grant Number CA 42762. The government has certain rights to this invention.Publications and other reference materials referred to herein are incorporated herein by reference and are numerically referenced in the following text and respec¬ tively grouped in the appended Bibliography which immedi- ately precedes the claims.The present invention is directed to novel methods of detecting and recognizing specific sequences in single stranded nucleic acids, particularly RNA, using first and second nucleoside Oligomers which are capable of specifi- cally complexing with a selected single stranded nucleic acid structure to give a triple helix structure.Formation of triple helix structures by homopyrimi¬ dine oligodeoxyribonucleotides binding to polypurine tracts in double stranded DNA by Hoogsteen hydrogen bond- ing has been reported. (See, e.g. (1) and (2)). The homopyrimidine oligonucleotides were found to recognize extended purine sequences in the major groove of double helical DNA via triple helix formation. Specificity was found to be imparted by Hoogsteen base pairing between the homopyrimidine oligonucleotide and the purine strand ofSUBSTITUTE SHEET 

 the Watson-Crick duplex DNA. Triple helical complexes containing cytosine and thymidine on the third strand have been found to be stable in acidic to neutral solutions, respectively, but have been found to dissociate on increasing pH. Incorporation of modified bases of T, such as 5-bromo-uracil and C, such as 5- methylcytosine, into the Hoogsteen strand has been found to increase stability of the triple helix over a higher pH range. In order for cytosine (C) to participate in the Hoogsteen-type pairing, a hydrogen must be available on the N-3 of the pyrimidine ring for hydrogen bonding. Accordingly, in some circum¬ stances, cytosine may be protonated at N-3.DNA exhibits a wide range of polymorphic conforma¬ tions, such conformations may be essential for biological processes. Modulation of signal transduction by sequence- specific protein-DNA binding
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 Claims
1. A method of detecting or recognizing a specific target segment of a single stranded nucleic acid which comprises: (a) contacting the single stranded nucleic acid with a first Oligomer sufficiently complementary to said target segment to hybridize therewith to give a stable duplex and
(b) contacting the duplex with a second Oligomer having at least seven nucleosidyl units which is suf¬ ficiently complementary to said duplex to form a stable triple stranded helix, whereby the base sequence of said target segment is recognized two times, one time by formation of the duplex with the first Oligomer and a second time by formation of the triple stranded helix with the second Oligomer.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein each of said first and second Oligomers independently comprises an oligonucleotide, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonothioate Oligo- mer, a phosphorodithioate Oligomer, a phosphorothioate Oligomer, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonate Oligomer, a phos- photriester Oligomer, a phosphoramidate Oligomer, a car- bamate Oligomer, a sulfamate Oligomer, a morpholino Oli¬ gomer or a formacetal Oligomer.
3. A method according to claim 1 wherein each of said first and second Oligomers independently comprises a substantially uncharged neutral Oligomer.
4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said single stranded nucleic acid is RNA.
5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said single stranded nucleic acid is DNA. 


 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein said target segment comprises only pyrimidine bases.
7. A method according to claim 6 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only purine bases.
8. A method according to claim 6 wherein the first Oligomer comprises only purine bases and said second Oli¬ gomer comprises only pyrimidine bases.
9. A method according to claim 1 wherein said tar¬ get segment comprises only purine bases.
10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said first Oligomer comprises only pyrimidine bases and said second Oligomer comprises only purine bases.
11. A method according to claim 9 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only pyrimidine bases.
12. A method according to claim 1 wherein said tar¬ get segment comprises both purine and pyrimidine bases.
13. A method according to claim 12 wherein said first and second Oligomer comprises both purine and pyri¬ midine bases and wherein said second Oligomer optionally includes intemucleosidyl lengthening links as needed between nucleosidyl units to allow each base of the second Oligomer to hydrogen bond with a central purine of a base pair of the duplex and form a triplet.
14. A method of preventing function or expression of a single stranded nucleic acid target sequence which com¬ prises contacting said target sequence with a first Oli¬ gomer and a second Oligomer wherein the nucleoside sequences of said first and second Oligomers are selected so that a triple stranded helix structure is formed.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said target sequence comprises only purine bases.
16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only pyrimidine bases.
17. A method according to claim 15 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only pyrimidine bases and the other Oligomer comprises only purine bases.
18. A method according to claim 14 wherein said target sequence comprises only pyrimidine bases.
19. A method according to claim 18 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only purine bases and the other Oligomer comprises only pyrimidine bases.
20. A method according to claim 18 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only purine bases.
21. A method according to claim 14 wherein said tar¬ get sequence comprises both purine and pyrimidine bases.
22. A method according to claim 21 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise both purine and pyri- midine bases and wherein said second Oligomer optionally includes intemucleosidyl unit lengthening links between nucleosidyl units as needed to allow each base of the second Oligomer to hydrogen bond with a central purine base of either the target sequence or the first Oligomer and form a triplet.
23. A method according to claim 14 wherein cytosine is replaced by a cytosine analog having a protonated nitrogen at the N-3 position at physiological pH. 


 24. A method according to claim 23 wherein said cytosine analog is 2'-O-methyl-pseudoisocytidine.
25. A method according to claim 14 wherein 2-amino purine replaces at least one adenine in the second Oligomer.
26. A method according to either claim 14 or 25 wherein 6-selenium guanine or 6-isopropylidene-7-deaza- guanine replaces at least one guanine in the second Oligomer.
27. A method according to any of claims 14, 15, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24 or 25 wherein each of said first and second Oligomers independently comprises an oligonucleotide, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonothioate Oligomer, a phosphorothio¬ ate Oligomer, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonate Oligomer, a phosphotriester Oligomer, a phosphoramidate Oligomer, a carba ate Oligomer, a sulfamate Oligomer, a morpholino Oligomer, or a formacetal Oligomer.
28. A method according to claim 26 wherein each of said first and second Oligomers independently comprises an oligonucleotide, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonothioate Oligo¬ mer, a phosphorodithioate Oligomer, a phosphorothioate Oligomer, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonate Oligomer, a phos¬ photriester Oligomer, a phosphoramidate Oligomer, a car¬ bamate Oligomer, a sulfamate Oligomer, a morpholino Oligo- mer, or a formacetal Oligomer.
29. A method according to any of claims 14, 15, 18, 21 or 22 wherein said first and second Oligomers are independently selected substantially uncharged neutral Oligomers.
SUBSTITUTE H T 


 30. A method according to any of claims 14, 15, 18, 21 or 22 wherein said first and second Oligomers are methylphosphonate Oligomers.
31. A method of selectively inhibiting .in vivo syn- thesis of one or more specifically targeted proteins with¬ out substantially inhibiting the synthesis of non-targeted proteins which comprises:
(a) selecting a nucleic acid target sequence which comprises a segment of mRNA coding for said targeted protein;
(b) synthesizing first and second Oligomers having nucleoside sequences selected so that they will form a triple stranded helix sequence with said segment of mRNA; and (c) introducing said first and second Oligomers into a cell; whereby said first and second Oligomers complex with said mRNA segment thereby substantially blocking translation of its nucleoside sequence and inhibiting synthesis of the target protein.
32. A method according to claim 31 wherein said seg¬ ment of mRNA comprises only purine bases.
33. A method according to claim 32 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only pyrimidine bases.
34. A method according to claim 32 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only purine bases and the other comprises only pyrimidine bases.
35. A method according to claim 31 wherein said segment of mRNA comprises only pyrimidine bases.
36. A method according to claim 35 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only purine bases. 


 37. A method according to claim 35 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only purine bases and the other comprises only pyrimidine bases.
38. A method according to claim 31 wherein said segment of mRNA comprises both purine and pyrimidine bases.
39. A method according to claim 37 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise both purine and pyri¬ midine bases and wherein said second Oligomer optionally includes intemucleosidyl lengthening links between nucleosidyl units, as needed, to allow each base of the second Oligomer to hydrogen bond with a central purine base of either the segment of mRNA or the first Oligomer and form a triplet.
40. A method of selectively inhibiting in vivo repli¬ cation or transcription of a specific segment of single stranded DNA without substantially inhibiting overall DNA replication or transcription which comprises:
(a) selecting a nucleic acid target sequence which comprises a portion of said segment of single stranded DNA;
(b) synthesizing first and second Oligomers having nucleoside sequences selected so that they will form a triple stranded helix complex with said nucleic acid target sequence; and
(c) introducing said first and second Oligomers into a cell;
whereby said first and second Oligomers complex with said target sequence to give a triple stranded helix complex, thereby substantially inhibiting replication or transcrip¬ tion of the specific segment of single stranded DNA with¬ out substantially inhibiting overall DNA replication or transcription.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 41. A method according to claim 40 wherein each of said first and second Oligomers independently comprises an oligonucleotide, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonothioate Oligo¬ mer, a phosphorodithioate Oligomer, a phosphorothioate Oligomer, an alkyl or aryl-phosphonate Oligomer, a phos¬ photriester Oligomer, a phosphoramidate Oligomer, a car- bamate Oligomer, a sulfamate Oligomer, a morpholino Oligomer, or a formacetal Oligomer.
42. A method of detecting or recognizing a specific segment of double-stranded nucleic acid without interrupt¬ ing base pairing of the duplex which comprises contacting said nucleic acid segment with an Oligomer which is suffi¬ ciently complementary to said nucleic acid segment or por¬ tion thereof to form a triple helix structure wherein 2-aminopurine replaces at least one adenine in said Oligomer.
43. A method according to claim 42 wherein at least one guanine of said Oligomer is replaced by 6-selenium guanine or 6—isopropylidene-7-deazaguanine.
44. A method of detecting a specific segment of double stranded nucleic acid without interrupting base pairing of the duplex which comprises contacting said nucleic acid segment with an Oligomer which is suffi¬ ciently complementary to said nucleic acid segment or portion thereof to form a triple stranded helix structure wherein at least one modified guanine analog selected from 6-selenium guanine or 6-isopropylidene-7-deazaguanine replaces guanine in said Oligomer.
45. A method of selectively preventing or interfer- ing with expression of a single stranded nucleic acid target sequence in vivo which comprises:
(a) selecting a nucleic acid target sequence which comprises an RNA region which codes for an 


 initiator codon, a polyadenylation region, an mRNA cap site or a splice junction;
(b) synthesizing first and second Oligomers having nucleoside seguences selected so that they will form a triple stranded helix with said RNA region; and
(c) introducing said first and second Oligomers into a cell; whereby said first and second Oligomers complex with said RNA region to form a triple stranded helix, thereby sub¬ stantially preventing or interfering with expression of the target sequence.
46. A method according to claim 45 wherein said target seguence comprises only purine bases.
47. A method according to claim 46 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only pyrimidine bases.
48. A method according to claim 46 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only purine bases and the other comprises only pyrimidine bases.
49. A method according to claim 45 wherein said target sequence comprises only pyrimidine bases.
50. A method according to claim 49 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only purine bases.
51. A method according to claim 49 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only purine bases and the other comprises only pyrimidine bases.
52. A method according to claim 45 wherein said seg¬ ment of mRNA comprises both purine and pyrimidine bases.
SUBSTTTUTE SHEET 


 53. A method according to claim 52 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise both purine and pyri¬ midine bases and wherein said second Oligomer optionally includes intemucleosidyl lengthening links between nucleosidyl units, as needed, to allow each base of the second Oligomer to hydrogen bond with a central purine base of either the segment of mRNA or the first Oligomer and form a triplet.
54. A method according to claim 45 wherein said first and second Oligomers are independently selected substantially uncharged neutral Oligomers.
55. A method according to claim 45 wherein each of said first and second Oligomers independently comprises an oligonucleotide, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonothioate Oligo- mer, a phosphorodithioate Oligomer, a phosphoro-thioate Oligomer, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonate Oligomer, a phos¬ photriester Oligomer, a phosphoramidate Oligomer, a carba- mate Oligomer, a sulfamate Oligomer, a morpholino Oligo¬ mer, or a formacetal Oligomer.
56. A method according to claims 45 or 54 wherein 2-aminopurine replaces at least one adenine in the second Oligomer.
57. A method according to claim 56 wherein at least one guanine of said second Oligomer is replaced by 6-selenium guanine or 6-isopropylidene-7-deazaguanine.
58. A method according to claims 45 or 54 wherein at least one modified guanine analog selected from 6-selenium guanine or 6-isopropylidene-7-deazaguanine replaces gua¬ nine in said Oligomer.
59. A method of selectively preventing or interfer¬ ing with expression of a gene in a cell or a protein prod- 


 uct of a gene by preventing splicing of a pre-mRNA to give a translatable mRNA which comprises:
(a) selecting a single stranded nucleic acid target sequence which comprises a splicing site for the mRNA coding for the protein product of the gene;
(b) synthesizing first and second Oligomers having nucleoside sequences selected so that they will form a triple stranded helix with the target sequence; and (c) introducing said first and second Oligomers into a cell; whereby said first and second Oligomers complex with said target sequence to form a triple stranded helix, thereby substantially preventing splicing of the pre-mRNA.
60. A method according to claim 59 wherein said target sequence comprises only purine bases.
61. A method according to claim 60 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only pyrimidine bases.
62. A method according to claim 60 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only purine bases and the other comprises only pyrimidine bases.
63. A method according to claim 59 wherein said target sequence comprises only pyrimidine bases.
64. A method according to claim 63 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise only purine bases.
65. A method according to claim 63 wherein one of said first and second Oligomers comprises only purine bases and the other comprises only pyrimidine bases.
SUBSTITUTE SHEET 


 66. A method according to claim 59 wherein said tar¬ get sequence comprises both purine and pyrimidine bases.
67. A method according to claim 66 wherein said first and second Oligomers comprise both purine and pyri- midine bases and wherein said second Oligomer optionally includes intemucleosidyl lengthening links between nucleosidyl units, as needed, to allow each base of the second Oligomer to hydrogen bond with a central purine base of either the segment of mRNA or the first Oligomer and form a triplet.
68. A method according to claim 59 wherein said first and second Oligomers are independently selected substantially uncharged neutral Oligomers.
69. A method according to claim 68 wherein each of said first and second Oligomers independently comprises an oligonucleotide, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonothioate Oligo¬ mer, a phosphorodithioate Oligomer, a phosphorothioate Oligomer, an alkyl- or aryl-phosphonate Oligomer, a phos¬ photriester Oligomer, a phosphoramidate Oligomer, a car- bamate Oligomer, a sulfamate Oligomer, a morpholino Oligomer, or a formacetal Oligomer.
70. A method according to claims 59 or 68 wherein 2-aminopurine replaces at least one adenine in the second Oligomer.
71. A method according to claim 70 wherein at least one guanine of said second Oligomer is replaced by 6-selenium guanine or 6-isopropylidine-7-deazaguanine.
72. A method according to claims 59 or 68 wherein at least one modified guanine analog selected from 6-selenium guanine or 6-isopropylidine-7-deazaguanine replaces guan¬ ine in said Oligomer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
