<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623206</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRECISION MEASURING APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01B1100	G01B1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01B	G01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01B11	G01B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED ROBOTICS A R L LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARISH BENJAMIN J
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED ROBOTICS (A.R.L.) LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARISH, BENJAMIN J.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARISH BENJAMIN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BARISH, BENJAMIN, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRECISION MEASURING APPARATUSFIELD AND BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The invention relates to precision measuring apparatus, and particularly to apparatus for precisely measuring the location of points on working media. The invention is especially useful in the mamnufacture and/or testing of printed circuit boards (PCBs), and is therefore described below particularly with respect to this application, but it will be appreciated that the invention could advantageously be used in many other applications as well.PCBs used in the electronics industry are continuously increasing in physical size, feature-densϋy, and number of layers. For example, at the present time PCBs of up to 32" x 40", with up to 24 layers, are quite common. The high density of features (e.g., pads, conductors, holes, etc.) on each layer, the large number of layers, and the necessity for precise registration between the layers, require a very high accuracy in each individual layer. Since the production of each layer is based on a series of operations, such as plotting the artwork, developing the films, making contact prints on a laminate, developing, etching, etc., there will be an accumulation of errors in the various operations involved in the production of each layer. Therefore, in order to minimize rejections of a manufactured PCB, very strict quality control must be exercised during each stage of the production to ensure that each layer is maintained within very strict tolerances.It is a rule of the art that the precision of the measuring apparatus must be at least one order of magnitude higher than the tolerance range required in any specific application. Under this rule, the PCB industry needs a measuring apparatus that can handle areas of a square meter or larger, and determine the coordinates of each point on it with a precision of a few microns. 

 One way used by the industry for obtaining relatively high precision is to adapt, for this application, the three-coordinate measuring machines which were originally designed for the metal industry. These machines depend for their precision on using a very sturdy, robust and heavy construction in order to maintain a high degree of three-dimension stability in space. Such machines, therefore, generally use granite beams, air bearings, and the like, and weigh more than four tons. Moreover, the machines used in the metal industry generally include mechanical-contact probes. Such probes are not suitable for measuring PCBs and therefore have to be replaced by non-contact probes or sensors,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
- -
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Apparatus for precisely measuring the location of points on working media, comprising: a base panel having a surface area at least equal to that of the largest working medium to be measured, said base panel including a reference mark and a grid of fiducial marks each located at a precisely-known location with respect to said reference mark; a coarse positioning device movable in a plane over said base panel; a fine positioning device having an area smaller than that of the base panel and carried by said coarse positioning device; a holder for holding a working medium in contact with said base panel; first measuring means for measuring the location of a preselected point on said coarse positioning device with respect to a preselected fiducial mark of the base panel; and second measuring means carried by said fine positioning device for measuring the location of a point to be measured on the working medium with respect to said preselected point on the coarse positioning device.
2. The apparatus according to Claim 1, wherein: said grid is a rectangular grid of fiducial marks equally spaced along first and second orthogonal axes; said coarse positioning device comprises a first carriage movable over the base panel along a first orthogonal axis, and a second carriage movable over said first carriage along a second orthogonal axis; and said fine positioning device comprises a third carriage movable over said second carriage along said first orthogonal axis, and a fourth carriage movable over said third carriage along said second orthogonal axis; said first measuring means being carried by said second carriage, and said second measuring means being carried by said fourth carriage. 


 — 1 0 —
3. The apparatus acccording to Claim 2, wherein said first measuring means comprises: an optical sensor carried by said second carriage; a drive for each of said first and second carriages for displacing their respective carriages along their respective orthogonal axes to approximately align said optical sensor of the second carriage with a selected fiducial mark on the base panel; and encoding means for measuring the displacements of said second carriage along both said orthogonal axes.
4. The apparatus according to Claim 3, wherein said first measuring means comprises two optical sensors carried by said first and second carriages over said base panel.
5. The apparatus according to Claim 4, wherein said second measuring means comprises: a third optical sensor carried by said fourth carriage; a drive for displacing said third and fourth carriages along said smaller area; and encoders for measuring the displacements of said third and fourth carriages.
6. The apparatus according- to Claim 5, wherein said two optical sensors are spaced from each other a distance substantially equal to the spacing between, and are aligned with, any four of said fiducial marks on the base panel along said first orthogonal axis.
7. The apparatus according to Claim 5, wherein: each of said first and second optical sensors includes a planar matrix of sensing elements; and said first measuring means also includes means for measuring the momentary angle between said first orthogonal axis of the fiducial marks on the base panel, and an imaginary line interconnecting a preselected reference sensing element in each of said two matrices, to thereby provide a measurement of the total skew of the coarse positioning device, and of the two optical sensors carried 


thereby, with respect to said rectangular grid of fiducial marks on the base panel.
8. The apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein said third optical sensor also includes a planar matrix of sensing elements having a preselected reference sensing element.
9. The apparatus according to Claim 8, wherein said first, second and third optical sensors are CCD's.
10. The apparatus according to Claim 9, wherein said apparatus further comprises: illuminating means for simultaneously illuminating the two fiducial marks on the base panel with which said two optical sensors on the coarse carriage are approximately aligned, and the point on the working medium to be located on which the third optical sensor is approximately aligned; and individual focussing means for individually focussing each of said optical sensors.
11. The apparatus according to Claim 9, wherein said base panel is transparent and includes a plurality of Ronchi grids for providing an indication by the Moire effect, appearing when the Ronchi grids are projected on the CCD grids, of any inclination of the CCD grids of the optical sensors with respect to an imaginary line interconnecting two preselected reference sensing elements.
12. The apparatus according to Claim 1 , wherein the working medium includes a plurality of concentric rings in order to permit registration of the medium to be measured with the base panel.
13. Apparatus for precisely measuring the location of points on working media, comprising: a base panel having a surface area at least equal to that of the largest working medium to be measured, said base panel including a reference mark and a grid of fiducial marks each located at a precisely-known location with respect to said reference mark; a coarse positioning device movable over said base panel; 


 a fine positioning device carried by and movable over said coarse positioning device; a holder for holding a working medium in contact with said base panel; first measuring means including a planar matrix of optical sensor elements for measuring the location of a preselected point on said coarse positioning device with respect to a preselected fiducial mark of the base panel and its inclination to said grid of fiducial marks; and second measuring means carried by said fine positioning device including a planar matrix of optical sensor elements for measuring the location of a point to be measured on the working medium with respect to said preselected point on the coarse positioning device. 14. The apparatus according to Claim 13, wherein: said grid is a rectangular grid of fiducial marks equally spaced along first and second orthogonal axes; said coarse positioning device comprises a first carriage movable over the base panel along said first orthogonal axis, and a second carriage movable over said first carriage along a second orthogonal axis; and said fine positioning device comprises a third carriage movable over said second carriage along said first orthogonal axis, and a fourth carriage movable over said third carriage along said second orthogonal axis; said planar grid of optical sensor elements of said first measuring means being carried by said second carriage, and said planar grid of optical sensor elements of said second measuring means being carried by said fourth carriage.
15. The apparatus acccording to Claim 14, wherein said first measuring means further includes: a drive for each of said first and second carriages for displacing their respective carriages along their respective orthogonal axes to approximately align said planar grid of optical sensor elements of the second carriage with a selected fiducial mark on the base panel; 


 and encoding means for measuring the displacements of said second carriage along both said orthogonal axes.
16. The apparatus according to Claim 15, wherein said first measuring means comprises two planar grids of optical sensor elements carried by said first and second carriages over said base panel; and said second measuring means comprises: drives for displacing said third and fourth carriages; and encoding means for measuring the displacements of said third and fourth carriages. 17. The apparatus according to Claim 16, wherein said two optical sensors are spaced from each other a distance substantially equal to the spacing between, and are aligned with, any two
t
of said fiducial marks on the base panel. 18. The apparatus according to Claim 16, wherein said first measuring means also includes means for measuring the momentary angle between said first orthogonal axis of the fiducial marks on the base panel, and an imaginary line interconnecting a preselected reference sensing element in each of the two matrices of said first measuring means, to thereby provide a measurement of the skew of the second carriage, and of the two optical sensors carried thereby, with respect to said rectangular grid of fiducial marks on the base panel. 19. The apparatus according to Claim 13, wherein said base panel is transparent and includes a plurality of Ronchi grids for providing an indication by the Moire effect, appearing when the Ronchi grids are projected on the CCD grids, of any inclination of the CCD grids of the optical sensors with respect to an imaginary line interconnecting two preselected reference sensing elements. 20. The apparatus according to Claim 13, wherein the working medium includes a plurality of opaque concentric rings in order to permit registration of said second measuring means with respect to the working medium. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
