<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633756</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEDIAL REGION DEPLOYMENT OF RADIALLY SELF-EXPANDING STENTS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F284	A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F282	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to body implantable prosthesis intended for long-term
or permanent fixation in body cavities, and more particularly to the delivery and
placement of self-expanding stents. An apparatus as specified in the preamble
of Claim 1 is known from FR-A-2525896.Self-expanding stents are employed in a variety of patient treatment and
diagnostic procedures, for fixation in blood vessels, biliary ducts and other body lumens
to maintain the passages. For example, a radially self-expanding stent can be deployed
in an artery following a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PCTA) or a
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) procedure. The stent resists any tendency
in the vessel to close, thus countering acute reclosure and plaque restenosis.A highly preferred construction for a radially self-expanding stent is disclosed
in U.S. Patent No. 4,655,771 (Wallsten corresponding to the above mentioned
FR-A-2525896), i.e. a flexible tubular braided structure formed
of helically wound thread elements. Wallsten discloses a catheter for delivering the
stent to the fixation site. Gripping members at opposite ends of the stent initially secure
it to the catheter in an axially elongated, reduced radius configuration to enhance
delivery. The proximal gripping member is movable distally, initially giving the stent
covering the shape of a balloon. In complete deployment, the gripping members
release the stent, allowing the stent to assume an axially shortened and radially
expanded configuration, in contact with a blood vessel wall or other body tissue.A similar stent construction is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,681,110 (Wiktor).
A flexible tubular liner is constructed of braided strands of a flexible plastic, and is
insertable into the aorta, whereupon it self-expands against an aneurism to direct blood
flow past the aneurism. For delivery, the liner is radially compressed within the distal
end of a main catheter tube. A secondary tube, inside the main catheter tubing and
terminating just proximally of the liner, is held in place while the main tube is withdrawn,
thus deploying the liner initially by its distal end. EP-A-0528039 (which belongs to the state of the art according to Art. 54(3) EPC)
discloses a luminal stent which is contracted in length by a balloon
dilation so that both ends of the stent are detached from holders. By subsequently
contracting the balloon the catheter may be withdrawn.A prevalent approach to deploying self-expanding stents, often referred to as the
"rolling
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus (16) for deploying a radially self-expanding stent (18) within a
body lumen, including:


a stent (18);
a retaining means for maintaining the elongate, radially self-expanding stent
(18) in a delivery configuration wherein the stent has a reduced radius along its entire

axial length; and
a flexible, elongate delivery means for delivering the stent, when in the
delivery configuration and disposed near a distal end of the delivery means, to a

deployment site in body lumen;

   the retaining means including a proximal sleeve
member (24) radially confining a proximal end region (26) of the stent and a distal sleeve

member (30) radially confining a distal end region (38) of the stent, wherein said proximal
and distal sleeves are substantially equal to one another in interior diameter

the delivery means including a control means operably associated with the
confinement means for moving the proximal and distal members axially with respect to

one another, the apparatus being characterized in that the stent (18) is a radially
self-expanding stent, the said proximal and distal sleeve members, when 

confining the stent, surround the stent and abut one another along an interface (32),
the proximal and distal members being movable axially with respect to one another

toward and away from a confinement position, in which the members, while so confining
the respective end regions of the stent, cooperate to maintain the stent in the delivery

configuration, and the said control means is operably associated with
the confinement means for moving the proximal and distal members axially away from

each other to allow an initial radial self-expansion of the stent along a medial region (113)
between the end regions as the proximal and distal members continue to radially confine

said respective end regions, and further for moving the proximal and distal members
axially relative to said respective end regions following the initial self-expansion, to

release the stent for radial self-expansion along its entire axial length.
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein:

   said interface (32) is in the radially extended mid-plane of the stent.
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein:

   said delivery means includes a first length of catheter tubing (20) integral
with the proximal sleeve and having a first lumen (22), and wherein the control means

includes an elongate moving member (44) running substantially the length of the first
catheter tubing and contained within the first lumen, a means securing the moving

member integrally with the distal sleeve, and a means for moving the moving member
distally with respect to the first catheter tubing.
The apparatus of Claim 3 wherein:

   said moving member comprises a second length of catheter tubing (44)
surrounded by the stent (18) and having a second lumen (46), and the means for

securing the moving member include a distal tip (40) fixed to the respective distal ends
of the distal sleeve and the second length of catheter tubing.
The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein:

   said delivery means further includes a flexible guide wire (48) contained
within the second lumen (46).
The apparatus of Claim 5 further including:

a detent means (54) mounted to the second catheter tubing proximally
of the stent, to limit proximal movement of the stent with respect to the second catheter

tubing.
The apparatus of Claim 6 wherein:

   said proximal sleeve comprises a distal end portion of the first catheter
tubing.
The apparatus of Claim 5 wherein:

   said control means further includes a third length of catheter tubing (100)
within the first lumen, surrounding the second catheter tubing, and moveable axially

relative to the first catheter tubing and the second catheter tubing. 
The apparatus of Claim 8 wherein:

   said stent surrounds the third catheter tubing, and wherein first and

second detents (102) (104) are mounted to the third catheter tubing and disposed on
opposite sides of the stent, to limit axial travel of the stent with respect to the third

catheter tubing.
The apparatus of Claim 9 wherein:

   said proximal sleeve comprises a distal end portion of the first catheter
tubing.
The apparatus of Claim 1 wherein:

   said delivery means includes an elongate and flexible guide wire (128)
and an elongate dilatation balloon (140) at the distal end of the guide wire, a fastening

means for releasably securing the proximal and distal sleeves (122) (120) to one
another at the interface with the sleeves surrounding the balloon, and a balloon inflation

means for supplying a fluid under pressure to the balloon to effect an elastic expansion
of the balloon, the expansion overcoming the retaining force of the fastening means to

move the proximal and distal sleeves axially away from one another.
The apparatus of Claim 11 wherein:

   said balloon is annular and surrounds the guide wire.
The apparatus of Claim 12 further including:

proximal and distal end walls (130) (124) integral with the proximal and
distal sleeves, respectively, for further confining the balloon between the sleeves and

including respective proximal and distal openings (132) (126) to accommodate the
guide wire.
The apparatus of Claim 13 further including:

a stop (152) mounted integrally on the guide wire distally of the distal
end wall and larger than the distal opening.
The apparatus of Claim 12 wherein:

   said balloon inflation means includes a length of catheter tubing (142)
having a lumen open to the interior of the balloon, for providing the fluid to the balloon.
The apparatus of Claim 1 further including:

proximal and distal end walls (166) (172) integral with the proximal and
distal sleeves (168) (174), respectively, and including respective proximal and distal

openings;
 
   wherein the control means includes an elongate rotatable member (160)

having a first externally threaded section (162) threadedly engaged within one of said
proximal and distal openings corresponding to a selected one of the sleeves, and a

means for rotating the rotatable member relative to the selected sleeve, thereby axially
moving the selected sleeve alternatively toward and away from the other sleeve.
The apparatus of Claim 16 wherein:

      said rotatable member further includes a second threaded section (164)
threadedly engaged with the other sleeve, with respective first and second threads

following opposite conventions.
The apparatus of Claim 16 wherein:

   said proximal and distal sleeves together surround less than the entire
axial length of the stent (170), and wherein the delivery means includes a length of

catheter tubing (158) having a lumen 161), with a distal portion of the catheter tubing
surrounding the proximal and distal sleeves to cooperate with the sleeves in radially

confining the stent; and

   wherein the rotatable member is contained within the lumen and runs
substantially the length of the catheter tubing, the means for rotating the rotatable

member being located at a proximal end of the catheter tubing.
The apparatus of Claim 18 further including:

a means (180) (182) for preventing rotation of the selected sleeve with
respect to the catheter tubing while the rotatable member is rotated.
The apparatus of Claim 1 further including:

proximal and distal end walls (202) (198) integral with the proximal and
distal sleeves (190) (192), respectively;

   wherein the control means include an expandable means (206)
cooperating with said proximal and distal end walls to form a fluid chamber (207)

surrounded by the stent (214); and a fluid supply means for supplying a fluid under
pressure to the chamber, thereby to expand the expandable means and urge the

proximal sleeve and distal sleeve away from one another.
The apparatus of Claim 20 wherein:

   said expandable means is connected to the proximal and distal end
walls, whereby said fluid chamber is substantially fluid tight.
The apparatus of Claim 21 wherein:
 
   said proximal end wall and distal end wall include respective proximal

and distal openings (204) (200); and

   wherein the fluid supply means includes a catheter (194) contained in the
proximal and distal openings in sliding and substantially sealed relation to the proximal

and distal end walls, and a fluid lumen (208) in the catheter open to the chamber.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
