<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632937</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DC/AC Power supply
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02M328	H02M748	H04M1908	H02M3335	H04M1900	H04M1900	H04M1908	H04M302	H02M748	H02M324	H04M302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02M	H02M	H04M	H02M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H02M	H02M	H04M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02M3	H02M7	H04M19	H02M3	H04M19	H04M19	H04M19	H04M3	H02M7	H02M3	H04M3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A DC to DC switch mode power supply for a service subscriber interface unit of a fiber optic network includes a source of DC primary power, a main DC to DC switched mode power supply connected to the source of DC primary power and including switching circuitry and rectifier circuitry for supplying DC operating power to the service subscriber interface unit including central office battery power to at least one subscriber loop connected thereto, and a ringing voltage DC to AC switched mode generator connected to the source of DC primary power and including switching circuitry and synchronous rectification circuitry for generating ringing voltage approximating a sine wave supplied as a reference to the synchronous rectification circuitry. A Johnson counter and resistor capacitor network is preferably employed to convert a reference ringing square wave into a sine wave.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to electronic power conversion 
equipment. More particularly, the present invention relates to a 
DC to AC power supply which has particular application and suitability 
to remote power supply including on-demand ring voltage generation 
for use at remotely located subscriber interface units ("SIU") within 
fiber optic networks. Conventional telephone instruments include an incoming call 
annunciator: classically a bell, more recently a piezoelectric resonator. 
In a conventional telephone network, a wire pair extends from a 
telephone central office location to the service subscriber's premises. 
Central office battery voltage is typically applied to the wire pair to 
power the telephone service set, and an AC voltage, nominally 90 volts 
at 20 Hertz, is applied whenever it is appropriate to ring the telephone 
bell(s) of the service set(s) at the subscriber's premises, in order to 
signal an incoming call and induce a user to remove the handset from its 
cradle, known as an "off hook" condition. The standard telephone 
service set within the U.S. Bell System includes a bell call annunciator 
which is broadly resonant at 20 Hertz. In Europe and elsewhere, a 
frequency of 25 Hertz is commonly employed as the ringing frequency. Ringing voltage is generated at a central office in a number of 
ways. A rotary generator or ringing machine consists of a single-speed 
motor (either AC or DC, depending upon the local power supply). The 
motor rotates one or more AC generators which generate the desired 
ringing frequencies and voltages. Magnetic generators operating from 
the AC power mains have been used to generate ringing signals. Such 
generators employ resistors, transformers and tuned circuits of 
inductors and capacitors in order to develop the desired ringing signal. 
Vibrating reed converters have also been employed to generate ringing 
voltage from the 48 volt central office battery supply. These converters  
 
have included two magnetic coils, an armature and a reed assembly 
mounted on a frame, and have converted the 48 volts DC into a square 
wave of the desired frequency for ringing. A filter circuit has modified 
the square wave to a sine wave. A mechanical interrupter has been 
employed to divide the ringing generator's signal into alternating 
ringing and silent periods. One implementation has been a motor for 
rotating a shaft carrying a number of cams which operate switch 
contacts that switch the ringing signal on and off. Electronic oscillators 
have also been
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A DC to AC power converter (10) for converting a DC 
voltage supply to an AC voltage approximating a sine wave at a 

first frequency F1 via a switched mode DC to DC power supply 
operating at a second and higher frequency F2, comprising: 


an input (12) for receiving the DC voltage supply, 
a power switching circuit (40; 40A, 40B; 40'') for 
switching the DC voltage supply at the second frequency F2 

and for applying the switched DC voltage supply to primary 
windings of one or more transformers (T4; T4A, T4B; T4'') 

having at least a push secondary winding and a pull 
secondary winding, 
a push loop (68) including the push secondary winding, a 
push rectifier (CR7) and a push switch (Q2) operating at 

the second frequency F2, 
a pull loop (72) including the pull secondary winding, a 
pull rectifier (CR5) and a pull switch (Q1) operating at 

the second frequency F2, 
a summing junction for summing power delivered from both 
the push loop (68) and the pull loop (72) and for 

providing an output, 
sine wave reference signal means (60) for providing a 

nominal reference sine wave at the first F1 frequency 
including an F1 positive half cycle and an F1 negative 

half cycle, said sine wave reference signal means (60) 
comprising: 


a reference ringing signal input for receiving a 
reference ringing signal (RING REF) having a 

frequency which is an integral multiple of the first 
frequency F1,  

 
a counter (U4) for counting at the reference ringing 
signal frequency and having an output network means 

for generating a successive approximation of a sine 
wave at the frequency F1, and 
an integrator connected to the counter (U4) for 
integrating the successive approximation into the 

nominal sine wave, 
a push driver (64) controlled by the F1 positive half 
cycle for controlling the push switch (Q2) at the second 

frequency F2 substantially in accordance with the F1 
positive half cycle, and 
a pull driver (64) controlled by the F1 negative half 
cycle for controlling the pull switch (Q1) at the second 

frequency F2 substantially in accordance with the F1 
negative half cycle. 
The DC to AC power converter set forth in claim 1 further 
comprising synchronizing means (46) for phase synchronizing 

operation of the power switching circuit (40; 40A, 40B; 40''), 
the push driver (64) and the pull driver (64), respectively, at 

the second frequency F2. 
The DC to AC power converter set forth in claim 1 being 
configured to operate in a flyback mode wherein energy is 

stored in the one or more transformers (T4) when the power 
switching circuit (40) is off and is delivered via the push 

loop (68) and the pull loop (72), respectively, and further 
comprising a storage capacitor (C17) connected at the summing 

junction. 
The DC to AC power converter set forth in claim 1 configured 
to operate in a forward mode and further comprising an inductor 

(LS) for storing energy connected at the summing junction, and 
further comprising a logic circuit connected to control 

operation of said power switching circuit (40A, 40B; 40'')in  
 

accordance with an externally supplied logic control signal. 
The DC to AC power converter set forth in claim 2, wherein 
said power switching circuit (40; 40A, 40B; 40'') includes a 

first pulse width modulator (U11), the push driver (64) 
includes a second pulse width modulator (U2), and the pull 

driver (64) includes a third pulse width modulator (U1), said 
first, second and third pulse width modulators (U11, U1, U2) 

being clocked by said synchronizing means (46) at the second 
frequency F2. 
The DC to AC power converter set forth in claim 1, wherein 
the counter (U4) comprises a Johnson counter, the integrator 

includes an operational amplifier (U6) including a feedback 
network comprising a low pass filter (C20, R37), the reference 

ringing signal is ten times F1, the Johnson counter is 
configured as a modulo-10 counter having four low order 

inverting outputs connected to resistors (R7, R8, R9, R10) 
extending to a common node connecting to an input of the 

integrator, and wherein the one or more transformers consisting 
of a single transformer (T4, T4''). 
The DC to AC power converter set forth in claim 4, wherein 
the one or more transformers comprise a push loop transformer 

and a pull loop transformer, and wherein the power switching 
circuit comprises a push loop power switching circuit connected 

to a primary winding of the push loop transformer, and a pull 
loop power switching circuit connected to a primary winding of 

the pull loop transformer. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
