<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643587</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR HEAT DISINFECTING SOFT CONTACT LENSES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A45C1100	A45C1100	A61L208	A61L212	A61L1200	A61L1206	G02C1300	G02C1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A45C	A45C	A61L	A61L	A61L	A61L	G02C	G02C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A45C11	A45C11	A61L2	A61L2	A61L12	A61L12	G02C13	G02C13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for disinfecting soft contact lenses includes introducing disinfecting solution (37) into a vessel (10) that is at least partially formed of material transparent to microwave electromagnetic radiation, and placing the contact lenses (34) into contact with the disinfecting solution (37) within an interior portion of the vessel which is substantially shielded from microwave electromagnetic radiation. The vessel is closed and then subjected to microwave radiation to heat the disinfecting solution with which the lenses are in contact while the lenses themselves are shielded from the radiation. The radiation continues until the lenses are disinfected. Apparatus in accordance with the invention includes the vessel (10), disinfecting solution (37) and in accordance with one embodiment, lens holder apparatus (16) comprising shielding material defining compartments that are receivable of the contact lenses which are in fluid communication with the surrounding interior of the vessel but which provide microwave radiation shielding.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLEXICLAVE INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FLEXICLAVE, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUTNER BARRY S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATOWICKI DANIEL A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALECH KENNETH E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KUTNER, BARRY S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATOWICKI, DANIEL A.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MALECH, KENNETH E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR HEAT DISINFECTING SOFT CONTACT LENSESThis is a continuation-in-part and division of application Serial No. 07/835,309 filed February 14, 1992, which is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/692,736 filed April 29, 1991, which is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 07/184,246, filed April 21, 1988, now U.S. Patent 5,019,344.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to processes and apparatus for disinfecting soft contact lenses and, more particularly, to processes and apparatus for disinfecting soft contact lenses by heat disinfection.In caring for hydrophilic gel (soft) contact lenses, attention must be directed toward, among other things, maintaining lens hydration and protecting the lenses from pathogens. Exposure of soft contact lenses to heat or to the action of soaking solutions are the techniques used to provide the disinfection necessary to protect soft contact lenses from pathogens.Disinfecting lenses by soaking in germicidal solutions is a two step process which includes soaking the lenses in the solution until the lens is disinfected, and then rinsing the lenses with a rinsing solution prior to insertion. Typically, lenses are stored in a germicidal solution, such as one that derives its germicidal activity from thimerosal or chlorhexidine, for at least four hours and then are rinsed in a saline solution. Such techniques are time consuming, require the user to keep different solutions on hand, and risk eye irritation should the disinfecting solution not be adequately rinsed from the lenses. 

 For heat disinfection, it is generally necessary to heat soft contact lenses to a temperature of 80"C for at least 10 minutes. To insure lens hydration, the gel lenses are immersed in saline solution in their storage case which is then placed within a boiling unit. Although gel lenses can be disinfected in a shorter time by heat than by soaking, conventional heat disinfection tech¬ niques require a separate heating unit which adds to the expense of lens care. Moreover, in practice, heat disinfection of lenses is a relatively time-consuming procedure which necessitates that the wearer use an alternate pair of lenses, or eyeglasses, while disin¬ fection proceeds.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIt is an object of the present invention to provide new and improved processes and apparatus for disinfecting soft contact lenses.Another object of the present invention is to provide new and improved processes and apparatus for disinfecting soft contact
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What Is Claimed Is;
1. A process for heat disinfecting soft contact lenses comprising the steps of: providing a vessel at least partially formed of material transparent to microwave electromagnetic radiation; introducing a disinfecting solution into said vessel; placing said lenses within an interior volume of said vessel which is substantially shielded from microwave electromagnetic radiation; closing said vessel so as to be substantially liquid-tight to thereby form an assembly of said vessel, disinfecting solution and lenses; and irradiating said assembly with microwave electromagnetic radiation while said lenses are shielded from said radiation to heat said disinfecting solution with said lenses remaining in contact with said disinfecting solution, whereby said lenses are disinfected by heat.
2. A process as recited in claim 1 wherein said lenses are maintained in contact with said disinfecting solution during said irradiating step.
3. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said vessel comprises a collapsible pouch formed of flexible, vapor-impermeable sheet material transparent to microwave radiation.
4. A process as recited in Claim 3 wherein said sheet material of which said pouch is formed comprises a laminate of flexible polypropylene and polyester. 


 5. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said irradiating step comprises irradiating said assembly to heat said solution to a temperature at which it begins to vaporize and continuing said heating step while said lenses remain in contact with said disin¬ fecting solution.
6. A process as recited in Claim 5 wherein said vessel com¬ prises a collapsible pouch formed of flexible vapor-impermeable sheet material transparent to microwave radiation, and wherein said collapsible pouch expands to a visibly apparent distended condition during said irradiating step.
7. A process as recited in Claim 5 wherein said vessel com¬ prises a collapsible pouch, and wherein said collapsible pouch expands to a visibly apparent distended condition during said irradiating step under the pressure of vapor produced by heating the disinfecting solution to its boiling point.
8. A process as recited in Claim 5 including the additional step of venting disinfecting solution vapor produced during said heating step from within said vessel.
9. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said irradiating step comprises irradiating said assembly with microwave electro¬ magnetic radiation at a power in the range of between about 500 to 1,000 watts.
10. A process as recited in Claim 9 wherein said irradiating step comprises irradiating said assembly with microwave electro¬ magnetic radiation at a power of about 700 watts.
u 


 11. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said irradiating step comprises irradiating said assembly with microwave electro¬ magnetic radiation for a time in the range of between about 15 to 60 seconds.
12. A process as recited in Claim 11 wherein said irradiating step comprises irradiating said assembly with microwave electro¬ magnetic radiation for a time of about 30 seconds.
13. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said step of introducing disinfecting solution into said vessel comprises intro¬ ducing a quantity of disinfecting solution in a range of between about 10 to 40 cc's.
14. A process as recited in Claim 13 wherein said step of introducing disinfecting solution into said vessel comprises intro¬ ducing a quantity of disinfecting solution of about 20 cc's.
15. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein, said step of introducing disinfecting solution into said vessel comprises introducing a quantity of disinfecting solution in a range of between about 10 to 40 cc's, and wherein said irradiating step comprises irradiating said assembly with microwave electromagnetic radiation at a power in the range of between 500 to 1,000 watts for a time in the range of between about 15 to 60 seconds.
16. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said irradiating step is continued to thereby disinfect said disinfecting solution together with said lenses, and including the further step of sealing said vessel after completion of said irradiating step, and maintaining said lenses in said disinfecting solution in a disin¬ fected condition protected from recontamination until use. 


 17. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said disinfecting solution comprises saline solution.
18. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein said disinfecting solution comprises hydrogen peroxide.
19. A process as recited in Claim 1 wherein prior to placing said lenses in contact with said disinfecting solution, situating said lenses in holder apparatus, said holder apparatus comprising shielding means for defining said radiation shielded interior volume of said vessel which is receivable of said contact lenses and in fluid communication with the surrounding interior of said vessel to permit said lenses to be in contact with said disin¬ fecting solution.
20. A process as recited in Claim 19 wherein said shielding means comprises perforated metallic sheet material.
21. Apparatus for heat disinfecting soft contact lenses, comprising: a vessel at least partially formed of material transparent to microwave electromagnetic radiation; disinfecting solution receivable within said vessel; means for irradiating said disinfecting solution within said vessel with microwave electromagnetic radiation; and shielding means for dividing the interior of said vessel into at least one shielded interior portion which is substantially free of microwave electromagnetic radiation during irradiation of said disinfecting solution within said vessel by said irradiating means, and an unshielded interior portion in fluid communication with said shielded portion and which is exposed to said microwave electro¬ magnetic radiation during irradiation of said vessel by said 


irradiating means, said shielded interior portion being receivable of said contact lenses.
22. Apparatus as recited in Claim 20 wherein said vessel comprises a collapsible pouch formed of flexible, vapor-impermeable sheet material transparent to microwave radiation.
23. Apparatus as recited in Claim 22 wherein said sheet material of which said pouch is formed comprises a laminate of flexible polypropylene and polyester.
24. Apparatus as recited in Claim 21 wherein said vessel is substantially closed and comprises means for at least partially venting vaporized disinfecting solution from within said vessel.
25. Apparatus as recited in Claim 21 wherein said vessel com¬ prises a flexible pouch formed of flexible, vapor-impermeable sheet material transparent to microwave radiation, and wherein said flex¬ ible pouch expands to a visibly apparent distended condition upon said disinfecting solution vaporizing upon heating.
26. Apparatus as recited in Claim 21 wherein said shielding means comprises means for holding said lenses in said at least one shielded interior portion in contact with said disinfecting solution.
27. Apparatus as recited in Claim 26 wherein said shielding means comprises a compartment for said contact lenses, said compartment being formed by perforated sheet metal material.
28. Apparatus as recited in Claim 21 wherein said shielding means are integrated with said vessel. 


 29. Apparatus as recited in Claim 21 wherein said disin¬ fecting solution comprises saline solution.
30. Apparatus as recited in Claim 21 wherein said disin¬ fecting solution comprises hydrogen peroxide.
31. Apparatus for heat disinfecting soft contact lenses, comprising: shielding means substantially surrounding said contact lenses for shielding said lenses from microwave electromagnetic radiation; a pouch formed of flexible vapor-impermeable sheet material transparent to microwave electromagnetic radiation, said pouch having an opening through which said contact lenses and disinfect¬ ing solution can be introduced into said collapsible pouch, said opening being closable after introduction of said contact lenses and disinfecting solution to form a liquid-tight assembly; said disinfecting solution being contained within said pouch in a quantity sufficient to remain in contact with said contact lenses; means for irradiating said liquid-tight assembly with microwave electromagnetic radiation to heat said disinfecting solution with said lenses remaining in contact with said heated solution and with said shielding means presenting a barrier to transmission of substantial microwave electromagnetic radiation onto said lenses, whereby said contact lenses are heat disinfected.
32. Apparatus as recited in claim 31, wherein said shielding means include a holder member defining an interior in fluid communication with the ambient atmosphere and adapted to receive said contact lenses. 


 33. Apparatus as recited in Claim 32 wherein said holder member includes a receptacle adapted to receive said contact lenses and having wall means defining said interior, and wherein said shielding means further includes microwave electromagnetic radiation shield material surrounding said interior of said receptacle.
34. Apparatus as recited in Claim 33 wherein said wall means of said receptacle comprises said shielding means.
35. Apparatus as recited in Claim 34 wherein said microwave electromagnetic radiation shield material comprises metallic wire- mesh material.
36. Apparatus as recited in Claim 31 wherein said shielding means and said collapsible pouch comprise an integrated unit.
37. Apparatus as recited in Claim 36 wherein said integrated unit comprises said pouch to a portion of the area of said sheet material of which said shielding means are provided to surround a first interior portion of said pouch which is thereby shielded from microwave electromagnetic radiation.
38. A case for use in disinfecting soft contact lenses, comprising: means forming at least one contact lens-receiving compartment, said compartment having an interior in fluid communication with the ambient atmosphere; and means for shielding a contact lens situated in said compartment from microwave electromagnetic radiation. 


 39. Apparatus as recited in claim 38 wherein said compartment-forming means forms a pair of contact lens-receiving compartments.
40. Apparatus as recited in Claim 39 wherein said compartment-forming means comprise said shielding means.
41. Apparatus as recited in Claim 40 wherein said compartment-forming means are formed of perforated metallic sheet material, said perforations providing fluid communication between the interior of said contact lens-receiving compartment and the ambient atmosphere, and being sufficiently small to prevent passage of microwave electromagnetic radiation therethrough.
42. Apparatus as recited in Claim 40 wherein said compartment-forming means comprise a first pair of substantially dome-shaped members positioned on a first cover member, and a second pair of substantially dome-shaped members positioned on a second cover member, said dome-shaped members of said first and second pairs adapted to be brought into contiguous relationship to thereby form a pair of compartments for receiving a pair of contact lenses.
43. Apparatus as recited in Claim 42 wherein said dome-shaped members are formed of perforated metallic sheet material.
44. Apparatus as recited in Claim 42 wherein said dome-shaped members are formed of metallic wire mesh material. 


 45. A process as recited in Claim 3, including the additional step of: after closing said pouch to form said liquid-tight assembly, placing said pouch in a cup-shaped holder member formed of microwave-transparent material.
46. A process as recited in claim 45 including the further step of: after irradiating said assembly to disinfect said lenses, adding a cold liquid into said cup-shaped holder member to cool said disinfecting solution.
47. Apparatus as recited in Claim 31, further comprising: a cup-shaped holding means formed of microwave transparent material for holding said liquid-tight pouch assembly during irradiation. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
