<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639147</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FLEXIBLE CONTAINER WITH NONSTICK INTERIOR
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6500	B31F502	B65D3008	B29C6500	B31F500	B32B2708	B32B2700	B29C6502	B32B2708	B65D6542	B29C5900	B65D7558	B29C5900	B65D7552	B65D3008	B29C6502	B32B2700	B29C6508	B29L2200	B32B2710	B29C6508	B32B2710	B65D7560	B65D6538	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B31F	B65D	B29C	B31F	B32B	B32B	B29C	B32B	B65D	B29C	B65D	B29C	B65D	B65D	B29C	B32B	B29C	B29L	B32B	B29C	B32B	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C65	B31F5	B65D30	B29C65	B31F5	B32B27	B32B27	B29C65	B32B27	B65D65	B29C59	B65D75	B29C59	B65D75	B65D30	B29C65	B32B27	B29C65	B29L22	B32B27	B29C65	B32B27	B65D75	B65D65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flexible container for the packaging of products having a pressure sensitive adhesive (92) thereon, such as sanitary napkins. The container is formed of paper or plastic film (16) coated on one side with a layer of silicone, the container construction being such that the silicone coating defines the interior surfaces of the container. Due to the nonstick characteristic of the silicone coating, the usual protective liner for the adhesive on the packaged product can be omitted. The side seams of the container are formed by the application of heat or ultrasonic energy in combination with mechanical deformation of the paper or film to produce embossments (18) in the seam areas. The side seams may comprise two or three layers of material. The nature of the side seams may be such that the container may be opened by peeling apart the seams, or the seams may be sealed so tightly that the container can be opened only by tearing the material.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT PAPER CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON ROBERT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESS BARRY L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUICK JAMES R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULRICH HELGA H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, ROBERT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HESS, BARRY, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
QUICK, JAMES R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ULRICH, HELGA, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to containers and more particularly to a flexible container for holding sanitary napkins or
other relatively flat objects.Sanitary napkins are often provided with a silicone-coated release liner for pressure sensitive adhesive on the
sanitary napkin. The napkin with the release liner in place is packaged in a relatively small pouch. For purposes of cost
reduction, packet simplification, and reduced solid waste, it would be desirable to combine the release liner and the
container into a single item. For this to be accomplished, it would be necessary to form a container from a silicone-coated
paper or silicone-coated plastic film. Because of the nonstick characteristic of silicone, however, it has not been
known prior to this invention to form the seams of a container using silicone-coated paper or plastic film. The prior art
does not provide a method of forming flexible containers such as pouches from silicone-coated paper and films and
similar materials, where the design of the container is such that the seams are formed with the silicone-coated surfaces
facing inward. An approach taken in the prior art involves zone coating of the silicone coating on either a paper with a
sealable (thermoplastic) basecoat or on a plastic film, so that there is no silicone in those areas that will be joined to
form the seams of the pouch, thereby permitting conventional heat sealing to form the seams. Although this prior art
method works satisfactorily, it is complex and expensive because it not only requires zone coating of the silicone on
the paper or film it also requires that the zoned pattern be held in register in the container-forming process.U.S.-A-4,549,653 describes a packaged adhesive bandage comprising a bandage contained in a sealed envelope
with the side edges of a bandage backing strip laminated and sealed between the panels of the envelope. The packaged
bandage is produced by folding a length of wrapper material to enclose a length of bandage material. Individual bandages
are cut transversely from the folded material with simultaneous sealing of the cut edges. The package utilizes
neither a silicone release coating nor embossments to form an edge seam at least partially surrounding the interior of
the package.The prior art also encompasses flexible containers (such as tea bags, for example) embodying overlapped edge
zones joined by a plurality of discrete enclosures defining both of the overlapped edge zones.Accordingly, the invention provides flexible containers such as pouches,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A flexible container (10) formed of
at least one sheet (12) having a release coating

(16) on a surface thereof, said release coating
covering at least a portion of the interior surface

of the container, characterized in that the release
coating comprises a silicone coating, the container

having at least one edge seam (18) which at least
partially surrounds the interior of the container,

said seam including the lamination of two overlapped
edge zones (20), at least one said overlapped edge

zone having a silicone coating,
said edge zones being free of adhesive,

said edge seam
including a plurality of discrete embossments

deforming both of said overlapped edge zones (20).
The flexible container of claim 1
wherein said at least one sheet is paper.
The flexible container of claim 1
wherein said at least one sheet is film.
The flexible container of claim 1
wherein each said overlapped edge zone has a

silicone coating, said silicone coatings facing and
contacting each other.
The flexible container of claim 1
containing a product (90) having a pressure

sensitive adhesive thereon (92), the pressure
sensitive adhesive of said product facing and being

in contact with a portion of said silicone coating
(16), whereby a separate, removable, and disposable

protective layer for the adhesive is not required. 
The flexible container of claim 1
formed at least partially from a silicone polymer-coated

paper, said silicone polymer-coated paper
comprising a paper substrate having a first surface

and a second surface, a silicone polymer coating,
and at least a first thermoplastic component, said

first thermoplastic component being provided as a
water-based emulsion or dispersion of a

thermoplastic polymer, said silicone polymer coating
forming a nonstick internal surface of said flexible

container, said flexible container having at least
one side seam where a seal is formed joining two

overlapped edge zones, at least one of said two
overlapped edge zones including said nonstick

internal surface.
The flexible container of claim 6
wherein said first thermoplastic component is a

thermoplastic basecoat (17) being provided as a
water-based emulsion or dispersion of a first film-forming

thermoplastic polymer applied on said first
surface, wherein said silicone polymer coating is

applied over said thermoplastic basecoat.
The flexible container of claim 7
wherein said silicone polymer-coated paper further

comprises a second thermoplastic component, said
second thermoplastic component being an admixed

thermoplastic polymer included in said silicone
polymer coating and provided as a water-based

emulsion or dispersion.
The flexible container of claim 8
wherein said admixed thermoplastic polymer component

is an ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer. 
The flexible container of claim 7
wherein said silicone polymer-coated paper further

comprises a second thermoplastic component, said
second thermoplastic component being a thermoplastic

coating provided as a water-based emulsion or
dispersion of a second film-forming thermoplastic

polymer applied on said second surface.
The flexible container of claim 10
wherein said second film-forming thermoplastic

polymer is an acrylic copolymer.
The flexible container of claim 7
wherein said first film-forming thermoplastic

polymer is selected from the group consisting of
ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers, polyvinyl

acetate, ethylene-vinyl chloride copolymers, acrylic
copolymers, vinylidene chloride copolymers, and

polystyrene.
The flexible container of claim 6
wherein said first thermoplastic polymer component

is an admixed thermoplastic polymer included in said
silicone polymer coating, said admixed thermoplastic

polymer being provided as a water-based emulsion or
dispersion, said silicone polymer coating being

applied on said first surface.
The flexible container of claim 13
wherein said silicone polymer-coated paper further

comprises a second thermoplastic component, said
second thermoplastic component being a thermoplastic

coating provided as a water-based emulsion or
dispersion of a second film-forming thermoplastic

polymer applied on said second surface. 
The flexible container of claim 14

wherein said second film-forming thermoplastic
polymer is an ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer.
The flexible container of claim 13
wherein said admixed thermoplastic polymer is an

ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer.
The flexible container of claim 6
wherein said first thermoplastic polymer component

is a thermoplastic coating provided as a water-based
emulsion or dispersion of a second film-forming

thermoplastic polymer applied on said second
surface, wherein said silicone polymer coating is

applied on said first surface.
The flexible container of claim 17
wherein said second film-forming thermoplastic

polymer is an ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer.
The flexible container of claim 6
wherein said thermoplastic polymer is selected from

the group consisting of ethylene-vinyl acetate
copolymers, polyvinyl acetate, ethylene-vinyl

chloride copolymers, acrylic copolymers, vinylidene
chloride copolymers, and polystyrene.
The flexible container of claim 1
wherein said embossments are formed by simultaneous

absorption of applied energy by said silicone coated
edge zone(s) and mechanical deformation of said

overlapped edge zones. 
The flexible container of claim 20 wherein said applied energy is in the form of
heat or ultrasonic vibrational energy.
The flexible container of claim 1 wherein said at least one sheet (12) is a
rectangular sheet having said release coating (16) on a surface thereof, said rectangular

sheet (12) being folded to define two integral folds (14) and first and second side
portions at opposite ends thereof and a center portion between the folds (14) with the

release coating (16) on the inwardly facing surface of the sheet (12).
The flexible container of claim 22 wherein said at least one edge seam (18) is a pair
of edge seams including the lamination of overlapped edge zones (20) of said center

portion and of said first and second side portions.
The flexible container of claim 23 wherein said edge seams (18) each include an
overlap zone with overlapped edge zones (20) of said center portion, said first side

portion and said second side portion.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
