<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0636036</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATIC RETRACTABLE TROCAR WITH SAFETY SHIELD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1734	A61B1734	A61B1900	A61B1900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B19	A61B19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An automatic retractable safety trocar instrument (10) for introducing a portal sleeve (14) into a cavity in the body includes a portal sleeve, a trocar (12) disposed within the portal sleeve and a safety shield (16) disposed between the portal sleeve and the trocar and having a distal end (26) biased to an extended position protruding beyond a distal end of the portal sleeve. The trocar is supported in a manner to automatically move proximally from an operative position wherein a sharp distal end of the trocar protrudes from the portal sleeve to a retracted position wherein the sharp distal end is protected within the instrument in response to distal movement of an operating member upon penetration into a cavity in the body. The safety shield is supported in a manner to automatically move proximally from the extended position during penetration of tissue (T) and to automatically move distally toward the extended position upon introduction of a distal end of the portal sleeve in an anatomical cavity.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YOON, INBAE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YOON, INBAE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATIC RETRACTABLE TROCAR WITH SAFETY SHIELD CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThis application is a continuation-in-part of pending patent application SN 07/808,325, filed December 16, 1991. The specifications of pending patent applications SN 07/800,507, filed November 27, 1991, SN 07/805,506, and SN 07/808,325, filed December 16, 1991, SN 07/817,113, filed January 6, 1992 and SN 07/848,838, filed March 10, 1992, all naming InBae Yoon as inventor are incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Field of the Invention:The present invention pertains to safety penetrating instruments and, more particularly, to safety penetrating instruments having portal sleeves, penetrating members disposed within the portal sleeves and having sharp tips for penetrating cavity walls and safety shields disposed between the portal sleeves and the penetrating members with automatic retraction of the penetrating members within the penetrating instrument upon penetration to protect tissue and organ structures within the cavities from the sharp tips of the penetrating members. 

Discussion of the Prior Art;Penetrating instruments are widely used in medical procedures to gain access to anatomical cavities of various sizes; and, in particular, use of penetrating instruments has become an extremely popular and important first step in endoscopic, or least invasive, procedures to establish an endoscopic portal for many various procedures, with access being established via a portal sleeve positioned during penetration into the cavity with the penetrating instrument. Such penetrating instruments include a penetrating member having a sharp tip or point to pierce or penetrate the tissue forming the cavity wall, and the force required to penetrate the cavity wall is dependent upon the type and thickness of the tissue of the wall. Once the wall is penetrated, it is desirable to protect the sharp tip of the penetrating member to prevent inadvertent contact with or injury to tissue or organ structures in or forming the cavity, and a particular problem exists where substantial force is required to penetrate the cavity wall or the cavity is very small in that, once penetration is achieved, the lack of tissue resistance can result in the sharp tip traveling too far into the cavity and injuring adjacent tissue or organ structures.Safety trocars having a spring-biased protective shield disposed between an outer sleeve and an inner trocar are marketed by Ethicon, Inc. as the Endopath and by United States Surgical Corp.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS;
1. A method of maintaining a space between a wall of an anatomical cavity and a layer of tissue within the cavity comprising the steps of penetrating the cavity wall with a sharp tip of a penetrating member disposed within a portal sleeve to position a distal end of the portal sleeve within the cavity; and automatically extending a safety shield to protrude beyond the sharp tip of the penetrating member and the cavity wall upon positioning of the portal sleeve distal end within the cavity whereby a blunt distal end of the safety shield contacts the layer of tissue and moves the tissue away from the wall maintaining a space between the tissue and the wall.
2. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim
1 and further including biasing the safety shield to normally protrude beyond the sharp tip of the penetrating member and, prior to said step of penetrating, moving the safety shield against the bias to expose the sharp tip of the penetrating member.
3. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim
2 wherein said step of moving includes forcing the safety shield against the cavity wall to overcome the bias with a force from the cavity wall.
4. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim
3 wherein said step of moving includes limiting movement of the safety shield against the bias.
5. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim
4 wherein said step of limiting includes preventing further movement of the safety shield against the bias upon alignment of the safety shield with the distal end of the portal sleeve. 


 6. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 4 wherein said step of limiting includes preventing further movement of the safety shield against the bias upon alignment of the safety shield with a distal end of the penetrating member.
7. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 3 wherein said step of automatically extending includes moving the safety shield toward the normally protruding position with the bias upon removal of the force from the cavity wall.
8. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim
7 wherein the safety shield is disposed within the portal sleeve and includes a lumen receiving the penetrating member and further including, after said step of automatically extending, completely withdrawing the penetrating member from the lumen of the safety shield leaving the distal end of the safety shield within the anatomical cavity.
9. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim
8 and further including, after said step of withdrawing, performing a medical procedure within the anatomical cavity through the lumen of the safety shield.
10. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 9 wherein the distal end of the safety shield has at least one aperture and said step of performing includes introducing fluid in the anatomical cavity through the aperture.
11. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 9 wherein the distal end of the safety shield has at least one aperture and said step of performing includes aspirating fluid from the anatomical cavity through the aperture. 


 12. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 7 wherein the safety shield is disposed between the portal sleeve and the penetrating member and further including, after said step of automatically extending, completely withdrawing the penetrating member and the safety shield from the portal sleeve leaving the distal end of the portal sleeve within the anatomical cavity.
13. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 1 and further including automatically retracting the penetrating member to a safe protected position wherein the sharp tip is not exposed within the anatomical cavity upon positioning of the portal sleeve distal end within the cavity.
14. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 13 wherein said step of automatically retracting includes retracting the sharp tip of the penetrating member within the portal sleeve.
15. A method of maintaining a space as recited in claim 14 wherein said step of automatically retracting includes retracting the penetrating member in response to movement of the safety shield toward the normally protruding position.
16. A method of forming a space between a wall of an anatomical cavity and a layer of tissue within the cavity comprising the steps of penetrating the cavity wall with a sharp tip of a penetrating member disposed within a portal sleeve to position a distal end of the portal sleeve within the cavity; automatically extending a safety shield to an extended position with a distal end of the safety shield protecting the sharp tip of the penetrating member and protruding beyond the distal end of the portal sleeve a distance 


corresponding to a size of a potential space to be formed between the tissue and the cavity wall; and contacting the tissue with the distal end of the safety shield to move the tissue away from the cavity wall to form a space having a size between the tissue and the cavity wall corresponding to the distance.
17. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 16 wherein the safety shield is disposed between the portal sleeve and the penetrating member and is biased to the extended position and further including, prior to said step of penetrating, moving the safety shield to a retracted position against the bias to expose the sharp tip of the penetrating member.
18. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 17 wherein said step of moving includes aligning the distal end of the safety shield with the penetrating member and the portal sleeve to create a substantially smooth profile with the penetrating member and the distal end of the portal sleeve.
19. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 18 wherein the penetrating member includes a trocar having a conical distal end proximally joined to a cylindrical neck at a junction and a conical shoulder proximally joining the neck to a trocar body and the safety shield includes a conical distal end having an angular inner surface segment and a cylindrical inner surface segment extending distally from the angular inner surface segment to a distal peripheral edge and said step of aligning includes positioning the angular inner surface segment to extend along the conical trocar shoulder, the cylindrical inner surface segment to extend along the trocar neck and the distal peripheral edge at the junction. 


 20. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 17 wherein the penetrating member is movable between a retracted position with the sharp tip disposed within the portal sleeve and an operative position with the sharp tip disposed beyond the distal end of the portal sleeve and further including, prior to said penetrating step, setting the penetrating member in the operative position.
21. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 20 wherein the penetrating member is normally biased to the retracted position and said step of setting includes moving the penetrating member to the operative position against the bias and locking the penetrating member in the operative position.
22. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 21 wherein the penetrating member includes a proximal end mounted in a hub and a pin projecting from the penetrating member through a slot in the
^
 hub having a longitudinal slot portion, a distal transverse slot portion and a proximal transverse slot portion with the pin being disposed at a proximal end of the longitudinal slot portion in the retracted position for the penetrating member, and said step of setting and locking includes manually moving the pin distally along the longitudinal slot portion and rotating the pin into the distal transverse slot portion with the penetrating member in the operative position to prevent movement of the penetrating member to the retracted position.
23. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 21 wherein the penetrating member includes a proximal end mounted in a hub having a latch and a pin projecting from the penetrating member proximal end through a slot in the hub having a longitudinal slot portion, a distal transverse slot portion and a proximal transverse slot portion with the pin being disposed at a proximal end of the longitudinal 


slot portion in the retracted position for the penetrating member, and said step of setting and locking incudes manually moving the pin distally along the longitudinal slot portion and automatically engaging the proximal end of the penetrating member with the latch when the penetrating member is in the operative position to prevent movement of the penetrating member to the retracted position.
24. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 23 and further including confirming locking of the penetrating member in the operative position by feel.
25. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 23 and further including aurally confirming locking of the penetrating member in the operative position.
26. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 23 and further including visually confirming locking of the penetrating member in the operative position.
27. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 26 wherein said step of visually confirming includes observing a color change through the hub.
28. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 27 wherein the penetrating member proximal end is made a first predetermined color and further including a tube made a second predetermined color and secured to the hub to extend into the proximal end of the penetrating member with a portion of the hub overlying the tube being transparent and said step of visually confirming includes observing the color of the tube through the hub when the penetrating member is in the operative position.
29. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 23 and further including automatically retracting the 


penetrating member to the retracted position upon positioning of the portal sleeve distal end in the cavity.
30. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 29 wherein said step of automatically retracting includes automatically releasing the penetrating member from the latch allowing the penetrating member to return automatically to the retracted position upon introduction of . the distal end of the portal sleeve into the cavity.
31. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 30 wherein said step of automatically retracting includes, after said contacting step, automatically retracting the safety shield within the portal sleeve.
32. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 30 further including confirming retraction of the penetrating member by feel.
33. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 30 further including aurally confirming retraction of the penetrating member.
34. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 30 further including visually confirming retraction of the penetrating member.
35. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 34 wherein said step of visually confirming includes observing a color change.
36. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 35 wherein the penetrating member proximal end is made a first predetermined color and further including a tube made a second predetermined color and further including a tube secured to the hub to extend into the proximal end of the penetrating member with a portion of the hub overlying the 


tube being transparent and said step of visually confirming includes observing the color of the penetrating member proximal end through the hub when the penetrating member is in the retracted position.
37. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 30 wherein said step of automatically retracting includes retracting the penetrating member in response to extending the safety shield.
38. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 37 and further including controlling the distance that the distal end of the safety shield protrudes beyond the distal end of the portal sleeve prior to retraction of the penetrating member.
39. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 16 further including controlling the amount of extension of the safety shield in accordance with the size of the potential space to be created.
40. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 23 further including, prior to said setting and locking step, locking the penetrating member in the retracted position.
41. A method of forming a space as recited in claim 40 wherein said step of locking the penetrating member in the retracted position includes rotating the pin into the proximal transverse slot portion.
42. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for penetration into an anatomical cavity comprising a portal sleeve having a distal end and a proximal end; a penetrating member slidably disposed in said portal sleeve and having a sharp distal end for penetrating tissue; a safety shield disposed between said portal sleeve and said trocar and having a distal end; 


 retracting means for automatically moving said penetrating member from an operative position wherein said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said portal sleeve distal end to a retracted position wherein said sharp distal end is disposed within said instrument in response to penetration of said portal sleeve distal end into an anatomical cavity; and extending means for automatically extending said safety shield to an extended position wherein said safety shield distal end protrudes beyond said portal sleeve distal end in response to penetration of said portal sleeve distal end into the anatomical cavity.
43. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 42 further including means for releasably locking said penetrating member in said retracted position and allowing said penetrating member to be manually moved to said operative position.
44. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 43 wherein said penetrating member includes a proximal end and further including a hub mounting said proximal end of said penetrating member and said means for releasably locking includes a pin on said penetrating member and a slot in said hub for receiving said pin, said slot having a longitudinal slot portion with a proximal end at which said pin is disposed with the penetrating member in the retracted position and a proximal transverse slot portion into which the pin is movable to lock said penetrating member in the retracted position, said pin being movable from the proximal transverse slot portion distally along the longitudinal slot portion to move said penetrating member to the operative position.
45. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 44 further including means for locking said penetrating member in the operative position. 


 46. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 45 wherein said means for locking includes a distal transverse slot portion of said slot into which the pin can be moved with the penetrating member in the operative position to prevent movement of the penetrating member to the retracted position.
47. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as. recited in claim 42 wherein said means for extending includes means for biasing said safety shield distally.
48. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 47 wherein said safety shield includes a proximal end and further including a hub mounting said proximal end of said safety shield and a flange at said proximal end of said safety shield disposed in said hub and wherein said biasing means includes a spring connected between said flange and said hub.
49. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 48 wherein said retracting means includes means for biasing said penetrating member in a proximal direction.
50. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 49 wherein said penetrating member includes a proximal end and further including a tube secured to said hub and extending into said proximal end of said penetrating member and said means for biasing said penetrating member includes a spring mounted within said penetrating member between said tube and said hub.
51. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 50 wherein said safety shield biasing means is normally in a relaxed, unloaded state with said safety shield in the extended position. 


 52. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 51 wherein said instrument is supplied with said penetrating member in the retracted position and said means for biasing said penetrating member is in a relaxed, unloaded state in the retracted position for the penetrating member.
53. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 42 wherein said penetrating member and said safety shield include proximal ends and further including a hub mounting said proximal ends of said penetrating member and said safety shield and a housing mounting said proximal end of said portal sleeve with said safety shield extending through a passage in said housing and wherein said safety shield and penetrating member are removable from said portal sleeve.
54. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 53 further including a valve assembly mounted in said housing to create a seal with said passage upon removal of said safety shield and penetrating member from said portal sleeve.
55. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 54 wherein said valve assembly includes a one-piece, integral valve mounted in said passage.
56. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 53 further including an insert removably mounted in said hub and coupled with said proximal end of said penetrating member allowing said penetrating member to be withdrawn from said safety shield leaving said safety shield in place within said portal sleeve.
57. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 56 further including a tube extending from said insert into said proximal end of said penetrating 


member and wherein said proximal end of said penetrating member is formed of a first color, said tube is formed of a second color and a portion of said hub overlying tube is transparent with the color of the tube being visible through the transparent portion when the penetrating member is in the operative position and the color of the proximal end of the penetrating member being visible through the transparent portion when the penetrating member is in the retracted position.
58. A retractable safety penetrating instrument for forming a portal communicating with a cavity in the body to allow passage of instruments for performing least invasive medical procedures comprising a portal sleeve for providing a passage through a cavity wall and having a distal end for positioning in the body cavity, a proximal end for positioning externally of the body cavity and a lumen extending between said distal and proximal ends; a penetrating member disposed in said lumen of said portal sleeve and having a sharp distal end for penetrating the cavity wall; retracting means for moving said penetrating member proximally relative to said portal sleeve from an operative position wherein said sharp distal end protrudes beyond said portal sleeve distal end to a retracted position to prevent contact of said sharp distal end with tissue; a safety shield disposed between said portal sleeve and said penetrating member and having a distal end normally protruding distally beyond the distal end of the portal sleeve, said safety shield being movable proximally from the normally protruding position during penetration of the cavity wall and movable distally thereafter toward the normally protruding position; and trigger means for automatically actuating said retracting means to move said penetrating member to the retracted position in response to distal movement of said 


safety shield upon said portal sleeve distal end entering the body cavity.
59. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 58 wherein said trigger means includes means for controlling the distance that said safety shield distal end protrudes beyond said distal end of said portal sleeve prior to retraction of said penetrating member.
60. A retractable safety penetrating instrument as recited in claim 58 wherein said retracting means includes means for moving said safety shield to a retracted position within said portal sleeve simultaneously with retraction of said penetrating member. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
