<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617786</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HAND HELD GRENADE LAUNCHER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F41C2700	F41C2706	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F41C	F41C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F41C27	F41C27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An adapter (14) for use with a rifle mountable grenade launcher unit (12) to form a stand alone hand held grenade launcher. The adapter (14) includes a rod (22, 24) to be inserted into a rifle barrel receiving hole (58) of grenade launcher unit and a recoil surface (52) that can be located, at least partially, behind the barrel bore of the grenade launcher unit (12). The recoil surface intersects the center axis of the grenade launcher unit barrel bore such that recoil after firing can be absorbed in line with the barrel bore to thereby minimize muzzle climb.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COLTS MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COLTS MFG CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMERA DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIDDISH RONALD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOKOL WILLIAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CAMERA DAVID M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GIDDISH RONALD E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SOKOL WILLIAM M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 HAND HELD GRENADE LAUNCHERBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION1. Field of the Invention10The present invention relates to grenade launchers and, mo particularly, to a system and method to convert a rif mountable grenade launcher into a hand held stand alo grenade launcher.152. Prior ArtThe M79 grenade launcher rifle was the first weapon to co into service which was specifically designed to fire sp20 stabilized grenades (40mm). Soon after, in 1969, the M2 grenade launcher was adopted as the successor to the M7 This design utilized the capabilities of the M79 in a compa unit that attached under the grip area of the M16 servi rifle. The M203 has been generally replacing the M79 on a o25 for one basis. However, there is still a current need for stand alone grenade launcher rifle. As time goes by, locati replacement parts for the M79 is becoming exceeding difficult. Because of this, long term service life of t current inventory of the M79 grenade launchers cannot30 guaranteed.U.S. Patent 3,279,114 to Lewis et al. discloses a grena~» launcher that is mountable to the underside of a rifle at i barrel. The launcher has a rear mount of generally U-shap cross-section with an open top slot. U.S. Patent 3,507,067 t Into discloses a similar rifle mounted grenade launcher 

 Another rifle mountable grenade launcher, the M203, is als known in the prior art. Hand held stand alone grenad launchers are also known in the prior art including the M7 grenade launcher. Steyr Defence Products of Austria sell M203 type grenade launchers having a folding stock pistol uni without a rifle. U.S. Patent 4,733,489 to Kurak discloses method and apparatus for reconfiguring an automatic rifle fo quick attachment and detachment of a grenade launcher.The present invention is in regard to an adapter system tha when attached to an unmodified M203 launcher converts it int a stand alone shoulder fired or hand held pistol fired grenad launcher. It is an objective of the present invention t provide a new and improved attachment for a rifle mountabl grenade launcher unit to use the grenade launcher unit as hand held stand alone grenade launcher.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe foregoing problems are overcome and other advantages are provided by a new and improved system and method to convert a rifle mountable grenade launcher into a hand held stand alone grenade launcher.In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a grenade launcher is provided comprising a receiver adapter, a launcher unit, and means for fixedly attaching the launcher unit
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A grenade launcher comprising:
a receiver adapter having a recoil surface and a aperture for receiving an adapter rod;
a launcher unit having a frame, a trigger assembl and a barrel, a portion of the frame being locate adjacent the recoil surface of the receiver adapter and
means for fixedly attaching the launcher unit to th receiver adapter comprising an adapter rod locate in both the receiver adapter aperture and a portio of the launcher unit frame.
2. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein th receiver adapter includes means for attaching a buttstoc thereto.
3. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein th receiver adapter includes means for attaching a pistol gri thereto.
4. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 furthe comprising means for fixedly connecting the adapter rod to th receiver adapter.
5. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein th means for fixedly attaching the launcher unit to the receiver adapter includes a locking screw positioned in a locking screw 


hole of the adapter rod and extending into a portion of t launcher unit frame.
6. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein t launcher unit further includes handguards having a sig assembly connected thereto.
7. A grenade launcher as in Claim 6 furth comprising a handguard rod connected to the adapter rod retain the handguards with the receiver adapter.
8. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein t receiver adapter includes a trigger guard slot for receiving rear end of a trigger guard of the launcher unit.
9. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein t recoil surface is located below the adapter rod and the barr has a center axis that intersects the recoil surface.
10. A system for converting a rifle mountab grenade launcher unit into a stand alone grenade launch comprising:
a receiver adapter having a recoil surface;
an adapter rod extending from the receiver adapte and
a locking screw positionable, at least partially, a locking screw hole in the adapter rod, spaced fr the receiver adapter, whereby the adapter rod can placed into a portion of the grenade launcher un and the locking screw attached to the rod sandwich a portion of the grenade launcher un between the receiver adapter and the locking screw. 


 11. A system as in Claim 10 further comprising pistol grip attached to the receiver adapter.
12. A system as in Claim 10 further comprising buttstock attached to the receiver adapter.
13. A system as in Claim 10 further comprisin handguards with a sight assembly and means for fixedl attaching the handguards to the receiver adapter and adapte rod.
14. A system as in Claim 10 wherein the adapter ro is integrally formed with the receiver adapter.
15. A system as in Claim 10 wherein the adapter ro is fixedly attached to the receiver adapter.
16. A system as in Claim 10 wherein the recoi surface is located below the adapter rod and is adapted t have a center axis of a barrel bore of the grenade launche unit aligned therewith when the unit is connected to th receiver adapter.
17. A method of assembling a grenade launche comprising:
providing a grenade launcher unit having a frame, barrel, and a firing mechanism, the frame having mounting hole adapted to mount the frame to a barrel of a rifle;
inserting a rod section of an adapter into the mounting hole of the grenade launcher unit, the rod section having an aperture therein; and 


 inserting a fastening member into the rod sectio aperture to fixedly mount the grenade launcher uni with the adapter.
18. A method as in Claim 17 further comprisin inserting an adapter rod into a receiving aperture in th adapter and fixedly connecting the adapter rod with th adapter such that a portion of the adapter rod extends out o the receiving aperture to form the rod section.
19. A method as in Claim 17 further comprisin positioning a recoil surface of the adapter adjacent a rea surface of the frame of the grenade launcher unit, the recoi surface intersecting a center axis of a bore of the barrel.
20. A method as in Claim 17 further comprisin connecting handguards to the adapter and rod section includin attaching a handguard rod to a front of the rod section and front of the handguards. 

AMENDED CLAIMS
[received by the International Bureau on 12 February 1993 (12.02.93); original claims 3,7,11-16 cancelled; new claims 10 and 11 added; claims 1,5 and 6 amended and renumbered as claims 1,4 and 5 other claims unchanged (4 pages)]
1. A grenade launcher comprising:
a receiver adapter having a front recoil surface, an aperture located above the recoil surface, and means for connecting a pistol grip to the receiver adapter;
a launcher unit having a frame, a trigger assembly and a barrel, a portion of the frame being located adjacent the recoil surface of the receiver adapter and in front of the aperture;
means for fixedly attaching the launcher unit to the receiver adapter comprising an adapter rod located in both the aperture of the receiver adapter and the portion of the launcher unit frame; and
a handguard connected to the adapter rod by a handguard rod to retain the handguard with the receiver adapter.
2. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein the receiver adapter includes means for attaching a buttstock thereto.
3. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 further comprising means for fixedly connecting the adapter rod to the receiver adapter.
4. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein the means for fixedly attaching the launcher unit to the receiver adapter further includes a locking screw positioned in a locking screw hole of the adapter rod and extending into a portion of the launcher unit 


frame .
5. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein the handguard ha a sight assembly connected thereto.
6. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein the receive adapter includes a trigger guard slot for receiving a rear end of a trigger guard of the launcher unit.
7. A grenade launcher as in Claim 1 wherein the recoil surface is located below the adapter rod and the barrel has a center axis that intersects the recoil surface.
8. A system for converting a rifle mountable grenade launcher unit into a stand alone grenade launcher comprising:
a receiver adapter having a recoil surface;
an adapter rod extending from the receiver adapter; and
a locking member positionable, at least partially, in a locking hole in the adapter rod, spaced from the receiver adapter, whereby the adapter rod can be placed into a portion of the grenade launcher unit and the locking member attached to the rod to sandwich a portion of the grenade launcher unit between the receiver adapter and the locking member.
9. A method of assembling a grenade launcher comprising:
providing a grenade launcher unit having a frame, a barrel, and a firing mechanism, the frame having a mounting hole adapted to mount the frame to a barrel of a rifle; 


 inserting a rod section of an adapter into the mounting hol of the grenade launcher unit, the rod section having a aperture therein; and
inserting a f stening member into the rod section aperture an behind a section of the launcher unit frame to fixedly moun the grenade launcher unit with the adapter.
10. A grenade launcher comprising:
a buttstock;
a receiver adapter connected to the buttstock, the receiver adapter having a front recoil surface and a front aperture located above the recoil surface;
an adapter rod positioned in and extending from the aperture;
a launcher unit located adjacent the front recoil surface, the adapter rod extending into a portion of the launcher unit; and
means for stationarily connecting the launcher unit to the receiver adapter comprising a locking screw that extends through the adapter rod to a position behind a portion of the launcher unit.
11. A grenade launcher comprising:
a pistol grip; 


a receiver adapter connected to the pistol grip, th receiver adapter having a front recoil surface and a ro section extending in a forward direction above the recoi surface;
a launcher unit having a frame, a trigger assembly and barrel, a portion of the frame being located adjacent th front recoil surface and the rod section extending into a portion of the frame; and
means for fixedly connecting the launcher unit to the receiver adapter comprising a locking member that extends from the adapter rod to a position behind a portion of the launcher unit. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
