<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642037</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for producing and utilizing flashes of light which simulate scintillation events.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01D1800	G01D1800	G01T100	G01T1164	G01T1208	G01T140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01D	G01D	G01T	G01T	G01T	G01T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01D18	G01D18	G01T1	G01T1	G01T1	G01T1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Light emitting diodes (22) (LEDs) at fixed locations are 
placed at the entrance face (4) of the scintillator (6) within 

the detector head of a scintillation camera system. By 
energizing the LEDs (22), surrogate scintillation events may 

be generated and processed by the scintillation camera 
system. Information thus acquired can be used to 

maintain the photodetectors in a well-tuned state, to 
identify baseline shifts in the preamplifier channels and 

to determine system deadtime. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SIEMENS MEDICAL SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEVITO RAYMOND P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSYK DENNIS E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DEVITO, RAYMOND P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PERSYK, DENNIS E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to scintillation detectors 
such as are used in a wide variety of applications (e.g. 
high energy physics, liquid scintillation counters, 
scintillation camera systems). More particularly, the 
invention relates to scintillation camera systems which 
are used to form nuclear medicine images. In its most 
immediate sense, the invention relates to the detectors 
which acquire the data used to form nuclear medicine 
images. In nuclear medicine, a radioisotope is administered 
to a patient and the radioisotope is taken up by an organ 
of interest (e.g. the heart or the brain). As the 
radioisotope decays, gamma rays are emitted from the 
patient, collimated by a collimator, and directed to a 
scintillator (usually a scintillation crystal of 
NaI(Tl)). The gamma rays interact with the scintillation 
crystal to form minute flashes of scintillation light 
("scintillation events"). Photomultiplier tubes are 
arranged to detect these scintillation events and to 
convert them to electrical signals. These signals are 
then used to reconstruct an image of the patient. Photomultiplier tubes are not stable; the gains of 
such tubes change as the tubes age and in accordance with 
the conditions under which the tubes are operated. It 
has long been recognized that the performance of 
scintillation camera systems can be improved by 
controlling the gains of the photomultiplier tubes. U.S. 
Patent No. 4,583,187 discloses a system which does this; 
the system is marketed under the DIGITRAC trademark by 
Siemens Gammasonics, Inc., assignee of the present 
application. Even though the DIGITRAC system is highly accurate 
and successful at controlling the photomultiplier tube  
 
gain over the long term, short term variations in the 
performance of the photomultiplier tubes in a 
conventional scintillation camera system cause the system 
to be in a detuned state at any particular time. The 
camera must consequently be periodically retuned. This 
takes time, requires the services of technical personnel 
and makes the system unavailable for clinical use. It 
would therefore be advantageous to provide a system which 
could maintain a properly-tuned state of a scintillation 
camera detector. One object of the present invention is to provide 
apparatus which can be used to monitor the performance of 
a system which utilizes a scintillator as a radiation 
detector. Another object is to provide a system which 
will maintain a scintillation camera system in a well-tuned 
state. Still a further object is, in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A scintillation camera detector, comprising: 
   a scintillator with an entrance face and an exit 

face; 
   a plurality of photodetectors placed adjacent said 

exit face and being optically coupled to the 
scintillator; and 

   a plurality of light-emitting devices, each being in 
operative optical relationship with more than one of said 

photodetectors. 
The scintillation camera detector of claim 1, 
wherein said light-emitting devices are placed adjacent 

said entrance face. 
The scintillation camera detector of claim 1, 
wherein said light-emitting devices are GaP LEDs. 
The scintillation camera detector of claim 1, 
wherein said light-emitting devices are GaAsP LEDs. 
The scintillation camera detector of claim 1, 
wherein said light-emitting devices are mounted upon a 

printed circuit board, and wherein said scintillator and 
said printed circuit board are contained within a sealed 

container. 
A scintillation camera system, comprising: 
   a scintillator with an entrance face and an exit 

face; 
   a plurality of photodetectors placed adjacent said 

exit face and being optically coupled to the 
scintillator, each of said photodetectors producing an 

output signal; 
   means for processing said output signals; 

   means, connected to said processing means, for 
displaying an image; and

 
   a plurality of light-emitting devices, each light-emitting 

device being placed at said entrance face and 
being in operative optical relationship with more than 

one of said photodetectors. 
A scintillation camera system having an array of 
gain-controlled photomultipliers, comprising: 

   a collimator for collimating gamma radiation and 
directing it to an entrance face of a scintillator; 

   a scintillator for converting incident gamma 
radiation into scintillation events, said scintillator 

having an entrance face and an exit face; 
   an array of photomultipliers being placed at said 

exit face and being optically coupled to the 
scintillator, each of the photomultipliers having an 

output and an adjustable gain; 
   an array of light-emitting diodes, each light-emitting 

diode being at a fixed location adjacent said 
entrance face; 

   means for energizing at least some of the light-emitting 
diodes in said array thereof; 

   means for calculating, from signals at the outputs 
of the photomultipliers in said array thereof, positions 

of the light-emitting diodes; 
   means for determining, from positions calculated by 

said calculating means, a map of system gain errors; 
   means for deconvolving said map of system gain 

errors to derive therefrom a set of photomultiplier gains 
which will, within a predetermined tolerance, correct for 

said map of system gain errors; and 
   means for adjusting the gains of the 

photomultipliers in said array thereof in such a manner 
as to cause said gains to be equal to the gains in said 

derived set of photomultiplier gains. 
A scintillation camera system having an array of 
gain-controlled photomultipliers, comprising:

 
   a collimator for collimating gamma radiation and 

directing it to an entrance face of a scintillator; 
   a scintillator for converting incident gamma 

radiation into scintillation events, said scintillator 
having an entrance face and an exit face; 

   an array of photomultipliers being placed at said 
exit face and being optically coupled to the 

scintillator, each of the photomultipliers having an 
output and a known adjustable gain; 

   an array of preamplifier channels, each connected to 
at least one of the photomultipliers and having an output 

and an adjustable baseline; 
   an array of light-emitting diodes, each light-emitting 

diode being at a fixed location adjacent said 
entrance face; 

   means for energizing the light-emitting diodes in 
said array thereof, said means for energizing operating 

to energize at least some of said light-emitting diodes 
at at least two energies; 

   means for calculating, from signals at the outputs 
of the preamplifier channels, a map of shifts in said 

gains and said baselines; 
   means for deconvolving said map of baseline and gain 

shifts to derive therefrom a set of photomultiplier gains 
which will, within a predetermined tolerance, correct for 

said map of gain and baseline shifts; and 
   means for varying the gains of the photomultipliers 

in said array thereof in such a manner as to cause said 
gains to be equal to the gains in said derived set of 

photomultiplier gains. 
A system for measuring system deadtime of a 
scintillation camera system during acquisition of nuclear 

medicine data, comprising: 
   a collimator for collimating gamma radiation and 

directing it to an entrance face of a scintillator;
 

   a scintillator for converting incident gamma 
radiation into scintillation events, said scintillator 

having an entrance face and an exit face; 
   an array of photomultipliers being placed at said 

exit face and being optically coupled to the 
scintillator, each of the photomultipliers having an 

output and an adjustable gain; 
   an array of light-emitting diodes adjacent said 

entrance face; 
   means for energizing at least some of the light-emitting 

diodes in said array thereof at a known light 
output and a known rate to generate LED events; 

   means for forming, from signals at the outputs of 
the photomultipliers in said array thereof, a nuclear 

medicine image; and 
   means for comparing a number of LED events included 

in a nuclear medicine image to a number of LED events 
generated for said image. 
A method for determining the state of a 
scintillation camera detector, comprising the step of 

generating at least one surrogate scintillation event 
using at least one light-emitting element which is 

located adjacent an entrance face of a scintillator 
within said detector. 
The method of claim 10, wherein said generating step 
includes the step of energizing said at least one light-emitting 

element at at least two different energies. 
A method for measuring the system deadtime of a 
scintillation camera system, comprising the following 

steps: 
   generating, during an acquisition of an image, a 

plurality of identifiable events by energizing a light-emitting 
element which is located adjacent an entrance 

face of a scintillator within said detector head; and
 

   counting the number of such identifiable events 
which are contained within said image during acquisition 

thereof. 
In combination: 
   at least one light emitter; and 

   a scintillator having an entrance face, 
said at least one light emitter being in optical 

communication with said entrance face of said 
scintillator. 
A system in which a scintillator is used as a 

radiation detector, comprising: 
   a scintillator having an entrance face and an exit 

face; 
   at least one light emitter being in optical 

communication with the entrance face of the scintillator; 
   at least one photodetector being optically coupled 

to the exit face of the scintillator; and 
   electronic circuit means connected to each of said 

at least one photodetectors. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
