<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641247</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
HOLLOW FIBER FILTER CARTRIDGE AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D6500	B01D6500	B01D6302	B01D6304	B01D6304	B01D6302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	B01D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D65	B01D65	B01D63	B01D63	B01D63	B01D63	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A unique hollow fiber filter cartridge (10) that allows repeated autoclaving without any deleterious breaks in sealing integrity between the potted fiber bundle (30) and the filter module is disclosed. The unique filter cartridge (10) broadly includes a casing (50) that has at least one open end with an inner lip (55a) in the casing (50) proximal to the open end; and a porous collar (60) that has first and second peripheral edges, at least one of which is coupled to the casing (50) along the inner ledge. A method of sealingly coupling a hollow fiber bundle (30) having first and second ends (31a, 31b) to a casing (50) for encasing said bundle of hollow fibers is also disclosed. The method broadly includes coupling an outer peripheral edge of a porous collar (60) to a hollow fiber filter casing, wherein the casing (50) has at least one open end with an inner lip (55a) proximal to the open end and wherein the outer peripheral edge of the porous collar (60) is coupled along the inner lip (55a); retaining the bundle of hollow fibers within a chamber defined by the casing (50); fluid impermeably potting the open end of the hollow fiber bundle (30) with a fluid impermeable material; and joining the porous collar (60) to the fluid impermeable material by penetration of the material into the porous collar (60). The method provides a fluid impermeable seal between the casing (50) and the individual unpotted hollow fibers. The seal prevents the unfiltered fluid from coming into contact with filtrate and provides a strong bond that is impervious to dry heat and steam sterilization at temperatures ranging from 100  DEG C to 150  DEG C and pressures from 10 psi to 60 psi.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNTECH CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNTECH CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINDA PAUL D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSENTINO LOUIS C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRINDA, PAUL D.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COSENTINO, LOUIS C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates broadly to the manufacture of 
filtering apparatus. In particular, it relates to a unique 
method of sealingly coupling the end of a potted hollow fiber 
filter bundle to a module casing and the unique collar device 
used in conjunction therewith. Hollow fiber filter modules are known in the art. 
Typically, a hollow fiber filter module is comprised of a 
plurality of porous elongated hollow fibers having an inner 
diameter of about 100µm to 1000µm packed at a specific density 
within a casing. Conventional hollow fiber permeability 
apparatus are used extensively in the medical field, for example 
in hemodialysis and in artificial lungs. Hollow fiber membrane 
filters are also extensively used in the purification and 
desalination of water commonly known as reverse osmosis 
filtering apparatus. Porous, hollow fibers are used in a wide variety of 
permeability and filter applications because of a basic 
advantage over flat membranes. Available surface area is 
increased by choosing porous, hollow fibers thereby reducing 
space requirements for permeability apparatus. The hollow fiber 
membrane filters, therefore, provide effective filtration of a 
large variety of different fluids at an elevated flow rate 
because of the high density of surface area available for 
filtration. The generally accepted method of manufacturing hollow 
fiber filter modules is to retain a rectilinear bundle of hollow 
fibers within a casing, immerse the longitudinal distal ends of 
the hollow fiber bundle in a potting compound which will adhere, 
at least temporarily, to the casing. The potting compound abuts 
the inner surface of the casing and occupies the interstitial 
void between the individual fibers thus preventing contaminated 
liquid from coming into contact with the filtrate. Depending on 
the application, a cross-sectional portion of the potting  
 
compound from one or both longitudinal ends of the potted 
fiber bundle is removed thus providing access to the lumen 
of the individual hollow fibers. A difficulty commonly encountered in the construction 
of the hollow fiber filter modules is the frequent failure 
of the potting compound to sealingly bond to the casing 
and in particular the frequent loss of sealing engagement 
between the potting compound and the casing after 
autoclaving of the hollow fiber filter module. This 
results in the leakage of contaminated fluid into the 
filtrate. Thus, once or twice autoclaved the module must 
be discarded. This practice is costly to industries that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus comprising: 

a) a casing, defining an interior chamber for 
encasing a bundle of hollow fibers, said casing having at 

least one open end with an inner, lateral, annular lip in 
said casing proximal to said open end; and 
b) a porous collar having first and second 
peripheral edges, one of which is sealingly coupled to 

said casing along said inner lip, the collar having a pore 
size distribution of from about 5µm to about 500µm. 
The apparatus according to Claim 1 including a bundle 
of hollow fibers within said casing, said bundle of fibers 

having at least one open end. 
The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein at least 
one of said ends of said bundle of fibers is disposed 

rigidly within a potting plug of fluid impermeable 
material. 
The apparatus according to Claim 3 wherein said fluid 
impermeable material of said potting plug and said porous 

collar are joined through penetration of said material 
into said porous collar. 
An apparatus according to Claim 1 further comprising: 

a) at least one potting plug comprising a fluid 
impermeable material; and 
b) a bundle of rectilinear hollow fibers disposed 
within said interior chamber of said casing, said bundle 

having first and second open ends, at least one of said 
open ends rigidly disposed within said plug;
  
 

   wherein said fluid impermeable material of said 
potting plug and said porous collar are joined by 

penetration of said fluid impermeable material into said 
porous collar. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 3 to 5 
wherein said fluid impermeable material is selected from 

the group consisting of urethane, epoxy, unsaturated 
polyesters, silicone and combinations thereof. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 3 to 5 
wherein said fluid impermeable material comprises 

urethane. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 2 to 5 
wherein said hollow fiber bundle has an external surface 

area of substantially 1 ft.
2
 (930cm
2
) to substantially 
40ft.
2
 (37160cm
2
). 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 5 
wherein said casing for encasing said bundle of hollow 

fibers has a volume of substantially 5 in .
3
 (80cm
3
) to 
substantially 2000 in.
3
 (32780cm
3
). 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 5 
wherein said casing is formed from a fluid permeable 

material. 
The apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein said 
casing is formed from a material selected from the group 

consisting of polyolefin, porous polypropylene, porous 
polycarbonate and combinations thereof.  

 
The apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein said 
casing is formed from a material comprising polyolefin. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 5 
wherein said casing is formed from a fluid impermeable 

material. 
An apparatus according to Claim 13 wherein said 

casing has at least one port which provides inlet ingress 
to an interior chamber. 
The apparatus according to Claim 13 or 14 wherein 
said casing is formed from a material selected from the 

group consisting of polyethylene, polycarbonate, 
polyvinylchloride, polyethyleneterepthalate, stainless 

steel, aluminium, copper, zinc, glass and combinations 
thereof. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 5 or 10 
to 15 wherein said casing has a plurality of surface 

perforations. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 5 
wherein said porous collar is formed from a material 

selected from a group consisting of polyolefin, 
polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinylchloride and 

combinations thereof. 
The apparatus according to any of Claims 1 to 5 
wherein said porous collar is formed from a material 

comprising polyolefin.  
 
A hollow fiber filter module assembly comprising 
filter modules connected in series, each of said modules 

comprising: 

a) a casing defining an interior chamber for 
encasing a bundle of hollow fibers, said casing having 

first and second open ends with at least one inner, 
lateral, annular lip in said casing proximal to at least 

one of said open ends; 
b) at least one porous collar having first and 
second peripheral edges one of which is sealingly coupled 

to said casing along said inner lip, the collar having a 
pore size distribution of from about 5µm to about 500µm; 
c) at least one potting plug comprising a fluid 
impermeable material; 
d) a bundle of hollow fibers disposed within said 
interior chamber, said bundle having first and second open 

ends, at least one of said ends rigidly disposed within 
said plug; 
e) a central tube defining a filtrate conduit 
disposed within said bundle of hollow fibers, said conduit 

having first and second open ends; 
f) a porous ring sealingly coupled to each of said 
open ends of said filtrate conduit; 
g) a union adaptor defining an interior fluid 
collection chamber, said adaptor adapted for connection to 

said open end of said casing wherein said filtrate conduit 
of each said module is in fluid communication with said 

interior fluid collection chamber of said union adaptors 
of other said modules connected in a series;
 
   wherein said fluid impermeable material of said 

potting plug, said porous collar and said porous ring are 
joined by penetration of said fluid impermeable material 

into said porous collar. 
The apparatus according to Claim 19 wherein said 
union adaptor is adapted as a fluid collection chamber 

having a first open end and a second closed end, said 
first open end sealingly attached to said second open end 

of said casing and said second end enclosing said end of 
said hollow fiber bundle. 
A tube defining a filtrate conduit for channelling 
filtrate comprising: 


a) a tube defining a filtrate conduit, said tube 
having first and second open ends; and at each open end 
b) a porous ring having first and second edges, 
one of which edges is sealingly coupled to said tube. 
An apparatus according to Claim 1 further comprising: 

a) a bundle of hollow fibers having first and 
second open ends, said bundle disposed in said interior 

chamber; 
b) at least one potting plug comprising a fluid 
impermeable material; 
c) a filtrate conduit having first and second open 
ends, said filtrate conduit having a porous ring sealingly 

coupled to each of said open ends, said conduit 
longitudinally disposed in said hollow fiber bundle; and 
d) at least one of said ends of said hollow fiber 
bundle fluid-impermeably disposed within said fluid 

impermeable material wherein said porous collar and said 
porous ring are joined to said potting plug by penetration 

of said fluid impermeable material into said porous collar 
and said porous ring. 
A method of attaching a porous collar having first 
and second peripheral edges and a pore size distribution  

 
of from about 5µm to about 500µm to the casing for 

encasing a bundle of hollow fibers, the casing having at 
least one open end with an inner, lateral, annular lip, 

comprising the step of: 

sealingly coupling an outer peripheral edge of said 
porous collar to the casing along said inner lip of said 

casing. 
A method of coupling a hollow fiber bundle having 
first and second ends to a casing defining an interior 

chamber for encasing a bundle of hollow fibers comprising 
the steps of: 


a) sealingly coupling a peripheral edge of a 
porous collar to said casing, said collar having a pore 

size distribution of from about 5µm to about 500µm, and 
said casing having at least one open end with an inner, 

lateral, annular lip proximal to said open end, wherein 
said outer peripheral edge of said porous collar is 

coupled along said inner lip; 
b) retaining said bundle of hollow fibers within a 
chamber defined by said casing; 
c) fluid impermeably potting at least one of said 
open ends of said hollow fiber bundle with a fluid 

impermeable material; 
d) joining said porous collar to said fluid 
impermeable material by penetration of said material into 

said porous collar; and 
e) cutting said end of said potted hollow fiber 
bundle to permit access to the lumen of the hollow fibers. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
