<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654217</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
A device for destroying insects
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01M110	A01M100	A01M112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01M	A01M	A01M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01M1	A01M1	A01M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A device (10) for destroying insects by mechanical impact 
comprises a housing (14) provided with a base member (16); a curved 

wall (18); a first segment (22) of the base member being at least 
partially open and exposed to an area from which flies and 

other insects are to be attracted, and an aperture (36) provided 
in the housing through which impacted insects are removed 

therefrom; a lure (39) for attracting insects associated with the 
first segment of the base member and a leaf spring (26) having a 

first extremity (28) which is attached near the centre of 
curvature of the curved wall, the spring being substantially 

straight at its second extremity (32), the second spring 
extremity being close to the inner surface of the curved 

wall. The device also includes means (30,34) for bend-loading the 
leaf spring and for suddenly releasing the second extremity, 

thereby causing the leaf spring to traverse the first 
segment at high velocity and to impact any insects present 

within the housing segment. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAZAN HAIM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HAZAN, HAIM
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAZAN HAIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HAZAN, HAIM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a device for destroying 
insects such as flies and cockroaches. More particularly, the invention provides a power-operated 
device for killing insects by attracting them into 
a housing and then impacting said insects by contact with a 
suddenly-released leaf spring, which device is usable in 
homes, gardens, and other enclosed or open areas, as well as 
in barns or chicken coops where insects are known to 
congregate. Insects, besides being a nuisance to both humans and 
animals, are a well-recognized health hazard, and should be 
kept away from areas where food is prepared or consumed. 
Also, those insects which sting humans and animals often 
spread diseases thereby, thus providing sufficient reason 
for attempts to eliminate them apart from the natural 
aversion of people to being stung. Many different types of devices have been developed to 
deter insects from entering an area, to trap them, or to 
kill those contacting the device. Each device has 
advantages and disadvantages. Many such devices can be 
dangerous to children and/or household pets, and must be 
kept out of their reach. Obviously, devices using high-voltage 
electricity must be well-protected from human or 
animal contact. Some devices spray or otherwise disperse 
insecticides into the air, which is then inhaled by people. 
Such air contamination is suspected of posing a health 
hazard; moreover, there is an absence of tests proving long-term 
exposure as harmless.  
 One consideration in the design of insect-combatting 
devices is whether the device is to be operated indoors or 
outdoors; many devices are suitable for only one of these 
uses. A further consideration is whether the device can 
operate without an electricity supply, and whether it 
requires frequent servicing or replacement. A known device, which emits ultrasonic sound waves, is 
claimed to deter both rodents and some insects, such as 
mosquitoes. This device deters the approach of either type 
of pest, but does not kill them. It has the advantages of 
not posing any health hazard, as far as is presently known. Israel Patent No. 50705 describes an insect-combatting 
device having a body provided with a porous surface, which 
releases naled insecticide over a prolonged period of time. 
Such a device may pose a health hazard if placed in 
residences. Israel Patent No. 82848 describes a method of killing 
flies by means of lures, which also includes the use of an 
insecticide. Israel Patent No. 94927 describes a device for 
destroying
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A device for destroying insects by mechanical impact, 
comprising: 


a housing (14) provided with a base member (16), a curved wall (18), a 
first segment (22) of said base member being at least partially 

open and exposed to an area from which flies and other 
insects are to be attracted, and an aperture (36) provided in 

said housing through which impacted insects are removed 
therefrom; 
a lure (39) for attracting insects associated with said 
first segment of said base member; a leaf spring (26) having a 

first extremity (28) which is attached near the centre of 
curvature of said curved wall, said spring being 

substantially straight at its second extremity (32), the second 
spring extremity being close to the inner surface of said 

curved wall; and 
means (30,34) for bend-loading said leaf spring and for 
suddenly releasing said second extremity, thereby causing 

said leaf spring to traverse said first segment at high 
velocity and to impact any insects present within said 

housing segment. 
A device for destroying insects by mechanical impact, 
comprising: 


a housing (14) provided with a base member (16), a curved wall (18), a 
first segment (22) of said base member being at least partially 

open and exposed to an area from which flies and other 
insects are to be attracted, and an aperture (36) provided in 

said housing through which impacted insects are removed 
therefrom;  

 
a lure (39) for attracting insects associated with said 
first segment of said base member; 
a leaf spring (26) coiled at a first extremity (28) which is 
attached to a revolvably driven shaft (30) positioned near the 

centre of curvature of said curved wall, said spring being 
substantially straight at its second extremity, said second 

spring extremity being close to the inner surface of said 
curved wall; 
at least one stop means (34) rigidly attached to the housing 
near said curved wall, configured to intermittently contact 

said spring adjacent to said second extremity so that 
continued drive of said shaft causes bending of said leaf 

spring and a consequent shortening of the distance between 
the two spring extremities, further drive of the shaft 

causing the second extremity to be suddenly released by the 
stop means, causing the leaf spring to traverse the first 

segment at high velocity, to impact any insects present 
within the housing; 
further movement of said spring causing the impacted 
insects to be driven to the aperture of the housing and to 

pass therethrough, and still further drive of the spring 
bringing it into renewed contact with the stop means. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein said curved wall is further provided with a 

retention lip (20), configured to improve retention of insects 
inside said housing during impact. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 2, 
further provided with a reservoir (50) of liquid (52) arranged to 

receive impacted insects after they pass through said 
aperture.  

 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 2, 
further provided with a perforated shield (24) protecting said 

first segment, to prevent entry of a limb of a person or of 
an animal. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 2, 
further provided with a cover extending over part of the 

area traversed by said leaf spring. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein said lure comprises materials emitting an odour 

attractive to insects. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein said lure comprises an ultra-violet light bulb. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 2, 
wherein said shaft is driven by a geared electric motor. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 9, 
wherein said motor is powered by an electric storage 

battery. 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 9, 
wherein said motor is powered by a solar cell.  

 
A device for destroying insects as claimed in claim 9, 
wherein said motor is powered by a wind turbine. 
A device for destroying insects by mechanical impact, 
comprising: 


a housing (14) provided with a base member (16), a curved wall (18), a 
first segment (22) of said base member being at least partially 

open and exposed to an area from which flies and other 
insects are to be attracted, and an aperture (36) provided in 

said housing through which impacted insects are removed 
therefrom; 
a lure (39) for attracting insects associated with said 
first segment of said base member; 
a leaf spring (26) having a first extremity (28) which is rigidly 
attached near the centre of curvature of said curved wall, 

said spring being substantially straight in its unloaded 
state, the second spring extremity (32) being close to the inner 

surface of said curved wall; 
spaced-apart first and second electro-magnets (96,98) 
positioned adjacent to said curved wall, said first magnet 

being opposite a first side of said spring for bend-loading 
said leaf spring towards said first electro-magnet, 

subsequent sudden release of said second extremity causing 
said leaf spring to traverse said first segment at high 

velocity, to impact any insects present within said housing 
segment, and by kinetic energy to then enter the magnetic 

field of said second electro-magnet for attachment thereto 
in bend-loaded condition; and 
a control and timing device, electrically connected to 
said electro-magnets, for alternately charging and 

discharging said magnets, a time interval of at least 
2 minutes occurring between charge changeover of said 

magnets. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
