<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629477</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Filter arrangement
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B28B306	B28B746	B30B902	B28B304	B28B740	B30B904	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B28B	B28B	B30B	B28B	B28B	B30B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B28B3	B28B7	B30B9	B28B3	B28B7	B30B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A filter arrangement for a machine for manufacturing 
concrete slabs, said machine comprising a plurality of 

mould frames (4); lower and upper press plates (6, 17) 
which cooperate with the mould frames (4) to form mould 

cavities (9) for concrete compound that contains a 
surplus of water; and channel systems (20, 21, 22, 23) 

connecting the mould cavities (9) to a vacuum source for 
evacuation of said excess, said filter arrangement 

including a filter cloth (25) of a plastic material for 
abutment against the side of a press plate (6, 17) facing 

the mould cavity (9). According to the invention the 
filter arrangement also includes a frame (26) of a 

flexible plastic material for sealing cooperation with 
the mould frame and having a rear portion (27) forming an 

attachment means for cooperation with an attachment means 
(35) of the press plate (6, 17) for attachment of the 

filter arrangement to the press plate. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACHINATOR AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACHINATOR AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONNEVIER ROINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BONNEVIER, ROINE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a filter arrangement for 
a machine for manufacturing concrete slabs, said machine 
comprising a plurality of horizontal mould frames; lower 
and upper horizontal press plates arranged to cooperate 
with the mould frames to form closed mould cavities for 
concrete compound that contains a surplus of water; and 
channel systems connecting the mould cavities to a vacuum 
source for evacuation of said excess water liberated 
during a pressing step, and said filter arrangement 
including a filter cloth of a plastic material for 
abutment against the side of the press plate 
facing the mould cavity. When compression moulding wet concrete in the manufacture 
of concrete slabs filters are used, usually of paper in 
sheet form, for filtering the water liberated from the 
wet concrete at the pressing step. A machine for 
manufacturing concrete slabs in this way is described in 
DE-A-3 311 965. A sheet of paper is first placed 
manually on the press plate located in the mould frame 
which forms the bottom of the mould cavity. When the 
batch or batches of concrete have been poured into the 
cavity, a second sheet of paper is placed over the 
concrete compound, after which pressing can be commenced. 
The compressed, damp concrete slab is removed from the 
machine and placed on edge, after which the two sheets of 
paper adhering thereto are removed manually and disposed 
of. This procedure requires two men, one applying the 
sheets of paper before the pressing step and the other 
removing the sheets of paper after the pressing step. 
Both work steps are monotonous and at least the first 
must be executed relatively quickly and with great 
accuracy so that the paper sheets are correctly 
positioned. The combination of monotonous work and 
movable parts of the machine, entails considerable risk  
 
of accident, besides the monotonous work being 
unsatisfactory from the ergonomic point of view. 
Application of the paper sheets causes delays thereby 
reducing the production capacity since the number of 
press strokes per time unit is reduced. Double manning 
entails extra labour costs. Handling the paper sheets 
complicates manufacture not only for the reasons 
mentioned above, but also because the sheets of paper 
must be stored and specified quantities of sheets of the 
correct size must be regularly conveyed to the machine 
and then collected and disposed of after being used only 
once. The sheets of paper also command a relatively high 
price since they constitute a special range.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A filter arrangement for a machine for manufacturing 
concrete slabs, said machine comprising a plurality of 

horizontal mould frames (4); lower and upper horizontal 
press plates (6, 17) arranged to cooperate with the mould 

frames (4) to form closed mould cavities (9) for concrete 
compound that contains a surplus of water; and channel 

systems (20, 21, 22, 23) connecting the mould cavities 
(9) to a vacuum source for evacuation of said excess 

water liberated during a pressing step, and said filter 
arrangement including a filter cloth (25) of a plastic 

material for abutment against the side of a press plate 
(6, 17) of the type defined, facing the mould cavity (9), 

characterized in that 
the filter arrangement 

also includes a frame (26) of a 
flexible plastic material surrounding the filter cloth 

(25) and forming an indivisible unit with the filter 
cloth (25), and that the frame (26) has a lateral portion 

(28) for sealing cooperation with vertical inner sides of 
the mould frame (4) as well as a rear 

portion (27) forming an attachment means for cooperation 
with an attachment means (35) of the press plate (6, 17) 

for detachable attachment of the filter arrangement to 
the press plate (6, 17). 
A filter arrangement as claimed in claim 1, 
characterized in that the rear portion (27) is in the 

form of a snap-in strip, and that the attachment means of 
the press plate (6, 17) consists of a corresponding snap-in 

groove (35). 
A filter arrangement as claimed in claim 2, 
characterized in that the snap-in strip (27) is provided 

with a U-shaped groove (31), seen in cross section, to 
provide inner and outer yielding clamp lips (32, 33).  

 
A filter arrangement as claimed in claim 3, 
characterized in that at least the outer clamp lip (33), 

located nearest to the mould frame (4), is provided with 
at least one beadlike protrusion (34) for cooperation 

with a corresponding recess in the snap-in groove (35) of 
the press plate (6, 17). 
A filter arrangement as claimed in any of claims 
1-4, characterized in that the filter cloth (25) has edge 

portions completely covering the surface of the frame 
(26) facing the mould cavity (9), for the manufacture of 

concrete slabs without bevelled edges. 
A filter arrangement as claimed in any of claims 
1-4, characterized in that the filter cloth (25) has edge 

portions covering at least half the frame (26), seen in 
cross section, the uncovered surface of the frame being 

located in the same plane as the inner side of the filter 
cloth (25) facing the mould cavity (9), for the 

manufacture of concrete slabs without bevelled edges on 
at least one side. 
A filter arrangement as claimed in any of claims 
1-4, characterized in that the frame also includes a 

front portion (29) forming a bevel strip with an inclined 
surface (30), for use when manufacturing concrete slabs 

with bevelled edges on at least one side. 
A filter arrangement as claimed in claim 7, 
characterized in that the bevel strip (29) covers edge 

portions of the filter cloth (25). 
A filter arrangement as claimed in any of claims 
1-8, characterized in that the filter cloth (25) is made 

of polyamide and the frame of polyurethane.  
 
A filter arrangement as claimed in claim 9, 
characterized in that the frame (26) is produced in 

contact with the filter cloth (25) so that it is 
simultaneously cast together with the filter cloth. 
A filter arrangement as claimed in any of claims 
1-10, characterized in that it also comprises members 

(38) for forming impressions in the concrete slab, said 
impression-forming members (38) being located in the 

plane of the frame (26) and consisting of the same 
plastic material as the frame (26) and being cast 

together with this and/or the filter cloth (25). 
A filter arrangement as claimed in claim 11, 
characterized in that the impression-forming members (38) 

include at least one rib extending between two adjacent 
or two opposite sides of the frame (26) to form 

corresponding grooves in the concrete slab. 
A filter arrangement as claimed in claim 12, 
characterized in that the ribs (38) have U-shaped or 

V-shaped cross section and are straight or curved. 
A filter arrangement as claimed in any of claims 
1-13, characterized in that at least two adjacent sides 

of the frame (26) are provided with protrusions (36) for 
receipt in corresponding recesses in the inner sides of 

the mould frame (4) in order to seal said recesses in one 
direction, said recesses forming corresponding spacers in 

the concrete slab. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
