<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614597</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED CALL PACING WITH CALL TERMINATION PRIOR TO FIRST RING IN POTENTIAL NO OPERATOR CONDITION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04M336	H04M336	H04M350	H04M351	H04Q364	H04Q364	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04M	H04M	H04M	H04M	H04Q	H04Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04M3	H04Q3	H04Q3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INT TELESYSTEMS CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
INTERNATIONAL TELESYSTEMS CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYU DZU-WAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SYU, DZU-WAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 IMPROVED CALL PACING WITH CALL TERMINATIONPRIOR TO FIRST RING IN POTENTIALNO OPERATOR CONDITIONDESCRIPTIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention relates to an improved pacing method for call origination management systems, and more particularly to a call interrupt method to minimize the number of client-answered calls for which there is no operator available (so-called nuisance calls) .Description of the Prior ArtCall origination management systems automatically dial clients, listen for the call result (i.e., ringing, busy signal, answer, no answer, etc.), and when a call results in an answer, automatically transfer the call to an available operator. Such systems are in general use today by a variety of businesses, groups and organizations. Figure 1 shows a system overview of a typical prior art system. The heart of the system is a main system unit 10, which typically includes central processing unit (CPU) , telephone line control unit(LCU) , hard disk storage 11, and a tape drive 12. A plurality of outbound telephone lines 13 are connected to the system unit 10. The number N of these outbound telephone lines typically is on the order of 48, but may be more or less depending on the specific application. A plurality of voice and data terminal stations 14 are also connected to theTITUTESHEET 

 system unit 10. The number M of these voice and data terminal stations may ber for example, 24 for the case where the number N of the telephone lines is 48. In other words, the number M of the voice and data terminals is less than the number of telephone lines. This allows the system unit 10 to dial calls while all operators are busy talking to clients. As illustrated in Figure 1, each of the voice and data terminal stations comprises a combination video display terminal (VDT) and keyboard 15, and a telephone headset and microphone 16. Figure 2 illustrates a typical operator screen as displayed by the video display terminal. When a call is transferred to an operator, a portion of this screen will already have been filled in by the CPU in the main system unit 10. Specifically, section 20 of the screen providing the name, address and telephone number of the client, will have been filled in so that the operator knows immediately who has been called. During the course of the conversation, the operator may confirm the data and, if necessary, make corrections using the keyboard. Section 22 of the screen is also filled in automatically by the CPU, based on the log-in data from the operator at the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
Having thus described my invention, what I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent is as follows:
1. A method of pacing calls in a call origination management system that has a number of operators to which answered calls are connected, comprising the steps of: determining a number of lines to dial; dialing calls based on said number of lines to dial established in said determining step; establishing an interrupt time slot for a dialed call that extends in duration from a time after a call is dialed to a time prior to a time when said call will result in a ring signal on a dialed line; determining a ratio of operators available to be connected to an answered call to said number of operators; terminating a call in said interrupt time slot conditionally in order to reduce a ratio of nuisance to call attempts.
2. A method of pacing calls in a call origination management system that has a number of operators to which answered calls are connected, comprising the steps of: determining a number of lines to dial as a function of parameters that include a mean time of all calls multiplied by a first constant, and a second constant times a ratio of answered calls to call attempts;
ITUTE SHEET 


 dialing a number of calls according to said determining step; establishing an interrupt time slot for a dialed call that extends in duration from a time substantially after a call is dialed to a time prior to a time when said call will result in a ring signal on a dialed line; determining a ratio of operators available to be connected to an answered call to said number of operators and if said ratio operators available to said number of operators falls to or below a predetermined ratio; a) determining a number of calls to interrupt as a function of a number of available operators, an answer ratio, and a third constant; and b) terminating calls in said interrupt time slot.
3. A method of pacing calls as in claim 1, wherein said time prior to a time when said call will result in a ring signal is determined by a further step that includes sampling the time between dialing a call and a busy signal return to the system.
4. A method of pacing calls as in claim 2, wherein said time prior to a time when said call will result in a ring signal is determined by a further step that includes sampling the time between dialing a call and a busy signal return to the system.
5. A method of pacing calls as in claim 1, including a further step of limiting said dialing calls in a period equal to said interrupt slot to a number that is a function of the average number of answered calls per interrupt time slot, and a ratio
ET 


 of answered calls to calls dialed less a ratio of maximum ratio of no-operator calls to call attempts.
6. A method of pacing calls as in claim 2, including a further step of limiting said dialing calls in a period equal to said interrupt slot to a number that is a function of the average number of answered calls per interrupt time slot, and a ratio of answered calls to calls dialed less a ratio of maximum ratio of no-operator calls to call attempts.
7. A method of pacing calls as in claim 3, including a further step of limiting said dialing calls in a period equal to said interrupt slot to a number that is a function of the average number of answered calls per interrupt time slot, and a ratio of answered calls to calls dialed less a ratio of maximum ratio of no-operator calls to call attempts.
8. A method of pacing calls as in claim 4, including a further step of limiting said dialing calls in a period equal to said interrupt slot to a number that is a function of the average number of answered calls per interrupt time slot, and a ratio of answered calls to calls dialed less a ratio of maximum ratio of no-operator calls to call attempts.
9. A method of pacing calls as in claim 2, further including a step of selecting between a first set of said first, second and third constants, and a second set of said first, second and third constants.
10. A method of pacing calls as in claim 4, further including a step of selecting between a first set of said first, second and third constants, and a second set of said first, second and third constants.
HEET 


 11. A method of pacing calls as in claim 6, further including a step of selecting between a first set of said first, second and third constants, and a second set of said first, second and third constants.
12. A method of pacing calls as in claim 8, further including a step of selecting between a first set of said first, second and third constants, and a second set of said first, second and third constants.
13. A method of pacing calls as in claim 2, wherein said predetermined ratio is twenty percent.
14. A method of pacing calls as in claim 6, wherein said predetermined ratio is twenty percent. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
