<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655886</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Ball grid array (BGA) packages.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65B3900	B65B3900	B65D8586	B65D8586	H01L2300	H01L2300	H05K1302	H05K1302	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65B	B65B	B65D	B65D	H01L	H01L	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65B39	B65B39	B65D85	B65D85	H01L23	H01L23	H05K13	H05K13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A BGA funnel adapted for facilitating the loading of 
BGA packages into a BGA tube includes an rectangularly-shaped 

housing (16) and a roofing plate (18). The 
housing member has a loading end (28), an intermediate 

portion (19), and an unloading end (30). The intermediate 
portion of the housing member has a central bore 

(20) of a substantially U-shaped cross-section extending 
therethrough. The housing member includes a flat bottom 

portion (22) and a pair of short vertically extending 
side walls (24, 26) disposed integrally on each side of 

the bottom portion. An inwardly tapered channel (38) is 
formed between the side walls and extends between the 

loading end and the intermediate portion for receiving 
the BGA package to be inserted into the BGA tube. Narrow 

step portions (40, 42) are associated with the inwardly 
tapered channel for supporting only two side edges of the 

BGA package so that the bottom surface thereof is suspended 
freely above the top surface of the inwardly 

tapered channel. An outwardly tapered channel (50) is 
formed between the side walls and extends between the 

intermediate portion and the unloading end. The outwardly 
tapered channel is adapted for receiving a loading 

end of the BGA tube. The roofing plate is fixedly 
secured to the intermediate portion of the housing member 

so as to prevent the BGA package from being displaced out 
of the bore. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOJA RONILO V
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSSEINMARDI MOHSEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOJA, RONILO V.,
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HOSSEINMARDI MOHSEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to packing devices 
and more particularly, it relates to a BGA funnel of a 
novel configuration which is adapted for facilitating the 
loading of ball grid array (BGA) packages into a BGA 
tubular carrier. In recent years, the miniaturization of integrated 
circuit chips has progressed significantly, and small-sized, 
rectangular plate-shaped parts of the type having 
no leads, such as pin grid array packages, have been 
coming into extensive use. Some of these types of pin 
grid array package structures are formed with solder 
balls on their bottom surface rather than with external 
terminal pins and are referred to as "ball grid arrays" 
(BGA) packages. BGA packages of this type have extra-ordinarily 
small outer dimensions. For example, a BGA 
package having 165 solder balls on its bottom surface may 
have dimensions of about 23.0 mm (in length) X 23.0 mm 
(in width) X 2.13 mm (in thickness). It is therefore 
quite difficult to store and/or transport a large number 
of these BGA packages in a predetermined arrangement. 
Moreover, it is extremely time-consuming to manually 
mount such BGA packages one-by-one onto a printed circuit  
 
board as is done in the case of conventional larger 
circuit components. As a result, there has arisen a need for chip 
carriers or containers for housing and/or shipping these 
BGA packages so as to facilitate their storage and 
transportation from an integrated circuit chip manufacturer's 
site to an assembly station at a customer's 
site where automatic equipment functions to remove the 
BGA packages from the chip carrier and to mount the BGA 
packages onto a printed circuit board (PCB) or the like. 
Further, the chip carrier may also function so as to 
bring different types of electrical components to the 
assembly station in proper order for sequential assembly 
operations. In order to function properly, the chip carriers 
must be capable of transporting the components placed 
therein and then, at the proper location (i.e., 
customer's site) be capable of being quickly and positively 
opened so that the components can be easily removed 
for assembly purposes. In addition, the chip 
carrier must also be able to provide a degree of protection 
for the sensitive components to be transported 
therein with respect to contamination, electrostatic 
discharge (ESD), temperature changes and mechanical 
shock.  Conventionally, the BGA packages have been housed 
and shipped in carrier trays of the type having a 
plurality of separate
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A BGA funnel adapted for facilitating the loading 
of BGA packages into a BGA tube, said funnel comprising: 

   a rectangularly-shaped housing member 
(16) having a loading end (28), an intermediate 

portion (19), and an unloading end 
(30); 

   said intermediate portion of said housing 
member having a central bore (20) of a 

substantially U-shaped cross-section extending 
therethrough; 

   said housing member including a flat 
bottom portion (22) and a pair of short vertically 

extending side walls (24, 26) disposed 
integrally on each side of said bottom 

portion; 
   an inwardly tapered channel (38) formed 

between said side walls and extending between 
said loading end and said intermediate portion 

for receiving the BGA packages to be inserted 
into the BGA tube;

 
   narrow step portions (40, 42) associated 

with said inwardly tapered channel for 
supporting only two side edges of the BGA 

package so that the bottom surface thereof is 
suspended freely above the top surface of said 

inwardly tapered channel; 
   an outwardly tapered channel (50) formed 

between said side walls and extending between 
said intermediate portion and said unloading 

end and being adapted for receiving a loading 
end of the BGA tube; and 

   a roofing plate (18) securely fixed to 
the intermediate portion of said housing 

member so as to prevent the BGA package from 
being displaced out of said bore. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said 
housing member and said roofing plate are formed of a 

metallic material. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said 
housing member and said roofing plate are formed of 

aluminum. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said 
housing member and said roofing plate are formed of 

stainless steel. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said 
inwardly tapered channel is defined by opposed inwardly 

tapering surfaces (32, 34) formed on said respective side 
walls. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 5, wherein said 
outwardly tapered channel is defined by opposed outwardly 

tapering surfaces (46, 48) formed on said respective side 
walls. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said 
roofing plate includes side edges (54), a flat top 

surface (56), and a flat bottom surface (58). 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 7, wherein said 
roofing plate further includes a plurality of openings 

(60) which are aligned with threaded holes (62) formed in 
the vertical side walls in the intermediate portion of 

said housing member. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 8, further 
comprising screw means (64) insertable through said 

openings and being threaded into said holes for permanently 
securing said roofing plate to said housing 

member. 
A BGA funnel adapted for facilitating the 
loading of BGA packages into a BGA tube, said funnel 

comprising: 
   housing means (16) having a loading end 

(28), an intermediate portion (19), and an 
unloading end (30); 

   said intermediate portion of said housing 
means having a central bore (20) of a substantially 

U-shaped cross-section extending there-through; 
   said housing means including a flat 

bottom portion (22) and a pair of short vertically 

extending side walls (24, 26) disposed 
integrally on each side of said bottom 

portion; 
   inwardly tapered channel means (38) 

formed between said side walls and extending 
between said loading end and said intermediate 

portion for receiving the BGA packages to be 
inserted into the BGA tube; 

   step supporting means (40, 42) associated 
with said inwardly tapered channel means for 

supporting only two side edges of the BGA 
package so that the bottom surface thereof is 

 
suspended freely above the top surface of said 

inwardly tapered channel means; 
   outwardly tapered channel means (50) 

formed between said side walls and extending 
between said intermediate portion and said 

unloading end and being adapted for receiving 
a loading end of the BGA tube; and 

   cover means (18) securely fixed to the 
intermediate portion of said housing member so 

as to prevent the BGA package from being displaced 
out of said bore. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 10, wherein 
said housing means and said cover means are formed of a 

metallic material. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 10, wherein 
said housing means and said cover means are formed of 

aluminum. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 10, wherein 
said housing means and said cover means are formed of 

stainless steel. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 10, wherein 
said inwardly tapered channel means is defined by opposed 

inwardly tapering surfaces (32, 34) formed on said 
respective side walls. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 14, wherein 
said outwardly tapered channel means is defined by 

opposed outwardly tapering surfaces (46, 48) formed on 
said respective side walls. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 10, wherein 
said cover means includes side edges (54), a flat top 

surface (56), and a flat bottom surface (58). 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 16, wherein 
said cover means further includes a plurality of openings 

(60) which are aligned with threaded holes (62) formed in 
the vertical side walls in the intermediate portion of 

said housing means. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 17, further 
comprising screw means (64) insertable through said 

openings and being threaded into said holes for permanently 
securing said cover means to said housing means. 
A BGA funnel comprising: 
   housing means (16) including an intermediate 

portion (19); 
   said intermediate portion of said housing 

means having a central bore (20) of a substantially 
U-shaped cross-section extending there-through 

   first tapered channel means (38) being 
formed on one side of the intermediate portion 

and being adapted for receiving a BGA package 
to be inserted into a BGA tube; 

   second tapered channel means (50) being 
formed on the other side of said intermediate 

portion and being adapted for receiving a 
loading end of the BGA tube; and 

   plate means (18) securely fixed to the 
intermediate portion of said housing means so 

as to prevent the BGA package from being 
displaced out of said bore. 
A BGA funnel as claimed in Claim 19, wherein 
said plate means includes side edges (54), a flat top 

surface (56), and a flat bottom surface (58). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
