<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659107</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PRECISION FLUID DISPENSING APPARATUS AND METHOD.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L1100	B01L1100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	B01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L11	B01L11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A precision liquid reagent fluid dispensing apparatus (10) and method includes a continuously operating pump (16) inducting and pressurizing ambient air. The pressurized air is delivered at a first location into a flow-through volume (18) with provision to substantially completely abate at a second location any noncontinuous air flow or air pressure variations from the pump. A long-lived pressure sensor (32) which is substantially free of drift is associated with the flow through volume at a third location and provides a signal indicative of sensed air pressure. A controller (36) by reference to a calibration standard for the sensor provides a time-variant control signal in response to the sensed air pressure. At a fourth location a duty cycle valve (38) vents pressurized air from the flow through volume in response to the control signal to provide at the second location a precisely regulated dispensing air pressure. The dispensing air pressure is applied via a reagent liquid container (46) and closure member (62) to a liquid reagent to pressurize this reagent for dispensing at a precise rate via a dispensing valve (82). The dispensing valve is sealingly carried by the closure member to reduce leakage paths and corrosion opportunities in the apparatus of the present invention.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSCAN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSCAN, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JONES, DONALD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PRECISION FLUID DISPENSING APPARATUS AND METHODBackground of the Invention Field of the InventionThe present invention relates generally to apparatus and methods for controllably dispensing a selected quantity of a fluid from a source thereof to a chosen receptacle therefor. More particularly, the present invention relates to a method, and to particular apparatus for practicing the method, to provide a medical diagnostic analyzer or incubator with a precision fluid dispensing system including a precisely regulated positive pressure source the positive pressure from which is applied to each of a plurality of source fluids which are held in respective closed containers for causing the source fluids to be discharged to the chosen receptacle under control of respective time duration modulated dispensing valves.Discussion of the Related TechnologyAnalyzers and incubators which are used in the medical field for analysis of chemical and biological constituents of specimens, such as blood samples and other bodily fluids and tissues, require the addition of a variety of precisely-measured fluid reagents to the specimens and incubation cultures. Previously, these analyzers and incubators have included a variety of positive-displacement fluid pumps which directly etered the reagents to the specimens or incubation medium. These positive displacement metering pumps were complex and expensive, as well as requiring considerable maintenance. Sometimes, these pumps could be trouble-prone as well, resulting in shutdown of an analyzer or incubator with consequent loss of test results. Another conventional fluid dispensing expedient which has been employed by some analyzers or incubators has been the use of a regulated air pressure source including an 

air pump and a spring-biased type of pressure regulator. The regulated air pressure from this source was supplied to reagent fluid which was held in a closed container, and discharge of the reagent was controlled by a nor ally- closed, time-duration-modulated dispensing valve. The quantity of reagent dispensed in such a system is a function of the applied pressure and the interval during which the dispensing valve is held open.However, this conventional fluid dispensing system also is prone to a multitude of difficulties. Because the volume of the specimen or incubation containers, which are the receptacles for the reagents, is ordinarily very small (perhaps on the order of a few milliliters or smaller) , precise metering of the reagents is necessary. As mentioned, with
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A precision fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a substantially continuously-operating positive pressure pump providing pressurized air; a flow-through volume receiving said pressurized air; a gauge pressure sensor providing a first signal indicative of air pressure in said flow-through volume; a duty-cycle valve venting pressurized air from said flow-through volume in response to a control signal; and a controller by reference to a calibration standard and in response to said first signal providing said control signal to said duty-cycle valve to provide a precisely regulated air pressure said the flow-through volume.
2. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 1 wherein said pump communicates with said flow-through volume at a first location, said precisely regulated air pressure communicating from said flow-through volume at a second location spaced from said first location, and said gauge pressure sensor communicating with said flow-through volume adjacent said second location.
3. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 1 further including means for communicating said regulated air pressure to a source fluid which is to be dispensed to pressurize said source fluid, a normally closed dispensing valve in fluid communication with said pressurized source fluid, and said dispensing valve when open communicating said source fluid to a receptacle therefore at ambient pressure,' whereby with precise regulation of said air pressure level and pressurization of said source fluid the latter is dispensed at a volume directly proportionate with the interval during which said dispensing valve is open. 


 4. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim
3 further including a source fluid container having a chamber with an opening and a closure member closing said opening and carrying said dispensing valve in close proximity to said source fluid.
5. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim
4 wherein said closure member includes a body carrying said dispensing valve, and said body both communicating said regulated air pressure into said chamber and sealingly cooperating with said container to provide substantially leak-free retention of said precisely regulated air pressure in said chamber to pressurize said source fluid therein.
6. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim
5 wherein said fluid dispensing valve includes a pick up tube extending through said body and into said source fluid.
7. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim
6 wherein said body includes a through bore through which said pick up tube extends, and said body further including passage means communicating said precisely regulated air pressure to said through bore.
8. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim
7 wherein said container includes a bottle with a threaded neck portion, said body through bore including an enlarged diameter portion threadably receiving said threaded neck portion of said bottle to sealingly close one end of said through bore, and said dispensing valve sealingly closing an opposite end of said through bore. 


 9. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said closure member further includes resilient means for removably retaining said dispensing valve in sealing engagement with said closure member at said other end of said through bore.
10. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 9 wherein said resilient means for removably retaining said dispensing valve includes said closure member pivotally carrying a formed wire bail member in a first position embracing said dispensing valve in sealing cooperation with said closure member.
11. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 8 wherein said closure member defines a boss at said other end of said through bore, said dispensing valve setting upon said boss and sealingly cooperating therewith.
12. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 11 wherein said dispensing valve further defines a recess receiving said boss.
13. A method of precision fluid dispensing, said method including the steps of continuously pressurizing ambient air, flowing said pressurized air through a flow- through volume, utilizing said flow-through volume to abate any noncontinuous air flows and pressure flux of said continuously flowing pressurized air, sensing the pressure level of said pressurized air in said flow- through volume, producing a signal in response to said sensed air pressure level, using a controller to produce a venting control signal in response to said sensed air pressure signal and by reference to a calibration standard, using a duty cycle valve to vent pressurized air to ambient in response to said venting control signal to provide a precisely regulated dispensing air pressure 


level, and pressurizing fluid to be dispensed with said precisely regulated dispensing air pressure to dispense said fluid to ambient at a controlled rate.
14. The method of Claim 13 further including the steps of communicating said pressurized air into said flow-through volume at a first location, and at a second location spaced from said first location flowing pressurized air from said flow-through volume to said fluid to be dispensed.
15. The method of Claim 14 further including the steps of sensing said pressurized air pressure level at a third location intermediate said first and said second locations, and venting pressurized air from said flow- through volume via said duty cycle valve at a forth location also intermediate said first and second locations.
16. The method of Claim 15 further including the step of disposing said forth location upstream of said third location with respect to flow of pressurized air through said flow-through volume from said first location to said second location.
17. A precision liquid reagent fluid dispensing apparatus comprising: a continuously operating pump inducting and pressurizing ambient air, said pump delivering said pressurized air to a flow-through volume at a first location thereof; said flow-through volume including a selected volume effective at a second location spaced from said first location to substantially abate flow instabilities and variations of pressure of said pressurized air received at said first location; 



 a pressure sensor at a third location of said flow- through volume sensing a pressure level of said pressurized air and providing a pressure signal in response thereto; a controller providing a time-variant control signal in response to said pressure signal and by reference to a calibration standard for said sensor; a duty cycle valve receiving said time-variant control signal and venting pressurized air at a forth location of said flow-through volume in response thereto to provide at said second location of said flow-through volume a precisely regulated dispensing air pressure level; and means for applying said dispensing air pressure level to a liquid reagent fluid which is to be dispensed, thereby to pressurize said fluid to said precisely regulated level of said dispensing air pressure.
18. The precision fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 17 wherein said means for applying said dispensing air pressure to a liquid reagent fluid includes a chambered fluid container having a neck opening into said chamber and being provided with an external thread, a closure member defining a through bore and including at one end thereof an enlarged diameter bore portion threadably engageable on said neck and sealingly cooperating with said container to close said chamber, at an opposite end said closure member defining an upright boss upon which said through bore opens, a dispensing valve sealingly received on said boss, said dispensing valve including a liquid pickup tube depending into said liquid reagent in said chamber and an outlet port to which said pickup tube communicates said reagent liquid when said valve is open, said closure member further defining a dispensing air pressure inlet port communicating with said chamber and with said second location of said flow- through volume. 


 19. The precision liquid reagent fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 18 wherein said time-variant venting control signal is a pulse width modulated signal.
20. The precision liquid reagent fluid dispensing apparatus of Claim 18 wherein said larger diameter bore portion substantially completely threadably receives said threaded container neck to sealingly engage therewith. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
