<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633316</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Lys-aminopeptidase PepN from lactobacillus delbruckii ssp. Lactis, nucleic acids coding for it, and its use in fermentation processes.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A23C1900	A23C19032	C12N948	C12N948	C12N1557	C12N1557	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A23C	A23C	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A23C19	A23C19	C12N9	C12N9	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to a protein as produced by 
Lactobacillus delbrückii
 
ssp. 
lactis
, and capable of hydrolysing β-naphtylamides, or fragments thereof 
having this enzymatic activity. 
The invention relates also to the use of said protein or fragments thereof 
for the preparation of fermented foodstuff, and more particularly of cheese. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EUROP ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY E.E.C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN JUERGEN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLAPP ROLAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLEIN,JUERGEN ROBERT
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PLAPP,ROLAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a protein, PepN, as produced by Lactobacillusdelbrückii ssp. lactis and capable of hydrolysing β-naphtylamides, or 
polypeptides derived thereof, and more particularly recombinant PepN from said 
Lactobacillus strain or recombinant polypeptides derived thereof, said derived 
polypeptides having this enzymatic activity of hydrolysing β-naphtylamides. The invention relates also to the use of said protein or polypeptides 
derived thereof in fermentation processes, such as processes for the preparation 
of fermented foodstuff, and more particularly cheese. The invention also relates to processes for preparing the PepN from said 
Lactobacillus strain or said derived polypeptides, which are in a state of 
biological purity such that they can be used in fermentation processes. The invention also relates to nucleic acids (or nucleotide sequences) 
coding for PepN from said Lactobacillus strain or said derived polypeptides, 
and to cellular hosts containing said nucleic acids and their use in fermentation 
processes. Furthermore, the invention relates to fermentation processes, and more 
particularly to processes for the preparation of fermented foodstuff, and kits, 
using the PepN from said Lactobacillus strain or said derived polypeptides, 
and/or said cellular hosts. By "recombinant polypeptides" it is to be understood that it relates to any 
molecule having a polypeptidic chain liable to be produced by genetic 
engineering, through transcription and translation of a corresponding DNA 
sequence under the control of appropriate regulation elements within a efficient 
cellular host. Consequently the expression "recombinant polypeptides" such as 
is used herein does not exclude the possibility for the polypeptides to comprise 
other groups, such as glycosylated groups. The term "recombinant" indeed involves the fact that the polypeptide has 
been produced by genetic engineering, particularly because it results from the 
expression in a cellular host of the corresponding nucleic acid sequences which 
have previously been introduced into the expression vector used in said host. Nevertheless, it must be understood that this expression does not exclude 
the possibility for the polypeptide to be produced by a different process, for  
 
instance by classical chemical synthesis according to methods used in the protein 
synthesis or by proteolytic cleavage of larger molecules. The expression "biologically pure" or "biological purity" or "in a 
substantially pure form" means on the one hand a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Protein in a substantially pure form, as produced and excreted by 
Lactobacillus delbrückii ssp. lactis and capable of hydrolysing aminoacid β-naphtylamides, 

and more particularly lysine-β-naphtylamide, or fragments 
thereof having this enzymatic activity. 
Protein according to claim 1, such as produced by Lactobacillus 
delbrückii ssp. lactis WS87, deposited at the Deutsche Sammlung von 

Mikroorganismen (DSM) under the number 7290 on October 15, 1992. 
Protein according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that it 
corresponds to the one (also called PepN) represented on figure 3, and by SEQ 

ID NO 2, or fragments or muteins (which differ from said protein by addition 
and/or substitution and/or suppression of one or several amino acid) thereof, 

provided that said fragments and muteins are capable of hydrolysing β-naphtylamides. 
Protein according to anyone of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that: 

its isoelectric point calculated from the nucleotide sequence represented 
by SEQ ID NO 1, is 4,48, and its isoelectric point determined by preparative 

isoelectric focusing after purification of said protein, is 4,2, 
its molecular weight calculated from the nucleotide sequence represented 
by SEQ ID NO 1, is 95,358 kDa, and its molecular weight determined after 

purification, is 95 kDa, 
its specific inhibitors are the following: 

EDTA: end concentration 1mM; 3 % relative activity, 
phenanthroline: end concentration 1 mM: 4 % relative activity. 
Protein according to anyone of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that it is 
obtained in a purified state, from a cell extract of said Lactobacillus delbrückii 

ssp. lactis WS87 by the following procedure: 

fractionation of the cell extract by salting out at 4°C with streptomycin 
sulfate, 
centrifugation, 
anion exchange chromatography by applying the supernatant obtained at 
the previous step to an appropriate column, such as a column of Q-Sepharose 

 
Fast Flow (Pharmacia), and pooling the eluted fractions having the highest 

specific activity against L-Pro-p-nitroanilide, 
preparative isoelectric focusing, by applying the pooled fractions 
obtained at the previous step to an appropriate column, such as a LKB column 

(Types 8100-1), with ampholytes within a range of pH 4 to 6, and pooling the 
eluted fractions having the highest specific activity against Lys-paranitroanilide. 
Nucleic acid characterized in that it codes for a protein according to 
anyone of claims 1 to 5. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 6, characterized in that: 

it comprises all or part of the nucleic acid represented on figure 3, and 
by SEQ ID NO 1, coding for a protein according to anyone of claims 1 to 5, or 

its complementary sequence, 
or it hybridizes with all or part of said nucleic acid represented by SEQ 
ID NO 1, or with its complementary sequence. 
Nucleic acid according to claim 6 or claim 7, characterized in that it 
codes for the PepN protein represented by SEQ ID NO 2, or for polypeptides 

derived thereof having said hydrolysing β-naphtylamides activity, said nucleic 
acid comprising all or part of the nucleotide sequence delimited by the 

nucleotide located in position 316 and the nucleotide located in position 2844 in 
the nucleotide sequence represented by SEQ ID NO 1. 
Recombinant nucleic acid containing at least one nucleic acid according 
to anyone of claims 6 to 8, inserted into a heterologous nucleic acid. 
Recombinant vector comprising a vector sequence, notably of the type 
plasmid (such as plasmids originating from lactic acid bacteria), cosmid or 

phage, and a nucleic acid according to anyone of claims 6 to 8, in one of the 
non-essential sites for its replication, and optionally one or several nucleic 

acid(s) coding for other aminopeptidases such as PepX. 
Cellular host which is transformed by a recombinant vector according 
to claim 10, and comprising the regulation elements enabling the expression of 

the nucleotide sequence coding for a protein according to anyone of claims 1 to 
5, and optionally, other aminopeptidases such as PepX, in this host. 
Cellular host according to claim 12, chosen from among bacteria such 
as E.coli, or lactic acid bacteria including lactococcus and, especially, 

lactobacilli of the thermophilic group, transformed by a vector according to the 
invention. 
Process for preparing a protein according to anyone of claims 1 to 5 
comprising the following steps: 


the culture in an appropriate medium of a cellular host according to 
claim 11 or 12, 
the recovery of the polypeptide produced by the above said cellular host 
from the above said culture medium, 
the purification of the protein thus obtained. 
Fermentation process characterized in that it comprises a step of 
treatment of material to be fermented with: 


an appropriate amount of the PepN protein or polypeptides derived 
thereof according to claims 1 to 5, and optionally other proteases, and more 

particularly aminopeptidases such as PepX, and/or 
an appropriate amount of at least one of the transformed cellular host, 
according to claim 11 or 12, 
and optionally, an appropriate amount of lactobacilli, such as 
Lactobacillus delbrückii ssp. lactis. 
Process for the preparation of fermented foodstuff, and more 
particularly of cheese, which comprises a step of treatment of food material to 

be fermented, such as milk, with: 

an appropriate amount of at least one of the protein according to claims 1 
to 5, and optionally other aminopeptidases such as PepX, and/or 
an appropriate amount of at least one of the transformed cellular host 
according to of claim 11 or 12, and/or 
an appropriate amount of lactobacilli, such as Lactobacillus delbrückii 
ssp. lactis. 
Process according to claim 15, characterized in that it comprises a step 
of treatment of food material to be fermented, such as milk, with other species 

and strains susceptible to be used as starter organisms in fermentation processes, 
and more particularly lactic acid bacteria susceptible to produce a PepX protein, 

such as Lactococcus, Streptococcus and Lactobacillus. 
Process according to claim 15 or claim 16, characterized in that it can 
be used as fermentation processes for the obtention of hard cheeses, such as 

Emmentaler type cheese 
Foodstuff, and more particularly cheeses, such as obtained by 
fermentation processes, according to anyone of claims 15 to 17. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
