<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659236</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SELF-CLEANING RECIPROCATING AND/OR ROTATING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F04B5300	F04B706	F16K4100	F04B700	F04B5314	F16K4100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F04B	F04B	F16K	F04B	F04B	F16K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F04B53	F04B7	F16K41	F04B7	F04B53	F16K41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A cylinder and sleeve combination, such as those found in fluid control systems, having closely positioned moving elements that leach one or more substances upon sustained contact with the subject, reactive fluid. One embodiment comprises a metering pump which utilizes small clearances that were heretofore unacceptably tight for the applications disclosed. The materials used to form at least one of the moving elements allow a substance to leach out of the moving elements as a result of a chemical reaction with the fluid, and the leached substance undergoes a separate reaction with the fluid which causes it to coagulate. The various embodiments of the present invention avoid binding of the moving elements by providing at least one scraping edge which continuously scrapes away the coagulum forming between these elements. The scraping edge is advantageously configured so as not to interfere with the operative movement of these elements.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PINKERTON DENNIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PINKERTON, DENNIS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINKERTON DENNIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PINKERTON, DENNIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to rotating and reciprocating pumps wherein a piston or
shaft moves within a substantially hollow sleeve in a fluidic
environment which causes a leachable substance in the piston and/or
the sleeve to leach therefrom and coagulate in the gap between the
sleeve and the piston. The present invention is particularly
suitable for reciprocating pumps and shuttle valves formed of
materials having leachable components and which operate in
environments causing the leachable components to leach out and bind
the relatively moving parts.Devices which rely on the smooth continuous operation of a
piston or shaft moving relative to a sleeve which surrounds at least
a portion of the outer diameter of the piston or shaft have found
many applications. For example, fluid control devices such as
metering pumps for delivering precisely measured aliquots of fluid
to a fluid outlet have found many uses in research, diagnostic
testing and industry. U.S. Patent No. 5,020,980 to Pinkerton
discloses a valveless positive displacement pump which utilizes a
screw and hinge assembly to regulate the fluid rate of the pump.
European patent application EP-A-0 512,688 (which forms part of the prior art according to Art. 54(3) EPC only) discloses a positive displacement pump
having a self-cleaning system whereby a series of ports flush liquid
onto a reduced area of the piston thus cleaning away any unwanted
buildup of solids.Over the years, the wide variety of fluids delivered by
these metering pumps has dictated the use of different compositions
in the fabrication of the operative pump elements. The piston and
the sleeve, which form the pumping chamber, must be able to function
properly with the particular fluid being pumped. Pump designers
have crafted pumps using numerous materials in order to keep pace
with the growing needs of science. As these needs continue to grow,
pump designers typically continue to search for new materials which
will meet the needs of new pumping applications.In addition to the use of new materials for different fluid
applications, the technology driven desire to deliver smaller and
more precisely controlled aliquots of fluids has provided an
incentive for pump designers to reduce the clearances between the
pumping elements, i.e. the piston and the sleeve. Those skilled in the art appreciate that in order to
reduce the undesired leakage of fluid between the piston and
sleeve, the clearance between these pumping elements is
preferably minimized. For example, piston to sleeve
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotating and reciprocating pump for controlling the movement of a fluid from a fluid
source to a fluid outlet comprising:


a substantially hollow sleeve (20):
a piston (10) movably supported at least partially within said sleeve (20) such that
said sleeve (20) overlaps at least a portion of said piston (10), said piston (10) having an outer

diameter dimensioned to provide a gap having a clearance of less than 0.0005 inches
(0.00127cm) between said piston (10) and said sleeve (20) in said overlap area;
means for supplying fluid, said fluid comprising at least one component which
will coagulate on the surface of at least one of said sleeve (20) and said piston (10) and

decrease said clearance between said sleeve (20) and said piston (10) and tending to bind said
piston (10) to said sleeve (20);
said sleeve (20) comprising a control portion and a journal portion, said control
portion comprising at least one inlet and at least one outlet, wherein said inlet is in fluidic

communication with said supplying means;
wherein said piston (10) further comprises

(a) axial grooves not connected with one another, said axial grooves
forming scraping edges which move across a portion of said journal portion to

scrape said coagulum from said gap, or
(b) a groove which extends continuously in its elongate direction both
axially and circumferentially around said piston (10), said groove forming a

scraping edge which moves across a portion of said journal portion to scrape said
coagulum from said gap, or
(c) two grooves which extend in their elongate direction circumferentially
around said piston (10), said grooves forming scraping edges which move across a

portion of said journal portion to scrape said coagulum from said gap.
A rotating and reciprocating pump for controlling the movement of a fluid from a fluid
source to a fluid outlet comprising:


a substantially hollow sleeve (320):
a piston (310) movably supported at least partially within said sleeve (320) such
that said sleeve (320) overlaps at least a portion of said piston (310), said piston (310) having

an outer diameter dimensioned to provide a gap having a clearance of less than 0.0005 inches
(0.00127 cm) between said piston (310) and said sleeve (320) in said overlap area;
means for supplying fluid, said fluid comprising at least one component which
will coagulate on the surface of at least one of said sleeve (320) and said piston (310) and

decrease said clearance between said sleeve (320) and said piston (310) and tending to bind
said piston (310) to said sleeve (320);
said sleeve (320) comprising a control portion and a journal portion, said control
portion comprising at least one inlet and at least one outlet, wherein said inlet is in fluidic

communication with said supplying means;
said sleeve (320) further comprising one or two groove(s) forming (a) scraping
edge(s) to scrape said coagulum from said gap.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 or 2,
wherein said piston (10, 310) comprises alumina ceramic.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to claim 4, wherein leachable
material is present in said piston (10, 310) and said leachable material comprises calcium.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein said sleeve (20, 320) comprises an alumina ceramic. 
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to claim 5, wherein leachable
material is present in said sleeve (20, 320) and said leachable material comprises calcium.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
comprising at least one separate recess extending entirely around the circumference of

said piston (10, 310).
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to ,7
wherein said journal portion of said sleeve (20, 320) does not comprise rinse ports for the

removal of said coagulum.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 8,
wherein said clearance is less than 0.0002 inches (0.000508 cm).
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 8,
wherein said clearance is less than 0.0001 inches (0.000254 cm).
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 8,
wherein said clearance is less than 0.00005 inches (0.000127 cm).
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 11,
wherein said scraping edge moves across at least 25% of said journal portion.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 11,
wherein said scraping edge moves across at least 50% of said journal portion.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 13,
wherein said scarping edge forms a scraping angle of at least 45째.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to claim 14,
wherein said scraping angle is at least 60째. 
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to claim 14,
wherein said scraping angle is at least 90째.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to claim 14,

wherein said scraping angle is greater than 90째.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 17,
wherein said sleeve (20, 320) comprises an alumina ceramic comprising at least 0.02% of a

calcium containing compound.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 18,
wherein said fluid comprises an alkaline solution.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to any one of claims 1 to 19,
wherein said fluid comprises a sodium bicabonate solution.
A rotating and reciprocating pump according to claim 2, wherein said
groove(s) extend in their elongate direction both axially and circumferentially around the

inner surface of said sleeve (320).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
