<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0620917</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N2907	G01N2911	G01N2902	G01N2904	G01N2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention provides a method for identifying the presence and/or concentration of a target species in a sample, by transmitting a wave of ultrasonic vibration through the sample and calculating from measured values for time of flight of the wave through the sample and its attenuation during that time an identification parameter dependent on the type and/or concentration of the target species in the sample and independent of the distance travelled by the wave through the sample. The method is more convenient to use than existing identification techniques, because of the removal of distance from the measurements and calculations necessary. The invention is of particular use in identifying polymers, for instance in reclamation and recycling processes. The invention also provides an apparatus for performing the method.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method for the identification of
a target species in a sample, in particular a method which
involves the use of ultrasonic vibrations. The invention also
relates to apparatus for use in such a method.It is often necessary to identify the type and concentration
of various species present in an unknown sample. This is
especially so when it is desired to reclaim or recycle
materials for re-use. In this case, it is necessary to be
able to test a product to identify the presence of recyclable
species in it and their relative concentrations.When recycling materials, it is especially important to be
able to detect the presence and concentration of contaminants
which would otherwise adversely affect the recycling process.
Even a small level of contaminant can often greatly affect the
properties of a recyclable material. However, often the
physical properties (including visual) of a likely contaminant
are very similar to those of a target species to be recycled.
For instance, polypropylene and polyethylene have very similar
properties. It may be desired to recycle polypropylene from
a product. A concentration of any more than about 1% of
polyethylene contaminating that product can adversely affect
the moulding and other properties of the recycled
polypropylene.Thermoplastic waste is also widely perceived to be a major
environmental problem. Approximately 85% of the polymers used
in the EC are thermoplastics and the volume of waste materials
continues to rise commensurate with materials consumption.
Attention has focused on the economic treatment and disposal
of waste materials from both commercial and domestic products,
including packaging, white goods, scrapped automotive
components and textiles. Reclamation of plastics compositions and recycling of
polymeric materials is of increasing interest to the
industrial sector which includes materials waste collectors
and separators, materials processors, product users, materials
suppliers and processing equipment suppliers. However, with
the inherent limitations in current identification and
separation technology, it is inevitable that a relatively high
percentage of recycled materials will contain contaminants.Plastic bottle collection and recycling has also made
considerable advances in recent years. However, to date
sorting of PET (polyethylene terephthalate), PVC (polyvinyl
chloride) and PE (polyethylene) bottles has been achieved
mainly by hand, using unskilled labour. It is imperative that
the reclaimed PET does not contain PVC, as a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of identifying the presence and/or
concentration of a target species in a sample,

comprising the steps of:-

a. transmitting a wave of ultrasonic vibration of known
strength through the sample;
b. receiving and measuring the strength of the transmitted
wave, or its reflection, after its passage through the

sample;
c. measuring the time of flight of the wave through the
sample, between transmission of the wave and its

reception;
d. calculating the attenuation of the strength of the
wave during its time of flight;

characterized by:

calculating an identification parameter from the values
for the time of flight and attenuation which is

dependent on the type and/or concentration of the target
species in the sample, but is independent of the

distance travelled by the wave through the sample; and
comparing this identification parameter with known
identification parameters for known types and/or

concentrations of target species in the sample, so as to
identify the presence and/or concentration of the target

species in the sample.
A method according to Claim 1, wherein the
identification parameter is calculated by dividing the

attenuation of the strength of the wave during its time
of flight by the measured time of flight.
A method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein steps
(a)-(e) are repeated on the sample at a number of

different frequencies f of the transmitted wave of
ultrasonic vibration, thereby to calculate a number of

corresponding identification parameters, the method
additionally comprising the steps of calculating from 

the identification parameters an index parameter
proportional to the change in the identification

parameter divided by the corresponding change in the
frequency of the transmitted wave over the range of

frequencies at which the method is carried out; and
comparing the calculated index parameter with known

index parameters for known types and/or concentrations
of species, so as to identify the presence and/or

concentration of the target species in the sample.
A method according to Claim 3, wherein the index
parameter is calculated as the gradient of the graph of

attenuation of wave strength vs vibration frequency over
the range of frequencies at which the method is carried

out, in a region of the graph in which the relationship
of attenuation and frequency is substantially linear.
A method according to Claim 3 or Claim 4, additionally
comprising the steps of calculating from the graph of

attenuation vs frequency a deviation parameter, defined
as the maximum deviation of the graph from a linear

relationship; and comparing the calculated deviation
parameter with known deviation parameters for known

types and/or concentrations of species, so as to
identify the presence and/or concentration of the target

species in the sample.
A method according to any one of Claims 3-5,
additionally comprising the steps of calculating from

the graph of the identification parameter vs frequency
over the range of frequencies at which the method is

carried out a secondary deviation parameter, defined as
the maximum deviation of the graph from a linear

relationship; and comparing the calculated secondary
deviation parameter with known secondary deviation

parameters for known types and/or concentrations of
species, so as to identify the presence and/or

concentration of the target species in the sample. 
A method according to any one of Claims 3-6,
additionally comprising the steps of generating a

spectrum showing the variation of the calculated
identification parameter with the frequency of vibration

at which the method is carried out; and comparing the

generated spectrum with known spectra for known types
and/or concentrations of species, so as to identify the

presence and/or concentration of the target species in
the sample.
A method of identifying the presence and/or
concentration of a target species in a sample,

comprising the steps of performing the method according
to any one of the preceding claims on the sample once

using a compression wave of ultrasonic vibration and
once using a shear wave of ultrasonic vibration; and

comparing the calculated identification parameters with
known identification parameters obtained, using

compression and shear waves respectively, for known
types and/or concentrations of species, so as to

identify the presence and/or concentration of the target
species in the sample.
Apparatus for identifying the presence and/or
concentration of a target species in a sample, the

apparatus comprising:-

a. means (4) for transmitting a wave of ultrasonic vibration of
known strength through the sample;
b. means for receiving (4), (5) and means (3) for measuring the
strength of the transmitted wave, or its reflection (3),

after its passage through the sample;
c. means (3) for measuring the time of flight for the wave
through the sample, between transmission of the wave and

its reception;
d. means (2) for calculating the attenuation of the strength of
the wave during its time of flight; and

characterized in that the apparatus includes 

e. means (2) for calculating from the values for time of flight
and attenuation an identification parameter dependent on

the type and/or concentration of the target species in
the sample, but independent of the distance travelled by

the wave in the sample (1);
f. means (2) for comparing the calculated identification
parameter with identification parameters for known types

and/or concentrations of species.
Apparatus according to Claim 9 in which the comparing
means (2) comprises a database of known identification

parameters, for known types and/or concentrations of
species.
Apparatus according to Claim 10 wherein the database (2)
includes: calibration spectra for target species,

showing the variation of the identification parameter
for each target species with the frequency of ultrasonic

vibration passing through a sample containing the
species and/or with the concentration of the target

species in a sample; and index and/or deviation
parameters for known types and/or concentrations of

species.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
