<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0658196</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
GENE INSERTION BY DIRECT LIGATION -i(IN VITRO).
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C07H2100	C07H2104	C07K14435	C07K14435	C12N700	C12N700	C12N1509	C12N1509	C12N1586	C12N1586	C12N15866	C12N15866	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C07H	C07H	C07K	C07K	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C07H21	C07H21	C07K14	C07K14	C12N7	C12N7	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is described for constructing recombinant double stranded DNA viruses, especially baculoviruses and granulosis viruses, by the direct ligation of DNA fragments in vitro. Also described are direct ligation virus vectors, which are insect viruses that have been modified by the insertion of at least one recognition site for a specific restriction endonuclease which does not cut the viral genome, so as to facilitate the insertion of foreign DNA segments by DNA ligation in vitro, and to the recombinant viruses formed by this direct ligation. Further described are modular expression vectors (plasmids) that are designed to facilitate the assembly of gene expression cassettes or other DNA fragments into virus insertion modules (as shown in the figure) which are inserted subsequently into direct ligation virus vectors at predefined sites and in a predefined orientation by ligation in vitro, and to recombinant viruses derived from said modular expression vectors.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN CYANAMID CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMERICAN CYANAMID COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIERKS PETER MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB NANCY ROBERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIERKS, PETER, MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEBB, NANCY, ROBERSON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 GENE INSERTION BY DIRECT LIGATION IN VITROField Of The InventionThis invention relates to a method for constructing recombinant double stranded DNA insect viruses, especially baculoviruses and granulosis viruses, by the direct ligation of DNA fragments in vitro. This invention further relates to direct ligation virus vectors, which are insect viruses that have been modified by the insertion of at least one recognition site for a specific restriction endonuclease which does not cut the viral genome. This facilitates the insertion of foreign DNA segments by DNA ligation in vitro. This invention also relates to the recombinant viruses formed by this direct ligation. This invention also relates to modular expression vectors (plasmids) that are designed to facilitate the assembly of gene expression cassettes or other DNA fragments into virus insertion modules which are subsequently inserted into direct ligation virus vectors at predefined sites and in a predefined orientation by ligation in vitro, and to recombinant viruses that derive from the use of such modular expression vectors.Background Of The InventionThe following abbreviations are used throughout this application: AcMNPV - Autographa califomica nuclear polyhedrosis virus bp - base pairs 

BEVS - baculovirus expression vector systemECV - extracellular virusGV - granulosis virus kD - kilodaltons NPV - nuclear polyhedrosis virus occ" - occlusion negative virus (es) occ+ - occlusion positive virus (es)OV - occluded virusPCR - polymerase chain reaction pfu - plaque forming unit p.i. - post-infectionPIB - polyhedron inclusion body (also known as occlusion body)5' UTR: The mRNA or gene sequence corresponding to the region extending from the start site of gene transcription to the last base or basepair that precedes the initiation codon for protein synthesis.3' UTR: The mRNA or gene sequence corresponding to the region extending from the first base or basepair after the termination codon for protein synthesis to the last gene-encoded base at the 3' terminus of the mRNA.(+) strand: Refers to the DNA strand of a gene and its flanking sequences which has the same sense as the RNA that is derived from that gene.(-) strand: Refers to the DNA strand of a gene and its flanking sequences that is complementary to the(+) strand.Since the advent of recombinant DNA technology, there has been steady growth in the number of systems available for the regulated expression of cloned genes in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. One eukaryotic system that has gained
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A recombinant double stranded DNA insect virus comprising:
(a) a double stranded DNA insect virus into which is inserted at least one recognition site for a restriction endonuclease which does not cut the viral genome to create a direct ligation virus vector; and
(b) a DNA fragment containing termini selected such that when the direct ligation virus vector of (a) is cleaved by the appropriate restriction endonuclease, the DNA fragment is ligated in vitro into the direct ligation virus vector of (a) .
2. The recombinant double stranded DNA insect virus of Claim 1 wherein the virus is selected from the group consisting of double stranded enveloped DNA insect viruses from the Subfamilies Entomopoxyirinae, Eubaculovirinae, Nudibaculovirinae, Ichnovirus and Bracovirus, and double stranded nonenveloped DNA insect viruses from the family Iridoviridae.
3. The recombinant double stranded DNA insect virus of Claim 2 wherein the virus is the Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus
(AcMNPV) .
4. The recombinant double stranded DNA insect virus of Claim 1 wherein two recognition sites for a restriction endonuclease which does not cut the viral genome are inserted into the viral genome to create a direct ligation virus vector.
5. The recombinant double stranded DNA 


insect virus of Claim 1, wherein the DNA fragment is inserted at any region of the viral genome which is nonessential for viral replication in cultured cells.
6. A modular expression vector which comprises a plasmid vector containing a virus insertion module which comprises in the following order:
(a) a recognition site for a restriction endonuclease;
(b) a promoter module containing a promoter and a 5' untranslated region (UTR) , where the 5' UTR extends from the transcription start site to the last base pair which precedes the translation initiation codon for protein synthesis;
(c) a polylinker module to facilitate insertion of a heterologous gene;
(d) a 3' UTR module containing at least a site for 3' terminal mRNA processing and polyadenylation; and
(e) a recognition site for a restriction endonuclease, such that the recognition sites of (a) and (e) permit the ligation in vitro of the virus insertion module into a direct ligation virus vector.
7. The modular expression vector of Claim 6 wherein: (a) the restriction endonuclease recognition site is selected from the group consisting of Bsp MI and Esp 31 recognition sites; (b) the promoter and 5' UTR of the promoter module are selected from the group consisting of the heterologous promoter and 5' UTR from the AcMNPV 6.9K gene, the AcMNPV DA26 gene, the AcMNPV polyhedrin gene, the AcMNPV 35K gene and the Drosophila melanogaster hsp70 


gene; and (c) the 3' UTR module is selected from the group consisting of the (a) 3' UTR of the AcMNPV 6.9K gene and, (b) a region comprising the 3' terminus of the 35K gene together with the AcMNPV homologous region 5 (hr5) .
8. The modular expression vector of Claim 6 wherein the polylinker module is altered by the insertion of a nucleic acid sequence encoding a heterologous protein.
9. The modular expression vector of Claim 8 wherein the toxin is AalT.
10. The modular expression vector of Claim 8 wherein the nucleic acid sequence encoding a heterologous signal sequence is selected from the group consisting of the cuticle signal sequence from Drosophila melanogaster, the chorion signal sequence from Bombyx mori. the apolipophorin signal sequence from Manduca sexta, the sex specific signal sequence from Bombyx mori, the adipokinetic hormone signal sequence from Manduca sexta, the pBMHPC-12 signal sequence from Bombyx mori and the esterase-6 signal sequence from Drosophila melanogaster.
11. A recombinant double stranded DNA insect virus comprising:
(a) a double stranded DNA insect virus into which is inserted two recognition sites for a restriction endonuclease which does not cut the viral genome to create a direct ligation virus vector; and
(b) a DNA fragment containing termini selected such that when the direct ligation virus vector of (a) is cleaved by the appropriate restriction endonuclease, the DNA fragment is ligated in vitro into the direct 


 ligation virus vector of (a) , wherein the DNA fragment comprises a virus insertion module which comprises in the following order:
(1) a recognition site for a restriction endonuclease;
(2) a promoter module containing a promoter and a 5' untranslated region (UTR) , where the 5' UTR extends from the transcription start site to the last base pair which precedes the translation initiation codon for protein synthesis;
(3) a polylinker module altered by the insertion of a nucleic acid sequence encoding a heterologous protein;
(4) a 3' UTR module containing at least a site for 3' terminal mRNA processing and polyadenylation; and
(5) a recognition site for a restriction endonuclease.
12. A direct ligation virus vector comprising a double stranded DNA insect virus into which is inserted at least one recognition site for a restriction endonuclease which does not cut the viral genome, such that when the direct ligation virus vector is cleaved by the appropriate restriction endonuclease, a DNA fragment is ligated d-n vitro into the direct ligation virus vector.
13. The direct ligation virus vector of Claim 12 wherein the virus is selected from the group consisting of double stranded enveloped DNA insect viruses from the Subfamilies Entomopoxyirinae, Eubaculovirinae, Nudibaculovirinae, Ichnovirus and Bracovirus, and double stranded nonenveloped DNA 


insect viruses from the family Iridoviridae.
14. The direct ligation virus vector of Claim 13 wherein the virus is the Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus
(AcMNPV) .
15. The direct ligation virus vector of Claim 12 wherein two recognition sites for a restriction endonuclease which does not cut the viral genome are inserted into the viral genome.
16. The direct ligation virus vector of Claim 12, wherein the DNA fragment is inserted at any region of the viral genome which is nonessential for viral replication in cultured cells. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
