<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629316</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OPTICAL SELF-HETERODYNE REMOTE ANTENNA SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B10152	H01Q326	H01Q326	H04B1006	H04B10152	H04B1006	H04B1004	H04B10142	H04B1004	H04B10142	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H01Q	H01Q	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B10	H01Q3	H01Q3	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	H04B10	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method are disclosed for use in an antenna remoting system. The apparatus comprises a single source of laser light having an output characterized by two distinct polarizations and at least two closely separated frequencies, and a fiber optic communications link joined to the source and having a modulator therein which is driven by a radio frequency information signal such that said modulator produces a beat frequency output which is a function of the sum of the two closely separated frequencies.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATX TELECOM SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ATX TELECOM SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEILABADY PEDRAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEILABADY, PEDRAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the general subject of fiber optical systems
and, in particular, to methods and apparatus utilizing doubly-polarized
lasers for remote antenna applications, and the like.One important use of fiber optics is in antenna remoting
applications. In such an application wide bandwidth (multi-channel) radio
frequency (RF) information is remotely collected and converted into an
analog signal for transmission over the ground. Systems based on antenna
remoting technology are often deployed as listening stations to gather
information for intelligence purposes. Antenna remoting is also used
where geographic barriers prohibit the use of high power or the housing
of processing electronics at the receiver. The remotely located antenna
can receive standard radio and television signals as well as military (RF)
transmissions, over a very wide range of frequencies (virtually the entire
RF spectrum). Very large amounts of data must be transmitted at high
speed and often the system must be easily transportable. Consequently,
conventional transmission via copper coaxial cable or RF waveguides
(i.e., metal pipes or tubes) is not practical.Converting the RF signals into an optical analog output for
transmission through a fiber-optic cable is necessary in order to avoid the
bandwidth and loss limitations of coaxial cables or waveguides.
Externally modulated, fiber-optic links are one means of antenna 
remoting for ground-based systems (e.g., See US Patent 4,070,621).
Elementary antenna remoting systems have used two polarized laser
sources and single mode optical fiber between the sources and the
modulator. Direct modulation detection is used. This approach is
relatively inexpensive, although there is a 3 dB power budget penalty.One difficulty of conventional antenna remoting systems is that such
systems are sensitive to environmental effects. A "standard" single mode
fiber carries two polarization modes. In a perfect waveguide without any
external environmental effects, those two polarization modes will be
degenerate (i.e. they will be in phase). As you introduce variations, either
through an external effect, such as small temperature changes or just
because it is difficult to make a perfect, totally unstressed waveguide, the
two polarization modes will lose their degeneracy, introducing a phase
difference between them. Thus, a polarized input light signal will tend to
transfer power between those two polarization modes, thereby scrambling
the polarization signal. So, in the real world, singlemode
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for use in an antenna remoting system in which radio frequency
information is collected remotely and converted into an analog signal for

transmission, said apparatus comprising:

a) a single source (10) of laser light; and
b) a fiber optic communications link, joined to said source (10) and
having a modulator (30;40) therein, that operates in response to a radio frequency

information signal;

   characterised in that said source (10) has an output characterised by two
distinct polarisations and at least two closely spaced frequencies; and in that said

modulator (30;40) produces a beat frequency output that is a function of the sum of
said two closely separated frequencies, said beat frequency output having radio

frequency sidebands corresponding to said radio frequency information signal.
The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said source comprises a laser having as an
output two frequencies which are separated by an adjustable and predeterminable

amount.
The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said amount is adjustable between 0 and
1/2 υ
c
 where υ
c
 is the cavity mode spacing.
The apparatus of Claim 2 or 3, wherein said amount is adjustable between 0.1
and 4.0 GHz.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said source comprises a laser
light source and is characterised by two linear and orthogonal polarization modes.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said source comprises a solid-state
diode-pumped laser having a cavity formed by two mirrors (12,22) and having

an etalon (20) between said two mirrors. 
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said modulator is an intensity
modulator (30).
The apparatus of any of Claims 1 to 6, wherein said modulator is a phase
modulator (40).
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said modulator is connected
to said single source by a polarization maintaining optical fiber (32).
The apparatus of Claim 9 when dependent upon Claim 7, wherein said fiber
(32) has eigen-axes which are aligned with those of said laser and at about 45° to

those of said modulator (30).
The apparatus of Claim 9 when dependent upon Claim 8, wherein said fiber
(32) has eigen-axes which are aligned to those of said source (10) and to those of said

modulator (40); and further including a polarizer (42) located at the output of said
modulator.
The apparatus of any of Claims 1 to 8, wherein said source (10) is connected
to said modulator (40) by a single-mode optical fiber (52); and further including:


c) a quarter-wave plate (50) located between said source (10) and said
modulator and having its fast axis at about 45° to the eigen-axes of said laser; and
d) a polariser located at the output of said modulator and having its fast
axis at about 45° to the eigen-axes of said modulator.
The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein said source of laser light
comprises one optical cavity having a solid lasant material (16) located therein, spatial

hole burning control means (14,18) located at each end of said lasant material (16),
and a mode selective means (20) located between said spatial hole burning control

means and one end of said cavity. 
The apparatus of Claim 13, wherein said spatial hole burning control means
comprises two quarter-wave plates (14,18) which are located at opposite ends of said

lasant material (16).
The apparatus of any preceding claim, further including:

converting means for converting said beat frequency output of said modulator
to a signal which is representative of said radio frequency information signal.
The apparatus of Claim 15, wherein said converting means includes receiver
means for heterodyning said beat frequency output with another frequency.
A fiber optic communications link comprising apparatus according to Claims
15 or 16, and an optical fiber (32;52) for connecting said modulator (40) to said laser

and to said converting means.
A method of reducing the noise content in a modulated optical signal travelling
through an optical fiber comprising the steps of:


providing a single source (10) of laser light; and
transmitting said light through a fiber optic communications link having a
modulator (30;40) therein which is driven by a radio frequency information signal;

    characterised in that said source (10) has an output characterised by two
distinct polarisations and at least two closely spaced frequencies; and in that said

modulator produces a beat frequency output which is a function of the sum of said
two closely separated frequencies, said beat frequency output having radio frequency

sidebands corresponding to said radio frequency information signal.
The method of Claim 18, where said providing step is performed using a laser
having an output characterised by two frequencies which are separated by an

adjustable and predeterminable amount and by two linear and orthogonal polarization
modes. 
The method of Claim 18 or 19, where said transmitting step is performed by
using a polarization maintaining optical fiber (32) and a phase modulator (40).
The method of Claim 18 or 19, where said transmitting step (b) is performed
by using an optical fiber (32) having eigen-axes which are aligned with those of the

laser and at about 45° to those of the modulator and by using an intensity modulator
(30).
The method of Claim 18 or 19, where said transmitting step is performed by
using an optical fiber (32) having eigen-axes which are aligned to those of said laser

(10) and to those of said modulator; and further including the step of:

locating a polarizer (42) at the output of said modulator.
The method of any of Claims 18 to 22, where said providing step is performed
using a source which is connected to said modulator (40) by a single-mode optical

fiber (52); and further including the steps of:

locating a quarter-wave plate (50) between said source and said modulator to
have its fast axis at about 45° to the eigen-axes of said laser; and
locating a polarizer having its axis at about 45° to the eigen-axes of said
modulator.
The method of any of Claims 18 to 23, further including the step of:

heterodyning said beat frequency output with another frequency to convert said
beat frequency output of said modulator to a signal that is representative of said radio

frequency information signal.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
