<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626806</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF DIRECTING BIOSYNTHESIS OF SPECIFIC POLYKETIDES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01N4302	A01N4322	C07H1700	C07H1708	C12N121	C12N121	C12P1900	C12P1962	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01N	A01N	C07H	C07H	C12N	C12N	C12P	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01N43	A01N43	C07H17	C07H17	C12N1	C12N1	C12P19	C12P19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method to produce novel polyketide structures by designing and introducing specified changes in the DNA governing the synthesis of the polyketide is disclosed. The biosynthesis of specific polyketide analogs is accomplished by genetic manipulation of a polyketide-producing microorganism by isolating a polyketide biosynthetic gene-containing DNA sequence, identifying enzymatic activities associated within the DNA sequence, introducing one or more specified changes into the DNA sequence which codes for one of the enzymatic activities which results in an altered DNA sequence, introducing the altered DNA sequence into the polyketide-producing microorganism to replace the original sequence, growing a culture of the altered microorganism under conditions suitable for the formation of the specific polyketide analog, and isolating the specific polyketide analog from the culture.  The method is most useful when the segment of the chromosome modified is involved in an enzymatic activity associated with polyketide biosynthesis, particularly for manipulating polyketide synthase genes from Saccharapolyspora or Streptomyces.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONADIO STEFANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZ LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCALPINE JAMES B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DONADIO, STEFANO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KATZ, LEONARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCALPINE, JAMES, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF DIRECπNG BIOSYNTHESIS OF SPECIFIC POLYKEΗDESField of the Invention.The present invention relates to a method for directing the biosynthesis of specific polyketide analogs by genetic manipulation. In 

 particuar, polyketide biosynthetic genes are manipulated to produce precise, novel polyketides of predicted structure.1 0 Background of the InventionPolyketides are a large class of natural products that includes many important antibiotics and immunosuppressants such as erythromycins, tetracyclines, and rapamycins. Their synthesis proceeds by an ordered condensation of acyl esters to generate carbon chains of varying length and1 5 substitution pattern that are later converted to mature polyketides. This process has long been recognized as resembling fatty acid biosynthesis, but with important differences. Unlike a fatty acid synthase, a typical polyketide synthase is programmed to make many choices during carbon chain assembly: For example, the choice of "starter" and "extender" units,20 which are often selected from acetate, propionate or butyrate residues in a defined sequence. The choice of using a full cycle of reduction- dehydration-reduction after some condensation steps, omitting it completely, or using one of two incomplete cycles (reduction alone or reduction followed by dehydration), which determines the pattern of keto 25 or hydroxyl groups and the degree of saturation at different points in the chain is additionally programed. Finally the choice of stereochemistry for the substituents at many of the carbon atoms is programmed by the polyketide synthase.Because of the commercial significance of Streptomyces, a great3 0 amount of effort has been expended in the study of Streptomyces genetics.Consequently much is known about Streptomyces and several cloning•■* vectors exist for transformations of the organism.I ' Although many polyketides have been identified, there remainsΛ the need to obtain novel polyketide structures with enhanced properties. 3 5 Current methods of obtaining such molecules include screening of natural isolates and chemical modification of existing polyketides, both of which are costly and time consuming. Current screening methods are based on gross properties of the molecule, i.e. antibacterial, antifungal 

 activity, etc, and both priori knowledge of the structure of the molecules obtained or predetermination of enhanced properties are virtually impossible. Chemical modification of preexisting structures has been successfully employed, but it still suffers from
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for directing the biosynthesis of specific polyketide analogs by genetic manipulation of a polyketide-producing microorganism, said method comprising the steps of:
(1) isolating a polyketide biosynthetic gene-containing DNA sequence;
(2) identifying enzymatic activities associated within said gene- containing DNA sequence; (3) introducing one or more specified changes into said gene- containing DNA sequence which codes for one of said enzymatic activities resulting in an altered DNA sequence;
(4) introducing said altered DNA sequence into a polyketide- producing microorganism to replace the original sequence; (5) growing a culture of the altered microorganism under conditions suitable for the formation of the specific polyketide analog; and (6) isolating said specific polyketide analog from the culture.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein said polyketide biosynthetic gene- containing DNA sequence comprises genes which encode the enzymatic activities comprising a polyketide synthase.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said polyketide synthase enzymatic activities comprise β-ketoreductase, dehydratase, acyl carrier protein, enoylreductase, β-ketoacyl ACP synthase, and acyltransferase.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein said alteration which occurs in the DNA sequence results in the inactivation of one or more enzymatic activities involved in the processing of the β-carbonyl of said polyketide.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said inactivated enzymatic activities affecting the processing of the β-carbonyl of said polyketide comprise β-ketoreductase, dehydratase, and enoylreductase.
6. The method of claim 4 wherein said alteration in the DNA sequence results in the addition of one or more enzymatic activities involved in the β-carbonyl processing of said polyketide. 


 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said additional enzymatic activities are selected from the group consisting of β-ketoreductase, β-ketoreductase and dehydratase, and β-ketoreductase, dehydratase and enoylreductase.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein said alteration occurring in the
DNA segment results in the inactivation of one or more enzymatic activities involved in the condensation of carbon units to the nascent polyketide structure.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein said enzymatic activities affecting the condensation of carbon units to the nascent polyketide structure comprise β-ketoacyl ACP synthase, acyl carrier protein and acyltransferase.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein said alteration in the DNA sequence results in the change of tiie length of the polyketide synthesized.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein said alteration results in the increase of the length of the polyketide.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein said alteration comprises the addition of DNA sequences encoding the enzymatic activities consisting of acyltransferase, acyl carrier protein and β-ketoacyl ACP synthase.
13. The method of claim 10 wherein said alteration results in the decrease of the length of the polyketide.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein said alteration consists of the deletion of a DNA segment between two sequences encoding corresponding enzymatic activities.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein said corresponding enzymatic activities are selected from the group consisting of β-ketoreductases, dehydratases, acyl carrier proteins, enoylreductases, β-ketoacyl ACP synthases, and acyltransf erases.
16. The method of claim 1 wherein said alteration consists in the replacement of the DNA segment encoding an acyltransferase with a DNA segment encoding an acyltransferase of different specificity. 


17. The method of claim 1 wherein said DNA sequence is isolated from a spedes from the Actinomycetales family.
18. The method of daim 17 wherein said DNA sequence is isolated from a genus selected from the group consisting of Actinomyces, Dactylosporangium, Micromonospora, Nocardia, Sac, Streptoverticillium, and Streptomyces.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein said genus is selected from the group consisting of Saccharapolyspora and Streptomyces.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein said genus is Saccharapolyspora and the spedes is erythraea.
21. The method of claim 19 wherein said genus is Streptomyces and the species is hygroscopicus.
22. The method of claim 1 wherein said polyketide is selected from the group consisting of macrolides, tetracyclines, polyethers, polyenes, ansaymcins and derivatives or analogs thereof.
23. The method of daim 22 wherein said polyketide is a macrolide.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein said macrolide is an erythromydn.
25. The method of daim 24 wherein said erythromycin analog is selected from the group consisting of ll-oxo-ll-deoxyerythromycin A, 7- hydroxyerythromydn A, 6-deoxy-7-hydroxyerythromydn A, 7- oxoerythromydn A, 3-oxo-3-deoxy-5-desosaminylerytiιronolide A, Δ-6,7-. anhydroerythromydn A, ((14S,15S)14(l-hydroxyethyl)erythromydn A, 11- epifluoro-15-norerythromydnA, 14-(l-propyl)erythromydn A, 14(1- propyl)erytiιromycin A, and 14[l(l-hydroxypropyl)]erythromydn A.
26. The method of claim 1 wherein said DNA sequence, designated eryA, encodes the enzymatic activities associated with the formation of 6-deoxyerythronolide B. 


27. The method of daim 26 wherein said DNA sequence comprises: the DNA sequence of Figure 2.
28. The method of daim I wherein said gene-containing DNA sequence encodes one or more enzymatic activities in the rapamycin biosynthetic pathway.
29. The method of daim 23 wherein said macrolide is a rapamycin analog.
30. A compound selected from the group consisting of 7- hydroxyerythromycin A; 6-deoxy-7-hydroxyerythromydn A; 7- oxoerythromydn A, 3-oxo-3-deoxy-5-desosaminyl-erythronolide A; Δ-6,7- anhydroerythromydn A; ((14S,15S)14(l-hydroxyethyl)erythromydn A; 11- epifluoro-15-norerythromydn A; 14-(l-propyl)erythromydn A; 14(1- propyl)erythromycin A; and 14[l(l-hydroxypropyl)]erythromyάn A. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
