<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621996</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ANTENNA DIVERSITY RECEPTION IN WIRELESS PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B708	H04B708	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An antenna diversity technique for use in wireless personal communications is disclosed. In the so-called microcellular phone environment, fading in signal reception is an important consideration. A new way of performing antenna diversity involves antenna switching during a period of data reception which may result in minimum bit hits to data. The system requires only a single receiving part.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NORTHERN TELECOM LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH ROLAND ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, ROLAND, ANDREW
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Antenna diversity reception in wireless personal communications.Technical Field and Industrial ApplicabilityThe present invention generally is directed to wireless personal telecommunication. In particular, it is directed to a technology of antenna diversity reception of digital signals used in such tele¬ communication.Background Art In wireless personal telecommunication, fading causes the fluctuation of reception level and therefore deterioration in communications. As a method of reducing fading, a diversity reception has been widely performed. For example, if a plurality of antennas are set up at predetermined distances from each other, the probability of all signals from the antennas being simultaneously attenuated is small, hence high reliability is assured. Signal to Interference margins can be increased by as much as 10 dB when two antennas are used rather than one. Various kinds of diversity reception methods are known. U.S. Patent Nos. 4,696,058, issued September 22, 1987 (Tachita et al) and 4,977,616 issued December 11, 1990 (Linder et al), for example, teach diversity receivers which use two or more antennas and one receiver circuit. An antenna selection circuit switches to any one of the antennas in response to received signal strength indication generated by the receiver. U.S. Patent No. 5,097,484, issued March 17, 1992 (Akaiwa), on the other hand, discloses a system which uses two antennas and two receivers.In the wireless personal telecommunication environment, it is normally the cordless fixed part (often called base station) that performs antenna diversity reception because it is more difficult to provide more than one antenna in the cordless portable part (often called microcellular phone, handset or such name). In one system such as one taught in the above-referenced U.S. Patent No. 5,097,484, a link 

from the base station to a handset is carried out at one frequency and a link in the opposite direction is at a different frequency. In the digital communication environment, it is also possible to use a duplexer which permits two-way communication on a single frequency. U.S. Patent No. 5,067,173, issued November 19, 1991 (Gordon et al) describes such an arrangement.In most cases, if "perfect" diversity is assumed, a system requires a prior knowledge of the received signal strength indication (RSSI for short) at all antennas which can be selected. Such information can only be achieved through the use of dual receivers. In such an arrangement, the RSSI of the signal received on each
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In a process of performing antenna diversity in the reception of digital radio signals transmitted in time division pulse coded frames, each frame containing a fixed number of coded bits in a specific format, the process including steps of generating the RSSI (received signal strength indication) of one of a plurality of antennas, switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas to derive its RSSI and choosing the antenna with a larger RSSI for reception of the following digital radio signals, the invention being characterised in that: the above step of switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas is conducted to receive a predetermined number of bits in each frame, starting at a predetermined, numbered bit from the beginning of the frame which has a low significance in the specific format.
2. In the process of performing antenna diversity in the reception of digital radio signals transmitted in time division pulse coded frames, according to claim 1, wherein each frame contains a fixed number of coded bits in at least two specific formats, the first format consisting of D bits and B bits and the second format of D bits, preamble bits and sync bits, the step of switching further comprising steps of:
(a) when the digital radio signal is in the first format, switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas to receive a predetermined number of B bits in each frame, starting at a B bit which has the least significance in decoding, and
(b) when the digital radio signal is in the second format, switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas to receive a predetermined number of the sync bits in each frame.
3. The process of performing antenna diversity in the reception of digital radio signals according to claim 2, wherein when the digital 


radio signal is in the first format, the step of switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas is conducted at every preselected, numbered frame only.
4. The process of performing antenna diversity in the reception of digital radio signals according to claim 1, 2, or 3, comprising further steps of storing more than one value of RSSI and switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas at every preselected, numbered frame only, depending upon the values.
5. The process of performing antenna diversity in the reception of digital radio signals according to claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein there are no less than three antennas and the step of switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas is carried out in sequence.
6. The process of performing antenna diversity in the reception of digital radio signals according to claim 4, wherein there are no less than three antennas, the step of switching the antenna to one of the remaining antennas is carried out in sequence.
7. In an antenna diversity reception apparatus for a base station in the wireless personal communications system which uses digital radio signals transmitted in time division pulse coded frames, each frame containing a fixed number of coded bits in a specific format for data transmission and management, the apparatus comprising a plurality of antennas, a digital radio signal receiving part, an RF switch for switchably connecting one of the plurality of antennas to the receiving part, and an RSSI measuring means for measuring RSSI (received signal strength indication) of any one of the plurality of antennas which is connected to the receiving part, the invention being charaterised in that the apparatus further includes: 



 an antenna controller for controlling the RF switch so that one of the remaining antennas is connected to the receiving part for a predetermined number of bits in a frame which bits are sufficient to measure the RSSI and have small significance in decoding for data transmission and management, and the antenna controller further selecting one antenna as the best antenna according to the measured RSSI for the following digital radio signals.
8. The antenna diversity reception apparatus for a base station in the wireless personal communications system, according to claim 7, wherein each frame contains a fixed number of coded bits in at least two specific formats, the first format consisting of D bits and B bits and the second format of D bits, preamble bits and sync bits.
9. The antenna diversity reception apparatus for a base station in the wireless personal communications system, according to claim 8, further comprising storage means for storing more than one value of RSSI, and the antenna controller controlling the RF switch according to the stored values. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
