<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640266</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR COMPENSATION OF DARK CURRENT OF CCD-SENSOR IN DENTAL X-RAYING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B600	A61B600	A61B614	A61B614	H04N5217	H04N5217	H04N532	H04N532	H04N5335	H04N5335	H05G100	H05G160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	H05G	H05G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B6	A61B6	A61B6	A61B6	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H04N5	H05G1	H05G1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present method and device according to the invention is by a compensation signal to guarantee that picture element within preferably faintly exposed image areas in dental x-raying will be located within a desired signal level interval, which on a video monitor (25) is corresponding to the light intensity which should have been obtained with a dental x-ray film, to thereby on the video monitor (25) facilitate improved dynamics and thus obtain maximum imaging sensitivity for gray level variations, e.g., enamel and dentine in dental x-raying. Additionally is achieved that the strong dependence of the image sensor to, e.g., ambient temperature regarding its dark current is compensated by a signal processing device (20, 23) already upon generation of raw data for the image to thus utilize maximum possible image quality and resolution prior to subsequent processing by a processor (22) by means of a non-linear digitalization (21).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REGAM MEDICAL SYSTEMS AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
REGAM MEDICAL SYSTEMS AB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELVIG PER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NELVIG, PER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Method for compensation of dark current of CCD-sensor in dental X-raying Technical fieldThe present invention relates to a method to on a display obtaining a curve of luminous flux corresponding to a photo¬ graphic film when using an image sensor formed by a CCD member (Charge Coupled Device) instead of x-ray film for dental x-raying and more exactly to a method for compensation of dark current in the use of a CCD member for dental x-raying due to the CCD member having a strongly temperature and integration time dependent dark signal.Prior artIn dental x-ray examinations small pieces of photographic film encapsuled in what could be called a cover to protect the film to light have for a long time been used, whereby said cover was being brought into the oral cavity. This film particularly adapted for exposure by x-ray radiation is in darkness developed after exposure and removal of the cover in a normal way, whereby an image is obtained where e.g. the jawbone and teeth will appear lighter in the film than for example soft tissues due to the difference in material density.Today according to prior art the photographic film is replaced by electronic image sensors, usually in form of an image sensor of a CCD type (Charge Coupled Device). Such image sensing members are also frequently to be found in e.g. video technique but are then meant to especially operate within the wavelength range of visual light. The technique implies that immediately after the exposure with x-ray radiation a corresponding image is obtained for example on some type of display and thereby one avoids all of the developing process simultaneously as the radiation dose in most cases essentially is decreased due to that the image sensor itself may sense the necessary radiation dose to obtain the sufficient exposure. Such a system for dental x-raying named SEN-A-RAY is marketed for example by Regam Medical Systems AB, Sundsvall. 

When these images produced by the previously used dental x-ray film were evaluated, this was done by permitting light from behind to fall through the obtained image. The darkening of the film may be expressed by the optical density D as a function of the light intensity Ix reaching the eye relative to the light intensity I0 falling in.D = (optical density) = 10 log I„/IιIn a dental film D is basically proportional to the exposure dose. If one thereby, according to Fig. 2, draws a graph of the light intensity as a function of the optical density D a nonlinear curve having the largest slope at high material densities
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS
1. A method for dental x-ray imaging when utilizing an electronic image sensor (1) i form of e.g. a CCD member which is generating an output signal corresponding to each picture element of the image and which electrically over an interface device is connected to a video display (25) for the presentation of an image generated by the image sensor (1) upon exposure of the sensor with x-ray radiation, characterized in that the output signal level obtained from said image sensor (1) for each picture element by a non-linear function (21, 32) is transferred into a new signal level for further presentation on the video display (25), said new signal level being compensated to correspond to a predetermined intensity corresponding to the light intensity which should have been obtained by a dental x-ray film, by a compensation means (20, 32) the amplitude of the signal from each picture element of said image sensor (1) prior to other signal processing is influenced by the use of a correction signal (H, J) facilitating that the signal values of faintly exposed picture elements are caused to be at the beginning of a desired steep signal level interval ([a] of Fig. 2), said processor (22) is calculating said correction signal (H, J) prior to and during the exposure with x-ray radiation, whereby said correction signal is made dependent on both the dark signal of said image sensor and the x-ray radiation exposure time of said image sensor.
2. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that by said compensation means (20) the analog output signal obtained from said image sensor is subtracted, alternatively added to said analog correction signal (H) initially correspond¬ ing to the dark signal of said image sensor prior to x-ray radiation, such that the signal levels of unexposed picture elements are maintained at the beginning of the steep portion of said signal level interval ([a] of Fig. 2) for maximum imaging sensitivity in the image presented on the video display. 



3. The method according to claim 1
r
 characterized in that during exposure of said image sensor (1) with x-ray radiation the output signal obtained from said image sensor by said compensation means is subtracted from, alternatively added to the correction signal (H), which starting from the initial signal is changed in time in response to the time during which said image sensor (1) is subjected to x-ray radiation starting from the established dark signal in said image sensor prior to the exposure with x-ray radiation for adapting the signal level of the faintest exposed picture elements to be at the beginning of the steep portion of said signal level interval to obtain maximum imaging sensitivity for enamel and dentine in a dental x-ray image obtained with said image sensor (1).
4. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that by said compensation means (32) the output signal obtained from said image sensor (1), after A/D conversion of said analog output signal from said image sensor, is digitally compensated by said correction signal (J) which depends on the initial dark current of said image sensor prior to the x-ray radiation and of the time of x-ray radiation such that the signal level of unexposed and faintly exposed picture elements will be at the beginning of the steep portion of said signal level interval ([aj of Fig. 2) for maximum imaging sensitivity on said video display.
5. Device for utilization of the method according to claims 1 - 3, characterized by transfer means (21) having a non-linear transfer function for the output signal level obtained from said image sensor (1) for each picture element, such that the new signal level is compen¬ sated to correspond to the light intensity which should have been obtained by light going through an exposed and developed dental x-ray film, compensation means (20) in front of said transfer means (21) having the non-linear transfer function to ensure that said new signal level of the faintly exposed picture elements are 


compensated to be maintained at the beginning of said desired steep signal level interval ([a] of Fig. 2), an analog correction signal (H) via a D/A converter (23) controlling said compensation means, said correction signal over the processor (22) being controlled by the dark signal of said image sensor (1) prior to and during the exposure with x-ray radiation, whereby said correction signal is influenced by both the dark current of said image sensor and by the time of exposure.
6. Device according to claim 5, characterized in that said transfer means (21) having a non-linear transfer function is an analog circuit having a logarithmic or a similar non-linear transfer function.
7. Device according to claim 5, characterized in that said transfer means (21) having a non-linear transfer function is an analog-to-digital converter having a logarithmic or a similar stepwise or continuous non-linear transfer function.
8. Device according to claim 5, characterized in that said transfer means (21) having a non-linear transfer function is constituted by an analog-to-digital converter having at least a bit resolution corresponding to the desired digital non-linear transferred signal and a table preferably in form of a digital memory containing the corresponding tabulated values of a stepwise logarithmic or a similar non-linear transfer function.
9. Device according to any of claims 4 to 8, characterized in that a correction signal (G) is generated by means of a digital processor (22), preferably in form of a personal computer, and via a digital-to-analog converter (23) being transferred to a corresponding analog correction signal (H) which is fed back to said compensation means (20).
10. Device according to any of claims 4 to 9, characterized in 


 that said correction signal (H) initially upon an exposure
"
of said image sensor with x-ray radiation corresponds to a measure of the dark current and that said processor (22) during the exposure stepwise or continuously controls said correction signal as a function of exposure time such that it will be ensured that the signal level of the picture elements within faintly exposed image areas will be at the beginning of said desired steep signal level interval.
11. Device for utilization of the method according to claims 1 and 4, characterized by transfer means (32) having a non-linear transfer function for the output signal level via a digitizing mean (31) being obtained from said image sensor (1) for each picture element is compensated such that the new signal level is corresponding to a light intensity which on said video display corresponds to a light intensity which should have been obtained by light going through an exposed and developed dental x-ray film, by a correction signal (J) ensuring that the signal level for the faintly exposed picture elements will be compensated to be at the beginning of a desired steep signal level interval ( [a] of Fig. 2), in that said processor (22) precalculates said compensation signal (J) prior to and during the exposure of x-ray radiation whereby said compensation signal (J) is influenced by both the dark current of the image sensor and the image sensor x-ray exposure time. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
