<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0637387</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING COLOR COMPOSITES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01R3354	A61B5055	G01R3320	G01R33563	A61B5055	G01R3332	G06T100	G01R3356	G06T100	G01R3320	G01R3332	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01R	A61B	G01R	G01R	A61B	G01R	G06T	G01R	G06T	G01R	G01R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01R33	A61B5	G01R33	G01R33	A61B5	G01R33	G06T1	G01R33	G06T1	G01R33	G01R33	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention relates to an apparatus and method for producing a single color coded composite image from a number of multiparameter magnetic resonance images. Magnetic resonance images (22, 24, 26) are spatially aligned and acquired using different pulse sequences. A histogram of average pixel signal intensities is plotted for regions of interest in each image. Based on the histrogram color coefficients (17) are assigned to each image. Monochrome images (42, 44, 46) are created based on gray-tone images and the color coefficients. The monochrome images are combined (50) to produce a single composite image.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV SOUTH FLORIDA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN HUGH K
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROWN, HUGH, K.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method and 
apparatus for color coding a plurality of 
multiparameter images and the subsequent 
combination of the color coded images to a final 
composite image having a semi-natural appearance. 
More particularly, the invention is directed toward 
producing color composite images for displaying a 
semi-natural color rendition of anatomical, 
physiologic and pathological features. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a 
rapidly advancing technology which provides new 
opportunities for the enhanced visualization of 
anatomic, physiologic, and pathologic features by 
using a single diagnostic imaging modality. This 
technology is based on the principle that protons 
within body tissues and fluids can absorb and then 
subsequently emit radio frequency (RF) signals when 
placed in a strong magnetic field. It is the 
detection of the emitted RF signals from three-dimensional 
tissue voxels that provides data for 
the spatial location and contrast discrimination of 
specific tissues, which are ultimately displayed as 
pixels comprising a two-dimensional MR image. The 
intensity of each individual pixel is determined by 
several biophysical characteristics of the tissue 
within the voxel. These characteristics include  
 
longitudinal relaxation rate (T1), transverse 
relaxation rate (T2), proton density, and flow 
velocity and direction. To emphasize contrast 
patterns of specific tissues, different image 
acquisition parameters or pulse sequences are 
utilized to produce various types of "weighted" 
images. The selection of different pulse sequences 
allows for the generation of spin echo images that 
are T1-weighted, T2-weighted, or proton density 
weighted. Furthermore, gradient echo pulse 
sequences, or "fast scans", can be utilized to 
obtain images that possess additional unique 
tissue-contrast patterns. In each type of image, 
individual tissues appear differently based on 
their own inherent biophysical characteristics. Because the intensity characteristics of 
individual tissues in different types of MR images 
are dependent on the pulse sequence parameters 
selected for image acquisition, various persons 
have attempted to develop both gray-tone and color 
display methods for tissue characterization, based 
on pattern recognition or multispectral analysis 
techniques using multispectral MR image sets. In 
color cathode ray tube (CRT) systems and in color 
raster graphics, the process of additive color 
mixing creates a spectrum of colors through the 
superimposition of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing a single, color 
composite image from a plurality of multiparameter 

magnetic resonance images, the method including the 
steps of: 


obtaining a plurality of spatially aligned 
gray-tone magnetic resonance images at a plurality 

of predetermined pulse sequences to provide data of 
the spatial location and contrast discrimination of 

tissue voxels in the form of pixels having varied 
intensities; 
identifying selected regions of interest in 
each image representing similar tissues; 

determining average signal intensities of pixels 
within each region of intere
st for each image, 
assigning a different monochrome color to 
each of the images based on the signal intensities, 

pulse sequences and on a desired final color 
rendition of a composite image formed of the 

plurality of images, 
combining the plurality of gray-tone images 
with the monochrome color assigned to each image 

into a single composite image having pixels of 
varying hue, saturation and intensity forming the 

composite image having semi-natural anatomic 
appearance. 
A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the 
hue, saturation and intensity of the pixels of said 

composite image are based on the pixel intensities 
of the original gray-tone images and on the 

assigned monochrome colors.  
 
A method as set forth in claim 1 or claim 2 
further including producing monochrome color images 

of the plurality of gray-tone images by 
superimposing the monochrome color over its 

respective image forming pixels having varied 
saturation and intensity in each image. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding 
claims wherein the assignment of monochrome color 

includes producing coefficient values of the 
primary Red, Green and Blue colors for assignment 

to each image indicating a different monochrome 
color for each image. 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding 
claims further including producing monochrome image 

of spin-echo images by applying a different 
monochrome to each entire image. 
A method as set forth in claim 5 further 
including producing T
1
 -weighted images to obtain 
longitudinal relaxation rate characteristics, and 

assigning a monochrome color having the near equal 
coefficient of Red, Green, Blue. 
A method as set forth in claim 5 or claim 6 
further including producing T
2
 -weighted images to 
obtain transverse relaxation rate characteristics, 

and assigning a monochrome color having the 
greatest coefficient of green with respect of red 

and blue. 
A method as set forth in any of claims 5 to  
 

7 further including producing proton-density-weighted 
images to obtain proton density and flow 

velocity and direction characteristics, and 
assigning a monochrome color having the greatest 

coefficient of red with respect to green and blue. 
A method as set forth in any of claims 5 to 
8 further including producing gradient-echo images 

to obtain flow characteristics, and assigning a 
monochrome color having the greatest coefficient of 

red with respect to green and blue. 
A method as set forth in any of claims 6 to 
9 further including producing T
2
-weighted images to 
obtain transverse relaxation rate characteristics, 

and assigning a monochrome color having the 
greatest coefficient of green with respect to red 

and blue. 
A method as set forth in claim 10 further 
including producing proton-density-weighted images 

to obtain proton density and flow velocity and 
direction characteristics, and assigning a 

monochrome color having the greatest coefficient of 
red with respect to green and blue. 
A method as set forth in claim 11 further 
including producing gradient-echo images to obtain 

flow characteristics, and assigning a monochrome 
color having the greatest coefficient of red with 

respect to green and blue.  
 
A method as set forth in any of the preceding 
claims further including determining a final color 

appearance based on expected and ideal color of 
selected regions of interest, and determining the 

predominant region of interest generated by each 
image, associating same with the ideal color. 
A method as set forth in claim 13 further 
including assigning the image with the predominant 

region of interest to a greater coefficient value 
of the primary color selected for the ideal color 

composite representation. 
An apparatus for producing a single, color 
composite image from a plurality of multiparameter 

magnetic resonance images, said apparatus 
comprising:
 
   imaging means (12) for obtaining a plurality 

of spatially aligned gray-tone magnetic resonance 
images at a plurality of predetermined pulse 

sequences to provide data of the spatial location 
and contrast discrimination of tissue voxels in the 

form of pixels having varied intensities; and
 
   characterized by processor means (16) for 

receiving a plurality of gray-tone images, for 
identifying average signal intensities of selected 

regions of interest for each image, for associating 
a different monochrome color to each of said images 

based on the signal intensities, pulse sequences 
and on a desired final color rendition of a 

composite image formed of the plurality of images, 
and for combining the monochrome colors and 

respective images to produce a single composite  
 

image having semi-natural anatomic appearance. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 15 further 
characterized by including display means (18) for 

displaying the graphic illustration of the gray-tone 
and colored composite images. 
An apparatus as set forth in claim 16 further 
characterized by said processor means (16) 

including in memory means (17) for storing a 
plurality of color coefficient value tables 

identifying pulse sequence combinations and color 
assignments of red, green and blue to each 

independent image based upon the average signal 
intensities. 
A method of producing and subsequently 
analyzing a single, color composite image produced 

from a plurality of multiparameter magnetic 
resonance images at a plurality of predetermined 

pulse sequences, the method including the steps of: 

obtaining a plurality of spatially aligned 
gray-tone magnetic resonance images and identifying 

selected regions of interest in each image 
representing similar tissues; 
determining average signal intensities of 
pixels within each region of interest for each 

image; 
assigning a different color to each of the 
images according to said signal intensities, pulse 

sequences, and a desired final colour rendition of 
the composite image, and combining said images with 

said assigned colors into a single composite image;  
 

identifying for analysis a region of interest 
in the composite image, 
identifying the proportional color 
contributions of red, green and blue of the 

selected region of interest; 
analyzing the color coefficient values 
originally assigned to each independent image for 

the production of the color composite image and the 
average signal intensities of the regions of 

interest provided by each image; 
listing potential anatomical, physiological or 
pathological features associated with the analyzed 

region of interest based on the proportional 
influence from each color contribution and image 

which produced the composite. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
