<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613347</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
USING LED HARMONIC WAVELENGTHS FOR NEAR-INFRARED QUANTITATIVE MEASUREMENTS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B500	A61B500	A61B5024	A61B5024	A61B5145	A61B5145	A61B51455	G01N2131	G01N2135	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	A61B5	G01N21	G01N21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument (10) for measuring a constituent of a sample material is disclosed which effectively utilizes energy in the 1200 to 1800 nanometer wavelengths regions by isolating and employing harmonic wavelengths emitted by typical, low cost commercially available light emitting diodes (LEDs) (16, 17) or infrared emitting diodes (IREDs) (16, 17). The analysis instrument (10) utilizes these very desirable wavelength regions for quantitative analysis measurements by interposing suitable narrow bandpass filters (26, 27) which permit passage of only the selected harmonic wavelengths.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUTREX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FUTREX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL ROBERT D
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 USING LED HARMONIC WAVELENGTHS FOR NEAR-INFRARED QUANTITATIVE MEASUREMENTSBackground of the Invention Field of the Invention This application is a continuation-in-part of copending application serial no. 544,580, filed June 27, 1990, now U.S. Patent 5,086,229, which is a continuation-in-part of serial no. 298,904, filed January 19, 1989, now U.S. Patent 5,028,787. This invention relates to instruments and methods for the non-invasive quantitative measurement of constituents in material samples, such as protein in wheat and glucose levels in a test subject's blood. Specifically, this invention relates to a novel near- infrared quantitative measurement instrument which utilizes harmonic wavelengths of light emitting diodes (LEDs) .Description of the Background ArtThe use of LEDs and IREDs as energy sources for near-infrared measurements is a well established art.For example, thousands of TREBOR-90 XL Wheat and Barley Testers, which use IREDs as energy sources, are currently being used in country elevators for measuring the protein and moisture content in wheat and barley. Similarly, over 10,000 FUTREX-5000 Body Composition Analyzer Instruments, which also utilize IREDs, are 

 currently being used in medical institutions, health clubs and sporting teams for measuring percent body fat. Also, a combination of LEDs and IREDs are currently being used in non-invasive near-infrared quantitative analysis instruments to assess the chemical composition of the blood, such as measurement of blood glucose levels.One common limitation of the current generation of instruments which use LEDs/IREDs is that they are generally limited to wavelengths below approximately 1100 nanometers. This limitation is primarily due to the fact that the longest wavelengths emitted by commercially available, low cost LEDs/IREDs is typically approximately 950 nanometers. Even with the use of narrow bandpass ilters located outside the IRED's half power bandwidth (see U.S. Patent Number 4,286,327, incorporated herein by reference), typical IREDs do not provide a practical means of making measurements above approximately 1050 nanometers. Although there are commercially available IREDs having wavelengths between 1000 and 1700 nanometers, such energy sources are extremely expensive and have a very low power output. For example, Model IR-1300 (UDT Sensors, Inc.) is an IRED that emits 20 microwatts of optical energy at 1300 nm and costs more than $30. In comparison, a typical LED emits approximately 1000 times more energy and costs less than
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims :
1. A near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument for non-invasive measurement of a constituent present in a sample material, comprising: (a) introducing means including a near- infrared energy source for introducing near-infrared energy into said sample material, said near-infrared energy source emitting near-infrared energy at a peak wavelength and at harmonic wavelengths; (b) filter means for filtering said near- infrared energy at said peak wavelength and for passing energy only at a selected one of said harmonic wavelengths;
(c) detecting means for detecting near- infrared energy emerging from the sample material;
(d) processing means for processing an electric signal produced by said detecting means into a signal indicative of the quantity of said constituent present in said sample. 2. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 1 wherein said near- infrared energy source is an light emitting diode (LED), or an infrared emitting diode (IRED).
3. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 1 wherein said peak wavelength of said near-infrared energy source is at approximately 604 nanometers.
4. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 3 wherein said near- infrared energy source is a near-infrared energy source having a harmonic wavelength at approximately 1200 nanometers.
5. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 1 wherein said filter 


 means permits the passage of energy only at approximately 1200 nanometers.
6. A near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument for non-invasive measurement of a blood analyte present in a body part of a subject, comprising i
(a) introducing means including a near- infrared energy source for introducing near-infrared energy into said body part of said subject, said near- infrared energy source emitting near-infrared energy at a peak wavelength and at harmonic wavelengths;
(b) filter means for filtering said near- infrared energy at said peak wavelength and for passing energy only at a selected one of said harmonic wavelengths;
(c) detecting means for detecting near- infrared energy emerging from said body part of said subject;
(d) processing means for processing an electric signal produced by said detecting means into a signal indicative of the quantity of said blood analyte present in said body part of said subject.
7. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 6 wherein said blood analyte is a blood glucose level present in the blood in said body part.
8. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 6 wherein said near- infrared energy source is a light emitting diode (LED) or IRED.
9. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 6 wherein said peak wavelength of said near-infrared energy source is at approximately 604 nanometers. 


 10. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 9 wherein said near- infrared energy source is a near-infrared energy source having a harmonic wavelength at approximately 1200 nanometers.
11. The near-infrared quantitative analysis instrument set forth in claim 6 wherein said filter means permits the passage of energy only at approximately 1200 nanometers. 12. A non-invasive method for quantitatively analyzing a constituent present in a sample material, comprising:
(a) introducing near-infrared energy from a near infrared energy source into said sample material, said near-infrared energy source emitting near-infrared energy at a peak wavelength and at harmonic wavelengths;
(b) filtering said near-infrared energy at said peak wavelength and passing energy only at a selected one of said harmonic wavelengths;
(c) detecting near-infrared energy emerging from the sample material; and
(d) processing an electric signal produced by said detecting means into a signal indicative of the quantity of said constituent present in said sample.
13. The non-invasive method as set forth in claim 12 wherein said peak wavelength of said near-infrared energy source is at approximately 604 nanometers.
14. The non-invasive method as set forth in claim 13 wherein said near-infrared energy source is a near- infrared energy source having a harmonic wavelength at approximately 1200 nanometers. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
