<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612277</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS FOR ALLOY MIGRATION SINTERING.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B22F102	B22F102	B22F310	B22F310	B22F311	B22F311	B22F500	B22F500	B23K3502	B23K3502	C22C1100	C22C1106	C22C4900	C22C4914	C23C1458	C23C1458	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B22F	B23K	B23K	C22C	C22C	C22C	C22C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B22F1	B22F1	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F3	B22F5	B22F5	B23K35	B23K35	C22C11	C22C11	C22C49	C22C49	C23C14	C23C14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Methods for fabricating a sintered element from unsinterable material, utilizing the property that it will form a eutectic composition or alloy with a suitable alloying agent at a temperature which is below the plastic deformation temperature of the material. Discrete particles of the material to be sintered are coated with a thin coating of the alloying agent and are packed into position to be sintered. Then, the coated grains or wire pieces are heated so that at least the coating and the regions of the grains just below the coating are slowly raised in temperature. Diffusion regions of alloying agent into the grains of the sinterable material will occur. Further heating continues so at least the diffusion regions increase in temperature to slightly above the eutectic melting point. Localized melting of the diffusion regions occurs where the eutectic concentration is reached, and adjacent grains begin to share the localized melting regions and become mutually wet. The alloying agent continues to diffuse, and drops in concentration, so that it freezes out of the localized melting regions. The melting point of the melting regions tends to rise, and the wetted melted regions freeze to form a sintered and solid element.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DERAFE LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DERAFE, LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FELDSTEIN ROBERT S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FELDSTEIN, ROBERT S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHODS FOR ALLOY MIGRATION SINTERINGFIELD OF THE INVENTION:This invention relates to methods of alloy migration sintering whereby sintered and solid elements of an otherwise unsinterable material, combined with a surface coating of a suitable alloying agent, may be formed. The invention provides methods by which various solid elements of the otherwise unsinterable material may be produced, not the least of which is electrodes for batteries. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:Fusion of eutectic compositions is a well-known phenomenon. Fusion essentially means melting, and eutectic fusion describes the phenomenon of a combination of two materials at a generally closely defined temperature which is well below the melting point of either of those materials itself. Thus, the melting point of the first material lowers as some quantity of the second material is added to it, until a certain temperature called the eutectic melting point, which is the lowest melting point for the particular composition. Thereafter, as the ratio of the two elements is increased in the favor of the second element, the melting point again begins to arise. The composition at which the lowest melting point occurs is the eutectic composition, and is expressed in terms of percentages of the two elements or materials being alloyed. A typical, and very well known, eutectic composition is one which the present invention particularly utilizes in a principal application of the invention. That is the eutectic composition of tin and lead, which occurs when there is a mixture 

 of 37% of lead with 63% of tin. Its eutectic melting point is 361"F.A number of other elements and materials exist, however, for which eutectic compositions can be made of those materials together with suitable alloying agents. They include numerous ferrous materials such as nickel vanadium steel, ref actories, certain ceramics, and so on.Because the eutectic melting point of a eutectic composition of a material together with its alloying agent occurs at a temperature below the melting point of either the material or the alloying agent itself, as a composition comprising a material together with an alloying agent increases in temperature, it will first reach the eutectic melting point for that combination of materials and the mixture becomes molten. When the mixture becomes molten, it becomes wet, so that a certain amount of flow of the molten eutectic composition can be expected to occur. It is these features of which the present invention is particularly cognizant, and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of fabricating a sintered and solid element from an unsinterable material which has the property that an alloy of that material can be made using an alloying agent and where diffusion of the alloying agent into the unsinterable material will occur at a first temperature below that at which plastic deformation of the unsinterable material will occur, and further having the property that a eutectic melting point of a eutectic composition the unsinterable material and the alloying agent exists at a temperature below the plastic deformation range of the unsinterable material, which method comprises the steps of: (a) coating discrete pieces of said unsinterable material with a thin coating of said alloying agent;
(b) packing said discrete pieces into a position where they are to be sintered to form a sintered and solid element;
- (c) exposing said discrete pieces to a source of heat so that at least the coating and the regions of said discrete pieces just below said alloying agent coating are slowly raised in temperature towards said first temperature, so that diffusion of said alloying agent into the discrete pieces of the unsinterable material will occur, and thereby form diffusion regions at the interface between said coating and said unsinterable material, with a eutectic composition of said unsinterable material and said alloying agent occurring within said diffusion regions;
(d) thereafter, further exposing said coated discrete pieces of said unsinterable material to sufficient heat that at least said diffusion regions 


 of said discrete pieces increase in temperature to a second temperature slightly above said eutectic melting point, so that localized melting and thickening of said diffusion regions occurs so as to form molten surfaces of said discrete pieces, said molten surfaces comprising substantially isothermal eutectic compositions, whereby adjacent discrete pieces begin to share the localized melting regions and become mutually wet; (e) maintaining said second temperature substantially constant, whereby said alloying agent continues to diffuse, thereby lowering the concentration of said alloying agent in said molten surfaces and raising the melting the melting point thereof, so as to cause said molten surfaces to re¬ solidify, thereby bonding adjacent discrete pieces of said unsinterable material with fabrication of a sintered and solid element thereof being achieved; and (f) thereafter, removing said sintered and solid element and said source of heat away from each other so that said sintered and solid element is permitted to cool.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said coated discrete pieces are chosen from the group consisting of particles, grains, fibers, chopped pieces of wire, lengths of wire of said unsinterable material, platelets, and discs.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said coated discrete pieces are lengths of wire of said unsinterable material that have been previously coated or plated with said alloying agent and thereafter have been woven into a mesh, and 


 thereafter crushed or pressed together at least at the points where individual strands of said wire cross one another.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said coated discrete pieces are pieces of wire of said unsinterable material that have been previously coated or plated with said alloying agent and thereafter have been cut or chopped into small pieces.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein said unsinterable material is chosen from the group consisting of lead, ferrous metals, ferrous alloys, ceramics, refractories, nickel vanadium steels, lead calcium alloys, lead antimony alloys, cobalt based alloys, and titanium based alloys.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said alloying agent may be any one of the group consisting of tin, calcium, nickel, silver, niobium, gold, and rare earths.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said coated discrete pieces are grains of lead, and said alloying agent is tin.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein at least a portion of said coated discrete pieces of said unsinterable material are heat bonded to a substrate as a constituent first part of step (b) , followed in step (b) by further placement of the remaining amount of said unsinterable material to be used to fabricate said sintered and solid element. 


 9. The method of claim 5, wherein at least a portion of said coated discrete pieces of said unsinterable material are heat bonded to a substrate as a constituent first part of step (b) , followed in step (b) by placement of a further small quantity of said alloying agent with said discrete pieces.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein at least a portion of said coated discrete pieces of said unsinterable material are heat and pressure bonded to a substrate as a constituent first part of step (b) , followed in step (b) by further placement of the remaining amount of said unsinterable material to be used to fabricate said sintered and solid element.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein said coated discrete pieces are grains of lead, and said alloying agent is tin.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein said coated discrete pieces are grains of lead, and said alloying agent is tin.
13. The method of claim 5, wherein step (b) is carried out by placing said coated discrete pieces into a tinker's dam surrounding the area between two ends of wire to be joined together.
14. The method of claim 7, wherein sufficient tin is coated on grains of lead to form a eutectic tin/lead solder of €3% tin and 37% lead, with a eutectic melting point of 361
*
F; and wherein the final ratio of tin to lead in the fabricated 


 sintered and solid element formed thereby is in the range of 1:10 to 1:1,000,000.
15. The method of claim 8, wherein said discrete pieces are lead coated with tin, and said eutectic composition is a eutectic tin/lead solder of 63% tin and 37% lead, with a eutectic melting point of 361
*
F; and wherein the final ratio of tin to lead in the fabricated sintered and solid element formed thereby is in the range of 1:10 to 1:1,000,000.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein said discrete pieces are lead coated with tin, and said eutectic composition is a eutectic tin/lead solder of 63% tin and 37% lead, with a eutectic melting point of 361'F; and wherein the final ratio of tin to lead in the fabricated sintered and solid element formed thereby is in the range of 1:10 to 1:1,000,000.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein said discrete pieces are lead coated with tin, and said eutectic composition is a eutectic tin/lead solder of 63% tin and 37% lead, with a eutectic melting point of 361
*
F; and wherein the final ratio of tin to lead in the fabricated sintered and solid element formed thereby is in the range of 1:10 to 1:1,000,000.
18. The method of claim 5, wherein at least a portion of said coated discrete pieces of said unsinterable material are bonded to a substrate that has been previously surface treated with the implantation of ions of said unsinterable material 


 on said surface, followed by sintering at least a portion of said coated discrete pieces to the implanted unsinterable material by following steps (c) , (d) , and (e) , all as a constituent first part of step (b) ; followed in step (b) by further placement of any remaining amount of said unsinterable material to be used to fabricate said sintered and solid element.
19. The method of claim 7, wherein at least a portion of said coated grains of lead are bonded to a substrate that has been previously surface treated by one of the group of surface treatment steps consisting of ion bombardment, plasma spraying, electroplating, pressure coating, and flame spraying, so as to implant ions of lead on said surface, followed by sintering at least a portion of said coated discrete pieces to the implanted unsinterable material by following steps (c) , (d) , and (e) , all as a constituent first part of step (b) ; followed in step (b) by further placement of any remaining amount of said unsinterable material to be used to fabricate said sintered and solid element.
20. The method of claim 7, wherein at least a portion of said coated grains of lead are bonded to a substrate that has been previously surface treated by one of the group of surface treatment steps consisting of ion bombardment, plasma spraying, electroplating, pressure coating, and flame spraying, so as to -implant ions of lead on said surface, followed by sintering at least a portion of said coated discrete pieces to the implanted unsinterable material by following steps (c) , (d) , 


 and (e) , all as a constituent first part of step (b) ; followed in step (b) by placement of a further small quantity of tin on the sintered layer of lead, and thereafter by further placement of any remaining amount of said coated lead grains and further execution of steps (c) , (d) , (e) , and (f) .
21. A method of fabricating a metallic element having a carbon based reinforcing fibre embedded therein, where said carbon fibre is chosen from the group consisting of graphite, pyrolytic graphite, and carbon; and where said metal has the properties that it may be ion implanted on a substrate and that it forms a eutectic with an alloying agent; wherein said eutectic has a eutectic melting point at a temperature below the plastic deformation range of said metal, said alloying agent, and said carbon fibre; which method comprises the steps of:
(a) ion implanting a shallow layer of said metal at the surface of said carbon fibre, and thereafter placing a thin coating of said alloying agent over said ion implanted metal;
(b) packing discrete pieces of said metal around the ion implanted surface of said carbon fibre in a volume having the form of the metallic element to be fabricated;
(c) exposing said discrete pieces of said metal, said alloying agent and said ion implanted metal to a source of heat so that they are slowly raised in temperature towards a first temperature where said alloying agent will diffuse into said ion implanted metal and into said discrete pieces of said metal, and thereby so as to form diffusion regions at the interface between said ion implanted metal and said discrete pieces with said alloying 


 agent, and so that a eutectic composition of said metal and said alloying agent occurs within said diffusion regions;
(d) thereafter, further exposing said discrete pieces of said metal, said alloying agent, and said ion implanted metal to sufficient heat that at least said diffusion regions increase in temperature to a second temperature slightly above said eutectic melting point, so that localized melting of said diffusion regions occurs so as to form molten regions which comprise substantially isothermal eutectic compositions, whereby adjacent discrete pieces and ion implanted metal begin to share localized molten regions and become mutually wet; (e) maintaining said second temperature substantially constant whereby said alloying agent continues to diffuse into said discrete pieces and said ion implanted metal, thereby lowering the concentration of said alloying agent in said molten regions and raising the melting point thereof, so as to cause said molten regions to re-solidify, thereby • bonding said carbon fibre and said discrete pieces with fabrication of solid metallic element having a carbon based reinforcing fibre embedded therein; and (f) thereafter, removing said metallic element and said source of heat from each other so that said solid metallic element is permitted to cool.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein said coated discrete pieces are chosen from the group consisting of particles, grains, fibers, chopped pieces of wire, lengths of wire of said unsinterable material, platelets, and discs. 


 23. The method of claim 22, wherein after step (a) and before step (b) , said carbon fibre is chopped or cut into a plurality of short pieces; wherein step (b) is carried out by mixing said plurality of short pieces of carbon fibre into a volume of discrete pieces of said metal; and wherein said metallic element is cast.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein step (a) is carried out so that said metal is ion implanted in said carbon fibre to a depth of about 10 to 20 atoms, and to a thickness of 1 to 3 atoms thick over the surface of said carbon fibre; and wherein said alloying agent is plated over said metal.
25. The method of claim 22, where said metal is lead and said alloying agent is tin.
26. A method of permanently joining together a pair of opposed surfaces by using a joining metal that has the properties that it will bond to the
■material of the surfaces to be joined and that it will form a eutectic composition with an alloying agent; wherein the eutectic compositions of said joining metal and said alloying agent has a eutectic melting point at a temperature below the plastic deformation range of the material of the surfaces to be joined, which method comprises the steps of:
(a) bonding a coating of said joining metal to each of said opposed surfaces to be permanently joined together;
(b) placing a thin coating of said alloying agent over said joining metal on each of said opposed surfaces to be joined; 


 (c) placing said opposed surfaces together so that they are closely mated to each other, and exposing said opposed surfaces to a source of heat so that at least the joining metal and the alloying agent are slowly raised in temperature towards said eutectic melting point so that diffusion of said - alloying agent into said joining metal will occur, and thereby form diffusion regions within said joining metal, with a eutectic composition of said joining metal and said alloying agent occurring within said diffusion regions;
(d) thereafter, exposing said opposed surfaces, said joining metal, and said alloying agent to sufficient heat that at least said diffusion regions increase in temperature to a second temperature slightly above said eutectic melting point, so that localized melting of said diffusion regions occurs so as to form molten regions which comprise substantially isothermal eutectic composition, whereby said opposed surfaces begin to share localized molten regions and become mutually wet;
(e) maintaining said second temperature substantially constant whereby said alloying agent continues to diffuse into said joining metal, thereby lowering the concentration of said alloying agent in said molten regions and raising the melting point thereof, so as to cause said molten regions to re-solidify, thereby bonding said opposed surfaces so as to permanently join them together; and
(f) thereafter, removing said permanently joined surfaces and said source of heat from each other so that the unitary structure thereby formed by said permanently joined surfaces and any 


 underlying structures associated with them is permitted to cool.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein said coated discrete pieces are chosen from the group consisting of particles, grains, fibers, chopped pieces of wire, lengths of wire of said unsinterable material, platelets, and discs.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein at least one of said opposed surfaces is irregular prior to step (a) , and after step (b) said opposed surfaces having complementary mating topologies.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein said joining metal is chosen from the group consisting of lead, ferrous metals, ferrous alloys, ceramics, refractories, nickel vanadium steels, lead calcium alloys, lead antimony alloys, cobalt based alloys, and titanium based alloys.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein said alloying agent may be any one o the group consisting of tin, calcium, nickel, silver, niobium, gold, and rare earths.
31. The method of claim 27, wherein said joining metal is lead, and said alloying agent is tin.
32. The method of claim 27, wherein said joining metal is bonded to each of said opposed surfaces by one of the group of surface treatment steps consisting of ion bombardment, plasma 


spraying, electroplating, pressure coating, and flame spraying.
33. The method of claim 27, wherein step (a) is carried out so that said joining metal is ion implanted in each of said opposed surfaces to a depth of 10 to 20 atoms, and to a thickness of 1 to 3 atoms above said surfaces; and wherein said alloying agent is plated over said joining metal.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein said joining metal is lead, and said alloying agent is tin.
35. The method of claim 26, wherein step (b) alternatively includes the step of placing an intermediate particulate coated powder layer between said opposed surfaces. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
