<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619767</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMPROVED COLLET AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING GRIPPING ACTION THEREOF.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B3120	B23B3120	G01N300	G01N322	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B31	B23B31	G01N3	G01N3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method (70) for manufacturing a machine tool collet (10) and a machine tool collet (10) having design parameters optimized to maximize its gripping strength. The collet (10) is of the type having a plurality of gripping jaws (16) spaced around a longitudinal axis (18) with resilient material between the jaws (16). The method (70) includes calculating the total torque generated on a bar passing through the collet (10) for a given collet configuration, including the torque generated just prior to a toggle condition occurring between the jaws (16) and the bar and the maximum moment force generated at a toggle condition. At least one of the design parameters of the collet (10), such as jaw thickness or number of jaws, is varied and the total torque generated is recalculated until the total torque reaches a maximum value for the given collet configuration.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWER TOOL HOLDERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
POWER TOOL HOLDERS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAAN ROGER J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KANAAN, ROGER, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 TITLE OF THE INVENTIONIMPROVED COLLET AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING GRIPPING ACTION THEREOFBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a collet, and more particularly to an improved collet having optimized parameters to maximize gripping strength, and a method for making same.U.S. Patent No. 2,346,706 to Stoner and assigned to the Jacobs Manufacturing Company describes a collet having a plurality of flat-sided gripping members. The gripping members are held in relative position equally spaced about a common axis. The spaces between the gripping members are filled with an adherent resilient material, such as rubber or rubber composition. The gripping members are also transversely perforated. In this case, the resilient rubber material not only fills the space between adjacent gripping members, but it also passes through the perforations in the gripping members thereby forming a plurality of longitudinally spaced continuous annular rings which hold the gripping members in desired relative positions. This collet was a significant improvement over the conventional split steel collets and is widely recognized today by those skilled in the art and commonly known as the Rubber-Flex® collet.However, prior to applicant's present invention, it was not known to optimize the gripping strength of the Rubber-Flex® collet by determining optimum design parameters for the gripping blades or "jaws." Although a number of jaws having varying thicknesses were utilized in the collets, it was not commonly believed that gripping strength could be maximized by deducing the optimum number of gripping jaws for a given configuration which would fit around the inner diameter of the collet while maintaining at least a minimum amount of the resilient material between the gripping jaws. Additionally, the thickness of the gripping jaws was 

generally not considered as effecting gripping strength. Typically, the jaw thickness was dictated by the size or inside diameter of the collet. In other words, smaller diameter collets had thinner jaw blades.U.S. Patent No. 5,123,663 to Mizocmchi discloses a method for determining the minimum number of segments for a metal collet by determining the range of a central angle (theta) where the geometrical moment of inertia for each segment is constant with respect to a line passing through the centroid of the section perpendicular to a radial direction of the collet. The patent discloses that the range of angle theta is less than 30° regardless of the thickness of the segment. Once the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 37
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for optimizing the gripping strength of a collet of the type having a plurality of gripping jaws spaced around a common axis with resilient material between the gripping jaws, said method comprising the steps of: determining the radial force of the gripping jaws upon a bar disposed through the collet, the radial force being dependent upon an axial force applied to the collet; determining the torque developed on the bar from the radial forces of the gripping jaws just prior to a toggle condition between the gripping jaws and the bar; determining the total moment force generated between the gripping jaws and the bar at toggle condition for a given toggle angle; varying the toggle angle until the total moment force between the gripping jaws and bar at toggle condition reaches a maximum; and determining the total torque on the bar by summing the torque prior to toggle and the maximum total moment force at toggle condition; whereby an optimum design for a given collet configuration can be determined by varying parameters of the collet design and determining the total torque on the bar until a maximum torque is determined for a given collet configuration.
2. The method as in claim 1, further including the step of varying the thickness of the gripping jaws for a given collet to determine the thickness of gripping jaw generating maximum total torque for a given collet configuration.
3. The method as in claim 1, further including the step of varying the number of collet jaws to determine the number of gripping jaws generating maximum total torque for a given collet configuration. 



 38
4. The method as in claim 1, further including the step of varying the collet jaw material to determine the type material generating maximum total torque for a given collet configuration.
5. The method as in claim 1, further including the step of varying the thickness and number of gripping jaws, to determine the combination of thickness and number of gripping jaws generating maximum torque for a given collet configuration.
6. The method as in claim 1, further including the step of varying the collet jaw thickness, number of collet jaws, and collet jaw material to determine the combination of thickness, number, and material of gripping jaws generating maximum torque for a given collet configuration.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein said determining the radial force of each gripping jaw includes determining the axial force imparted to the gripping jaws from engagement of the collet with a collet holder and collet nut and calculating the radial force from the applied axial force.
8. The method as in claim 7, wherein the axial force imparted by the collet nut and collet holder is calculated using known values for the parameters of the collet nut threaded surface.
9. The method as in claim 1, wherein said determining the torque just prior to toggle includes segmenting a gripping jaw into a predetermined number of segments along the length thereof, calculating the torque prior to toggle for each segment, summing the torques for all segments of the gripping jaw, and multiplying the summed torque for the segment by the number of gripping jaws in the collet.
10. The method as in claim 1, wherein said determining the total moment at toggle condition includes segmenting a gripping jaw into a predetermined number of segments along the length thereof, calculating the toggle 


 39 moment for each segment due to elastic deformation of the segment and the moment due to frictional force between the segment and bar, summing the toggle moments and frictional force moments for all segments along the gripping jaw, and multiplying the summed moment for all segments by the number of gripping jaws in the collet.
11. The method as in claim 1, further including predicting if slip will occur between the collet gripping jaws and bar for the particular geometry parameters of the gripping jaws.
12. A method for determining the optimum design for a given collet configuration for a collet having a plurality of gripping jaws spaced around a common axis with resilient material between the gripping jaws, said method comprising the steps of: calculating the total torque generated on a bar passing through the collet for a given collet configuration having predetermined design parameters, the total torque including torque generated just prior to toggle condition between the gripping jaws and the bar and the maximum moment force generated between the gripping jaws and the bar at toggle condition; and varying at least one design parameter of the collet and recalculating the total torque generated until the total torque generated reaches a maximum value for the given collet configuration.
13. The method as in claim 12, including varying the gripping jaw thickness to determine the optimum gripping jaw thickness for a given collet configuration.
14. The method as in claim 10, including varying the number of gripping jaws to determine the optimum number of gripping jaws for a given collet configuration.
15. The method as in claim 12, including varying the collet jaw material to determine the optimum jaw material for a given collet configuration. 


 40
16. A method for determining maximum collet torque for a collet configuration having predetermined design parameters, said method comprising: calculating radial force of the collet gripping jaws upon a bar disposed through the collet, the radial force being dependent upon an axial force imparted to the collet from nut torque between a collet nut and collet holder; calculating torque developed on the bar from the radial forces of the gripping jaws just prior to toggle between the gripping jaws and the bar; calculating moment due to toggle between the gripping jaws and the bar at a presumed toggle angle; incrementing the toggle angle and recalculating the total moment due to toggle in a repetitive loop until the total moment due to toggle reaches a maximum; and summing torque developed from the radial forces of the gripping jaws just prior to toggle and the maximum moment due to toggle.
17. A system for optimizing collet design parameters for a type collet having a plurality of gripping jaws spaced around a common axis with resilient material between the gripping jaws, whereby a bar passing through the collet is securely held by the gripping jaws, said system comprising: means for variably inputting design parameters of the collet of a given configuration; means for calculating the radial force of the collet gripping jaws upon the bar, said radial force being dependent upon an axial force applied to the collet through a collet holder and collet nut; means for calculating the torque developed on the bar from said radial forces of the gripping jaws just prior to toggle between the gripping jaws and the bar; means for calculating the maximum moment at toggle condition between the gripping jaws and the bar; and 


 41 means for summing the maximum moment at toggle condition and torque developed just prior to toggle to give a total torque developed on the bar by the gripping jaws for the inputted design parameters of the collet, whereby the total torque developed on the bar can be maximized by varying at least one design parameter through said design parameter inputting means so that an optimum set of design parameters can be determined.
18. The system as in claim 17, further comprising a computer, and said radial force calculating means, said torque calculating means, said moment calculating means, said toggle angle varying means, and said summing means comprising respective software executed by said computer.
19. The system as in claim 18, further comprising a library of known design parameters for various collet configurations for use by said software, said means for variably inputting design parameters being interfaced with said computer so that at least one of the design parameters can be varied.
20. The system as in claim 18, further comprising a library of known parameters for various collet nut geometries, said radial force calculating means using the collet nut geometry parameters to compute axial force imparted to the collet.
21. A collet torque slippage analysis method for calculating torque developed by a collet held by a collet nut and collet holder, comprising the steps of: calculating the maximum number of gripping jaws which can be disposed around the inner radius of the collet; defining the thread geometry of the collet mis¬ calculating the axial force per gripping jaw imparted from the collet nut being tightened onto the collet holder using the collet nut thread geometry; deriving the radial force per gripping jaw from the axial force per gripping jaw; 


 42 calculating the total torque due to frictional force between the gripping jaws and a bar disposed through the collet without slippage between the jaws and bar, the total torque due to frictional force being dependent upon the radial force per gripping jaw, the coefficient of friction, and the number of gripping jaws; determining if slip occurs between the gripping jaws and the bar based upon the geometry of the gripping jaws and the coefficient of friction between the gripping jaws and the bar; calculating the total torque developed between the gripping jaws and the bar just prior to a toggle condition between the gripping jaws and the bar, comprising the following steps: determining the engagement length between a gripping jaw and the bar; dividing the gripping jaw into a number of segments along the engagement length thereof; determining the torque per segment by summing the forces generated in the radial and tangential direction and summing moments about the center of the bar for each segment; determining the torque per gripping jaw by summing the torques per segment; and multiplying the torque per gripping jaw by the number of gripping jaws in the collet; calculating the total torque developed between the gripping jaws and bar at toggle condition between the gripping jaws and the bar at a first incremental toggle angle, comprising following steps; dividing a gripping jaw into a number of segments along the length thereof; calculating the moment generated for each segment due to the degree of elastic deformation of each section of the gripping jaw, and summing the moments for the segments along the gripping jaw; 



 43 calculating the moment generated for each segment due to the Coulomb friction force between the segment of gripping jaw and bar, and summing the moments for the segments along the gripping jaw; summing the total moment due to elastic deformation and total moment due to Coulomb friction force for the gripping jaw to give total torque at toggle for the gripping jaw; and calculating the total torque at toggle for all gripping jaws by multiplying the total torque at toggle for the one gripping jaw by the number of gripping jaws in the collet; repetitively incrementing the toggle angle and recalculating the total torque at toggle for all gripping jaws until the total torque at toggle reaches a maximum value; and summing the maximum total torque at toggle with the total torque developed just prior to toggle to give a value of total torque with toggle.
22. The method as in claim 21, further comprising the step of varying at least one of the design parameters of the collet and re-executing said program so as to determine the optimum value of the particular design parameter which maximizes the gripping strength of the collet, the gripping strength being directly proportional to the total torque toggle calculated by said program.
23. The method as in claim 22, comprising varying the number of collet gripping jaws in the collet.
24. The method as in claim 22, comprising varying the thickness of the collet gripping jaws.
25. The method as in claim 22, comprising varying the collet jaw material.
26. A machine tool collet which is actuated by engagement with a conical surface of a collet holder and collet nut, said collet comprising: 


 44 a resilient material for holding a plurality of gripping jaws in a desired spaced relation; gripping means for optimally holding a machine tool within said collet, said gripping means comprising a plurality of gripping jaws held by said resilient material in a desired longitudinally and angularly spaced relation about the longitudinal centerline axis through said collet, said gripping jaws having an exposed inner face parallel to the centerline axis whereby said plurality of gripping jaws define an inner radius of said collet, said gripping jaws having an angled exposed outer face whereby said plurality of gripping jaws defines a conical outer surface to engage the collet holder conical surface, and said gripping jaws comprising at least one structural characteristic optimized for maximizing the gripping strength of said collet.
27. The machine tool collet as in claim 26, wherein said gripping jaws have a thickness optimized to maximize the gripping strength of said collet.
28. The machine tool collet as in claim 26, wherein said gripping jaws are of a precise number optimized to maximize the gripping strength of said collet.
29. The machine tool collet as in claim 26, wherein said gripping jaws are formed of a material optimized to maximize the gripping strength of said collet.
30. The machine tool collet as in claim 26, wherein said gripping jaws have a thickness and are of a number optimized to maximize the gripping strength of said collet.
31. The machine tool collet as in claim 26, wherein said gripping jaws are formed of a plastic resilient material.
32. A machine tool collet comprising a plurality of independent longitudinally disposed gripping jaws molded in resilient material around the longitudinal centerline axis through said collet, said collet comprising an 


 45 angular space between each said gripping jaw optimized for maximizing the gripping strength of said collet, said resilient material occupying at least a portion of said angular space. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
