<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623017</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
WATER-BASED AMALGAM ADHESIVE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K600	A61K600	A61K602	A61K6083	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K6	A61K6	A61K6	A61K6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Dental adhesive containing water, acid-reactive filler, water-miscible acidic polymer, an ethylenically-unsaturated moiety, water-soluble reducing agent, water-soluble oxidizing agent and, optionally, photoinitiator. The adhesive has two curing modes, namely an acid-filler ionic reaction and a redox-initiated crosslinking reaction, and optionally, a photoinitiated crosslinking curing mode. The adhesive can be applied in one coat or two coats and is particularly well suited for use under amalgam.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING 
&
 MFG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AASEN STEVEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITRA SUMITA B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AASEN, STEVEN, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITRA, SUMITA, B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 WATER-BASED AMALGAM ADHESIVETechnical FieldThis invention relates to dental adhesives, and especially amalgam adhesives.Background Art Dental amalgams and restorative composites are used extensively for intracoronal and extracoronal restorations. Amalgam, however, does not adhere to tooth structure and the dentist must prepare the tooth cavity with dovetails and various cutout grooves that mechanically lock the amalgam into the cavity. Such preparation, however, results in excavation of more tooth structure than would otherwise be necessary if there was good adhesion between the tooth structure and the amalgam. Moreover, leakage at the interface of the amalgam and cavity wall (known as -"microleakage") tends to occur. This microleakage allows penetration of bacteria, soluble salts, and saliva into any space between the amalgam and tooth structure. This can lead to inflammation, pulp irritation, de ineralization of the tooth, corrosion of the amalgam, and other attendant complications. An adhesive seal between amalgam and tooth structure could minimize and/or prevent microleakage and allow for a stronger restoration due to excavation of less tooth material. Products claiming to make amalgam adhesive to tooth structure are available. One such product is sold in a kit under the trademark AMALGAMBOND™ (Parkell Co.). This product is a liquid adhesive to be coated directly onto tooth structure. The active ingredients in the adhesive include 4-META (4-methacryloxyethyl trimellitic anhydride) and TBB (tri-n butyl borane) . Other products which similarly involve coating a 

 specific curable resin directly onto tooth structure to make amalgam adhere are available under the trademarks PANAVIA™ Dental Adhesive (Kuraray Company) and SUPERBOND™ Adhesive (Sun Medical Co., Ltd., Kyoto, Japan) . These latter products also are difficult to employ, since there are a number of required preparatory steps for their application and curing.Articles that describe bonding of amalgam to tooth structure by precoating the tooth with ethylenically unsaturated adhesive resin include M.Staninec and M. Holt, Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry (1988), Vol. 59, pp. 397-402, A. Lacey and M. Staninec, Quintessence International (1989), Vol. 20, pp. 521- 524, Y. Aboush and C. Jenkins, Br. Dent. J. (1989), Vol. 166, pp. 255-257, Y. Aboush and R. Elderton, Br. Dent. J. (1991), Vol. 170, pp.219-222, and Y. Aboush and R. Elderton, Dent. Mater. (1991), Vol. 7, pp. 130- 132. The last article involves adhesion to previously- hardened amalgam,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition consisting of a) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, b) water-miscible acidic polymer, c) water-soluble reducing agent, and d) water-soluble oxidizing agent.
2. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the filler comprises metal oxide, metal salt or glass.
3. An adhesive according to claim 2, wherein the glass comprises fluoroaluminosilicate glass.
4. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the polymer comprises a homopolymer or copolymer of an alkenoic acid.
5. An adhesive according to claim 4, wherein the polymer comprises a copolymer of acrylic acid containing one or more ethylenically-unsaturated groups.
6. An adhesive according to claim 1, containing as a further component an ethylenically- unsaturated monomer.
7. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the reducing agent and the oxidizing agent are capable of initiating gelation of a 10:10:1 weight basis water:acrylamide:methylene bis-acrylamide mixture. 


 8. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the reducing agent is selected from the group consisting of ascorbic acid, cobalt (II) chloride, ferrous chloride, ferrous sulfate, hydrazine, oxalic acid, thiourea, and salts of a dithionite or sulfite anion.
9. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the reducing agent comprises ascorbic acid or thiourea.
10. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the oxidizing agent is selected from the group consisting of cobalt (III) chloride, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, ferric chloride, perboric acid and its salts, and salts of a permanganate or persulfate anion.
11. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the oxidizing agent comprises potassium or ammonium persulfate.
12. An adhesive according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive has two parts respectively containing glass and polymer, and one agent is packaged with the glass and the other agent is packaged with the polymer.
13. An adhesive according to claim 1, further comprising a chelating agent.
14. An adhesive according to claim 13, wherein said chelating agent is selected from the group consisting of tartaric acid, ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid, citric acid, and the salts thereof.
15. An adhesive according to claim 1, further comprising metal or alloy powder. 


 16. A method of adhering a metal or metal- containing restorative to a hard tissue comprising a) applying an adhesively effective amount of a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition consisting of i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, iii) water-soluble reducing agent, and iv) water-soluble oxidizing agent to the hard tissue; and b) placing said restorative on top of said adhesive composition.
17. A method of adhering a metal or metal- containing restorative to hard tissue comprising a) applying an adhesively effective amount of a first adhesive that is a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically unsaturated dental adhesive composition comprising i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, to the hard tissue; iii) water-soluble reducing agent; and iv) water-soluble oxidizing agent. b) curing said first adhesive; c) applying an adhesively effective amount of a second adhesive that is a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition comprising i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, iii) water-soluble reducing agent, and iv) water-soluble oxidizing agent to the first adhesive; d) placing said restorative on top of said second adhesive composition. 


 18. The method of adhering a metal or metal- containing restorative to hard tissue comprising a) applying an adhesively effective amount of a first adhesive that is a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition comprising i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, and iii) a photoinitiator to the hard tissue; b) curing said first adhesive by exposure to visible light; c) applying an adhesively effective amount of a second adhesive that is a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition comprising i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, iii) water-soluble reducing agent, and iv) water-soluble oxidizing agent,
d) placing said restorative on top of said second adhesive composition.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said second adhesive further comprises a photoinitiator.
20. The method of claim 17, comprising a) applying an adhesively effective amount of a first adhesive that is a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition comprising i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, iϋ) water-soluble reducing agent, iv) water-soluble oxidizing agent, and v) a photoinitiator 


 to the hard tissue; b) curing said first adhesive by exposure to visible light; c) applying an adhesively effective amount of a second adhesive that is a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition comprising i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, iϋ) water-soluble reducing agent, iv) water-soluble oxidizing agent, and v) a photoinitiator to the first adhesive; and d) placing said restorative on top of said second adhesive composition.
21. A kit for adhering metal or metal- containing restorative to hard surfaces comprising a) a metal or metal-containing restorative; and b) an adhesive adapted to adhere said restorative to hard surfaces that is a water-containing ionically-hardenable, ethylenically-unsaturated dental adhesive composition comprising i) finely-divided acid-reactive filler, ii) water-miscible acidic polymer, iii) water-soluble reducing agent, and iv) water-soluble oxidizing agent.
22. The kit of claim 21, wherein said adhesive further comprises a photoinitiator. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
