<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615616</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PORTABLE SAMPLING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N110	G01N112	G01N110	G01N112	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	G01N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present disclosure is directed to a method and apparatus for removing a small sized sample from a very large tanker container. The tank is closed, a valve (11, 14) is mounted in the deck which closes the tank, and the present apparatus (10) attaches to that valve. This defines an open and close passage into the tank. A sample container (20) on a measured steel tape (25) is lowered through the passage into the tank and retrieves a measured sample. Sample container (20) is removed outside the tank in a sample transfer mechanism. The sample transfer mechanism incorporates a container filling head or assembly (40) which features a pair of needles (45, 47) which penetrate the septum (46) on the mouth of a half liter or liter container (48) which can be carried to a test facility after filling. Two needles are used, one to introduce the liquid into the container (48) and the other to vent the container fumes or any overflow, and the vented fumes and overflow are directed to a charcoal carbon filled filter (50).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACHAO A G
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MACHAO A.G.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUS BRUNO G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KLAUS, BRUNO, G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present disclosure is directed to an apparatus
for removing a sample from a liquid storage container such
as a hold below the deck of a tanker or the top or cover
of a fixed tank for receiving and storing thousands of
gallons of a liquid product. Also, it can be moved from
one tank to the next, both ship board or at fixed tanks in
a tank yard or the like. Examples will be used below
including barges, tanks and ships. The liquid products are
typically subject to vaporization. Indeed, they may be
formed of many constituent components so that there is a
tendency of the liquid in the storage container to
vaporize when exposed to the atmosphere. The several
constituents may have different vapor pressures. Some may
vaporize quite readily and others may vaporize rather
slowly, or perhaps not at all. As a generalization, these
products are described as petrochemical products. They are
normally valuable products but they are not freely vented
to the atmosphere for vaporization. Moreover, such
products have to be sampled, tested, measured and assayed.
It is not uncommon for the tank of a large vessel to be
quite deep, perhaps as much as 100 feet in depth, or about
30 meters. It is not uncommom for the storage compartment
of a tanker to be 10 meters in length. The petrochemical
cargo which is placed in such a large tank or container
can be very large and can fill the storage container
almost to the top of the container. In these situations,
it is necessary to make periodic measurements to test or
check the cargo in the tanker to assure that a product is
delivered which has a known purity. The device of this
disclosure is a measuring apparatus which can be used to
take a sample from a closed tank aboard a vessel. More
importantly, it is a device which can take a sample from a
controlled depth in a tank. Consider the example of an
ocean going vessel which has a large storage tank of 30 
meters in depth normally used to haul petrochemical
products. As a generalization, the bottom of the tank will
collect a layer of sediment and typically also a thin
layer of water will collect on top of the sediment. The
sediment will settle to the bottom of the tank by virtue
of the relative difference in the weight of the materials.
The water will settle to the bottom of the tank also
because it is normally heavier than most petrochemical
products. Most of the time, the petrochemical product
placed in the tank will float on the water. More than
that, it may stratify by separating into constituent
components. For instance if a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Sample system (10) for removing a sample from a
large tank comprising :


a sample container (20, 83),
an elongated tape (25) connected to said sample
container (20, 83) to be raised and lowered into a tank

to collect and hold a sample of liquid in the tank,
tank mounting means enabling said sample
container (20, 83) to be moved into and from the tank,

and
sample transferring means (40) connected to said
tank mounting means for transferring a sample of liquid

into a further container (48), the sample system being

characterised in that
 said sample container (20, 83)
comprises an upstanding, open top container having a

check valve (23, 76) at the bottom thereof, said check
valve (23, 76) having a check valve element protruding

therefrom which enables sample container discharge by
movement of said check valve element, 
in that
 said tank
mounting means have an internal member (19) through

which the sample container can be moved and an external
member (17) arranged around said internal member (19)

and spaced apart from the latter in order to form a
transfer cavity (38), and 
in that
 said system further
comprises means (39, 64) for applying pressur
e or
depression to said sample transfer cavity (38) to cause

the discharged liquid sample to flow from said sample
transfer cavity (38) to said further container (48)

external to said tank mounting means.
Sample system of claim 1 
characterized in that

said elongate tape (25) is spooled on a storage reel
connected with a hand crank (31) to enable said elongate

tape to be extended, and 
in that
 said elongate tape
incorporates calibrations thereon to determine the

distance by which said sample container is raised and
lowered into a tank.
Sample system of claim 1 
characterized in that

said sample transferring means comprises a liquid flow 
passage (39, 43) connected with said transfer

cavity (38) and further includes :

(a) a valve (41) connected to said passage (39, 43);
(b) means connected from said valve (41) to a
filling spigot (42) of said further container (48);
(c) seal means (46) for temporarily sealing said
further liquid sample container (48) during filling; and
(d) means (47) for controllably venting said liquid
sample container during filling into a filter

means (50).
Sample system of claim 3 
characterized in that

said sample transferring means further includes first
and second needles (45, 47) which are adapted to extend

into said liquid sample container (48), and 
in that
 said
liquid sample container (48) is constructed with a

flexible septum (46) over the top thereof which is
penetrated by a needle (45) enabling insertion into said

liquid sample container for delivery of sample into said
container (48).
Sample system of claim 3 
characterized in that

it further includes an alignment collar for said liquid
sample container.
Sample system of claim 3 
characterized in that

said venting means (47) connects from said liquid sample
container (48) through a needle (47) having a tip

inserted into said container and extending to said
filter means (50).
Sample system of claim 6 
characterized in that

said filter means (50) is a vertically elongate cylinder
having a vent (56) at one end thereof.
Sample system of claim 7 
characterized in that

said vented cylinder (50) encloses a charcoal carbon
filter material.
Sample system of claim 1 
characterized in that

said internal and external members (19, 17) are
cylindrical sleeves respectively and wherein said

cavity (38) is a narrow annular space.
Sample system (10) for removing a sample from a
large tank, said system comprising : 


an inlet (13) in said tank having valve
means (11, 14) therein for selectively opening or

closing said inlet;
a sample container (20, 83);
a sampler column over said inlet and comprising
an internal member (19) for receiving said sample

container (20, 83) and an external member (17)
surrounding said internal member (19) and spaced

therefrom so as to define a sample transfer cavity (38)
when said inlet (13) is closed;
a line (25) which spools over a storage
drum (30) for lowering said sample container (20, 83)

into said tank through said valve means (11, 14) when
said inlet (13) is open to collect a liquid sample of a

liquid in said tank, and raising said sample
container (20, 83) with a liquid sample therein into

said internal member (19);
said sample container (20, 83) comprising an
upstanding, open top container having a check valve (23,

76) at the bottom thereof for discharging the liquid
sample from said sample container into said sample

transfer cavity (38) while said sample container is
inside said internal member (19) and said inlet (13) is

closed; and
means (39, 64) for applying pressure or
depression to said sample transfer cavity (38) to cause

the discharged liquid sample to flow from said sample
transfer cavity (38) to a further container (48)

external of said mounting means.
Sample system as claimed in claim 10

characterized in that
 it further comprises container
mounting means for mounting said further container (48),

said container mounting means having thereon a first
connection (45) through which the discharged liquid

sample flows to said further container (48), said
container mounting, means including a second

connection (47) with said further container (48) forming
a vent passage from said further container directing

vented fumes through a filter means (50). 
Sample system of claim 11 
characterized in that

said first and second connections (45, 47) comprise a
pair of parallel needles having pointed tips enabling

insertion through a septum (46) closing said further
container (48).
Sample system of claim 12 
characterized in that

said further container (48) is a sized sample container
and includes a septum (46) over a mouth on said sized

sample container, and said sized sample container is
closed by a cap.
Method of removing a measured liquid sample
comprising the steps of :


(a) sinking a sample container (20, 83) from a tank
mounting means to a selected depth in a tank of stored

liquid to fill the sample container (20, 83) with a
sample;
(b) moving the filled sample container (20, 83) into
said tank mounting means which comprises an internal

member (19) through which said sample container (20, 83)
is moved and an external member (17) arranged around

said internal member (19) and spaced apart from the
latter in order to form a transfer cavity (38);
(c) opening a check valve (23, 76) located at the
bottom of said sample container (20, 83) for discharging

the sample from said sample container (20, 83) into said
sample transfer cavity (38);
(d) using means (39, 64) for applying pressure or
depression to said sample transfer cavity (38) to cause

the discharged sample to flow from said sample transfer
cavity (38) to a further container (48) external to said

tank mounting means.
Method of claim 14 
characterized in that
 said
tank mounting means is :


(a) connected with the tank which stores the liquid;
(b) opened to enable said sample container (20, 83)
to be moved into the tank; and
(c) closed, after moving the filled sample
container (20, 83) into said tank mounting means.
Method of claim 14 
characterized in that
 it
includes the step of making the transfer of liquid from 

said sample transfer cavity (38) by placing a
septum (46) over said further container (48), and

puncturing the septum with a needle (45) so that the
liquid is transferred from said sample transfer cavity

(38) through said needle (45) into said further
container (48).
Method of claim 16 
characterized in that
 said
sample transfer is made partially by use of two needles

wherein one of the needles (45) is for transfer of
liquid sample from said sample transfer cavity (38) into

said further container, and the other needle (47) for a
vent passage from said further container, and thereafter

venting said further container (48) during filling.
The method of claim 14 
characterized in that
 it
includes the step of initially sealing the tank, then

forming an opening into the tank and placing said sample
container (20, 83) in said tank for sinking into the

liquid to enable filling of said further container (48).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
