<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0655606</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Temperature compensated bridge sensor amplifier.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01D3028	G01D3028	G01D3036	G01K716	G01K725	G01L120	G01L122	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01D	G01D	G01D	G01K	G01K	G01L	G01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01D3	G01D3	G01D3	G01K7	G01K7	G01L1	G01L1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Amplifier circuit having temperature compensation for a 
sensor for a state variable to be measured, which amplifier circuit 

comprises a temperature-sensitive element at least for temperature 
compensation of the sensitivity, a temperature-compensation circuit 

for the zero point and an output amplifier connected to the sensor. 
Starting from the one temperature-sensitive component mentioned, a 

first signal conditioner for generating the desired temperature 
signal for the sensitivity compensation is connected to the sensor 

and a second signal conditioner for generating the desired temperature 
signal for the zero-point compensation is connected to the 

output amplifier. The sensor may be a bridge sensor having one or 
more resistors which are sensitive to the state variable. The first 

input of the first signal conditioner is connected to a tapping 
point of a first resistor divider connected in series with the 

temperature-sensitive component across the first and second terminals 
of the supply voltage and the second input is connected to a 

reference voltage which is tapped off from a second voltage divider 
connected across the terminals of the supply voltage. The first 

input of the second signal conditioner is connected to the tapping 
point mentioned or to the output of the first signal conditioner and 

the second input is connected to the reference voltage mentioned. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS HOLLAND
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS HOLLAND B.V.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROUWER THEODORUS G M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BROUWER, THEODORUS G.M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an amplifier circuit having temperature 
compensation for a sensor for measuring a state variable, which amplifier 
circuit comprises a temperature-sensitive element at least for temperature 
compensation of the sensitivity, a temperature-compensation circuit 
for the zero point, and an output amplifier connected to the sensor. Such 
an amplifier circuit with sensor is disclosed, for example, in 
EP 0 239 094 B1. With the developments in microelectronic technology, sensors have 
been manufactured with improved design and low cost, while still providing 
improved performance. Such sensors are therefore being used increasingly 
for the measurement of pressure, acceleration, speed and the like, 
in conjunction with a subsequent signal conversion. In this connection, 
the dependence on temperature is important and a temperature compensation 
feature has to be used in virtually every practical application. In particular, 
in modern motor-vehicle control systems, bridge sensors would 
have to be able to function over a wide temperature range and with great 
accuracy. The sensor amplifier circuit disclosed in the abovementioned 
European patent specification has a temperature-sensitive element in 
series with the sensor. In accordance with the linearity of its characteristic, 
said element will ensure that the sensitivity characteristic 
for the sensor is compensated for over the temperature range. Furthermore, 
a zero-point adjustment with temperature compensation of the sensor 
is achieved with the aid of a resistance circuit which is connected to an 
amplifier at the output of the sensor and comprises a temperature-sensitive 
element. This known circuit, however, has been found to be difficult 
to calibrate due to the mutual influencing of the adjustment elements. 
Typically, an iterative adjustment process is required because a compromise 
is made between the linearity of its temperature behaviour and the 
temperature coefficient. Furthermore, separate temperature-sensitive 
elements are required in this known circuit for sensitivity compensation 
and for zero-point adjustment compensation. An object of the invention is to obviate the abovementioned problems 
and to provide a sensor amplifier circuit having temperature compensation 
for a state variable, in which amplifier circuit the sensitivity 
compensation and the zero-point adjustment compensation are effected 
separately from one another and require only one temperature sensitive  
 
element. Another object of the invention
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Amplifier circuit having temperature compensation for a sensor 
for measuring a state variable, which amplifier circuit comprises a temperature 

sensitive element at least for temperature compensation of the 
sensitivity, a temperature-compensation circuit for the zero point, and 

an output amplifier connected to the sensor, characterized in that, starting 
from the one temperature-sensitive element (TE) mentioned, a first 

signal conditioner (A) for generating the desired temperature signal for 
the sensitivity compensation is connected to the sensor and a second 

signal conditioner (C) for generating the desired temperature signal for 
the zero-point compensation is connected to the output amplifier (B). 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 1, wherein the temperature-sensitive 
element (TE) is chosen from the group consisting of NTC 

elements, PTC elements, linear elements and band-gap diodes. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 1, wherein the said first 
and second signal conditioners (A, C) have a transfer characteristic of 

any desired form, such as second or third order, look-up table, etc. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises 
a bridge sensor (BS) having one or more resistors which are sensitive 

to the state variable. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 4, wherein voltage control 
is used to supply the bridge sensor. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 4, wherein current control 
is used to supply the bridge sensor. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 1, wherein a first input of 
the first signal conditioner (A) is connected to a tapping point (VT) of 

a first resistor divider (R15, R16) which is connected in series with the 
temperature-sensitive element (TE) across first (Vss) and second (gnd) 

terminals of the supply voltage and a second input is connected to a 
reference voltage (Vref.) which is tapped off from a second voltage divider 

(R17, R18) connected across the first and second terminals (Vss, gnd) 
of the supply voltage. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 7, wherein a first input of 
the second signal conditioner (C) is connected to the tapping point (VT) 

and the second input is connected to the reference voltage (Vref.). 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 7, wherein a first input of 
the second signal conditioner (C) is connected to the output (Vb) of the 

first signal conditioner (A) and a second input is connected to the reference 
voltage (Vref.). 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 8 or 9, wherein a third 
voltage divider (R9, pot, R11) is connected across the two inputs of the 

second signal conditioner (C), one tapping point of said third voltage 
divider forming the connection for the first input. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 7, wherein a fourth voltage 
divider (R19, R20) is connected between the output of the first 

signal conditioner (A) and the second terminal (gnd) of the supply voltage, 
one tapping point (Vb') of said fourth voltage divider being connected 

to the said first input of the second signal conditioner (C). 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 4, wherein the opposite 
outputs of the bridge sensor (BS) are connected to the first and second 

inputs of the output amplifier (B), which is designed as differential 
amplifier, and wherein the output of the second signal conditioner (C) is 

connected to the second input of the output amplifier (B). 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 2, wherein a third-order 
correction network (X³) is connected in the input circuit of the first 

input of the first signal conditioner (A) in order to correct third-order 

nonlinearities of the temperature-sensitive element (TE). 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 2, wherein at least one 
resistor component (R17) of the second voltage divider (R17, R18) is 

adjustable so that the voltage at the tapping point (Vref.) at a first 
temperature (T1) near one end of the temperature range used is equal to 

the voltage (VT) at the temperature-sensitive element. 
Amplifier circuit according to claim 2, wherein the first signal 
conditioner (A) has a feedback resistor (R14) in order to adjust the 

 
sensitivity of the bridge sensor (BS) at a second temperature (T2) near 

the other end of the temperature range used. 
Amplifier circuit according to claims 9 and 15, wherein the 
tapping point of the third voltage divider (R9, pot, R11) across the 

inputs of the second signal conditioner (C) is separately adjustable at 
the said second temperature (T2) in order to adjust the zero point of the 

bridge sensor. 
Amplifier circuit having temperature compensation for a sensor 
according to one of the preceding claims for use in the measurement of 

pressure. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
