<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0654187</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
LIGHTNING PROTECTION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H02G1300	H02G1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H02G	H02G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H02G13	H02G13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a lightning attractor apparatus for protecting secondary structures within the lightning protection zone of said lightning attractor apparatus, which is electrically grounded to the body of earth and ground water having reference potential. The apparatus includes a central conductive rod, one or more coaxial cylindrical conductors of decreasing height with the lowest cylindrical conductor on the outside, and a conducting base means onto which all above-ground conductors are rigidly mounted, and which provides the link with a common grounding rod. The grounding rod provides the electrical connection of the apparatus with the reference ground potential. Insulative concentric spacers, located at more or less regular intervals along the axis, separate and isolate the above-ground conductors from one another, their separation being such that arc-over between adjacent conductors are effectively suppressed. An insulating covering for the lower portion of the outer cylindrical conductor provides protection by preventing direct contact with current carrying surfaces when lightning strikes the apparatus. A separately grounded conducting annular ring at the base of the tower, extending typically a few inches above the surface, prevents intercepted lightning currents form leaving the immediate area laterally below the apparatus beyond the perimeter of the ring, thus eliminating step potentials in the region outside the base annular ring. The outside cylindrical conductors provide EMI/RFI shielding for intercepted lightning currents that pass through inside conductors. In one aspect of this invention, one or more cylindrical conductors may be individually grounded to reference ground potential.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIET RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRIET, RICHARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIET RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRIET, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to lightning 
protectors, and more particularly to a system for protecting 
people, structures, and other assets from the hazards 
associated with lightning. Lightning protection is needed wherever people or 
assets are perceived to be threatened by direct lightning 
strikes. Beginning with the most important one, such assets 
include people working in open areas, government buildings, 
conventional and nuclear power plants, military (Army, Navy, 
and Air Force) and para-military installations, radio and 
television stations, military and non-military launch sites 
(rocket installations under military, commercial, NASA, or 
other control), observatories and satellite tracking 
stations, churches, storage sites for flammable and/or 
explosive chemicals, public gathering places (for example 
open-air stadiums, golf courses), power transmission lines, 
etc. It is implied and understood that similar needs exist 
around the globe. The primary objective of existing lightning 
protection is to deflect lightning away from structures, 
people, and assets. This is accomplished in prior art by 
the installation of one or more grounded lightning rods on 
tall towers, or on the highest points on buildings, which 
serve as lightning attractors. The method is based on a 
false notion that lightning always strikes the highest point 
in the area, and on the perceived existence of lightning  
 
protection zones (LPZ), which are described in many 
documents, including a standard Lightning Protection Code in 
the NFPA #78 document, issued by the (US) National Fire 
Protection Association. Without the benefit of theory, NFPA 
#78 had been revised several times, to reflect the next best 
guess of the size and shape for the protection zone. With safety as a primary objective, a plurality of 
grounding cables are anchored some distance away from a 
dielectric support structure underneath the lightning rod in 
one prior art lightning protection system. This 
configuration is intended to accomplish two things: (1) to 
conduct the intercepted lightning current away from work 
areas, and (2) to cover as many objects under the resulting 
umbrella-like structure as possible. For example, such a 
lightning protection system was designed and built by J. R. 
Stahmann in 1969 for the Navy 2D2 Site in Pinecastle, 
Florida. This protection system contemplates intercepted 
lightning currents being divided over a number of grounding 
wires before being injected into the ground at remote 
locations for
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lightning attractor apparatus (10) for 
protecting secondary structures (18,18"), the secondary 

structures (18,18") being located relative to a body (12) 
having reference ground potential, the apparatus (10) 

comprising: an elongate central conductor (24) having upper 
and lower extremities; base means (50) for supporting the 

central conductor (24) and main grounding means for 
electrically connecting a lower portion of the central 

conductor (24) to the body (12) having reference ground 
potential, characterised by: a first tubular conductor (26) 

having upper and lower extremities; insulative spacing 
means (46) connecting the tubular conductor (26) in 

coaxially spaced relation to the central conductor (24); 
said base means (50) supporting the central and tubular 

conductors (24,26) with the upper extremity of the central 
conductor (24) projecting above the upper extremity of the 

tubular conductor (26), that portion of the central 
conductor (24) above the tubular conductor (26) and at 

least an upper portion of the tubular conductor (26) being 
exposed for lightning attraction; and by the main grounding 

means electrically connecting a lower portions of the 
tubular conductor (26) to the body having reference ground 

potential. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 1, wherein a spaced plurality of openings (36) are 

formed in the first tubular conductor (26) for venting hot  
 

gas therefrom. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 1 or 2, wherein the base means (50) comprises a base 

member (50) for anchoring relative to the ground surface, a 
bottom extremity of the tubular conductor (26) being 

rigidly connected to the base member (50), and a rod member 
(24) rigidly protruding from the base member (50). 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 1, wherein the base means comprises base portions of 

each of the central conductor (24) and the tubular 
conductor (26), the respective base portions being formed 

for being axially driven into the ground for support 
thereby, the main grounding means comprising direct 

electrical contact between the respective base portions and 
the body (12) having reference ground potential. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein at least one of the central 

conductor (24) and the tubular member (26) is axially 
segmented (38) for facilitating transport and erection of 

the apparatus (10). 
A lightning attractor according to claim 1, 2, 
3 or 5 further comprising a second tubular conductor (32) 

supported by the base means (50) and electrically connected 
to the grounding means, the second tubular conductor (32) 

being coaxially spaced about a lower portion of the first 
tubular conductor (26), an upper portion of the second 

tubular conductor (32) being exposed for lightning 
attraction.  

 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 6, further comprising an insulative covering (34) on 

a lower portion of the second tubular conductor (32). 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 6 or 7, wherein the second tubular conductor (32) has 

a spaced plurality of openings (36) formed therein for 
venting hot gas from the apparatus (10). 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
anyone of the preceding claims, wherein the first tubular 

conductor (26) is cylindrical. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first tubular 

conductor (26) is circular in cross-section. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
any one of the preceding claims, further comprising: an 

outer ring conductor (28), the outer ring conductor (28) 
being spaced about a lower portion of the first tubular 

conductor (26) and being electrically isolated therefrom; 
and
 
   outer grounding means (30) for electrically 

connecting the ring conductor (28) to the body (12) having 
reference ground potential. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 11, wherein the outer grounding means (30) comprises 

a vertically oriented conductive rod (30) for electrically 
connecting the outer ring conductor (28) to the body (12) 

having reference ground potential. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to  
 

claim 12, comprising a plurality of conductive rods (30) 
connecting spaced locations on the outer ring conductor 

(28) to the body (12) having reference ground potential. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 13, wherein the body (12) having reference ground 

potential is ground water. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 11, 12, 13 or 14, wherein the outer grounding means 

(30) comprises a plurality of conductive members for 
electrically connecting spaced locations on the outer ring 

conductor (28) to the main grounding means. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
anyone of claims 11 to 15, further comprising an insulating 

covering (34) for at least a lower portion of the outer 
ring conductor (28) for protecting assets immediately 

proximate the apparatus (10) from direct contact with 
current carrying members thereof. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
anyone of claims 11 to 16, wherein the outer ring conductor 

(28) is circular. 
A lightning attractor apparatus according to 
claim 14 or any claim dependant therefrom wherein the first 

tubular conductor (26) is spaced from the central conductor 
(24) by the spacing means (46) by a distance to suppress 

arcing between the conductors (24,26). 
A method for protecting a secondary structure 
(18,18") against damage by lightning, including the steps 

of: providing a conductive tower (10) having a height 
h
0
;  
 

determining a cusped zone of protection (20) as a solid of 
revolution about the tower (10) when the tower (10) is 

vertically projecting above level ground (12); 

anchoring the tower (10) to the ground (12) proximate 
the secondary structure (18,18") at a location such that 

the structure (18") extends only within the protection zone 
(20); and electrically grounding the tower (10) to the 

reference ground (12) characterised by:- 
determining a minimum height ζ from which a lightning 
strike would likely be damaging to the secondary structure 

(18,18"); 
determining an ellipsoidal lethal zone (22) shaped 
according to the relation, 


(h/z
x
 - 1)
2
 + (ρ/ρ
x
)
2
 = 1 
 
   where 
h
 is the height of a point on the surface of 
the ellipsoidal zone above the ground, 
Z
x
 = ζ/(1cosβ) and 
ρ
x
 = 
z
x
sinβ, with cosβ=u
0
/u
s
, u
0
 and u
s
 being the average 
velocities of lightning propagation in air and in a 

conducting attractor, respectively; 
providing as the conductive tower (10) a tower (10) 
having a height 
h
0
 that is not less than 
z
x
 and including an 
elongate control conductor (24), a tubular conductor (26) 

surrounding the central conductor (24) with upper portions 
of the central and tubular conductors (24,26) being exposed 

for lightning attraction; 
determining said zone of protection (20) by revolving 
the lethal zone (22) about the tower (10), the lethal zone 

(22) being tangent to the ground (12), touching the tower 
(10) at a height 
z
x
 above the ground (12). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
