<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618766</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MATURATION AND DESICCATION OF GYMNOSPERM SOMATIC EMBRYOS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01C106	A01H400	A01H700	A01H700	A01C106	A01H400	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01C	A01H	A01H	A01H	A01C	A01H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01C1	A01H4	A01H7	A01H7	A01C1	A01H4	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A desiccated mature gymnosperm somatic embryo characterized by having a moisture content which is lower than the moisture content of its corresponding zygotic embryo and a dry weight and per embryo lipid content which are higher than the lipid content and dry weight of its corresponding gymnosperm zygotic embryo. Preferred desiccated gymnosperm somatic embryos are conifer somatic embryos having a moisture content ranging between 10 and 55 %. Also within the scope of the invention is a method for producing desiccated somatic embryos. The method comprises developing immature embryos in a medium comprising at least one non-permeating water stress agent, a metabolizable carbon source and a growth regulator having an influence on embryo development for a period of time sufficient to yield the recovery of mature somatic embryos having a moisture content which is lower than the moisture content of corresponding zygotic embryos. The method can optionally include a secondary desiccation treatment to further reduce the moisture content of the embryos.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV SASKATCHEWAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE UNIVERSITY OF SASKATCHEWAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATTREE STEPHEN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWKE LAWRENCE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ATTREE, STEPHEN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FOWKE, LAWRENCE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to the field of somatic
embryo production, particularly to methods for maturing
and desiccating gymnosperm somatic embryos and to the
matured desiccated and encapsulated embryos obtained by
such methods.Somatic embryogenesis offers the potential to
clonally produce large numbers of low cost plants of
many species. Somatic embryos develop without the
surrounding nutritive tissues and protective seed coat,
so considerable research has been devoted to causing
somatic embryos to functionally mimic seeds with regard
to efficient storage and handling qualities. The
development of techniques for somatic embryogenesis in
conifers has greatly improved the ability to culture
conifer tissues in vitro and now offers the means to
clonally propagate commercially valuable conifers of a
number of species. However, all conifer species suffer
from poor plantlet vigour.It has been suggested to use abscisic acid
(ABA) or osmoticum for enhancing storage levels in
plant cells. For example, it was shown that somatic
embryos of Theobroma cacao could be induced to
accumulate fatty acids approaching the composition of
commercial cocoa butter by increasing the sucrose
concentration of the culture medium. Modifying the
culture conditions by varying osmotic concentration
and/or ABA content similarly improved lipid
accumulation in Brassica napus L. somatic and
microspore derived embryos as well as somatic embryos
of carrot and celery. Also, the level of storage
lipids in P. abies somatic embryos was improved by
optimizing the ABA level to between 10-20 µm, but the 
somatic embryos contained about 4% of the lipid level
obtained by zygotic embryos.Also, Japanese laid-open patent publication
No. 1-218520 describes a process for producing plant
body regenerative tissue. The process includes a step
of cultivating a plant body regenerative tissue in a
medium containing ABA and having an osmotic pressure of
180 to 2500. In order to control the osmotic pressure
within the specific range, a non-toxic substance such
as sugar, alcohol, an amino acid or glycol is added.Water stress plays an important role in
maintaining embryos in a maturation state (Kermode
1990, Crit. Res. Plant Sci. 9, 155-194). Low water
content rather than ABA prevents precocious germination
during later stages of development. This is important
because precocious germination of embryos during
development in seeds would be lethal during
desiccation.A conventional way to water stress plant
cells grown in vitro is to increase the osmotic
concentration of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A viable desiccation-tolerant mature gymnosperm somatic
embryo having a moisture content below 55%.
A desiccated mature gymnosperm somatic embryo according
to claim 1, characterized by having a moisture content

ranging between 10 and 55%.
A desiccated mature gymnosperm somatic embryo according
to claim 2, characterized by having a moisture content below

about 45%.
A desiccated mature gymnosperm somatic embryo according
to any one of claims 1 through 3, characterized by having a

moisture content below about 36%.
The somatic embryo according to claim 4, characterized
by having a moisture content lower than the moisture content

of its corresponding zygotic embryo.
The somatic embryo according to claim 5, characterized
by having a dry weight and per embryo lipid content about

equal to or greater than the dry weight and per embryo lipid
content of its corresponding gymnosperm zygotic embryo.
The somatic embryo according to claim 6, wherein the
per embryo dry weight is between 30 and 600% higher than the

mean dry weight of zygotic embryos from mature seeds of the
same species, and/or the lipid content is between 50 and 

700% higher than the mean lipid content of zygotic embryos
from mature seeds of the same species.
The somatic embryo according to any one of claims 1, 2 or
3, wherein the gymnosperm is a conifer.
The somatic embryo according to claim 8, wherein the
embryo is from the family 
Pinaceae
.
The somatic embryo according to claim 9, wherein the
embryo is from the genus 
Picea
.
The somatic embryo according to claim 10, wherein the
embryo is selected from white spruce, black spruce and

Norway spruce.
The somatic embryo according to any one of claims 1
through 11, wherein the embryo is encapsulated.
The somatic embryo according to claim 12, wherein the
embryo is encapsulated in a non-hydrated polymer having a

melting point ranging between about 20 and 70°C.
A method of developing gymnosperm somatic embryos,
including culturing selected immature gymnosperm somatic

embryos in a medium comprising a metabolizable carbon
source, a non-permeating water stressing agent and a growth

regulator having an influence on embryo development, the
embryos being water stressed for a period of time sufficient

to reduce the moisture content of the embryos to less than
about 55% and so as to render the embryos tolerant to 

further desiccation, thereby to produce viable mature
desiccation-tolerant gymnosperm somatic embryos.
The method of claim 14 comprising water stressing for a
period of time sufficient to reach a moisture content of

less than 45%.
The method according to claim 14 or 15, comprising
additionally desiccating the desiccation-tolerant somatic

embryos to reach a moisture content of less than 36%.
The method according to claim 16, wherein the
additional desiccation is comprised at least in part of

further water stressing the embryos.
The method according to claim 16, wherein the
additional desiccation is comprised at least in part of

drying the embryos in at least one environment having a low
relative humidity.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
17, wherein the water-stress agent, the metabolizable carbon

source and the growth regulator are present concurrently.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
19, wherein the medium further comprises a concentration of

the metabolizable carbon source in excess of that required
for nutrition of the embryo.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
17, 19 and 20, wherein the water-stress agent is selected 

from the group consisting of polyethylene glycols, dextrans,
celluloses, pectins, galactans, ficolls, polypropylene

glycols, agars, gums, oligosaccharides, proteins, amino
acids, lipoproteins, nucleotides, oligonucleotides and

lipopolysaccharides.
The method according to any one of claims -14,15 or 16,
wherein the water-stress agent is substantially non-permeating.
The method according to any one of claims 14, 15 or 16,
wherein the water-stress agent is sufficient to maintain an

osmotic potential ranging between -0.3 and -2.0 MPa.
The method-according to claim 22, wherein the agent is
polyethylene glycol.
The method according to claim 24, wherein the
polyethylene glycol has a molecular weight ranging between

about 1000 and 35 000.
The method according to claim 24, wherein the
polyethylene glycol is present at a concentration ranging

between 1 and 30%/wt.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, wherein the water stress agent is dextran present at a

concentration ranging between 1 to 30%/wt.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, wherein the growth regulator is a stress hormone. 
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, wherein the growth regulator is selected from abscisic

acid and/or analogs, precursors or derivatives thereof.
The method according to claim 29, wherein the analogs,
precursors or derivatives of abscisic acid are selected from

the group consisting of abscisyl alcohol, acetylenic
aldehyde, dihydroacetylenic alcohol, phaseic acid (PA),

dihydrophaseic acid (DPA), 6'-hydroxymethyl abscisic acid
(HM-ABA), beta-hydroxy abscisic acid, beta-methylglutaryl

abscisic acid, beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutarylhydroxy
abscisic acid, 4'-desoxy abscisic acid, abscisic acid beta-D-glucose

ester 2-2(2-p-chlorophenyl-
trans
-ethyl)
cyclopropane carboxylic acid and jasmonic acid and

functional derivatives thereof.
The method according to claim 29, wherein the abscisic
acid and/or analogs, precursors or derivatives thereof are

present at a final concentration of at least 0.1 
µ
M at the
end of the development of the somatic embryos.
The method according to claim 29, wherein the abscisic
acid and/or analogs, precursors or derivatives thereof are

initially present in sufficient concentration to achieve a
final concentration of abscisic acid and/or analogs,

precursors or derivatives thereof of at least 0.1 
µ
M at the
end of the development of the somatic embryos. 
The method according to any one of claims 14 through 18,
wherein the concentration of the growth regulator is

modified during the production.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, wherein a substantially constant concentration of the

growth regulator is supplied during the majority of the
development of the immature embryos.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, wherein the immature embryos are developed for a period

of time ranging from 1 to 15 weeks.
The method according to either of claims 14 and 15,
wherein the water stressing is additionally effected by one

or a plurality of environments having decreasing relative
humidities.
The method according to either of claims 18 or 36,
wherein the desiccation is a rapid drying.
The method according to either of claims 18 or
36,

wherein the desiccation is a slow drying.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, wherein the embryos are conifer embryos. 
The method according to claim 39, wherein the embryos
are from the family 
Pinaceae
.
The method according to claim 40, wherein the embryos
are from the genus 
Picea
.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, further comprising a preliminary step which comprises

preculturing the immature embryos in the presence of a
reduced auxin/cytokinin medium or a reduced auxin medium to

promote maturation. of the embryos.
The method according to any one of claims 14 through
18, wherein the immature embryos are developed in a

bioreactor vessel.
The method according to claim 43, wherein the vessel is
a continuous-flow solid-support bioreactor vessel.
The method according to claim 43 or claim 44, wherein
the vessel comprises a culture chamber having medium inlet

and outlet means for continuous supply of fresh medium in
the chamber, and support means for maintaining the immature

embryos above the surface of the medium.
The method according to any one of claims
43,

44
and

45, wherein the vessel additionally comprises means for
providing and controlling air flow in the chamber. 
The method according to any one of claims 16, 17 or 18,
wherein the somatic embryos are frozen following

desiccation.
The method according to any one of claims 16, 17 or 18,
wherein the somatic embryos are subsequently redydrated

and/or germinated in the presence of an osmoticum.
The method according to claim 48, wherein the
concentration of the osmoticum is no more than about 30%.
The method according to any one of claims 16, 17 or 18,
wherein, after desiccation, the embryos are encapsulated.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
