<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629696</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recombinant DNA-derived bordetella toxin subunit analogs.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3900	A61K3900	C07K14195	C07K14235	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	C07K	C07K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K39	A61K39	C07K14	C07K14	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The development of subunits and subunit 
analogs of the 
Bordetella
 exotoxin by recombinant DNA 
techniques provides vaccine products that retain their 

biological activity, are highly immunogenic, and can 
confer protection against disease challenge. 

Genetically-engineered modifications of the subunits can 
result in products that retain immunogenicity, yet are 

free of enzymatic activity associated with toxin of 
reactogenicity. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMGEN INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AMGEN INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURNETTE III WALTER NEAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BURNETTE III, WALTER NEAL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention provides high-level, 
direct recombinant expression of subunit analogs of S1, 
S2, S3, S4, and S5 of Bordetella exotoxin in E. coli 
without resort to fusions with portions of heterologous 
proteins. More particularly, genetically-engineered 
modifications of the subunits provide a class of 
Bordetella toxin analogs having the capability to elicit 
toxin-neutralizing levels of antibodies, and to be 
substantially free of reactogenic components. 
Genetically-engineered subunits can be used to produce 
subunit vaccine(s) which have immunogenic efficacy and 
are substantially free of reactogenic components. The term Bordetella exotoxin denotes a group 
of toxins encoded by the genomes of various species of 
Bordetella, such as B. pertussis, B. parapertussis and 
B. bronchiseptica. Other terms commonly used to 
designate Bordetella exotoxin are pertussis toxin 
("PTX"), lymphocytosis-promoting factor ("LPF"), and 
islet-activating protein ("IAP"). Whooping cough remains a major cause of infant 
morbidity and mortality in many parts of the world. 
Whole-cell Bordetellapertussis vaccines have provided 
an effective means for controlling this disease. 
However, the use of such vaccines has been directly 
correlated with mild side effects and temporally related 
to more severe, and occasionally fatal, neurological 
events.  Extensive efforts have been expended in an 
effort to eliminate the harmful side-effects known to be 
associated with the current vaccines. These have 
resulted in the production and testing of acellular 
vaccines, and in basic research in an effort to develop 
safer recombinant products. A critical first step 
toward cloning and developing a recombinant DNA-derived 
vaccine was sequencing of the pertussis toxin operon and 
subsequent deduction of the amino acid sequences of the 
individual subunits. (Locht, C. and Keith, J.M., 1986, 
Science 232: 1258-1264; Locht etal., 1986, Nucl. Acids 
Res. 14: 3251-3261; and Nicosia etal., 1986, Proc. 
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 4631-4635). Nicosia et al. (1987, Infect. Immun., 55: 
963-967) demonstrated that mRNA encoding each of 
subunits S1, S2, S3, S4, and S5 of Bordetellapertussis 
could be efficiently transcribed from the cloned genes 
in E. coli. Although they purported to show high levels 
of transcription of the native pertussis toxin 
polycistronic message, the amount of proteins produced 
by direct expression was very low or undetectable. 
Further, fusion proteins which were subsequently 
synthesized were incapable of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A recombinant DNA molecule comprising at least a 
portion encoding subunit S1 of the Bordetella exotoxin, or 

a fragment or derivative of said portion, wherein said 
portion or fragment or derivative encodes a polypeptide 

having a biological activity which (a) can elicit toxin-neutralizing 
levels of antibodies and (b) is free of 

enzymatic activity associated with toxin reactogenicity. 
The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 1 wherein 
said portion encoding said polypeptide further comprises a 

major epitope known to be important in providing 
immunoprotection against pertussis toxicity. 
The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 1 wherein 
said toxin-neutralizing levels of antibodies provide 

immunoprotection against pertussis toxicity. 
The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 1 wherein 
said biological activity of (b) is obtained by site-specific 

mutagenesis resulting in an analog of subunit S1 
which is substantially inactive enzymatically. 
The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 4 wherein 
said S1 subunit comprises site-specific mutations of the S1 

subunit in the region bounded by valine 7 and proline 14, 
inclusively. 
The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 5 wherein 
said site-specific mutation occurs at the arginine 9 site. 
The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 6 wherein 
arginine 9 is replaced with lysine. 
The recombinant DNA molecule of Claim 1 wherein 
said Bordetella exotoxin is selected from the group 

consisting of B. pertussis,B. parapertussis, and B. bronchiseptica. 
An analog of Bordetella exotoxin S1 subunit, said 
analog having a biological activity which (a) can elicit 

toxin-neutralizing levels of antibodies and (b) enzymatic 
activities associated with toxin reactogenicity. 
The analog of Claim 9 wherein said analog further 
comprises at least one major epitope known to be important 

in providing immunoprotection against Bordetella toxicity. 
The analog of Claim 9 wherein said toxin-neutralizing 
levels of antibodies provide immunoprotection 

against Bordetella toxicity. 
The analog of Claim 9 wherein said biological 
activity of (b) is obtained by site-specific mutagenesis 

resulting in said analog being substantially inactive 
enzymatically. 
The analog of Claim 12, wherein said S1 subunit 
comprises site-specific mutations of the S1 subunit in the 

region bounded by valine 7 and proline 14, inclusively. 
The analog of Claim 13 wherein said site-specific 
mutagenesis occurs at the arginine 9 site. 
The analog of Claim 14, wherein arginine 9 is 
replaced with lysine. 
The analog of Claim 9 wherein said Bordetella 
exotoxin is selected from the group consisting of B. pertussis, 

B. parapertussis, and B. bronchiseptica. 
The analog of claim 9 wherein said amino-terminus 
includes a methionylvalyl sequence. 
An analog of Bordetella exotoxin subunit S1, said 
analog comprising an amino acid sequence as dis
closed in 
Figure 7. 
An improved vaccine comprising a genetically-engineered 
subunit S1 of Bordetella exotoxin having a 

biological activity which (a) can elicit toxin-neutralizing 
levels of antibodies and (b) is free of enzymatic activity 

associated with toxin reactogenicity. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 19 wherein said 
subunit S1 includes at least one major epitope for 

providing immunoprotection against Bordetella toxicity. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 21 wherein said 
toxin-neutralizing levels of antibodies provide 

immunoprotection against Bordetella toxicity. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 19 wherein said 
biological activity of (b) is obtained by site-specific 

mutagenesis resulting in an analog of subunit S1 which is 
substantially inactive enzymatically. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 22 wherein said site-specific 
mutagenesis is directed to the region bound by 

valine 7 and proline 14, inclusively. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 23 wherein said site-specific 
mutagenesis is directed to the arginine 9 site. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 24 wherein arginine 
9 is replaced with lysine. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 19 wherein said 
Bordetella exotoxin is selected from the group consisting 

of B. pertussis, B. parapertussis and B. bronchiseptica. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 19 further including 
at least one of said subunits S2, S3, S4, and S5, and 

mixtures thereof, of Bordetella exotoxin. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 25 wherein at least 
one of said subunits S2, S3, S4 and S5, and mixtures 

thereof, of Bordetella exotoxin is genetically engineered. 
The improved vaccine of Claim 19 wherein said 
genetically-engineered subunits S2, S3, S4 and S5 are 

expressed as non-fusion proteins in recombinant hosts 
selected from the groups consisting of E. coli., S. cerivisiae, 

Salmonellatyphimurium, Salmonellatyphi, 
Baccillussp. and vaccinia. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
