<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0659266</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
EARTH/GYRO POWER TRANSDUCER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01C1900	G01C1900	G01C1918	G01C1938	H02K5300	H02K5300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01C	G01C	G01C	G01C	H02K	H02K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01C19	G01C19	G01C19	G01C19	H02K53	H02K53	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A gyroscope system derives useful power from the earth's stored rotational inertial energy. As the earth rotates, the rotor (52) of the fixed-frame gyroscope (10) precesses, driving a generator (26, 58) installed to react between gyroscope parts that are in mutual relative motion. After each power stroke, with minimal energy input a reprecessing means (46, 140) re-orients the rotor into its initial orientation and it smoothly enters into the next power stroke, producing a positive net energy output.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FINVOLD RODGE C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUMPHREY PAUL E
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
FINVOLD, RODGE C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HUMPHREY, PAUL E.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINVOLD RODGE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUMPHREY PAUL E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FINVOLD, RODGE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HUMPHREY, PAUL E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 EARTH/GYRO POWER TRANSDUCERRODGER C. FINVOLDPAUL E. HUMPHREYBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe earth stores enough rotational inertial kinetic energy t power the world for about 100,000,000 years at current usage rates Gyroscopes, used only for orientation at present, could be configure to tap this energy similar in principle to the tidal generators tha have operated off the western coast of France.Computations unequivocally demonstrate that energy can b converted directly from the earth's kinetic energy to electrica energy without violating any of the laws of physics, no withstanding misconceptions to the contrary. Such a system migh appear to violate the laws of conservation of energy and momentum but the inarguable facts are, that the energy extracted from th system is balanced by a reduction of the earth's rotational kineti energy (longer earth days) , and, rotational angular momentum losse are balanced by orbital momentum gain. This is accomplished throug the coupling element that is common to both the earth's rotation an the earth's orbital motions, namely: the earth's diameter and orbita incremental radius.The gyrogenerator system of the present invention is similar t tidal generators in that both systems convert kinetic energy o planetary bodies to electricity, with planetary angular momentu adjusting itself accordingly for the conservation of both energy an momentum according to their respective laws. Tidal generator extract energy hydroelectrically from the exceptionally high rise an fall of the sun/moon-driven tides. But whereas conventiona hydroelectric generation transduces power ultimately derived fro solar radiation, tilal transduction taps energy from the lunar orbi and the earth's sun-referenced rotation and lunar orbit, with kineti energy losses from the spheres offsetting energy and power gains.Supporting calculations using accepted physics and gyroscop formulae, detailing energy and momentum exchange among other things can be found in the priority document to this disclosure, U.S. Paten Number filed September 8, 1992 with Serial No. 08/872,51 

for an EARTH/GYRO POWER TRANSDUCER.Another energy conservation-related misconception may hav discouraged development of gyroscopically generated power. When torque is applied to a gyro rotor axis as must be done to extrac power, the rotor spin axis will precess until it is in alignmen with the earth's polar axis, at which point the gyro is in "gimba lock" and no further precession (and thus no more energy production will occur. The power output
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM;
1. A planetary inertial power source comprising:
(a) a gyroscope comprising:
(i) a rotor with a rotor axis;
(ii) inner gimbal member having an inner gimbal axis an journalling said rotor to rotate about said rotor axis;
(iii) an angularly space-stable outer gimbal member journalling said inner gimbal member to rotate about said inner gim bal axis, said outer gimbal member having an outer gimbal axi orthogonal to said inner gimbal axis;
(b) a frame member orientationally fixed to the earth such tha the outer gimbal axis is substantially parallel to the earth's pola axis and journalling said outer gimbal to rotate about said oute gimbal axis;
(c) a power transducer coupled between two of said members suc that relative motion between the spatially rotating earth and th space-stable outer gimbal generates a gyroscopic precessionally derived reaction torque that drives said power transducer to produc output power; and,
(d) re-precessing means for providing reorientational torque about an axis in an equatorial plane and about the polar axis.
2. Structure according to Claim 1 wherein said power transduc er is coupled between said outer gimbal member and said frame member
3. Structure according to Claim 1 wherein said powe transducer is coupled between said inner and outer gimbal members.
4. Structure according to Claim 1 and including two powe transducers, one of which is coupled between said outer gimbal membe and said frame member, and the other of which is coupled between sai gimbal members.
5. Structure according to Claim 1 and including an ancho means anchoring said frame to the earth whereby the angular displace ment of the earth as it rotates causes said rotor to precess due t torque produced by said transducer, and causes said transducer t output power.
6. Structure according to Claim 5 wherein said anchor mean fixes said frame member with the outer gimbal axis established i an orientation substantially parallel to the rotational axis of th earth such that the parallel planes of the infinite set of paralle equatorial planes defined by planes normal to said outer gimbal axi 


are substantially parallel to the plane defined by the earth' equator.
7. Structure according to Claim 6 wherein said powe transducer is effective to output power during a rotor spin axi precessional power output stroke as said rotor precesses through a output power producing arc approaching 180 degrees from a powe output stroke starting orientation to a power output stroke endin orientation, and said re-precession means is adapted to re-preces said rotor axis from said power output stroke ending orientatio substantially into said power output stroke starting orientation.
8. Structure according to Claim 7 wherein said re-precessin means comprises a re-precessing torque motor mounted in sai gyroscope to torque said rotor axis about an axis in said equatoria plane.
9. Structure according to Claim 8 wherein said re-precessio torque motor is coupled between said gimbal members.
10. Structure according to Claim 9 wherein said rotor must b re-precessed through a re-precession arc of over 180° and said re precession torque motor is reversible such that said inner gimba member can be torqued in both forward and reverse direction substantially corresponding to the first and second half of said re precession arc.
11. Structure according to Claim 10 wherein said powe transducer comprises a generator operable as a motor by inputtin power to the output of said generator in order to torque said oute gimbal member relative to said frame member such that the rotor re precesses during the transition from one polarity of polar rotor spi vector component alignment to the opposite polarity of the spi vector alignment.
12. Structure according to Claim 11 and including an angula position sensor mounted between said gimbal members for sensing th angular position of said rotor axis relative to the outer gimbal me mber and including a control system for controlling said transduce and torque motor as said rotor cycles repeatedly through said powe output arc and re-precession arc.
13. Structure according to Claim 12 wherein said angula position sensor comprises a segmented ring mounted on one of sai gimbal members around the axis of the other of said gimbal members and having a brush mounted on the other of said gimbal members wipin 


said segmented ring, with said control system being wired to sai motor, power transducer, brush and segmented ring so as to provid signals to the control system for the proper timed initiation an termination of the power-output/precessional/reprecessional phase of the operational cycle.
14. An inertial power source comprising;
(a) a gyroscope having a rotor, a gimballing mechanis rotationally mounting said rotor and a frame member mounting sai gimballing mechanism including an outer inherently angularly space stable gimbal;
(b) said frame being rigidly fixed to the earth agains relative angular displacement;
(c) mechanical power transducer means coupled between sai gimballing mechanism and said frame member to output power and ener gy;
(d) re-precessing means for providing a reorientational torqu about an axis in the equatorial plane, and means for applying torqu about the polar axis to transition the re-precessional axis acros the equatorial plane to avoid gimbal lock.
15. Structure according to Claim 14 wherein said gimballin mechanism comprises an inner gimbal member and an outer gimbal membe mounted in said frame member and said mechanical power transduce means is coupled between two of said members.
16. Structure according to Claim 15 wherein said mechanica power transducer is coupled between said frame member and said oute gimbal member.
17. Structure according to Claim 16 wherein said frame is fixe to the earth such that the rotational axis of said outer gimbal i parallel to the rotational axis of the earth and the earth's rotatio action generating torque is produced by the reaction of a torque generating device acting on the precessional axis.
18. Structure according to Claim 17 wherein said torque generating device comprises a torque producing spring.
19. Structure according to Claim 17 wherein said torque generating device comprises a torque motor.
20. Structure according to Claim 17 and including a stati torque generator providing polar axis continuous precession outpu torque around the polar axis producing a transient precession motio and a stable precession displacement resulting in continuous uninter 


rupted power output without requiring re-precession.
21. A method of extracting energy from a gyroscope system usin the rotation of the earth comprising:
(a) with a gyroscope having at least one inherently angularl spatially stable gimbal member and being journalled in a fram member, fixing said frame member non-angularly-displaceably to th earth such that as the earth rotates precession torques on th gyroscope rotor spin axis cause said at least one gimbal member t precess in said frame member; and
(b) with a mechanical energy transducer coupled between two o said members, transducing power and energy from the relative motio and precession-inducing torque therebetween and outputting same a a net positive energy output from the system.
22. A method according to Claim 21 wherein said gyroscop includes an inner and outer gimbal member, and said transducer i a gimbal-frame transducer coupled between said outer gimbal membe and said frame member, and step (b) comprises transducing power an energy from said gimbal-frame transducer.
23. A method according to Claim 22 wherein said gyroscope ha a rotor, and as the earth rotates said rotor sweeps from a startin orientation through a power output stroke to an ending orientation and including a re-precession step comprising applying torque abou a re-precessing torque axis, of re-precessing said rotor substan tially back into said starting orientation ready for another powe stroke.
24. A method according to Claim 23 wherein said power strok approaches a 180-degree precessional sweep of said rotor axis i angular excursion, and said re-precession step comprises rotating th rotor spin vector on the order of just over 180 degrees.
25. A method according to Claim 24 wherein said re-precessio step includes, when said rotor is in its power output stroke endin orientation, torquing same about an axis substantially orthogonal t said rotor axis.
26. A method according to Claim 23 wherein said re-precessio step comprises the following sub-steps;
(a-1) when the rotor spin vector is in the power outpu stroke ending orientation, torquing same about an initial re-prece ssion torque axis normal to the polar component of the rotor axi 


through a first re-precession arc of on the order of 90 degrees t the point at which the rotor axis is nearly aligned with the torqu axis in a plane substantially parallel to the earth's equatoria plane , thereby creating an initial re-precession gimbal lock condi tion;
(a-2) on the completion of step (a-1) , providing a torqu substantially orthogonal to the equatorial plane through a secon re-precession arc until the rotor spin axis substantially exits sai initial re-precession gimbal lock condition; and,
(a-3) torquing said rotor axis about the torque axis of ste (a-1) but with the re-precessional torque applied in the revers direction through a third re-precession arc to on the order of jus over 180° from the rotor power output stroke ending orientation b reversing the torque of step (a-1) .
27. A method according to Claim 26 wherein all steps ar repeated in sequence, cycling indefinitely to produce at leas intermittent continuous power.
28. A method according to Claim 21 wherein said gyroscop system includes a directional stabilizing platform with a gyroscop mounted thereon, and is mounted on a vehicle, and step (b) comprise operating said stabilizing platform to maintain directional stabilit of said platform at least in a plane tangential to the surface of th earth.
29. Structure according to Claimn 1 wherein said source i configured for vehicular use and includes a stabilizing platform o a vehicle orientationally stabilizing said source at least in a plan tangential to the earth. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
