<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619057</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SCANLESS TV TRANSMISSION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04J1300	H04J1300	H04L502	H04L502	H04N724	H04N724	H04N726	H04N726	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04J13	H04J13	H04L5	H04L5	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A scanless TV transmission system is used for transmitting and storing graphic or other information requiring significantly less band width and memory than is currently required. A simultaneously available ensemble of information can be transmitted over a narrow band channel that is limited only by the rate of time change of the entire ensemble of transmitted bits, i.e. for television or motion video the limit is the persistence of vision. Reduction in band width reduces the power required for transmission. To attain these goals, a bit generator and operator, a switched invertor (using an amplifier, transmission loop and filter), a switch invertor, a lowpass filter, an amplifier, another transmission link and a filter are utilized.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPFAX CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMPFAX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUENBERG ELLIOT L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GRUENBERG, ELLIOT, L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
SCANLESS TV TRANSMISSION SYSTEMField of InventionThe present invention relates to apparatus and method for transmitting and storing graphic and other information in public and private facilities, which method requires significantly less use of bandwidth and memory of those facilities.Description of the Prior ArtIn Patent No. 5,029,210, issued in July of 1991, a cooperative communication system was described. This patent invention shows principles of operation of a communication system which have in part been used in the present invention.Using those principles and additional ones, a new communications transmission system has been developed which greatly reduces the bandwidth requirements for transmitting television or other graphic material. Additionally, the method significantly reduces bandwidth needed for digital transmission used for any kind of information. Previous methods of TV transmission requires the material to be scanned by an electronic beam at high speed to cover a large number of pixels or illuminated spots in a raster-like field-of-view which might be called the scene. At the reception end, the received illumination values_for the pixels are reproduced and located in corresponding pixel positions on the screen of a device such as a cathode ray tube.In this method the pixels are transmitted sequentially, thus a scene containing 500 x 500 or 250,000 pixel locations must be/ 

 sent to the receiving location in a time interval of approximately 1/30th of a second which time interval is governed by the refresh time necessary for the persistence of vision. Such a method results in a transmission bandwidth requirement of 7 1/2 million hertz. However interlace methods are used presently to reduce the requirement to somewhat under 4 megahertz.There is presently a demand for even higher definition than a 500 x 500 pixel raster, 1000 x 1000 or 1,000,000 pixel images are being contemplated in high definition TV (HDTV) .The present transmission system eliminates the scanning and provides for a method of parallel transmission of information from the transmitted scene to the received screen bandwidth of the present system, that only requires in the order of 60 hertz.It is therefore an objective of the invention to provide a transmission system requiring greatly reduced bandwidth yet allowing the transmission of high definition graphic material.It is a further objective of this invention to provide a digital transmission of increased information transmission capacity operable on narrow and wide band
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I Claim;
1. A transmission and reception system which comprises a first apparatus at a sending location which converts multiple simultaneously available patterns of digital information bits into simultaneously transmittable information codes using a common information transmission channel and a second apparatus at a receiving location capable of converting signals received from the common channel into simultaneously available receivable bit indications which correspond to the original pattern of simultaneously available information bits.
2. The transmission and reception system of claim 1, wherein the first apparatus comprises switched invertors for controlling oscillatory energy in the information transmission channel.
3. The transmission and reception system of claim 1, wherein the first apparatus comprises amplification and phase inversion means which are cooperatively operative at transmission and reception locations.
4. The transmission and reception system of claim 1, wherein coding means are provided for each individual ensemble member of the first apparatus which combine with bits of ensemble to produce transmitted output only if corresponding complementary coding means exist at the second apparatus. 


 5. The transmission and reception system of claim 1, wherein the first and second apparatuses comprise means to reduce the length of codes and number of codes by providing two or more codes per transmitter ensemble member and providing the correct combination of the output coded for designating the received member of the transmitted ensemble transmit.
6. The transmission and reception system of claim 1, wherein the first apparatus converts spatial patterns of bits to signals transmittable in common channels of narrow bandwidth and variable amplitude which operates cooperatively within the second apparatus to recover the spatial pattern.
7. The transmission and reception system of claim 6, wherein there is formed a retrodirective oscillating loop controlled by the first and the second apparatus cooperatively.
8
~
. The transmission and reception system of claim 5, wherein 
• '
the means to reduce the length of codes and number of codes utilize Logical AND units.
9. A transmission system comprising a source of information, a buffer to hold a block of this information in a specific and identified geometric arrangement of bits, the system of claim 1, a transmission link for transmission to and from each station and a means for assembling the received information into a buffer from which the corresponding geometrical set of information bits is extracted. 


10. A cooperative communications system comprising first and second communicating stations each containing apparatus consisting of several branches, a communications link connecting first and second stations in a communications loop, each branch containing predetermined number of amplifying stages, each branch containing phase inverting means responsive to sequential coding means, each branch encoded substantially differently, means to modify said codes by information bits such as to invert the code at particular branches of the sending station apparatus, means to detect status of each branch of the receiving apparatus and thus to detect presence of bit information at a branch of the receiving with corresponding non inverted code to that of the particular branch of the transmitting station, and a synchronizing means which uses a single branch modulated with a standard information pattern.
11. A cooperative communications system of claim 10, wherein each of the stations include a 90 degree phase shift unit in the loop path and coupling unit so that the communications link comprises one wire or transmission channel for both the forward path and the return path of the communications loop.
12. An apparatus for use in conjunction with the system of claim 1 and the communications system of claim 10, which 


 comprises means to code the information organized in the form of an array of independent sources into a set of bits substantially fewer in number, means for these bits to modify the phase of particular branches of the communications system transmitting station, and means to decode the receive bits so as to completely receive the original organization of bits without loss of information.
13. An apparatus of claim 12, wherein the encoding means consists of a means to organize the data inputs into a geometric matrix, means for marking each data input position with a binary code designating the input uniquely, means to provide multiples of the coded inputs in accordance with the position of the inputs in the geometrical arrangement of the inputs, and means to combine the multiple outputs on a logical OR basis on a bit by bit basis.
14. An apparatus of claim 12, wherein the decoding means for recovering each input comprises: means to compare specific parts of the received code, which had been determined by geometric encoding, with the code identifying the specific input and comparing the results of the comparison with each other and accepting the result to be a true output when all these comparisons provide a "1" output. 


16. An apparatus of claim 12, wherein the encoding means and decoding means are capable of operating with multiple bits per pixel and means to derive correct pixel gray scale, color and tint from the multiple bits per pixel.
17. The transmission and reception system of claim 4, wherein the coding means comprise continuous multitrack magnetic medium driven at substantially constant rate at the transmission terminal and a similar multitrack unit at the receive station driven at substantially the same rate under control of synchronizing signals derived from a synchronizing track; the other tracks of the multitrack units containing unique orthogonal or shift register code sequences.
18. The transmission and reception of system of claim 4, wherein multiple code sequences are derived from a preprogrammed read only memory driven by a clock oscillator.
19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the coding and decoding are performed by a fixed program digital computer. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
