<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0650646</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DUAL-PASS RAKE RECEIVER FOR A DIGITAL RADIO LINK BETWEEN A FIXED AND A MOBILE RADIO UNIT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1707	H04B1707	H04B7005	H04B7005	H04J1100	H04J1100	H04L2701	H04L2701	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04J	H04J	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B7	H04B7	H04J11	H04J11	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The apparatus comprises a plurality of Rake fingers each arranged to generate a data output signal and a feed back signal. Each Rake finger includes a Wiener-like filter for an I and Q channel, and processing means for determining the nature of the feed back signal to be applied to each Rake finger to modify the input signal. Each Wiener filter has an associated past sample symmetrical filter, and an output from each Wiener filter is processed by said processing means, and an output from said past sample symmetrical filter is used to generate said output data signal.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROKE MANOR RESEARCH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ROKE MANOR RESEARCH LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HULBERT ANTHONY PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HULBERT, ANTHONY PETER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DUAL-PASS RAKE RECEIVER FOR A DIGITAL RADIO LINK BETWEEN A FIXEDAND A MOBILE RADIO UNITThe present invention relates to apparatus for use in equipment providing a digital radio link between a fixed and a mobile radio unit.Equipment for providing such a radio link is described in UK Application No 9304901.3. This application describes the use of Wiener-like filters for providing good estimates of the amplitudes of the In-phase I, and Quadrature phase Q, components of, for example, a spread spectrum pilot signal.A known form of Wiener filter for use in a spread spectrum binary phase shift keying (BPSK) radio receiver, using a pilot signal, is shown in Figure 1.The RF input signal is passed through a filter 2, the output of which is applied to an input of half linear multipliers 4, 6. A local oscillator 8 feeds a 0/90° phase shifter 10 which applies the local oscillator signal to a second input of the half linear multiplier 4 and a 90° phase signal to the second input of the half linear multiplier 6. The output signal from each of the half linear multipliers 4 and 6 is applied to a number of Rake fingers 10, 12, 14, 16. Each Rake finger comprises a pilot correlator 18, the output of which is connected to a Wiener-like filter 20, and a signal correlator 24, the output of which is connected to a delay circuit 26. The correlators 18, 24 each receive the output signal from the half linear multiplier 6. The output of the Wiener-like 

filter 20 and the delay circuit 26 are multiplied together by a multiplier 22, the output of which is applied to a first input of an adder circuit 28. Each Rake finger also includes a pilot correlator 30, the output of which is connected to a Wiener-like filter 32. A signal correlator 36 has an output connected to delay circuit 38. The pilot correlator 30 and the signal correlator 36 receives the output signal from the half linear multiplier 4. The output signals from the Wiener filter 32 and the delay circuit 38 are multiplied by a multiplier 34, the output of which is applied to a second input of the adder circuit 28. The output signal generated by the adder circuit 28 is applied to a further adder circuit 40 which combines all the output signals from the other Rake fingers 12, 14, 16. The multipliers 22, 34 are four quadrant multipliers having several bit precision on their inputs. All the circuitry shown in Rake finger 1 is repeated in the other Rake fingers. The only difference between the different Rake fingers is that the correlators are fed with pseudo random sequences
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLA IMS
1. Apparatus for use in equipment providing a digital radio link between a fixed and a mobile radio unit, said apparatus comprising a plurality of circuit means each being arranged to generate a data output signal and a feedback signal, said circuit means including a Wiener-like filter for an in-phase channel and a Quadrature phase channel and arranged to receive an in-phase and Quadrature phase input signal respectively, processing means for determining the nature of said feedback signal to be applied to each circuit means to modify the input signal, characterised in that each Wiener filter has an associated past sample symmetrical filter, and an output from each Wiener filter is processed by said processing means, and an output from the said past sample symmetrical filter is used to generate said output data signal.
2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 , wherein each channel further includes a signal correlator for receiving the input signal having an output connected to a first multiplying means, the output of which is connected to the Wiener filter and past sample symmetrical filter, second multiplying means for multiplying the output from the Wiener filter with the output from the signal correlator, an output of said second multiplying means is connected to a first adder circuit having a second input which receives an output from a second multiplying circuit associated with the other channel, said first adder circuit providing an output 


signal which is fed back as an input to said first multiplying means .
3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the output of said past sample symmetrical filter is connected to an input of third multiplying means, said third multiplying means having a second input connected to an output of a signal shift register, said signal shift register being arranged to receive the output signal from said first multiplying means, and said third multiplying means providing an output connected to a second adder circuit which at a second input receives an output from a third multiplying means associated with the other channel and is arranged to generate a data output signal of the circuit means.
4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the shift register has its input connected to the output of the signal correlator instead of to the output of the combiner means, and said past sample symmetrical filter is connected to receive at a further input, the output signal from the signal correlator.
5. Apparatus as claimed in claims 1 , 2 or 3, wherein the data output signals from each circuit means are applied to a third adder circuit, the output of which is connected to a limiter circuit, an output of said limiter circuit is connected to an input of the symmetrical past sample filter. 


6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the processing means comprises a fourth adder circuit connected to a limiter circuit, the output of which is connected to each first multiplying means and to an input of a data shift register which has an output connected to a fourth multiplying means having a further input connected to the output of the third adder circuit, an output of said fourth multiplying means is connected to a differential decode circuit arranged to generate the data output signal.
7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the processing means comprises a fourth adder circuit connected to a limiter circuit, the output of which is only connected to the first multiplying means, and the output of the third adder means is connected to the input of the differential decode circuit.
8. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the Wiener-like filter and the past sample symmetrical filter comprises a first shift register, arranged to receive an input signal, said first shift register having its output stage connected to first multiplying means which has a second input for receiving a signal indicative of sample inversion, said first multiplying means having an output connected to an input of a second shift register and connected to an input of a first integrate and dump circuit, said first integrate and dump circuit having a second input connected to the last stage of said second shift register, a second integrate and dump circuit which has a first input arranged to receive the input signal, a second input thereof connected to a 


further stage of said first shift register, said second integrate and dump circuit having an output connected to an input of a third shift register, having a plurality of stages connected to a one step predictor filter, said first integrate and dump circuit having an output connected to an input of a fourth shift register and to an input of a first adder circuit, said fourth shift register having a plurality of stages connected to an input of second, third and fourth adder circuits respectively, said second, third and fourth adder circuits being connected at a further input thereof to said stages of said third shift register and to the output of said second integrate and dump circuit respectively, said second, third and fourth adder circuits have their outputs connected to a first input of a respective second multiplying means each of which receive at a second input thereof a weighted coefficient signal, and said adder circuit which is connected to the output of said first integrate and dump circuit has an output connected directly to a further adder circuit which is arranged to receive the output from second said multiplying means, said further adder circuit being arranged to generate the output signal of the symmetrical past sample filter.
9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the first multiplying means at said second input receives a signal indicative of modulation removal, said first shift register is arranged to receive half of said input signal, said second integrate and dump circuit is connected to receive the other half of said input signal at a first input thereof, and, a fifth shift register has a 


final stage connected to a second input of the second integrate and dump circuit, said fifth shift register being arranged to receive said other half of said input signal at a first stage thereof.
10. Apparatus as claimed in claims 3 and 5, wherein the signal shift register has its input connected to the output of the signal correlator and not to the first multiplying means, and the output of said shift register is also connected to an input of a delay device, the output of which is connected to further multiplying means which at a second input thereof is connected to receive the output from the third adder circuit by way of said limiter circuit, an output from said further multiplying means being connected to provide the input to the past sample symmetrical filter.
1 1 . Apparatus as claimed in claims 9 and 10, wherein said first shift register and said first multiplying means are not used and said half of said input signal is applied directly to said second shift register and to said first integrate and dump circuit.
12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein each channel further includes a signal correlator, for receiving the input signal, having an output connected to a first complex linear multiplying circuit having an output line connected to a Wiener filter and past sample symmetrical filter associated with each channel, respectively first multiplying means associated with each channel arranged to multiply the output from the past sample symmetrical filter with the output from the signal correlator, and 


having an output connected to a first adder circuit which is arranged to receive output signals from the first circuit means associated with the said plurality of circuit means, each first adder circuit having an output connected to an input of a differential decode circuit which is arranged to provide a data output signal, second multiplying means associated with each channel, for receiving an output from the Wiener filter and an output from the signal correlator, said second circuit means having an output connected to an input of a second adder circuit, said second adder circuit being connected to an output of said second multiplying means associated with the plurality of circuit means, said second adder circuits having an output connected to first normalising means, said first normalising means having its outputs connected to a first complex conjugate means, the outputs of which are connected to two further inputs of the complex linear multiplying circuit.
13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein second normalising means is provided, and arranged to receive the signals applied to said differential decode circuit, said second normalising means having its outputs connected to a second complex conjugate means, said second complex conjugate means having its outputs connected to inputs of a second complex linear multiplying circuit, the outputs of which are connected to said first complex linear multiplying circuit instead of the outputs from said first complex conjugate means, and wherein the outputs from said first complex linear multiplying means are respectively 


connected to further inputs of the past sample symmetrical filter in each channel, and each past sample symmetrical filter has a further output connected to further inputs of the first complex linear multiplying circuit.
14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein second normalising means is provided, and arranged to receive the signals applied to the differential decode circuit, said second normalising means having its outputs connected to a second complex conjugate means, said second complex conjugate means having its outputs connected to input of a second complex linear multiplying means, said second complex linear multiplying means at two further inputs thereof, receive the output signals from the signal shift registers associated with each channel, by way of a respective delay device, and the outputs from said second complex linear multiplying means are connected to a respective one of said past sample symmetrical filters.
15. Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the modulation is differential phase shift keying.
16. Apparatus as claimed in claims 1 to 14, wherein the modulation is differential binary phase shift keying. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
