<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619727</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
RESILIENT PLASTIC WEB EXHIBITING REDUCED SKIN CONTACT AREA AND ENHANCED FLUID TRANSFER PROPERTIES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B32B312	B29C5100	A61F13511	B29C5100	A61F1315	B32B312	A61F1349	A61F1315	B32B518	B32B518	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B32B	B29C	A61F	B29C	A61F	B32B	A61F	A61F	B32B	B32B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B32B3	B29C51	A61F13	B29C51	A61F13	B32B3	A61F13	A61F13	B32B5	B32B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A resilient three-dimensional plastic web exhibiting reduced skin contact area and a fiber-like appearance and tactile impression. The web has a multiplicity of apertures therein, each being defined by a multiplicity of intersecting fiber-like elements interconnected to one another in the plane of the first surface of the web. Each of the fiber-like elements exhibits a substantially uniform generally upwardly concave shaped cross section along its length. The cross section comprises at least one pair of convergent substantially linear portions which intersect one another to form a vertex in the plane of the first surface of the web. This vertex reduces the skin contact area of the web providing a more comfortable feel for the user when the web is employed as a wearer contacting topsheet in a disposable absorbent bandage. Furthermore, the web provides a substantially non-glossy visible surface as there is almost no substantially planar portion in its uppermost surface to reflect incident light to the viewer's eye. The pattern of intersecting vertices in the first surface of the web substantially eliminates pooling of fluids on the first surface of the web, since there is almost no substantially planar portion on which the fluids may pool. This further contributes to the web's clean and dry appearance in use as well as more rapid fluid transport into the underlying absorbent core.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE PROCTER 
&
 GAMBLE COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERTH DONALD LEROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN WILLIAM HARRY JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GERTH, DONALD, LEROY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GOODMAN, WILLIAM, HARRY, JR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to resilient, three-dimensional, 
fluid-pervious plastic webs exhibiting reduced skin contact area, a 
fiber-like appearance and tactile impression, and more particularly, 
to such webs having enhanced fluid transfer properties. It has long been known in the disposable absorbent bandage art 
that it is extremely desirable to construct absorptive devices, such 
as disposable diapers, sanitary napkins, incontinent articles, and 
the like, presenting a dry surface feel to the user to improve 
wearing comfort and to minimize the development of undesirable skin 
conditions due to prolonged exposure to moisture absorbed within the 
bandage. One viable prior art solution to the aforementioned problem is 
disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Patent 4,342,314 issued to Radel 
et al. on August 3, 1982 . 
Radel et al. discloses an absorbent bandage with a 
wearer-contacting topsheet comprising a resilient macroscopically 
expanded, three- dimensional plastic web exhibiting a combination of 
fiber-like and plastic properties. In a preferred embodiment, the 
macroscopically expanded three-dimensional plastic web topsheet 
disclosed in Radel et al. exhibits a fine scale three-dimensional 
microstructure comprising a regulated continuum of capillary 
networks, of steadily decreasing size, originating in and extending 
from one surface of said web and terminating in the form of 
apertures in the opposite surface thereof to promote rapid fluid 
transport in the direction of decreasing capillary size. The web's 
fiber-like appearance is comprised of a continuum of fiber-like 
elements, the opposed ends of each of said fiber-like elements being 
interconnected to at least one other of said fiber-like elements.  
 A typical capillary network in the Radel et al. structure 
comprises an uppermost capillary opening formed by a multiplicity of 
primary fiber-like elements interconnected to one another in the 
uppermost plane of the web. The uppermost opening may, if desired, 
be further subdivided into smaller capillary openings by secondary 
and tertiary fiber-like elements at planes located below the 
wearer-contacting surface of the web. Each of the fiber-like elements exhibits a substantially 
uniform U-shaped cross-section along its length. In the case of a 
primary fiber-like element, its cross-section comprises a base 
portion located in the wearer-contacting plane and a sidewall 
portion joined to each edge of the base portion, said sidewall 
portions extending generally in the direction of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A resilient three-dimensional web (50) having first (51) and second (52) 
surfaces, said web (50) exhibiting reduced planar area in its first 

surface (51) and a fiber-like appearance and tactile impression, said web (50) 
being comprised of a fluid-impervious plastic material, 

said first surface (51) having a multiplicity of apertures (53) 
therein, each of said apertures (53) being defined by a multiplicity of intersecting 

fiber-like elements (54, 55, 56, 57, 58) interconnected to one another in the plane 
of said first surface (51), each of said fiber-like elements (54, 55, 56, 57, 58) 

exhibiting a substantially uniform generally upwardly, (i.e. in the direction of said 
first surface (51)) concave shaped cross-section along its length, 

said cross-section comprising a sidewall portion (66) 
extending generally in the direction of said second surface (52) of said web (50),
 
characterized in that
 
said cross-section further comprises at least one pair of convergent 

substantially linear portions (62, 63) which intersect one another to form a 
vertex (64) in said first plane, said sidewall portions 66 being 

joined to the free end of each of said linear portions (62, 63), 
said intersecting substantially 

linear portions (62, 63) and said intersecting sidewall portions (66) being 
interconnected to one another, respectively, intermediate said first (51) 

and second (52) surfaces of said web (50), said interconnected sidewall 
portions (66) terminating substantially concurrently with one another in 

the plane of said second surface (52). 
The resilient three-dimensional web (50) of Claim 1, wherein 
said second surface (52) of said web (50) contains a multiplicity of apertures (53) 

and said interconnected sidewall portions (66) of said fiber-like elements (54, 55, 
56, 57, 58) terminate substantially concurrently with one another 

in said apertures (53) in the plane of said second surface (52). 
The resilient three-dimensional web (50) of Claim 2, wherein 
said interconnected substantially linear portions (62, 63) and said 

interconnected sidewall portions (66) form a discrete capillary network 
connecting each of said apertures (53) formed by said multiplicity of 

intersecting fiber-like elements in said first surface (51) of said web (50)  
 

exclusively with a corresponding aperture (61) defined by said 
interconnected sidewall portions (66) in said second surface (52) of said web (50). 
The resilient three-dimensional web (50) of claim 2, wherein at 
least a portion of said fiber-like elements (54, 55, 56, 57, 58) are substantially 

straight along a portion of their length. 
The resilient three-dimensional web (300) of claim 1, wherein 
each of said apertures (301) being 

defined by a multiplicity of primary intersecting fiber-like elements (302, 303, 
304, 305) interconnected to one another in the plane of said first surface (331), 

each of said primary fiber-like elements exhibiting a substantially 
uniform generally upwardly concave shaped cross-section along its 

length, 
said cross-section 

comprising a primary sidewall portion joined to the free end of each 
of said linear portions (340, 341), 

said interconnected primary sidewall portions (313) being 
further connected to at least one secondary intersecting fiber-like 

element exhibiting a substantially similar form to said primary fiber like elements 
(302, 303, 304, 305) but forming 

a secondary vertex in a plane intermediate said first and 
second surfaces of said web,  

 
said interconnected primary and secondary fiber like elements terminating 

substantially concurrently with one another in the plane of said 
second surface. 
The resilient three-dimensional web (300) of Claim 5, wherein 
said apertures in said second surface of said web are defined by said 

interconnected primary and secondary sidewall portions of said 
fiber-like elements lo
cated intermediate said first and said second 
surfaces of said web, said interconnected primary and secondary 

sidewall portions thereby forming a discrete capillary network 
connecting each of said apertures defined by said multiplicity of 

intersecting primary fiber-like elements in the plane of said first 
surface of said web exclusively with a multiplicity of said apertures 

formed in said second surface of said web by said interconnected 
primary and secondary sidewall portions of said fiber-like elements. 
The resilient three-dimensional web (50, 300) of either Claim 3 or 
Claim 6, wherein said capillary networks are of non-uniform 

cross-section along their length. 
An absorbent bandage comprising a wearer-contacting topsheet 
and an absorbent element for absorbing bodily fluids, said topsheet 

comprising a resilient three-dimensional web according to any of the claims 1 to 7.  
 
The absorbent bandage of Claim 8, including a backsheet 
resistant to the passage of aqueous fluid therethrough secured in 

superposed relation to said bandage adjacent the surface absorbent 
element opposite said topsheet. 
The structure of Claim 9, wherein said absorbent bandage 
comprises either a disposable diaper or a disposable catamenial 

appliance. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
