<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614297</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Star configuration network system.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04L1244	H04L1244	H04L2906	H04L2906	H04N500	H04N500	H04N710	H04N710	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04N	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04L12	H04L12	H04L29	H04L29	H04N5	H04N5	H04N7	H04N7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A star configuration network system eliminating 
the need for reassigning addresses to the nodes 

constituting the system when any of the nodes is removed 
or relocated. The system comprises a first and a second 

node, a data processor and a controller. The first node 
has a plurality of connected terminals and offers a 

signal switching function. The second node offers a 
signal transmitting and receiving function and is 

connected to the first node. The data processor 
transmits and receives packet data between the first and 

the second nodes. The controller assigns addresses to 
all of the connected terminals of the first node. Each 

of the configured nodes is assigned a predetermined 
address common to all the nodes. The address of a 

connected terminal of one node as viewed from a 
connected terminal of the other node is represented by 

the address assigned to the connected terminal of that 
one node and by a connecting relationship between the 

two connected nodes, whereby the system transmits and 
receives packets between the two connected terminals. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMURA HARUMI C O SONY CORPO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOH KEIKO C O SONY CORPORATI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAMURA, HARUMI, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SATOH, KEIKO, C/O SONY CORPORATION
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a star 
configuration network system and, more particularly, to 
a star configuration network system characterized by a 
novel method for designating the addresses of nodes 
constituting a network, by new procedures for 
establishing a line and by an improved method for 
transmitting data over the line. There exist so-called local area networks (LAN's) 
that connect workstations or personal computers located 
in a limited area. All nodes constituting such a 
network are assigned an address each when a network 
system is set up. One known procedure for establishing a line in a 
network system is the LAPD (link access protocol D-channel) 
of the ISDN (integrated services digital 
network). The frame structure of the LAPD conforms to 
the frame format of the HDLC (high-level data link 
control). In this frame structure, a flag comes first  
 
which identifies the frame, followed by an address part 
that identifies a logical link and then by a control 
part. Known small-scale network systems include the HBS 
(home bus system), D2B (domestic digital bus system) and 
LANC (local application control bus system). In the HBS 
and D2B, data is transmitted after inquiries are made 
between the terminals involved (called the inquiry 
system hereunder). In the LANC, data is kept 
transmitted while the line is being established (called 
the constant flow system hereunder). In connection with 
the present invention, European Patent Application Pub. 
No. 0,467,305 discloses a multi-master system wherein a 
computer is connected in daisy chain with audio-visual 
appliances for repeating packet signals and 
predetermined control signals therebetween under 
integrated control. In systems such as a computer network where few 
nodes are relocated once given an address each, the 
conventional method of assigning addresses to the 
individual nodes is effective from a control point of 
view. However, the effectiveness of the method is 
diminished in systems such as an audio-visual network 
system configuring AV appliances because the nodes of  
 
such a system need to be addressed every time any of the 
nodes is removed or relocated, which occurs often. The LAPD controls are intended for use with public 
switched networks. Thus the control procedures of the 
LAPD are complex and can overburden the control scheme 
of small-scale networks such as audio-visual appliance 
networks. In addition, the LAPD is not suited for 
networks whose nodes are not assigned an absolute 
address each. The inquiry
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A star configuration network system 
comprising: 

   a first node having a plurality of connected 
terminals and offering a signal switching function; 

   a second node offering a signal transmitting and 
receiving function and connected to said first node; 

   a data processor for transmitting and receiving 
packet data between said first and said second nodes; 

and 
   a controller for assigning addresses to all of the 

plurality of connected terminals of said first node, 
each of the configured nodes being assigned a 

predetermined address common to all the nodes, wherein 
the address of one node as viewed from the other node is 

represented by the address assigned to any one of the 
connected terminals of said first node and by a 

connecting relationship between the two connected nodes, 
whereby the system transmits and receives packets 

between said two connected terminals. 
A star configuration network system 
comprising: 

   a first node having a plurality of connected 
terminals and offering a signal switching function; 

   a plurality of second nodes each offering a signal 
transmitting and receiving function and each connected 

to said first node; 
   a data processor for transmitting and receiving 

packet data and line-switched data between said first 
and said second nodes; and 

   a controller for assigning addresses to all of the 
plurality of connected terminals of said first node, 

each of the configured nodes being assigned a 
predetermined address common to all the nodes, wherein 

the address of one node as viewed from another node is 
represented by the address assigned to any one of the 

connected terminals of said first node and by a 
connecting relationship between the two connected nodes, 

said controller setting a line over which to transmit 
said line-switched data by use of the packet having the 

starting and end addresses of said line. 
A star configuration network system 
comprising: 

   a first node having a plurality of connected 
terminals and offering a signal switching function; 

   a plurality of second nodes each offering a signal 
transmitting and receiving function and each connected 

to said first node; 
   a data processor for transmitting and receiving 

packet data and line-switched data between said first 
and said second nodes; and 

   a controller for switching data by transmitting 
and receiving packets and line-switched data, wherein 

any one of said second nodes first makes an inquiry 
using a packet to detect another second node 

continuously transmitting desired status data, 
establishes with the detected second node a line over 

which to transmit status data, and receives the status 
 

data continuously transmitted over the established line 
from said detected second node. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 1,2 or 3 wherein said packet data comprises a frame 

headed by a header of a specific pattern indicating the 
head of said frame, the end of said frame being 

identified by a control channel part for allowing 
various control signals to be transmitted and received 

in packet format between nodes. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 4, wherein between said header and said 

control channel part of said packet data exists a data 
channel for transmitting and receivi
ng a plurality of 
signals. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 5, wherein said data channel comprises a 

plurality of time slots. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 6, wherein said first node is connected to 

said second node or nodes in a hierarchical structure in which 
one node comes above the other nodes, the higher node 

acting as a master. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 7, wherein said first and said second nodes 

 
use a source address each composed of a predetermined 

code when transmitting data because the nodes are 
incapable of recognizing the addresses assigned thereto. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 8 , wherein any one of said first and said 

second nodes acts as a concentrator which repeats 
packets by reading the destination addresses thereof and 

which rewrites the destination and source addresses of a 
given packet into those appropriate as viewed from said 

concentrator. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 9, wherein said concentrator repeats data to 

all terminals connected thereto if the destination 
address of the received packet includes an address 

designating a data repeat operation. 
A star configuration network system according to 
claim 10, wherein said concentrator comprises: 

   a reception interface for receiving signals from any one 
of another concentrator or concentrators and terminals, for 

regenerating a clock signal and for multiplexing transmission 
signals; 

   a frame decoder for decoding the frame being 
output by said reception interface, for converting the 

decoded frame from serial to parallel format, and for 
 

outputting a packet in said control channel part and 
line-switched data in the time slots correspondingly; 

   a packet processor for detecting, comparing and 
rewriting the destination and source addresses attached 

to the received packet, and for generating a message 
destined to said concentrator; and 

   a central processing unit comprising a line-switched 
data processor operating on time slot selection 

and a controller. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 11, wherein said central processing unit 

comprises: 
   a packet processor for detecting, comparing and 

rewriting the destination and source addresses attached 
to the received packet, and for generating a message 

destined to said concentrator; 
   a line-switched data processor for establishing a 

line based on time slot selection and for switching 
lines by switching time slots; and 

   a controller for detecting the status of each of 
the components constituting said concentrator and for 

controlling said components. 
A star configuration network system according 
to claim 12, further comprising a frame generator for 

 
generating a frame for output to a transmission 

interface, said frame being generated in accordance with 
either the packet or the line-switched data output by 

said central processing unit. 
A star configuration network system according to 
claim 13, wherein said second node or nodes is/are each on 

audio-visual appliance. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
