<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Translucent screen and its manufacturing method
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G03B2162	H04N574	G03B2156	G02B308	G02B502	G03B2156	H04N574	G03B2162	G02B308	G02B502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G03B	H04N	G03B	G02B	G02B	G03B	H04N	G03B	G02B	G02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G03B21	H04N5	G03B21	G02B3	G02B5	G03B21	H04N5	G03B21	G02B3	G02B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A permeable screen (1) possesses superior 
brightness, high contrast, wide view angle, excellent 

contrast to external light, superior clearness, and less 
reflection of external light image. The permeable 

screen includes a front dispersing panel (2), and a 
lenticular lens sheet (3) disposed at the incident side 

of the front dispersing panel (2) and forming plural 
lens surfaces. The permeable screen also includes a 

Fresnel lens (7) sheet disposed at the incident side of 
the lenticular lens sheet and forming plural lens 

surfaces. The front dispersing panel functions as a 
screen and also provides mechanical strength. The front 

dispersing panel also possesses parts for mounting and 
fixing the lenticular lens sheet and Fresnel lens 

sheet. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC IND CO LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO., LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AOKI SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITANI KATSUAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUKAI HITOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AOKI, SATOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MITANI, KATSUAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MUKAI, HITOSHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a light transmissive 
screen for use in projection type television receiver 
and a manufacturing method thereof. An example of a conventional light transmissive screen 
is shown in Figs. 9 and 10. As shown in Fig. 9, the conventional light transmissive 
screen sheet comprises a Fresnel lens sheet 61 
having a Fresnel lens 64, and a lenticular lens sheet 62 
overlaid on the front side of the Fresnel lens sheet 
61. In the lenticular lens sheet 62, in order to 
enhance matching of the picture and expand the vertical 
view field, light dispersing fine particles, such as 
glass and high molecular material which function as 
dispersing agent 68, are mixed in a screen substrate. On both sides of the lenticular lens sheet 62, 
cylindrical lenticular lenses 65, 66 are formed. Furthermore, to prevent reduction in contrast 
due to external light, protruding black stripes; 
indicated by external light absorption layer 67 are 
formed in specific pitch stripes in the non-focusing 
area of the incident side of the lenticular lens 65. However, as shown in Fig. 10, for the 
conventional construction, part of the incident light 
becomes stray light as indicated by incident ray 63a in 
Fig. 10. This occurs because the dispersing agent 68 is 
mixed in the lenticular lens sheet 62. As a result, various problems such as 
deterioration of resolution, worsening of color 
performance due to color shift or color shading, and 
lowering of brightness due to loss or quantity of exit 
light may be caused.  
 Moreover, part of the dispersing agent 
projects on the surface of the cylindrical lenticular 
lens 65 of the lenticular lens sheet 62 or the 
protruding black stripes 67 in the non-focusing area, 
and therefore, the surface of the lenticular lens sheet 
62 is undulated. Accordingly, when the side surface of the 
lenticular lens sheet 62 where light exits is exposed to 
external light, irregular reflection occurs, and the 
screen surface becomes whitish. As a consequence, the 
contrast is lowered. To improve lowering in brightness and lowering 
in contrast due to external light, as shown in in Fig. 
10, a method is proposed of disposing a glass or plastic 
transparent panel 69 for lowering the light transmissibility 
on the front surface of the screen. In this case, however, undesired external 
light images from fluorescent lamps, room light, 
surrounding people, windows and other objects are often 
reflected on the transparent panel 69, which makes it 
difficult to observe the screen. A
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A light transmissive screen comprising: 

a front dispersing panel (2) having a first incident light side, 
a lenticular lens sheet (3) disposed at the first incident light side of the front 
dispersing panel, said lenticular lens sheet forming a lens surface and having a 

second incident light side, and 
a Fresnel lens sheet (7) disposed at the second incident light side of the 
lenticular lens sheet and forming a lens surface; 
 
   characterized in that the front dispersing panel (2) includes dispersing agent 

(10,17) and is formed to have a box-shape within which the lenticular lens sheet and 
the Fresnel lens sheet are installed. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1, wherein the front dispersing panel 
comprises a base material (9), having a dispersing agent (10) contained in the base 

material. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1, wherein the front dispersing panel 
is composed of a base material (18), having a dispersing agent (17) applied on the surface 

thereof. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1, wherein at least one of (a) black 
materials having a uniform absorption spectrum in the visible wavelength region and 

(b) visible light absorbing materials having selective wavelength absorbing 
characteristics is contained in at least one of the front dispersing panel (2), the 

lenticular lens sheet (3) and the Fresnel lens sheet (7). 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1, wherein the front dispersing panel 

(2) has a light exit surface which is at least one of a flat surface and a fine coarse 
surface.  

 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1, wherein a dispersing agent is formed 
on a surface of the lenticular lens sheet (3) and contained in the lenticular lens sheet. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1, further comprising an external light 
absorbing layer (16) formed on a specified area of a light exit side surface of the 

lenticular lens sheet (3). 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1 or 2 in which:
 
   the front dispersing panel (2) comprises a laminate made of a transparent layer (8) and a 

dispersing layer 10. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 8, wherein at least one of (a) a black 
material having a uniform absorption spectrum in the visible wavelength region and 

(b) a visible light absorbing material having selective wavelength absorbing 
characteristics is contained in at least one of the transparent layer and the dispersing 

layer of the front dispersing panel laminate. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1 in which: 

said lenticular lens sheet (3) has plural lens surfaces and external light absorbing 
layers, and 
the Fresnel lens sheet (7) has plural lens surfaces. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 10, wherein the front dispersing panel 
is composed of a dispersing layer (9) containing a dispersing agent (10) disposed at 

the light incident side, and a transparent layer (8) disposed at the light exit side. 
The light transmissive screen of claim 1 or 10, further comprising a reflection 
preventive film formed in at least one of a surface of the front dispersing panel (2), 

a surface of the lenticular lens sheet (3), and a surface of the Fresnel lens sheet (7).  
 
The light transmissive screen of claim 12, wherein the reflection preventive 
film is a fluoro resin having a smaller refractive index than the refractive index of 

the front dispersing panel (2), the lenticular lens (3) sheet and the Fresnel lens sheet 
(7). 
The light transmissive screen of claim 10, wherein the front dispersing panel 
possesses means for setting and fixing the lenticular lens sheet and the Fresnel lens 

sheet inside the front dispersing panel (2), and means for fitting and fixing the front 
dispersing panel to a cabinet main body (12) of a television receiver. 
A light transmissive screen cabinet comprising: 

a cabinet (12) of a projection type television receiver; and 
a light transmissive screen (1) according to any preceding claim installed in 
the cabinet. 
The light transmissive screen cabinet of claim 15, further comprising first 
fitting means (13,27) formed at a first end surface of the box-shaped front dispersing 

panel (2) incorporating the lenticular lens sheet and the Fresnel lens sheet, and 
second fitting means (14,15,28,29) formed at a second surface of the cabinet (12), 

wherein the dispersing panel and the cabinet are fixed together by the first fitting 
means and the second fitting means, respectively. 
The light transmissive screen cabinet of claim 16, wherein one of the first 
fitting means and second fitting means is convex and the other is concave. 
A method of manufacturing a light transmissive screen comprising the steps 
of: 


(a) forming a front dispersing panel which is comprised of a dispersing agent 
and a base material, 
(b) forming a lenticular lens sheet having a lens surface,  
 
(c) forming a Fresnel lens sheet having a further lens surface, and 
(d) combining the lenticular lens sheet and the Fresnel lens sheet sequentially 
behind the front dispersing panel; 
 
   characterised in that the front dispersing panel is formed to have a box-shape, 

and the step of combining comprises installing the lenticular lens sheet and Fresnel 
lens sheet inside the box-shaped front dispersing panel. 
The method of manufacturing the light transmissive screen of claim 18, 
wherein step (a) includes pouring a resin as the base material on a plastic film 

containing the dispersing agent disposed in a die, and solidifying the resin. 
The method of manufacturing the light transmissive screen of claim 18, 
wherein step (a) includes laminating and adhering a plastic film containing the 

dispersing agent to the base material using an adhesive. 
The method of manufacturing the light transmissive screen of claim 18, 
wherein step (a) includes laminating and fixing a plastic film containing the 

dispersing agent to a resin as the base material, by heating and pressing. 
The method of manufacturing the light transmissive screen of claim 18, 
wherein step (a) includes adhering a mixed solution containing the dispersing agent, 

a resin and a solvent to a surface of the base material, and then removing the solvent. 
The method of manufacturing the light transmissive screen of claim 18, 
wherein step (a) includes adhering a mixed solution containing the dispersing agent 

and a solvent to a surface of the base material, and then removing the solvent. 
The method of manufacturing the light transmissive screen of claim 18. 
wherein step (a) includes pouring a material comprising the dispersing agent and the 

base material, into a die, and then solidifying the mixture.  
 
The method of manufacturing the light transmissive screen of claim 18, 
wherein step (a) includes forming two layers simultaneously by combining a base 

material and the dispersing agent. 
A method of manufacturing a projecting type television receiver comprising 
the steps of: 


assembling a light transmissive screen by installing a lenticular lens sheet and 
a Fresnel lens sheet inside a front dispersing panel having a box-shape, said front 

dispersing panel functioning as a screen and having first fitting means, and 
fitting and assembling the projection type television receiver cabinet having 
a second fitting means to the light transmissive screen. 
The method of manufacturing a projection type television of claim 26, 
wherein one of the first fitting means and the second fitting means is convex and the 

other is concave, and wherein the first fitting means and the second fitting means are 
directly fitted to each other. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
