<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624077</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MAGNETICALLY MODIFICATION OF ORGANISM METABOLISM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B09C110	B09C110	C02F334	C02F334	C12N1300	C12N1300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B09C	B09C	C02F	C02F	C12N	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B09C1	B09C1	C02F3	C02F3	C12N13	C12N13	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is provided for the modification of microbial metabolism using a unipolar magnetic field. By applying a unipolar magnetic field to microbes under controlled conditions, changes in the rate and/or efficiency of metabolism are produced. Further, a media which has been subjected to a shielded or focused magnetic field is applied to a subject, as for example, topically. The comprises, in part, interposing between the subjects and the source of a magnetic field, at least one second magnetic field disposed in such a manner that the polarity of the second magnetic field cancels or at least partially neutralizes the magnetic strength of the first magnetic field. The second magnetic fields can also be disposed so as to permit only a portion of the first magnetic field to escape shielding and thereby focused in a predetermined direction.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOMAGNETICS SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BIOMAGNETICS SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PROVELL GREGORY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAWLS WALTER C JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PROVELL GREGORY J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RAWLS WALTER C JR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 MAGNETICALLY MODIFICATION OF ORGANISM METABOLISM FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to magnetic energies derived form a specific magnetic field and methods for the modification of microbial metabolism using unipolar magnetic fields. This invention is directed, in part, to the modification of microbial metabolism, such as enhancing the microbial activity in the biodegradation of contaminated aqueous waste streams. In a further aspect, the present in¬ vention relates to.methods for utilizing a unipolar magnetic field under controlled conditions to modify the metabolism of microorganisms. Still another aspect of the invention is the use of the focused magnetic energies of a particular unidirectional magnetic field. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe search for a biological effect due to magnetic fields has a long history dating back a hundred years. Among the positive findings attributed to strong magnetic fields are: altered growth rate, enzyme activities, cel¬ lular metabolise, DNA synthesis and animal orientation.Preliminary investigations regarding biological effects of exposure to magnetic fields have indicated a polarity de¬ pendence. Cells are deemed to be bioelectric in nature, func¬ tion and behavior and studies have indicated that direc¬ tional magnetic fields enhance biological activity. Moreover, due to the orientation of such cells and of the metal elements and other ions contained therein, blood 

 cells, as well as other cells, have been found to decrease certain biological effects when exposed to the north pole and to increase other biological effects when exposed to the magnetic south pole. On the other hand, the application of south pole energies tends to have a strengthening, activat¬ ing effect, which has been found useful in treating some ab¬ normal conditions, particularly those associated with a slow¬ ing or weakening in function. Cancer cells exposed to the north field show a significant decrease in the number of sur¬ viving cells after a period of incubation. β Conversely, the same type of cells, when exposed to the south field, indi¬ cated an increase in the number of surviving cells compared to the unexposed controls.The north pole, which is defined as the north seeking pole, is now believed to provide a negative form of energy while the south pole, which is defined as the south seeking pole, is believed to provide a positive form of energy. It has also been found upon examination of the electron paths associated with the fields surrounding the respective poles
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. In a bioremediation process in which microbial or¬ ganisms decompose organic compounds from a toxic to a non- toxic form, the improvement comprising the modifying of the metabolism of said microbial organisms using directional unipolar magnetic fields, comprising the steps of: applying a unipolar magnetic field to contaminated body of media, for a sufficient time period and at a sufficient field strength to modify the metabolism of microbial or¬ ganisms in said body of a media, and to thereby enhance the rate of bioremediation.
2. The bioremediation process of claim 1, wherein said or¬ ganic compounds include one or more contaminants selected from the group consisting of aromatic solvents, polychloro- biphenyls, trichloroethylene, and petroleum hydrocarbons.
3. The bioremediation process of claim 1, wherein said unipolar magnetic field is indirectly applied to said media by directing said magnetic field to ground water.
4. The bioremediation process of claim 1, wherein said unipolar magnetic field is indirectly applied to said media by directing said magnetic field to water and the water is then injected into said media.
5. The bioremediation process of claim 1, wherein said unipolar magnetic field is indirectly applied to said media by subjecting said organisms to said magnetic field and then injecting said microbial organisms into said media. 


 6. The bioremediation process of claim 1, wherein said unipolar magnetic field is indirectly applied to said media by subjecting nutrient to said magnetic field, feeding said nutrient to said microbial organisms and then injecting said microbial organisms into said media.
7. The bioremediation process of claim 1, wherein said unipolar magnetic field is directly applied to a zone con¬ taining said media to stimulate in situ biodegration.
8. In a bioremediation process in which contaminants are treated with microbial organisms to convert said con¬ taminants from a toxic to a nontoxic form, the improvement comprising the modifying of the metabolism of said microbial organisms using directional unipolar magnetic field, compris¬ ing the steps of applying a unipolar magnetic field to body of media containing contaminants, for a sufficient time period and at a sufficient field strength to modify the me¬ tabolism of microbial organisms in said body of media, and to thereby enhance the rate of bioremediation.
9. In the biochemical process of modifying organism metabo¬ lism, the improvement comprising the modifying of the metabo¬ lism of said organism using directional unipolar magnetic field, comprising the steps of applying a unipolar magnetic field to said organism, for a sufficient time period and at a sufficient field strength to modify the metabolism of said organism. 


 10. The biochemical process of claim 9, wherein said direc¬ tional unipolar magnetic field is applied to a media and wherein said media is positioned proximate said organism.
11. An apparatus for the magnetic enhancement of bioremedia¬ tion, comprising: a stream of contaminated material (46) ; a pretreatment reactor (66) ; a main reactor (50, means for causing said stream to flow (48) from said pretreatment reactor (66) to said main reactor (50) ; means for adding microbial organisms to said stream of contaminated material; a magnet (52) said magnet (52) being positioned to apply a unipolar magnetic field to said contaminated material.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said magnet (52) is positioned to subject said material in the main reactor (50) to a south pole magnetic field.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said magnet (52) is positioned to subject said material in said main reactor (50) to a south pole magnetic field.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said means for ad¬ ding microbial organisms to said stream of contaminated material (46) delivers said organisms to said main reactor (50) and said magnet (52) is positioned to subject the biomass in said main reactor (50) to a south pole magnetic field. 


 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said means for ad¬ ding microbial organisms to said stream of contaminated material (46) delivers said organisms to said main reactor (50) and said magnet (52) is positioned to subject the biomass in said main reactor to a south pole magnetic field and means to deliver the biomass from said main reactor (50) to a ground region.
16. Process for the modification of the metabolism of microbial organisms using directional unipolar magnetic fields, said process employing a) first source of a first unipolar magnetic field and second unipolar magnetic field, said first unipolar magnetic field being different from said second unipolar magnetic field; said first unipolar magnetic field emanating in a first direction and said second unipolar magnetic field emanating in a second direction, said second direction being substantially opposite said first direction, b) second source of a third unipolar magnetic field and fourth unipolar magnetic field, said third unipolar magnetic field being different from said fourth unipolar magnetic field, said first unipolar mag¬ netic field and said fourth unipolar magnetic field being essentially identical fields, said third unipolar magnetic field emanating in a direc¬ tion opposite said second magnetic field. 


 said first unipolar magnetic field emanating in the same direction as said third unipolar magnetic field, comprising the steps of: positioning said first source proximate said second source such that said third field opposes said first field, and applying said first unipolar magnetic field to con¬ taminated body of media, for a sufficient time period and at a sufficient field strength to modify the metabolism of microbial organisms in said body of a media.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein a media is subjected to said first magnetic field for a predetermined time period, said media is then withdrawn from said first magnetic field and applied to a subject for a predetermined period of time.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein said media is subjected to said first magnetic field for at least about 12 hours and is thereafter applied to said subject.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein said media is subjected to said first magnetic field having a strength of about 1500 Gauss proximate said media.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein said media is topically applied to a subject for a period of at least about 6 hours. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
