<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0621746</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Composite printed circuit board and manufacturing method thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H05K102	H05K102	H05K105	H05K105	H05K114	H05K114	H05K334	H05K334	H05K720	H05K720	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	H05K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K1	H05K3	H05K3	H05K7	H05K7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composite printed circuit board includes a metal 
substrate printed circuit section (12) and an insulation substrate 

printed circuit board section (14). The metal substrate printed 
circuit section (12) includes a first layer of a thermally conductive 

metal (32) for providing high thermal conductivity, 
and a second layer (28) 

made of a thermally conductive and electrically insulative 
material disposed adjacently to said first layer (32). The second 

layer (28) has an upper surface upon which electrically conductive 
wiring (26) may be disposed. The insulator substrate printed circuit 

board section (14) forms an integral surface with the metal substrate 
printed circuit section (12). The insulator substrate printed circuit 

section (14) further includes a first layer (34) of insulative material, 
and a second layer (36) of a metallic foil disposed adjacently to at 

least one side of said first layer of insulative material for 
forming a conductive wiring layout. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAMBDA ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LAMBDA ELECTRONICS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN ISAAC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVORONOS WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN ISAAC
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SVORONOS WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to circuit boards and more 
specifically to a printed circuit board having high thermal 
performance. Printed circuit boards consisting of a pattern of 
wiring on an insulating base or substrate, have become the 
standard method of construction of practically all electronic 
systems. One method of producing printed circuit boards includes 
a subtractive process wherein a metal foil, usually copper, is 
bonded to an insulating substrate and then etched to form a 
required pattern. Another method of producing printed circuit 
boards includes an additive process wherein metal deposition is  
 
used to make the pattern on the surface of an insulating 
substrate. The printed circuit boards made by the above-mentioned 
methods may have conductors on one side of the insulating 
substrate, commonly known as single-sided, or may have conductors 
on both sides of the insulating substrate, commonly known as 
double-sided. In addition, a number of the printed circuit 
boards made by the above-mentioned method may be stacked and 
bonded together to form a multiple-layered board. Although these 
printed circuit boards provided the means for creating complex 
interconnecting patterns, they lack the capability to effectively 
extract the heat generated by power devices installed on their 
surface. One of the important design considerations in utilizing 
printed circuit boards in electronic packaging is removal of heat 
generated by high power dissipating devices which are mounted on 
the board. Conventional heat removal structures include a strip 
of metal connected to the printed circuit board as a heat sink 
layer. The high power device would then be disposed on the heat 
sink layer and their leads connected to the printed circuit 
board. A major disadvantage of such heat sink layers is that the 
total package including the printed circuit board and the heat 
sink becomes inefficiently large and heavy with low average 
component density per unit area.  A recent method for providing printed circuits with 
high thermal performance utilizing a metal substrate printed 
circuit board is disclosed in United States Patent 4, 810, 563 
issued March 7, 1989 to DeGree et. al. The thermally conductive circuit board is built by 
laminating a thin layer of high performance insulator on top of a 
metal substrate and bonding a thin conductive metal layer on the 
insulator. The conductive layer may be etched to form a desired 
circuit pattern thus resulting effectively in a printed circuit 
board. Successive
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composite printed circuit board comprising: 
   a metal substrate printed circuit section 

having, 
      a first layer of a thermally conductive 

metal for providing high thermal 
oonductivity, 

      a second layer made of a thermally 
conductive and electrically insulative 

material disposed adjacently to said 
first layer, said second layer having an 

upper surface upon which electrically 
conductive wiring may be disposed; and 

   an insulator substrate printed circuit board 
section forming an integral surface with said 

metal substrate printed circuit section, said 
insulator substrate printed circuit section 

further comprising, 
      a first layer of insulative material, 

and 
      a second layer of a metallic foil 

disposed adjacently to at least one side 
of said first layer of insulative 

material for forming a conductive wiring 
layout. 
The invention as claimed in claim 1 wherein said 
metal substrate printed circuit section is disposed on a metallic 

frame for conducting the heat generated on said upper surface 
through said metal substrate printed circuit section to said 

metallic frame. 
The invention as claimed in claim 2 wherein said 
insulator substrate printed circuit section and said metal 

substrate printed circuit section are positioned adjacently by a 
lap-joint technique. 
The invention as claimed in claim 3 wherein the 
portion of the metal substrate section positioned adjacently to 

the insulator substrate section includes an edge and a side wall. 
The invention as claimed in claim 4 wherein said 
edges and said side wall are formed by machining said portion of 

the metal substrate section positioned adjacently to insulator 
substrate section. 
The invention as claimed in claim 4 wherein said 
edge and said side wall are formed by compressing said portion of 

the metal substrate section positioned adjacently to the 
insulator substrate section. 
The invention as claimed in claim 6 wherein said 
metal substrate section and said insulator substrate section are 

connected by a fastener. 
The invention as claimed in claim 6 wherein said 
metal substrate section and said insulator substrate section are 

connected by cement. 
The invention as claimed in claim 7 wherein along 
the side of the metal substrate printed circuit section adjacent 

to the insulator substrate printed circuit section, portions of 
the metal substrate printed circuit section surrounding the 

fasteners extend more outwardly than the intermediate portion 
along said side of the metal substrate printed circuit section. 
The invention as claimed in claim 1, wherein a 
plurality of said metal substrate printed circuit sections and 

said insulation substrate printed circuit sections are joined 
together to form an integral surface. 
The invention as claimed in claim 1, wherein 
electrical components are disposed on both metal substrate 

printed board sections and on insulator substrate printed board 
sections, said electrical components being electrically 

interconnected. 
A method for manufacturing a compositei) circuit 
board comprising the steps of: 

   forming a metal substrate printed circuit section 
baving a metal base layer and an insulator upper layer 

having a top surface upon which electrically conductive 
wiring is disposed; 

   forming an insulator substrate circuit section 
integrally with said metal substrate printed circuit 

section, said insulator substrate printed circuit 

section, having a first layer of insulative material, 
and a second layer of a metallic foil for forming a 

conductive wiring layout wherein electrical components 
are formed by said insulator and metal substrate 

printed circuit sections. 
The method as claimed in claim 12 further 
comprising the step of disposing said metal substrate printed 

circuit section on a metallic frame for conducting the heat 
generated on said upper surface through said metal substrate 

printed circuit section to said metallic frame. 
The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said 
step of forming a metal substrate circuit section further 

comprise the step of machining a portion of the metal substrate 
circuit portion positioned adjacently to the insulation substrate 

 
circuit portion positioned adjacently to the insulation substrate 

circuit section for forming an edge and a side wall. 
The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said 
step of forming a metal substrate circuit section further 

comprises the step of compressing a portion of the metal 
substrate circuit portion positioned adjacently to the insulator 

substrate circuit section for forming an edge and a side wall. 
The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein said 
step of connecting further comprise the step of positioning said 

insulator substrate circuit section and said metal substrate 
circuit section along said edge and side wall adjacently by a lap 

joint technique. 
The method as claimed in claim 16 wherein said 
step of connecting further comprise the step of attaching said 

metal substrate circuit section and said insulator substrate 
circuit section by rivets. 
The method as claimed in claim 16 wherein said 
step of connecting further comprise the step of attaching said 

metal substrate circuit section and said insulator substrate 
circuit section by cement. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
