<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635877</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for depositing borophosphosilicate glass on a substrate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C03C3076	C03C3097	C23C1638	C23C1638	C23C1640	C23C1640	C23C1642	C23C1642	C23C1644	C23C1644	C23C16455	C23C16455	H01L2102	H01L21203	H01L21205	H01L21316	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C03C	C03C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C03C3	C03C3	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	C23C16	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A borophosphosilicate glass is deposited on a 
substrate (50) by heating the substrate (50), and 

contacting the substrate with a mixture of the gases 
tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, trimethylborate, 

trimethylphosphite, and oxygen, without the presence 
of a carrier gas. The first three o
f the gases are 
produced from liquid sources by controlled 

vaporization and flow. The gases react at the 
heated substrate (50) to deposit the glass upon the 

substrate. In a reactor (52) for depositing the 
glass, the tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane and 

trimethylborate are introduced at a gas inlet 
location (79), and the trimethylphosphite and oxygen 

are heated and introduced at another gas inlet 
location (90). The tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane 

and trimethylborate mixture flows toward the 
location where the trimethylphosphite and oxygen are 

introduced, and whereat the gases are mixed. This 
gaseous mixture flows past the heated substrate (50) 

to deposit the glass thereon. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANTA BARBARA RES CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SANTA BARBARA RES CENTER
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACK BRIAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCARTHUR WARREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACK BRIAN C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCARTHUR WARREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to the preparation of 
substrates coated by borophosphosilicate glasses, 
and, more particularly, to a methodology for 
preparing such coated substrates using chemical 
vapor deposition. Borophosphosilicate glass is a dielectric 
material that is used in microelectronic devices as 
a separating layer between two electrical 
conductors. The glass is deposited as a film over 
an existing layered structure of conductors, 
semiconductors, and insulators, and further layers 
are deposited over the glass. The various layers 
are patterned as required to produce the electronic 
traces and circuit elements of the microelectronic 
device. The borophosphosilicate glass can be 
reflowed (fused) after deposition to change the 
configuration of the glass film. One preferred approach to depositing a film 
of borophosphosilicate glass is by chemical vapor 
deposition. The various constituents of the glass 
are provided in properly selected, chemically 
reactive, gaseous compounds. The compounds are 
mixed and passed as a gas flow through a reactor and 
over the substrate upon which the glass is to be 
deposited. The substrate is heated or otherwise 
energized. When the gaseous compounds contact the 
surface of the heated substrate, they react with 
each other to form a borophosphosilicate glass on 
the surface. Some or all or the reactive compounds used to 
form the gas may be first provided as liquids. Gas  
 
vapors of the liquids are produced either by 
applying heat to vaporize the liquids, or by 
bubbling a carrier gas through the liquid. The gas 
vapors are mixed and provided to the reactor. In one commercial approach to depositing 
borophosphosilicate glass by chemical vapor 
deposition, tetraethylorthosilicate (having a 
formula Si(C₂H₅O)₄), trimethylborate, and 
trimethylphosphite gases, mixed with carrier gases, 
are reacted together at the heated substrate surface 
to form the glass film. The tetraethylorthosilicate 
is a relatively toxic, hazardous material. Its 
handling and disposal present major problems for the 
user. A large, complex, expensive apparatus is 
required for gas handling, reaction, control, and 
disposal. Very tight process controls are required 
to achieve good-quality films of the glass, and the 
throughput of product can be slow. Moreover, the 
films produced by this conventional approach may 
have marginal electrical properties and 
conformality. In an another approach, it has been proposed 
to deposit the borophosphosilicate glass from a 
gaseous mixture of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for depositing a borophosphosilicate 
glass on a substrate, comprising the 

steps of: 
   providing a substrate at a first location 

within a reactor; 
   applying energy to the substrate; 

   supplying sources of the gases 
tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, trimethylborate, 

trimethylphosphite, and oxygen: 
   mixing the tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane and 

the trimethylborate together to form a first gaseous 
mixture; 

   introducing the first gaseous mixture into 
the reactor at a second location remote from the 

substrate; 
   mixing the trime
thylphosphite and the oxygen 
together to form a second gaseous mixture and 

preheating the second gaseous mixture; 
   introducing the second gaseous mixture into 

the reactor at a third location between the first 
location and the second location; and 

   causing the first gaseous mixture and the 
second gaseous mixture to mix together to form a 

third mixture which thereafter flows past the 
substrate. 
A process for depositing a borophosphosilicate 
glass on a substrate, comprising the 

steps of: 
   supplying an energized substrate; 

   supplying sources of the gases 
tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, trimethylborate, 

trimethylphosphite, and oxygen;
 

   mixing the tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane and 
the trimethylborate together to form a first gaseous 

mixture; 
   mixing the trimethylphosphite and the oxygen 

together to form a second gaseous mixture and 
preheating the second gaseous mixture; 

   introducing the first gaseous mixture into 
the reactor and the second gaseous mixture into the 

reactor at different locations remote from the 
substrate; and 

   causing the first gaseous mixture and the 
second gaseous mixture to mix together and to flow 

past the energized substrate. 
The process of claim 1, wherein the step 
of applying energy includes the step of 

   heating the substrate to a temperature of 
from about 500C to about 650C. 
The process of any of claims 1-3, wherein the step 
of supplying sources of the gases includes the steps 

of 
   heating a liquid source of tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane 

to a temperature of at least about 
25C, 

   heating a liquid source of trimethylborate to 
a temperature of at least about 15C, and 

   heating a liquid source of trimethylphosphite 
to a temperature of at least about 20C. 
The process of any of claims 1-4, wherein the step 
of supplying sources of the gases includes the steps 

of 
   providing at least about 12 parts by volume 

per minute of the tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, 
   providing at least about 20 parts by volume 

per minute of the trimethylborate,
 

   providing at least about 5 parts by volume 
per minute of the trimethylphosphite and 

   providing at least about 400 parts by volume 
per minute of oxygen. 
An apparatus for preparing a substrate 
having a borophosphosilicate glass coating deposited 

thereon, comprising: 
   a reactor (52); 

   a substrate support(54) at a first location (55) 
within the reactor; 

   a source of energy (62) for the interior of the 
reactor; 

   sources (64, 72, 80, 87) of the gases tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, 
trimethylborate, trimethylphosphite, and 

oxygen; 
   a first gas inlet to the reactor at a second 

location (79), the first gas inlet being in communication 
with the source of tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane (64) and 

the source of trimethylborate; 
a second gas inlet (72) to the reactor at a third 

location (90) between the first location(55) and the second 
location(79) the second gas inlet being in 

communication with the source of trimethylphosphite (80) 
and the source of oxygen (87); and 

means (93, 102, 104) or causing gases to flow in the 
direction from the second location toward the first 

location. 
An apparatus for preparing a substrate 
having a borophosphosilicate glass coating deposited 

thereon, comprising: 
   a reactor (52); 

   a substrate support (54 )at a first location (55) 
within the reactor; 

   a heater (62) for the interior of the reactor, the 
heater being operable to heat the region of the 

first location to a temperature of from about 500C 
to about 650C;

 
   a source of the gases tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, 

trimethylborate, trimethylphosphite, 
and oxygen, the source including 

   a source (64)of liquid tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, 
   means (66) for maintaining the source of 

liquid tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane at a 
temperature of at least about 25C, 

   means (68) for collecting vaporized 
tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane produced from the 

source of liquid tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane, 
   a source (72) of liquid trimethylborate; 

   means (74) for maintaining the source of 
liquid trimethylborate at a temperature of at least 

about 15C, 
   means (76) for collecting vaporized 

trimethylborate produced from the source of liquid 
trimethylborate, 

   a source (80) of liquid trimethylphosphite, 
   means (82)for maintaining the source of 

liquid trimethylphosphite at a temperature of at 
least about 20C, 

   means (84) for collecting vaporized 
trimethylphosphite from the source of liquid 

trimethylphosphite, and 
   a source (87) or gaseous oxygen; 

   a first gas inlet to the reactor at a second 
location, the first gas inlet being in communication 

with the means (68) for collecting vaporized 
tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane and with the means (76) 

for collecting vaporized trimethylborate; 
   a second gas inlet to the reactor at a third 

location (90)between the first location and the second 
location (79), the second gas inlet being in 

communication with the means (84) for collecting 
vaporized trimethylphosphite and the source of 

oxygen (87); and 
   means (93, 102, 104) for causing gases to flow in the 

direction from the second location toward the first 
location. 
The apparatus of claim 7, wherein 
   the means (68) for collecting vaporized 

tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane includes means (70) for 
supplying vaporized tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane at 

a flow rate of at least about 12 parts by volume per 
minute, 

   the means (76) for collection vaporized 
trimethylborate includes means (78) for supplying 

vaporized trimethylborate at a flow rate of at least 
about 20 parts by volume per minute, 

   the means (84) for collecting vaporized 
trimethylphosphite includes means (86) for supplying 

vaporized trimethylphosphite at a flow rate of at 
least about 5 parts by volume per minute, and 

the source of oxygen (87) includes means (89, 92) for 
supplying oxygen gas at a flow rate of at least 

about 400 parts by volume per minute. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
