<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0619717</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROCESSING IMAGES.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B800	A61B800	G01B1100	G01B1100	G01S752	G01S752	G01S7539	G01S7539	G01S1500	G01S1589	G06T100	G06T100	G06T300	G06T300	G06T500	G06T500	H03H1702	H03H1702	H04N521	H04N521	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01B	G01B	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G01S	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	H03H	H03H	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B8	A61B8	G01B11	G01B11	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S7	G01S15	G01S15	G06T1	G06T1	G06T3	G06T3	G06T5	G06T5	H03H17	H03H17	H04N5	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method and apparatus for reducing noise and enhancing the dynamic range of an image data set gather from an array (12) of transducers (T). The method includes the step of processing the image data set in a digital computer (17) by a noise reduction technique, such as deconvolving the noise component by means of a CLEAN or other algorithm. Thereafter the artifact image data introduced by the noise reduction technique is reduced by masking the processed image data set with the original image data set. This masking is done by multiplying each data value in the processed image data set by the corresponding data value in the original image data set. The method further includes scaling and normalizing the masked data and finally displaying the same on an image display device (42). Additionally, for imaging apparatus (10) not having a cross-correlator (16), phase aberration is reduced by performing a coordinate transformation step prior to noise reduction using a non-standard set of coordinate transformation algorithms.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NAT FERTILITY INST
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
NATIONAL FERTILITY INSTITUTE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN NATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COHEN, NATHAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
IMETHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROCESSING IMAGESTECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention relates, generally, to image processing apparatus and methods of the type employed 5 in echographic applications, such as ultrasonic imaging, sonar imaging, microwave imaging and radar imaging, as well as in passive imaging such as is employed in radio astronomy. More particularly, the present invention relates to apparatus and methods for real-time imaging 10 of moving target objects and apparatus and methods which employ image enhancing processing techniques, such as deconvolution and near field or phase aberration correction.i BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 15 Various linear and non-linear image processing techniques have been extensively employed in radio astronomy, radar, microwave and sonar applications to enhance the signal to noise ratio (dynamic range) and clarity (resolution) 

 of images. Such systems typically have employed a plurality of transducers and/or receivers to create a synthetic aperture having many advantages over a single or filled aperture, but synthetic aperture systems also inherently including significant noise components.In radio astronomy applications, or interferometry, quite sophisticated non-linear signal processing techniques have been employed to reduce noise and enhance clarity. Among these techniques is deconvolution of the noise component of image data from the valid signal component, and subsequent convolution of the signal components into a synthetic aperture image having greatly reduced noise and sharper resolution. Since radio astronomy is not concerned with real-time observations, quite elegant, although computer-burdensome, signal processing techniques can be employed to produce significant image enhancement. R. Thompson, et al. Interferometrv and Synthesis in Radioastronomv, J. Wiley, 1986.In applications which will benefit from a substantially real-time display of images, particularly of moving targets, the computing burden of conventional radio astronomy signal processing techniques is too great. In my above-identified co-pending application, I have recently adapted and employed certain interferometry signal processing techniques to ultrasonic echographic imaging. These imaging processing techniques, as employed in biomedical ultrasonic imaging, are more fully described in my prior applications identified above, which are incorporated herein by reference.Noise deconvolution involves taking an original image data set from an array of transducers or receivers, deconvolving or
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method of producing an image of an object having a reduced noise component comprising the steps of: positioning imaging transducer means for receipt of a sufficient number of image signals from said object to permit an image of said object to be produced; transforming said image signals into an original data set; processing said original data set by a noise deconvolving process producing a processed data set in which said noise component is reduced as compared to said original data set and a processing noise component has been introduced into said processed data set; thereafter reducing said processing noise component in said processed data set by multiplying the value of individual data in said processed data set by the value of corresponding individual data in said original data set; and thereafter displaying data resulting from said reducing step as an echographic image.
2. A method of clinically analyzing a physical condition comprising the steps of: transmitting ultrasonic signals from transducer means into a patient's tissues; receiving echo signals by transducermeans from said tissues to provide an original image data set of signals of said tissues; processing said original image data set of signals to produce a processed image data set of signals having reduced noise components and artifact data; revaluing at least some of the data in said processed image data set of signals by an amount proportional to the value of corresponding data in said original image data set of signals; 


 after said revaluing step, displaying the data in said processed image data set as a noise-reduced image; and thereafter using the image created during said displaying step to clinically analyze said tissues.
3. The method as defined in claim 2 wherein, said revaluing step is accomplished by valuing as zero all non-zero value data in saidprocessed image data set for which corresponding data in said original image data set has a zero value.
4. The method as defined in claim 2 wherein, said revaluing data step is accomplished by discarding all data in said processed image data set not also present in said original image data set.
5. The method as defined in claim 2 wherein, said revaluing step is accomplished by multiplying the value of data in the processed image data set by the value of corresponding data in said original image data set.
6. The method as defined in claim 2 wherein, said revaluing step is accomplished by multiplying the value of data in said processed image data set by the absolute value of said corresponding data in said original image data set and dividing the product by the highest data value of any data in said original image data set.
7. The method as defined in claim 6, and the step of: after said revaluing step, normalizing the value of said data in said processed image data set by raising the value of said data in said processed image data set to the power n, where n is between about 0.2 to about 1.0. 


8. The method as defined in claim 2 and the step of: after said revaluing step, raising each data value in said processed image data step to a power between about 0.2 and about 1.0.
9. The method as defined in claim 2 and the step of: producing said processed image data set by deconvolving the original noise component from said original image data set and eliminating at least a portion of said noise component.
10. The method as defined in claim 9 wherein, said producing step is accomplished by at least one of the processes of: a CLEAN deconvolution, a maximum entropy deconvolution, and a hybrid mapping deconvolution.
11. A method of enhancing the dynamic range of an image produced from data in an original image data set comprising the steps of: positioning an imaging transducer for receipt of a sufficient number of image signals from an object to be imaged to provide said original image data set; processing said original image data set by a signal processing technique producing a processed image data set including image data having an enhanced dynamic range relative to said original image data set and including artifact image data produced by said processing technique; and reducing the quantity of artifact image data in said processed image data set to further enhance dynamic range by multiplying the value of at least a portion of the data in said processed image data set by the value of corresponding data in said original image data set. 


 12. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein, said step of processing is accomplished by processing an original image data set obtained from echographic imaging apparatus.
13. The method as defined in claim 12 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is anultrasonic imaging apparatus.
14. The method as defined in claim 12 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is a radar imaging apparatus.
15. The method as defined in claim 12 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is a sonar imaging apparatus.
16. The method as defined in claim 12 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is a microwave imaging apparatus.
17. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein, said step of processing is accomplished by processing an original imagedata setobtained from radio astronomy imaging apparatus.
18. An imaging apparatus comprising: an array having a plurality signal receiving transducers formed for receipt of a sufficient number of image signals from an object to be imaged to enable creation of an image display therefrom; processing means coupled to said array and responsive to receipt of said imaging signals to transform said imaging signals into an original data set containing a noise component resulting from use of said array to receive said image signals, said processing means and processing said original data set to produce 


a processed data set having a reduced original noise component and a processing noise component; data valuation means coupled to said processing means and responsive to production of a processed data set to revalue data in said processed data set by multiplying the value of data in said processed data set with the value of data in said original data set to reduce said processing noise component from said processed data set; and display means connected to display data multiplied by said data valuation means as an image of said object.
19. The data processing apparatus as defined in claim 18 wherein, said data acquisition means is an image data acquisition means.
20. The data processing apparatus as defined in claim 19 wherein, said image data acquisition means is an echographic imaging apparatus.
21. The data processing apparatus as defined in claim 20 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is an ultrasonic imaging apparatus.
22. The data processing apparatus as defined in claim 20 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is a radar imaging apparatus.
23. The data processing apparatus as defined in claim 20 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is a sonar imaging apparatus. 


 24. The data processing apparatus as defined in claim 20 wherein, said echographic imaging apparatus is a microwave imaging apparatus.
25. The data processing apparatus as defined in claim 19 wherein, said image data acquisition means is a radio astronomy imaging apparatus.
26. An echographic imaging apparatus comprising: transducer means formed to produce transmitted signals which can be directed against an imaging target and formed to receive echo signals including a noise component from said target; first signal processing means coupled to said transducer means and response to receipt of said echo signals by said transducer means to transform said transmitted signals and said echo signals into an original image data set having an original noise component; second signal processing means coupled to said first signal processing means and response to production of said original image data set to produce a processed image data set in which said original noise component is reduced and a processing noise component has been introduced; data valuation means coupled to said second image processing means and responsive to production of said processed signal data set to multiply the value of data in the processed image data set by the value of corresponding data in the original image data set to reduce said processing noise component in said processed image data set; and display means connected to receive data multiplied by said data valuation means and formed to display the multiplied data as an echographic image. 


27. The apparatus as defined in claim 26 wherein, said data valuation means is further responsive to said comparison by said comparator means to divide the product of the value of data in said original image data set times the value of corresponding data in said processed image data set by the highest value of any data in said original image data set.
28. The apparatus as defined in claim 27 wherein, said data valuation means includes normalization means responsive to input of revolved data to raise the value of said revolved data to a power between about 0.2 to about 1.0.
29. The apparatus as defined in claim 27 wherein, said transducer means produces ultrasonic signals.
30. The apparatus as defined in claim 27 wherein, said transducer means produces radar signals.
31. The apparatus as defined in claim 27 wherein, said transducer means produces sonar signals.
32. The apparatus as defined in claim 27 wherein, said transducer means produces electromagnetic signals. 
*
33. A method producing an image of an object having reduced phase aberration comprising the steps of: positioning transducer means for receipt of image signals from said object through an inhomogeneous medium located between said transducer means and said object; transforming said image signals into an image data set expressed in one of a polar and Cartesian coordinate system; performing a coordinate transformation between said one of said polar and Cartesian coordinate system and 


 the remainder of said polar and Cartesian coordinate system using a modified coordinate transformation algorithm set on one of:
(i) data from said image data set, and (ii) a noise deconvolution algorithm; and displaying an image produced from a data set after said step of performing a coordinate transformation has been accomplished.
34. The method as defined in claim 33 wherein, said step ofperforming a coordinatetransformation is accomplished by performing said transformation on data from an image data set and is followed by a noise deconvolution process.
35. The method as defined in claim 34 wherein, said data is collected in polar coordinates and said transformation step converts said data to modified Cartesian coordinates.
36. The method as defined in claim 35 wherein, after said deconvolution step, transforming deconvolved data from a modified Cartesian system to a polar coordinate system using a standard coordinate transformation algorithm set.
37. The method as defined in claim 33 wherein, said step ofperforming a coordinatetransformation step is accomplished after collection of data and prior to a noise deconvolution process.
38. The method as defined in claim 36 wherein, said transformation step is accomplished by transformation of a deconvolution algorithm from a Cartesian coordinate system to a modified polar coordinate system. 


39. The method as defined in claim 33 wherein, said modified coordinate transformation algorithms are empirically selected to correct for signal distortion in an inhomogeneous medium.
40. The method as defined in claim 33 and the step of: after said transformation step, deconvolving noise from said image data; and after said deconvolving step, removing deconvolving artifacts from said image data set by a self-apodization process in which the value of individual data points from the deconvolved data set is multiplied by the value of corresponding individual data in said image data set.
41. The method as defined in claim 40, and the additional step of: after the step of multiplying the value of said deconvolveddata set by corresponding datavalues in said image data set, dividing the products by the value of the highest data value in the image data set, and thereafter raising the quotients to a power between about 0.2 and about 1.0.
42. The method as defined in claim 33 wherein, said step ofperforming a coordinate transformation is accomplished on autocorrelated data expressed in polar coordinates.
43. The method as defined in claim 33, and the steps of: priorto said performing step, displaying said image data and visually inspecting the displayed image for phase aberration noise; thereafter selecting a first set of modified coordinate algorithms prior to said step of performing a coordinate transformation, and 



 after said step of performing a coordinate transformation, displaying the modified image date to visually determine the effect of the selected modified coordinate algorithms on phase aberration; and after said step of displaying the modified image data, selecting a second set of modified coordinate algorithms having values different from said first set by an amount selected to reduce phase aberration, and performing said coordinate transformation a second time usingsaid second set of modified coordinate algorithms, and displaying the image resulting therefrom.
44. An apparatus for the reduction of phase aberration error from an image data set produced by echographic imaging apparatus comprising: coordinate transformation means coupled to said echographic imaging apparatus and responsive to production of said image data set by said echographic imaging apparatus to change the coordinate system between polar and Cartesian coordinates for one of image data and a noise deconvolution algorithm, said coordinate transformation means changing between coordinate systems by applying a coordinate transformation algorithm set thereto which differs from a conventional coordinate transformation algorithm by an amount tending to reduce phase aberration in said image data set.
45. An apparatus as defined in claim 44 wherein, said coordinate transformation means includes user input means for user input to effect a selection of the modified coordinate transformation algorithm set.
46. An apparatus as defined in claim 45 wherein, said coordinate transformation means performs a coordinate transformation of input data from polar to Cartesian coordinates using said modified transformation algorithm set. 


47. A method of generating an echographic image of a target object comprising the steps of:
(a) transmitting a plurality of ultrasonic signals toward said target object using a signal generating assembly;
(b) receiving a corresponding plurality of echo signals from said target object with signal receiving transducer means;
(c) in response to receipt of said echo signals correlating said ultrasonic signals and said echo signals using correlation means to produce correlated data including at least one of amplitude data and phase data sufficient to map an image of said target object; and
(d) reducing noise present in said correlated data by signal processing means by at least one of: (i) a side lobe subtraction process, (ii) a hybrid mapping process, (iii) a vectorial summing process, (iv) a ratio forming process, and
(e) mapping at least one of said amplitude data and said phase data after said step of reducing noise.
48. The method of generating an echographic image of a target object as defined in claim 47, and prior to said noise reducing step, partitioning said correlated data by partitioning means into a plurality of data sets including at least one of a visibility amplitude data set and a visibility phase data set.
49. An apparatus for generating an echographic image comprising: a plurality of ultrasonic transducers mounted in an array, generator means coupled to drive said transducers, signal processingmeans coupled to said transducers to receive echo signal data therefrom and coupled to receive transmitted ultrasonic signal data, said signal processing means correlating and mapping at least one 


 of amplitude data and phase data from said ultrasonic signal data and said echo signal data, said signal processingmeans including means for processing at least one of amplitude data and phase data including means for reducing noise in at least one of said amplitude data and said phase data, said means for reducing noise being provided by one of: (i) means for subtracting side lobe noise from said one of said amplitude data and said phase data, and (ii) means for substituting hybrid map data for one of actual phase data and actual amplitude data, and said signal processing means further including mapping means for mapping at least one of said amplitude data and said phase data after the reduction of noise therefrom; and display means coupled to said signal processing means to receive mapped data from said signal processing means and to display said mapped data in an image.
50. An apparatus for generating an echographic image comprising: a plurality of ultrasonic transducers mounted in an array; signal generator means coupled to drive said transducers; signal processing means coupled to receive echo signals from saidtransducers and coupled to receive echo signals, said signal processing means being responsive to correlate said echo signals relative to said transmitted signals to produce at least one of phase signals and amplitude signals suitable for image mapping, said signal processing means further including noise reduction means responsive to at least one of said phase signals and said amplitude signals to reduce noise in said one of said phase signals and said amplitude signals; said noise reduction means including at least one of: 


 (i) means for subtracting said lobe noise from at least one of said amplitude signals and said phase signals,
(ii) means for substituting hybrid map signals for at least one of said amplitude signals and said phase signals, (iii) means for vectorially summing sets of three phase signals to produce closure phase signals, and (iv) means for forming ratios of sets of four amplitude signals to produce closure amplitude signals; and display means coupled to said signal processing means to receive at least one of said phase signals and said amplitude signals after noise reduction by said noise reduction means and responsive thereto to produce an image. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
