<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629176</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A GASEOUS PRODUCT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01J824	B01J824	B01J838	C01B300	C01B344	C10G1100	C10G1120	C10J302	C10J302	C10J346	C10J346	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01J	B01J	B01J	C01B	C01B	C10G	C10G	C10J	C10J	C10J	C10J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01J8	B01J8	B01J8	C01B3	C01B3	C10G11	C10G11	C10J3	C10J3	C10J3	C10J3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A process for producing a gaseous product is described whereby reactants (e.g. hydrocarbons and steam) are introduced into a fluidized bed operated under conditions such that a reaction takes place in the fluidized bed to produce the gaseous product (e.g synthesis gaz), the fluidized bed comprising particles having a density and size distribution such that at least a portion of the particles are entrained by the gaseous product leaving the fluidized bed, removing the gaseous product and entrained particles from the fluidized bed, substantially separating the particles entrained in the effluent gas from the gaseous product and returning the separated particles to the fluidized bed wherein at least a portion of the energy required for the reaction is supplied by heating the separated particles during their return to the fluidized bed. Multi-solid fluidized bed processes are also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMW SCIENT IND RES ORG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
COMMONWEALTH SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRY RODNEY JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DRY, RODNEY, JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROCESS FOR PRODUCING Λ GASEOUS PRODUCTThe present invention relates to processes for producing a gaseous product. In one particular application, the invention relates to a process for the steam reforming of hydrocarbons.Steam reforming of hydrocarbons such as natural gas or naphtha involves reaction with steam to produce a mixture of carbon oxides, hydrogen and water vapour. This gas mixture, commonly referred to as "syngas" in the petrochemical industry, is the starting point for numerous catalytic synthesis products such as methanol, gasoline and wax. It is also useful for metallurgical reduction processes, production of eleptrical energy from fuel cells and production of hydrogen for use in, for example, ammonia synthesis.The reforming reaction is strongly endothermic and is conventionally performed at around 800-900°C, at pressures of 10 to 30 bar in catalyst-filled, high-alloy tubes. These tubes are usually 100 to 150mm in diameter and around 10m in length; heat transfer from hot flue gases on the outside of the tubes to the reacting mixture within is a major rate-limiting step in the overall process. Thermal driving forces for heat transfer are large and tube layout is dictated, to a large degree, by the need for sufficient radiation view-factors to avoid the formation of hot and cold-spots on the tubes. This results in a need for large furnace volumes and plan areas - a constraint more difficult to accept in some applications than in others.Numerous proposals to reduce the size of the steam reformer have been developed. For example, US Patent No. 4888131 describes a process whereby a sharp reduction in furnace volume is possible by introducing oxygen into the system. 

Partial oxidation schemes such as this are useful when oxygen injection is feasible and does not substantially downgrade the quality of the product gas. However, in other application examples (eg ship-board gas conversion operations) it may be undesirable to use oxygen for safety and economic reasons and other means for reducing the volume of the reformer must be considered.Immersion of catalyst-filled tubes in a fluidized bed, as described in, for example, British Patent No. 2126118, is an alternative means for reducing the size of an otherwise conventional reformer. In this case heat transfer to the outside of the tubes is achieved via the hot particles that comprise the fluidized bed. This results in a more even heat distribution and a significant reduction in the space needed between tubes. However, this process does have a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS :
1. A process for producing a gaseous product comprising passing reactants into a fluidized bed operated under conditions such that a reaction takes place in the fluidized bed to produce the gaseous product, the fluidized bed comprising particles having a density and size distribution such that at least a portion of the particles are entrained by the gaseous product leaving the fluidized bed, removing the gaseous product and entrained particles from the fluidized bed, substantially separating the particles entrained in the gaseous product from the gaseous product and returning the separated particles to the fluidized bed wherein at least a portion of the energy required for the reaction is supplied by heating the separated particles during their return to the fluidized bed.
2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the particles are solid catalyst.
3. A process according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the reactants are hydrocarbons and steam and the fluidized bed is operated under conditions such that a steam reforming reaction takes place in the fluidized bed to produce a gaseous product containing hydrogen and carbon oxides.
4. A process according to claim 3 wherein the average particle size is in the range of about 0.7 to 7.0mm.
5. A process according to claim 4 wherein the particles are alumina-supported nickel or alumina-supported ruthenium catalyst. 


 A process according to any one of claims 3 to 5 wherein tthhee sseeppaarraatteedd ppaarrttiicclleess aarree hheeaatteedd ttoo aabbout 950 to 1200°C during their return to the fluidized bed.
A process according to claim 6 wherein the separated ppaarrttiicclleess aarree hheeaatteedd ttoo aabboouut 1000 to 1100°C during their return to the fluidized bed.
8. A process for producing a gaseous product comprising passing reactants into a fluidized bed operated under conditions such that a reaction takes place to produce the gaseous product, the fluidized bed comprising first particles having a density and size distribution such that at least a portion of the first particles are entrained by the gaseous product leaving the fluidized bed and second particles having a density and size distribution such that said second particles substantially remain in the fluidized bed, removing the gaseous product and entrained first particles from the fluidized bed, substantially separating the first particles entrained in the gaseous product from the gaseous product and returning the separated first particles to the fluidized bed wherein at least a portion of the energy required for the reaction is supplied by heating the separated first particles during their return to the fluidized bed.
9. A process for producing a gaseous product comprising passing reactants into a fluidized bed operated under conditions such that a reaction takes place to produce the gaseous product, the fluidized bed comprising first and second particles having density and size distributions such that at least a portion of both first and second particles are entrained
^
by the gaseous product leaving the fluidized bed, removing the gaseous product and entrained first and second particles from the 


 fluidized bed, substantially separating the first and second particles entrained in the gaseous product from the gaseous product, substantially separating the first and second particles, and thereafter separately returning the separated first particles and separated second particles to the fluidized bed wherein at least a portion of the energy required for the reaction is supplied by heating the separated first particles during their return to the fluidized bed.
10. A process according to any one of claims 8 to 10 wherein the first particles are catalytically inert.
11. A process according to claim 11 wherein the first particles are particles of one or more of alumina, zirconia, rutile or nickel.
12. A process according to any one of claims 8 to 11 wherein the secpnd particles are solid catalyst.
13. A process according to any one of claims 8 to 12 wherein the reactants are hydrocarbons and steam and the fluidized bed is operated under conditions such that a steam reforming reaction takes place in the fluidized bed to produce a gaseous product containing hydrogen and carbon oxides.
14. A process according to claim 13 wherein the first particles are of a size less than about 0.5mm.
15. A process according to claim 14 wherein the first particles are in the size range of about 0.03 to 0.3mm.
16. A process according to any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein the average size of the second particles is in the range of about 0.7 to 7.0mm. 


17. A process according to claim 16 wherein the second particles have a function and chemical composition typical of steam reforming catalysts.
18. A process according to any one of claims 13 to 17 wherein the separated first particles are heated to about 950 to 1200°C during their return to the fluidized bed.
19. A process according to claim 18 wherein the first ppaarrttiicclleess aarree hheeaatteedd ttoo aabbooiut 1000 to 1100 C during their return to the fluidized bed.
20. A process according to any one of claims 8 to 19 wherein the first and second particles are separated by a fluidized bed segregator.
21. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the fluidized bed has a suspension density of about 200 to 2000 kg/m .
22. A process according to claim 21 wherein the fluidized bed has a suspension density of about 100 to 1800 kg/m .
23. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the heated separated particles are returned to the fluidized bed via an inlet located at the base of the fluidized bed.
24. An apparatus when used with a process according to any of the preceding claims.
25. A process substantially as described with reference to example 1 or 2. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
