<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642457</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
REFUSE COMPRESSION CHAMBER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65F114	B65F114	B30B930	B30B900	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65F	B65F	B30B	B30B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65F1	B65F1	B30B9	B30B9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This device consists of a chamber (1) standing at a certain height and supported by four legs (4). The chamber (1) has a window (2), through which the refuse is thrown. A type of press is installed at the top of the chamber (1), and the piston (5) of this press extends a prescribed distance, exerting pressure on the refuse by means of a compression plate (6), when the refuse accumulates to a level above the lowest point of the piston's extension. As the rubbish continues to accumulate it is further compressed, until the resistance opposed to the compression plate (6) exceeds the pressure exerted on the rubbish. The piston (5) then returns to its initial position, without having reached maximum extension. When the compressed refuse reaches a certain upper limit, which is determined visually through the window, then the bottom (3) of the chamber (1) is opened, and the compact block of refuse is collected and hermetically sealed in a sturdy plastic bag. The bottom opening is then closed, and the apparatus is once again ready for use.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The refuse compression device is designed to 
solve the tremendous ecological and environmental problems 
associated with refuse disposal. Today's refuse disposal methods have several serious 
drawbacks. Refuse is collected in bins which cannot be properly 
sealed, and which are usually too small, with the result that refuse 
piles up around them. These bins therefore give off unpleasant 
odours and pollute the environment, not only when they are full, 
but also while they are being emptied into the special collecrion 
vehicles. The next step in the procedure, the grinding of the 
refuse, cause further pollution. Besides their catastrophic effects 
on the environment, these bins create another type of problem, as 
they take up considerable space in the streets, thus causing traffic 
and parking problems. This invention aspires to resolve these problems. It consists 
of a chamber with a window at the top of one of its side walls. 
Four legs hold it a certain distance above the ground, and the 
bottom can be opened when desired. The top of the chamber holds 
a type of press, whose piston descends to a certain point, exerting 
relatively gentle pressure. The lower end of the piston is attacted 
to a metal plate slightly smaller in contour than the inside of the 
chamber, so that it can move easily inside it. The refuse is thrown 
into the chamber through the window. When it reaches the point of 
maximum extension of the piston and begins to exceed that, the 
apparatus is set in motion and the refuse is compressed within the  
 
chamber. The piston then returns to its original position; as the 
process continues, the resistance opposed by the resufe increases 
as its volume increases, until it surpasses that exerted by the metal 
plate. The piston thus no longer extends fully. As soon as the 
compressed refuse reaches a certain lever, which is determined 
visually through the window, then the chamber is emptied. The 
botton is opened, the refuse falls into a strong plastic bag, the 
bottom is closed again, and apparatus is once more ready for use. It is recommended that a certain sequene of steps be followed 
for maximum environmental protection; this is given below, as are 
all the advantages of this invention. The sturdy plastic bag is sealed airtight by a hand clamp, and 
is placed beside the apparatus; it is not necessary to remove it 
immediately, for since these bags are completely impermeable, 
their contents are isolated from the environment. Filled bags are 
collected by ordinary trucks, fewer in
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A refuse compression device, comprising: 

a refuse compression chamber (1), 
a compressing device (5) installed at the top 
of the compression chamber, 
a compression plate (6) attached to a piston of the 
compressing device, 
legs (4) for supporting the compressing device, 
 
characterised by: 


the compressing device (5) and compression chamber (1) 
being a unitary complete device 
the compression chamber (1) being provided with 
an inlet aperture (2) 
the compression chamber having an openable 
bottom (3) to discharge the refusal 
the unitary device being supported on the legs (4). 
Compression device as described in claim 1, 
characterized in 

that a section of the upper part of the 
chamber (1) can be removed, permitting inspection of the system. 
Compression device as described in claim 1, 
characterized in that the type of press used can be 

hydraulic, mechanical, pneumatic, electric or a combination of the 
above. 
Compression device as described in claim 1, 
characterized in that the bottom (3) of the chamber (1) is 

impermeable, opens outward by means of a powerful small device, 
and receives on its inner side the special plastic bag at the 

beginning of the process. 
Compression device as described in claim 1, 
characterized in 

that the window (2) is airtight and opens 
outward by means of a small device.  

 
Compression device as described in claim 1, 
characterized in that the piston (5) of the press describes 

a maximum extension determined by its length and by the 
resistance of the accumulated refuse, while pressure is exerted on 

the refuse by the compression plate (6) attacted to the end of the 

piston (5). 
Compression device as described in claim 1, 
characterized in 

that its legs (4) are long enough to leave 
room for the plastic bag; the apparatus can also be suspended. 
Compression device as described in claim 1, 
distinguished by the fact that the window (2) and the bottom (3) of 

the chamber (1) can be made to function automatically for 
increased ease of use. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
