<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0617187</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Powered window operator drive.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E05F1512	E05F1512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E05F	E05F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E05F15	E05F15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A motorized operator drive is used with a window having a fixed frame and 
a movable sash, and a manually driven window operator mounted to the frame. The window 

operator includes an operator shaft rotatable to drive a linkage mechanism fastened to the 
sash to selectively move the sash relative to the frame to open or close the window. The 

drive comprises a housing having a motor end and an opposite nose end. A motor is 
mounted in the housing at the motor end and has an output shaft. A gear set is mounted in 

the housing including an input gear driven by the motor shaft and an output gear at the nose 
end. An adaptor is operatively engaged with both the output gear and the operator shaft to 

rotate the operator shaft in response to energization of the motor. A bracket is fixedly 
mounted to the window frame. A rubber grommet resiliently mounts a stud at the housing 

motor end to the bracket to provide isolation between the drive and the window. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPX CORP TRUTH DIV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUTH DIVISION OF SPX CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDAS THOMAS J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MIDAS, THOMAS J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a window operator and, more particularly, to a 
motorized drive for a window operator. A window typically includes a fixed frame and a movable sash. The sash is 
mounted either for slidable movement relative to the frame or is hinged for pivotal 
movement, to open or close the window. One example of such a window is a casement 
window. Typically, a casement window is provided with a window operator to aid in 
manually opening and closing the window. An example of such a window operator is shown 
in Tucker, U.S. Patent No. 4,840,075, owned by the assignee of the present application. 
Such a window operator includes a rotatable shaft driving a linkage mechanism for selectively 
moving the sash relative to the frame to open or close the window. A handle is secured to 
the shaft using a set screw for ease of operation. In addition to the above-described window operators, various forms of window 
operators have been used for awning type windows in which the operator also includes a 
rotatable shaft. Similarly, certain skylight windows include a skylight window operator such 
as shown in Tacheny et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,521,993, also owned by the assignee of the 
present application. Such a window operator also includes a rotatable shaft normally driven 
by a handle. Additionally, such a window operator can be used in connection with a double 
hung window in which the sash is slidably mounted in the frame, as by the window operator 
chain raising and lowering the sash. Each of the above-described window operators is well suited for its desired 
operation. Nevertheless, with skylight windows the use of a manual operator may be 
problematic due to inaccessibility of the operator. To satisfy these concerns, motorized 
window operators have been used for skylight window operators, such as disclosed in the 
above-mentioned Tacheny et al. application, as well as Berner et al. U.S. Patent No. 
4,945,678, also owned by the assignee of the present application. Having found success with motorized skylight window operators, there exists 
a desire to provide motorized operators for other types of windows, such as the above-mentioned  
 
casement windows, awning windows or double hung windows. In connection with 
such desires, it is important to consider the millions of such window operators already 
installed and in use for which such motorized functionality is desired. The present invention is intended to overcome one or more of the problems 
set forth above in a novel and simple manner. In
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
For use with a window having a fixed frame and a movable sash, and 
a manually driven window operator mounted to said frame and including an operator shaft 

rotatable to drive a linkage mechanism fastened to said sash to selectively move the sash 
relative to said frame to open or close the window, a motorized operator drive comprising: 

   a housing having a motor end and an opposite output end; 
   a motor mounted in said housing at the motor end and having an output shaft; 

   a gear set mounted in said housing including an input gear driven by said 
motor shaft and an output gear at the output end; 

   an adapter, in use, operatively engaged with both said output gear and said 
operator shaft to rotate said operator shaft in response to energization of the motor; 

   a bracket fixedly mountable to the window frame; and 
   means for resiliently mounting said housing motor end to said bracket to 

provide isolation between the drive and the window. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 1 wherein said output gear 
includes an axial fluted bore and said adapter comprises a generally cylindrical adapter 

having radial protrusions corresponding to the flutes in said bore and being received in said 
fluted bore to be driven thereby and an axial bore for receiving said operator shaft. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 2 wherein said adapter includes 
a set screw for securing the operator shaft in said bore and further comprising an alignment 

collar snap fit in said output gear fluted bore and including a fluted bore also receiving said 
adapter and having a second set screw for securing the output gear to said adapter so that 

said operator drive is fixedly secured to said operator. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 1 wherein 
said bracket includes an opening and said mounting means comprises a rubber grommet 

received in said opening and a stud at said housing motor end received in said grommet. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 4 wherein said bracket includes 
a plurality of openings and said grommet is selectively mounted in any one of said bracket 

openings to provide universal mounting for any window operator. 
For use with a window having a fixed frame and a movable sash, and 
a manually driven window operator mounted to said frame and including an operator shaft 

rotatable to drive a linkage mechanism fastened to said sash to selectively move the sash 
relative to said frame to open or close the window, a motorized operator drive comprising: 

   a one piece housing having connected walls defining an inner space and a top 
opening providing access to said space, said housing including first and second cradles 

formed integrally at a motor end and a drive opening at an opposite nose end; 
   a plurality of gear shafts secured in said housing and extending vertically to 

said top opening; 
   a motor seated in said housing between said cradles and having an output shaft 

defining a worm gear; 
   an output gear including a shaft received in said drive opening; 

   a gear set comprising a plurality of gears installed in said housing on selected 
ones of said shafts for operatively coupling said worm gear to said output gear; 

   a top plate secured to said housing at said top opening for securing said motor, 
said gear set and said output gear in said housing inner space and in operative engagement; 

   an adapter, in use, secured to said output gear and said operator shaft to rotate 
said operator shaft in response to energization of the motor; 

   a bracket fixedly mountable to the window frame for mounting said housing 
motor end to the window. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 6 wherein said output gear 
includes an axial flu
ted bore and said adapter comprises a generally cylindrical adapter 
having radial protrusions corresponding to the flutes in said bore and being received in said 

fluted bore to be driven thereby and an axial bore for receiving said operator shaft. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 7 wherein said adapter includes 
a set screw for securing the operator shaft in said bore and further comprising an alignment 

collar snap fit in said output gear fluted bore and including a fluted bore also receiving said 
adapter and having a second set screw for securing the output gear to said adapter so that 

said operator drive is fixedly secured to said operator. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 6 wherein 
said bracket includes an opening further comprising a rubber grommet received in said 

opening and said housing includes a stud at said motor end received in said grommet. 
The motorized operator drive of claim 9 wherein said bracket includes 
a plurality of openings and said grommet is selectively mounted in any one of said bracket 

openings to provide universal mounting for any window operator. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
