<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646337</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Double-closure clasp.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41C300	A41C302	A44B1125	A44B1126	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41C	A41C	A44B	A44B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41C3	A41C3	A44B11	A44B11	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A double-closure clasp (10) for a maternity, 
mastectomy or like garment (12) is disclosed, the clasp 

comprising a housing member (14) to be secured to the 
garment, and a pair of clip members (16a,16b) slidably 

insertable into the housing. The housing is unitarily 
moulded from plastics material and comprises a 

substantially flat base wall (18), opposed side walls 
(20a,20b) and an upper wall (22) formed with a pair of 

adjacent through apertures (22a,22b), the base wall, side 
walls and upper wall defining a pair of guideways (21a,21b) 

terminating in transverse open entry slots (26a,26b) in the 
housing, through which the clip members are inserted. The 

clip members each includes a substantially flat body (30) 
defining an opening or fenestration (32) therein, and a 

resilient tongue extension (34) having one end thereof 
integral with the body and having a surface (34a) disposed 

at an angle relative to the body, the tongue extension 
being disposed to move into and out of the fenestration. 

The body (30) further includes means (38,40) for attachment 
to a portion of the garment. The garment includes an 

elongated band (42) adapted to encircle the wearer's body 
and having a pair of frontal breast supporting and 

encircling portions (42a,42b), a pair of shoulder straps 
(44a,44b) attached at the one ends thereof to the 

respective breast supporting and encircling portions and at 
the opposite ends thereof to the band, and a pair of breast 

cups (52a,52b) integral with the band, each cup having a 
free end (54a/54b) to which the clip members (16a,16b) are 

respectively attached. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNACO INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
WARNACO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CREW-GEE MARTIN PHILLIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CREW-GEE, MARTIN PHILLIP
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to a 
separable fastener, and more particularly, to a separable 
fastener adapted for any application where it is desirable to 
provide independent joinder of adjacent areas such as in 
maternity or mastectomy garments or the like, to facilitate 
independent exposure of either breast of the wearer without 
removal of the garment. Maternity or mastectomy garments are designed to 
provide the ability to independently expose a single breast at 
a time without having to remove the entire garment. To this 
end, there are several patents directed to garments having 
special fastener provisions which permit such operation. An example is provided in U.S. Patent No. 3,002,515 
of October 3, 1961 to Glogover, which teaches a nursing 
brassiere for independently opening and securing either of two 
separable bra cups to a medial pillar with hook and eye 
fasteners. A similar type of nursing brassiere is disclosed in 
U.S. Patent No. 2,613,355 of October 14, 1952 to Coleman, in 
which a pair of releasable breast pockets are independently 
secured to a medial stay by a plurality of hook and eye  
 
fasteners. In spite of the independent closure feature in such 
designs, there is a drawback in that the wearer must expend 
time and effort to close and open a plurality of individual 
fastener components. This can be remedied by using a single 
fastener adapted to release either side of an attached portion 
of the garment. It is well known in the art to employ single-closure 
fasteners for joining separable areas of garments. An example 
of such a fastener for joining separable areas in wearing 
apparel including brassiere cups, jewelry, drapery, or the 
like, is taught in U.S. Patent No. 3,200,464 of August 17, 1965 
to Cousins. U.S. Patent No. 3,798,711 of March 26, 1974 to 
Cousins, also teaches a single-closure fastener for use with 
garments, jewelry, key chains, equipment or assemblies, 
harnesses, straps, belts, or the like. Other examples of 
brassieres with single-closure fasteners are disclosed in U.S. 
Patent No. 3,196,878 of July 27, 1965 to Hedu, and 2,912,984 of 
November 17, 1959 to Jensen. In view of the deficiencies in the prior art, there exists 
a need for a double-closure fastener useful with maternity, 
mastectomy or like garments, which, like known single-closure 
designs, is easy to use, and economical to manufacture.  The present invention provides a double-closure 
clasp generally comprised of a housing member and a pair of 
clip members which may be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A double-closure clasp attachable to a garment, 
comprising: 

   a pair of clip members each adapted to be attached 
to the garment and each including a substantially flat body 

defining a fenestration therein, and a resilient tongue 
extension having one end thereof integral with said body and 

an upper surface disposed at an angle relative thereto, said 
tongue extension being disposed to move into and out of said 

fenestration; and 
   a housing member adapted to be attached to the 

garment and constructed and arranged to slidably receive and 
releasably lock said clip members in opposing relationship 

therein, said housing member being formed with oppositely 
directed clip-receiving guideways having open entry ends 

through which said clip members may be interengaged with and 
releasably locked to said housing member; 

   whereby, said housing member may be fixedly attached 
to a center portion of the garment such that each of said clip 

members may be independently inserted into said guideways in 
said housing member through one of said respective open entry 

ends thereby camming said respective tongue extension until 
free to spring into engagement with said housing member, 

thereby permitting selective locking and unlocking of either of 
said clip members. 
The double-closure clasp as recited in Claim 1, 
wherein said means for attachment of each of said respective 

clip members to a portion of the garment include a connecting 
portion integral with said body, said connecting portion 

defining an aperture therethrough. 
The double-closure clasp as recited in Claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said means for attaching said housing member comprises 

fastening said housing to the garment through a plurality of 
apertures defined in said base wall thereof. 
A double-closure clasp attachable to a garment, 
comprising: 

   a pair of clip members, each of said clip members 
including a substantially flat body defining a fenestration 

therein, and a resilient tongue extension having one end 
thereof integral with said body and an upper surface disposed 

at an angle relative thereto, said tongue extension being in 
alignment with said fenestration, said body including means for 

attachment to a portion of the garment; and 
   a housing member adapted to slidably receive and 

releasably lock said clip members in opposing relationship 
therein, said housing member comprising a substantially flat 

base wall, a pair of opposed side walls, and an upper wall 
defining a pair of adjacent apertures therethrough, said side 

walls, base wall and upper wall defining a pair of transverse 
slots in said housing, said housing member further comprising 

means for attachment thereof to a portion of the garment;
 

   whereby, said housing member may be fixedly attached 
to a center portion of the garment such that each of said clip 

members may be independently inserted into said housing member 
through one of said respective slots until said respective 

tongue extension is free to spring upward into said respective 
aperture defined in said housing, thereby permitting selective 

locking and unlocking of either of said clip members. 
A brassiere garment comprising: 
   an elongated band adapted to encircle the body, said 

band including a pair of frontal breast supporting and 
encircling portions; 

   a pair of shoulder straps, each having a first end 
and a second end, attached to said breast supporting and 

encircling portions of said band at said first end thereof, and 
a rear portion of said band at said second end thereof; 

   a pair of breast cups integral with said band, each 
of said breast cups including a free end; 

   a pair of clip members each adapted to be attached to 
said respective free ends of said breast cups and including a 

substantially flat body defining a fenestration therein, said 
clip member further including a resilient tongue extension 

having one end thereof integral with said body and an upper 
surface disposed at an angle relative thereto, said tongue 

extension being disposed to move into and out or said 
fenestration; and

 
   a housing member adapted to be attached to said 

band and constructed and arranged to slidably receive and 
releasably lock said clip members in opposing relationship 

therein, said housing member being formed with oppositely 
directed clip-receiving guideways having open entry ends through 

which said clip members may be interengaged with and releasably 
locked to said housing member. 
The features herein described, or their equivalents, 
in any patentably novel selection. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
