<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0618446</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and device for separating acoustic wave-generated energy from directly coupled electromagnetic interference.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B06B106	B06B106	G01D300	G01D300	G01H300	G01H300	G01N2902	G01N2902	G01N2936	G01N2938	G10K1100	G10K1136	H03H900	H03H902	H03H902	H03H942	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B06B	B06B	G01D	G01D	G01H	G01H	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G10K	G10K	H03H	H03H	H03H	H03H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B06B1	B06B1	G01D3	G01D3	G01H3	G01H3	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G01N29	G10K11	G10K11	H03H9	H03H9	H03H9	H03H9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In a method in which the signal output of an acoustic 
wave device (22) is separated into desired and undesired 

components, an excitation signal to an input (12) of the 
acoustic wave device is periodically interrupted for 

durations based upon the time required for acoustic waves 
to travel from the input to the output (13) of the 

device. The duration of excitation is less than the time 
required for wave travel, allowing electro-magnetic 

interference (46) to complete its passage to the output 
before the arrival of acoustic wave energy. The non-simultaneous 

arrival of electromagnetic interference and 
acoustic wave-generated energy allows the electromagnetic 

interference to be gated from the output. Electrical 
switched (36 an
d 38) are employed, such as double-balanced 
mixers or PIN diode switches. The period of 

pulses for providing the interruptions of excitation is 
at least as great as the sum of the required time for 

acoustic wave travel and the time during which the device 
is excited. The switch for gating the output remains 

open during intervals in which the device is excited. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT PACKARD CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAER RICHARD L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BAER, RICHARD L.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to 
acoustic wave devices and more particularly to increasing 
the sensitivity of acoustic wave devices. Acoustic wave devices are used in a variety of 
sensing applications. For example, acoustic delay lines 
can be used to sense environmental factors such as temperature 
and pressure, and can be used to measure variables 
such as mass, viscosity and density. Surface acoustic 
wave (SAW) delay lines have been employed to sense 
vapors in air by applying a surface film that preferentially 
binds the vapor to a surface of the SAW device. 
The surface film traps the vapor, causing a mass increase 
that changes the phase or amplitude of acoustic waves 
propagating along a piezoelectric substrate of the 
device. A surface transverse wave (STW) delay line may 
be used to sense the concentrations of chemicals in 
aqueous solutions by immobilizing antibodies on the surface 
of the STW device, whereupon the net surface mass 
increases as the antigen that is complementary to the 
antibodies is captured from the solutions. Again, phase 
shifts and/or changes in signal amplitude can be monitored 
to obtain a determination regarding the captured 
antigen. Increasing the sensitivity of acoustic wave 
devices is an ever-present goal in the design of the 
various types of the devices. In practice, the maximum 
sensitivity is at least partially determined by the 
acoustic attenuation of wave propagation. That is, the  
 
same components of wave motion that cause an increase in 
sensitivity increase the attenuation that is experienced 
by the device. For example, a surface grating of fingers 
that is used to trap an acoustic wave to an STW device 
may be increased in thickness in order to improve sensitivity, 
but the thicker grating will increase the attenuation 
that results from a surface film or from a fluid to 
be analyzed. Eventually a limit is reached at which changes 
to factors such as the thickness of a preferential surface 
film cannot be used to increase sensitivity. The 
limit cannot surpass that point at which increased film 
thickness will result in a film that causes wave attenuation 
that renders the device substantially unaffected by 
any chemical interaction. This limit at which monitoring 
the output of the device would make it appear that interaction 
of the device with a substance of interest will 
not increase wave attenuation is referred to herein as 
the "attenuation limit." While the attenuation limit has 
been described with reference to an acoustic wave
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of operating an acoustic wave device (22) 
comprising, 

   providing a substrate (11) for the propagation 
of acoustic waves from an input region (12) to an output 

region (13), 
   applying excitation energy to the input region 

such that acoustic conversion of the excitation energy 
launches acoustic wave energy from the input region, 

   forming an electrical signal in response to 
energy detected
 at the output region, and 
   separating the arrival of acoustic wave energy 

(44) at the output region from the arrival of undesired 
non-acoustic wave energy (46) that is coupled from the 

input region to the output region without undergoing 
acoustic conversion, including selectively interrupting 

the application of the excitation energy to the input 
region based upon the time required for acoustic wave 

energy to travel from the input region to the output 
region. 
The method of claim 1 wherein separating the acoustic 
and non-acoustic wave energy (44 and 46) includes 

limiting the application of the excitation energy to time 
intervals of less than the required time for acoustic 

wave energy to travel from the input region (12) to the 
output region (13). 
The method of claim 2 wherein separating the acoustic 
and non-acoustic wave energy (44 and 46) includes 

periodically interrupting the application of the excitation 
energy for a duration at least as great as the sum 

of the time interval and the required time for acoustic 
wave energy to travel from the input region (12) to the 

output region (13). 
The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 further comprising 
periodically gating (38) the electrical signal formed in 

response to energy (44 and 46) detected at the output 
region (13), the gating including interrupting an electrical 

path from the output region during periods in 
which non-acoustic energy (46) is received at the output 

region. 
The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 further comprising 
monitoring (28 and 34) the electrical signal (44) formed 

in response to acoustic wave energy detected at the 
output region (13), the monitoring including sensing 

changes in one of amplitude and phase of the acoustic 
wave energy. 
The method of claim 4 wherein separating the acoustic 
and non-acoustic wave energy (44 and 46) includes 

providing a first electrical switch (36) to the input 
region (12) and wherein gating the electrical signal 

includes providing a second electrical switch (38) from 
the output region (13), the method further comprising 

generating radio frequency control signals (39 and 41) to 
activate and deactivate the first and second electrical 

switches. 
The method of claim 6 wherein providing the first 
and second electrical switches (36 and 38) is a step of 

providing one of a double-balanced mixers (DBM) and PIN 
diode switches. 
The method of claims 1 or 3 further comprising 
forming interdigital transducers (12' and 12'') as portions 

of the input and output regions (12 and 13), the 
energy coupled from the input region to the output region 

without undergoing acoustic conversion including electromagnetic 
radiation (46) between the interdigital transducers. 
An acoustic wave device (22) comprising, 
   a substrate means (11) for propagating acoustic 

waves across a propagation region, the substrate means 
having input (12) and output (13) regions on opposed 

sides of the propagation region, 
   input means for applying an excitation signal 

to the substrate means at the input region, thereby 
launching acoustic waves across the propagation region, 

   output means for forming an electrical signal 
in response to energy at the output region of the substrate 

means, the energy at the output region including 
acoustic energy from said propagation region and including 

electromagnetic energy coupled from the input means, 
and 

   energy-separation means for limiting the 
application of the excitation signal by the input means 

to intervals of less than the time of travel of the 
acoustic waves from the input region to the output 

region. 
An acoustic delay device (22) comprising, 
   a piezoelectric substrate (11) having a 

propagation region, 
   an input transducer on a first side of the 

propagation region for converting electrical energy into 
acoustic wave energy, 

   a source of electrical energy selectively 
coupled to the input transducer, 

   first switch means for selectively interrupting 
conduction of electrical energy from the source to the 

input transducer based upon speed of travel of the 
acoustic wave energy through the piezoelectric substrate, 

   an output transducer on a second side of the 
propagation region for converting acoustic wave energy 

into electrical energy, 
   means for monitoring one of phase and amplitude 

of electrical energy from the output transducer, and 
   second switch means for selectively interrupting 

the conduction of electrical energy from the output 
transducer to the means for sensing based upon the speed 

of travel of the acoustic wave energy through the 
piezoelectric substrate. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
