<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0632457</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and system for providing data hold time by synchronous random access memory during write operations.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1316	G06F1316	G11C700	G11C710	G11C710	G11C722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	G11C	G11C	G11C	G11C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F13	G06F13	G11C7	G11C7	G11C7	G11C7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A memory interface on a semiconductor integrated 
circuit that is used to write data to an external memory upon 

the clocking of a write strobe signal and that requires data 
be held valid for a brief time period after the write strobe 

signal is deasserted. The memory interface enables and 
disables the semiconductor IC from transferring data to a data 

bus connected to the external memory upon the assertion and 
deassertion of the write strobe signal. Data is kept stable 

on the data bus while the write strobe signal is asserted and 
allowed to become unstable only after the write strobe signal 

is deasserted. 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDEM COMPUTERS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TANDEM COMPUTERS INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAN YEI-FONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DAN, YEI-FONG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to an 
interface on a semiconductor integrated circuit (IC) to write 
and read data to an external memory. More specifically, the 
present invention relates to a memory interface on a 
semiconductor IC that transfers data to a data bus and writes 
the data to an external memory upon the clocking of a write 
strobe signal. The memory interface enables and disables the 
semiconductor IC from transferring data to the data bus upon 
the assertion and deassertion of the write strobe signal. Semiconductor devices commonly use a memory 
interface circuit to communicate and transfer data to an 
external memory such as static random access memory (SRAM). 
The memory interface circuit generally sends several control 
signals along with address and data information to the 
external memory to ensure that the transfer operation is 
successful. The control signals are used to time the transfer 
operation in an appropriate manner according to requirements 
of the external memory. The control signals typically include 
an output enable signal that indicates the direction of data 
transference, i.e., from the memory to the computer or from 
the computer to the memory, and a write strobe signal that 
clocks data being transferred to the memory. To write data to the external memory, the memory 
interface sets the output enable signal to indicate that a 
write operation will take place and an address is placed on an 
address bus to indicate the address in the memory to which 
that data will be written. The memory interface then grabs 
and places data on the data bus, and the write strobe signal 
is clocked to initiate the write operation. After the write  
 
operation is completed, the bus is released and the memory 
interface is readied to perform another operation. Most SRAMs have strict timing requirements for the 
write cycle to be successful. One of these requirements deals 
directly with how long data on the data bus must remain stable 
(data becomes unstable once the bus is released) after the 
write strobe signal is deasserted. The time data must remain 
stable is commonly referred to as the minimum data "hold" 
time. Typically, the data hold time is from one to five 
nanoseconds, but some chips have a zero hold time. Memory 
chips having a zero hold time, however, usually require that 
the data remain stable until at least the instant the write 
strobe signal is deasserted. In other words, for write 
operations to be successful on these chips, the data bus 
cannot be
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A semiconductor integrated circuit for 
interfacing to a memory unit that, for a data write operation 

to be successful, requires data to be held on a data bus until 
a write strobe signal sent to the memory unit from said 

semiconductor integrated circuit over a transmission channel 
is deasserted, said semiconductor integrated circuit 

comprising: 

(a) writing means, coupled to the data bus at an 
output, for placing data on the data bus so that said data can 

be written to the memory unit, said writing means having a 
control input to accept a control signal that enables and 

disables the placement of said data on the data bus; and 
(b) disabling means, coupled at an input to the 
transmission channel to receive the write strobe signal fed 

back from the memory unit and coupled at an output to said 
control input of said writing means, for disabling said 

writing means upon deassertion of the write strobe signal. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit of claim 
1, wherein said writing means comprises a tri-state buffer and 

said control input is a tri-state input. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit of claim 1 
wherein said disabling means comprises a buffer gate. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit of claim 1 
wherein said disabling means is further coupled to a disabling 

input receiver coupled to an input pin. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit of claim 1 
further comprising: 


(a) reading means, coupled to said writing means, 
for reading data placed on the data bus by the memory unit; 
(b) an output enable gate, coupled to the 
transmission channel, for sending an output enable signal over 

the transmission channel to the memory unit; 
(c) an address gate, coupled to the transmission 
channel, for sending an address to the memory unit. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit of claim 5 
wherein: 

   said writing means comprises a tri-state buffer and 
said control input is a tri-state input; 

   said output enable gate comprises a tri-state 
buffer; and 

   said address gate comprises a tri-state buffer. 
A semiconductor integrated circuit for 
interfacing to a memory unit that, for a data write operation 

to be successful, requires data to be placed on a data bus 
after the assertion of a write strobe signal sent to the 

memory unit from said semiconductor integrated circuit over a 
transmission channel and requires the data to be held on the 

data bus until the write strobe signal is deasserted, said 
semiconductor integrated circuit comprising: 


(a) writing means, coupled to the data bus at an 
output, for placing data on the data bus so that said data can 

be written to the memory unit, said writing means having a 
control input to accept a control signal that enables and 

disables the placement of said data on the data bus; 
(b) transmitting means, coupled at an output to the 
tranmsission channel, for transmitting the write strobe signal 

received at an input to the memory unit over the transmission 
channel; and 
(c) disabling means, coupled at a first input to 
the transmission channel to receive the write strobe signal 

fed back from the memory unit and coupled at an output to said 
control input of said writing means, for enabling said writing 

means upon assertion of said write strobe signal and for 
disabling said writing means upon deassertion of said external 

write strobe signal. 
The semiconductor integrated circuit of 
claim 7, wherein said disabling means is further coupled 

at a second input to said input of said transmitting 
means. 
A method of providing a minimum data hold 
time for a memory during a write operation, comprising the 

steps of: 

(a) asserting an external write strobe signal 
to initiate the write operation; 
(b) enabling a data write gate to output data 
to a transmission channel; 
(c) deasserting said external write strobe 
signal; 
(d) disabling said data write gate with the 
deassertion of said external write strobe signal so that 

said data write gate is disconnected from said 
transmission channel. 
The method of providing a minimum data hold 
time as set forth in claim 9, wherein said data write gate 

is enabled by the assertion of said external write strobe 
signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
