<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610297</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PROTEIN CHROMATOGRAPHY SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01D1508	B01D1508	B03C304	B03C3155	C07K100	C07K116	C07K120	G01N3000	G01N3004	G01N3008	G01N3024	G01N3026	G01N3038	G01N3040	G01N3046	G01N3052	G01N3062	G01N3074	G01N3086	G01N3088	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01D	B01D	B03C	B03C	C07K	C07K	C07K	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01D15	B01D15	B03C3	B03C3	C07K1	C07K1	C07K1	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	G01N30	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The invention features an apparatus for the separation and analysis of proteins, which includes sample input means, a first liquid chromatography column, a multiport injection valve connecting the sample input means to the column, pump means for providing variable pressure delivery of a solution to the column via the multiport valve, and program means for specifying a sequence of system control programs.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERSEPTIVE BIOSYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PERSEPTIVE BIOSYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFEYAN NOUBAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON NEAL F
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
AFEYAN, NOUBAR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GORDON, NEAL, F.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 PROTEIN CHROMATOGRAPHY SYSTEM This invention relates to a system useful in chromatography procedures.Background of the Invention Chromatographic techniques are well known in the art as means for separating components (solutes) present in a mixture. These techniques are particularly useful in the chemical and biotechnological arts. True chromatography describes the separation of solutes according to their different partitioning between two (or three) phases. The phases generally are solid and liquid, and solute partitioning results in their differing mobilities through a layer of solid, typically particulate, matrix in the presence of a flowing phase. Solute transfer through the layer may be along a pressure gradient, generally referred to as "liquid chromatography". Typically, the sample to be separated is applied to a column filled with pellets or grains of a chromatography separation medium, and a solvent flow is maintained through the column at a steady rate. Components of the mixture are carried along by the solvent flow until each substance exits the column as a "peak" in the output, fferent peaks being more or less broad and overlapp -rChromatographic matrices can sey e components by any of a number of criteria, includ size, electrical charge, hydrophobic interac _ _ . and/or specific affinity for the matrix or bi" f *.: .y sites 

 thereon. Because the components in the mixture will vary in their affinity for the matrix, their partitioning as they pass through the matrix separates the components so that they exit the matrix sequentially, separated temporally and spatially.Determination of the location of the various separated components, or of a given component of interest within the sequence, generally is achieved by collecting the fluid phase exiting the matrix (i.e., the effluent stream) as a series of fractions and sampling these fractions to identify their contents by any of a number of means known in the art.Resolution of the various components in the mixture depends on several considerations, chief among them being the partitioning ability of the matrix and the system's theoretical plate height and plate number (see infra). In general, a large surface area-to- volume ratio is desired. Matrices for liquid chromatography systems typically are housed in cylindrical chromatography systems known as columns. In electrophoresis systems, high resolution also demands efficient removal of the heat generated by the applied electric field. Capillary electrophoresis, or other electrophoretic modules
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for the separation of proteins of a sample, said apparatus comprising sample input means, a first liquid chromatography column, a multiport injection valve connecting said sample input means to said column, a second liquid chromatography column in communication with said multiport injection valve, said second column being operative successively with or alternatively to said first column, pump means for providing variable pressure delivery of a solution to said column via said multiport valve, and program means for specifying a sequence of system control programs.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising control means in communication with said pump means for controlling the pressure of delivery of said solution.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising solution input means comprising plural solution reservoirs, and a mixing valve, connecting said solution input means to said sample input means, operative to mix solution from said reservoir, wherein said program means specifies the mixing of solution by said mixing valve, and the delivery of said mixed solution to said column via said multiport injection valve. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising detector means for detecting and recording column output.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising template matching means for identifying a pattern of detected output data, said template matching means being operatively keyed to means for developing a control program for chromatographic separation.
6. An apparatus for the separation of proteins, said apparatus comprising first and second liquid chromatography columns, means for introducing a solution into a first said column, multiple multi-port valves in communication with said first and said second columns through which said solution is transported, and output means comprising a detector and data collector.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising pump means for introducing said solution into said first column.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising control means in communication with said pump means for controlling the pressure of delivery of said solution. 


 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said multiple valves comprise first, second, and third valves, and said solution is introduced through said first and second valves into said first column, through said second and third valves into said second column, and through said third valve into said output means.
10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said first valve comprises multiple ports which communicated with each other in an adjacent clockwise or counterclockwise direction, and a loop connecting two non-adjacent ports.
11. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said solution introducing means comprises sample input means comprising a sample reservoir.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said sample input means further comprises a sample pump.
13. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said solution introducing means comprises plural solution reservoirs, a valve for selection and mixing said solutions, and a pump for delivering said solution to said first column.
14. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said output means further comprises a fourth multi-port valve connecting said detector to said data collector.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said detector comprises a UV detector. 


 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said output means further comprises a pH/conductivity detector in communication with said UV detector and said data collector through said fourth multi-port valve.
17. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein each said column has a first and a second end and at least one of said first or second column is packed with a chromatography matrix which confers on said packed column a transit time from said first to said second end of less than five minutes.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said chromatography matrix is a perfusive matrix. 

19. An apparatus for the separation of proteins in a sample, comprising a multiport mixing valve for mixing sample with one or more buffers to produce a sample mix, plural liquid chromatography columns, each said column comprising a first and a second end, a multiport injection valve in communication with said sample mixing valve and said first end of each of said liquid chromatography columns, an output system comprising at least one of an output signal recording system and an output sample collection system, wherein said output system is in communication with said second end of each of said columns, and controls means for operating said multiport injection valve to successively and alternately apply the mixed solution from the mixing valve to said first and to said second column in coordination with operation of said output system to run a sequence of separations for the preparation or analysis of a protein.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a sample input system comprising plural solution reservoirs and a sample reservoir. 

21. An apparatus for the separation of proteins, said apparatus comprising plural liquid chromatography columns, each said column packed with a particulate matrix separation medium and having a characteristic transit time for proteins of under five minutes between a column input and a column output, sample input means comprising an input valve for delivery of solutions to one said column at said column input end and a multiport valve for mixing solutions provided to said input valve, column output means for detecting column output comprising means for detection and providing a signal indicative thereof, and control means for operating said sample input means to perform a sequence of successive separations in one said column by providing in successive separation cycles different mixes of fluids to said input valve.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said control means further comprises switching means for alternatively utilizing one of said plural liquid chromatography columns while cleaning another, thus providing a substantially continuous operating sequence of outputs from successively utilized columns.
23. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising program means for specifying a sequence of separation process control programs to be successively run during operation. 


 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said program means specifies a separation program in which first and second columns are utilized successively for separating proteins in said sample.
25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein one said column comprises an ion exchange chromatography matrix.
26. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein one said column comprises a reverse phase chromatography matrix.
27. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said program specifies substantially continuous preparation of a separated sample in said first column and intermittent analysis of said first column output via said second column.
28. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein each said first and second columns, individually, are removable and replaceable by third and fourth columns, respectively. 

29. An apparatus for the separation of proteins of a sample, comprising first and second multiport valves, each said valve comprising a sample loop, which holds a defined volume of sample and connects two ports of said valve a liquid chromatography column in communication with each said valve; a sample feed line in communication with each said valve; detector means in communication with said second valve for detecting output; and control means for operating said multiport valves to switch between a collection line comprising said sample feed line wherein plural sample volumes are introduced and a detection line comprising said chromatography column, wherein one sample volume is passed through said detector means and another is passed through said column and said detector means.
30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said collection line further comprises in successive order (a) said first sample loop connecting within said first valve a first port to a second port, (b) said sample feed line connecting said first valve second port with said second valve first port, and (c) said second sample loop connecting within said second valve said first port to said second port. 


 31. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said detection line further comprises in successive order (a) said first sample loop connecting within said first valve a first port to a third port, (b) said chromatography column connecting said first valve third port with said second valve third port, (c) said second sample loop connecting within said second valve said third port to said second port, and (d) a shunt connecting said second valve second port with said detector.
32. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said apparatus further comprises a third multiport valve and said chromatography column is in communication with said first and second valves through said third valve.
33. A method of analysis of proteins in a sample, said method comprising introducing a sample to a first column comprising an input and an output end, wherein said first column separates components of said sample and produces a first effluent stream of separated components, interrupting said first effluent streams at a pre-determined position to collect a fraction of said separated components, introducing said fraction to a second column, wherein said second column separates components of said fraction to produce a second effluent stream comprising separated components of said fraction, and detecting said components of said second effluent stream. 


 34. The method of claim 33 wherein said interruption of said first effluent stream and said introduction into said second column results in substantially continuous preparation of a separated sample in said first column and intermittent analysis of said first column output via said second column.
35. The method of claim 34 wherein said first column comprises an ion exchange chromatography column and said second column comprises a reverse phase chromatography column.
36. The method of claim 34 wherein said first column effluent may be diverted back to said first column input end via a multi-port valve.
37. The method of claim 36 wherein said first column effluent comprises a substantially pure product.
38. The method of claim 37 wherein said second column provides a pattern of output data determinative of the number of times said first effluent is diverted back to said first column input end.
39. The method of claim 34 wherein said portion of said effluent stream is directed to said second column by switching a multi-port valve. 


 40. A method of analysis of proteins of a sample, said method comprising introducing a sample to a first column, wherein said first column, comprising input and output ends, selectively removes a target component from said sample to produce a first effluent stream comprising substantially all components of said sample except said target component, diverting said first effluent stream to a second column, comprising input and output ends, that separates components of said sample and produces a second effluent stream of separated components.
41. The method of claim 40, further comprising detecting the output of said first and second effluent streams.
42. The method of any of claims 33 or 40 wherein the transit time between input of said sample into said input end of said first column and said output end of said second column is less than 10 minutes.
43. The method of claim 42 wherein said transit time is less than 7 minutes.
44. The method of claim 33 wherein said first effluent stream is directed to said second column by switching a multi-port valve.
45. The method of any one of claims 33 or 40 wherein each said column is packed with a particle matrix separation medium which confers on each said column a characteristic transit time for proteins of under five minutes between each said column input and column output ends. 


46. The system of claim 45 wherein said matrix erfusive chromatography matrix. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
