<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0647557</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Bicycle speed control system for controlling a change speed device through a change speed wire
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B62M2504	B62M2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B62M	B62M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B62M25	B62M25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A speed control system for a bicycle for 
controlling a change speed device through a change 

speed wire (520), having a shift lever movable in opposite 
directions from a home position; a takeup reel (5) 

connected to one end of the wire for winding up the 
wire with movement in one direction of the shift 

lever (8); a one-way transmission mechanism for 
transmitting only movement in one direction of the 

shift lever to the takeup reel; position retaining 
teeth (16) and a position retaining pawl (17) for retaining the 

takeup reel in a plurality of winding positions; and a 
retention canceling cam mechanism (400) for canceling 

retention of the takeup reel by the position retaining 
teeth and pawl, and allowing the takeup reel to rotate 

in the wire unwinding direction. 
The retention canceling cam mechanism includes a 
release element (7) movable between a release position and 

a non-release position, and a spring for urging the 
release element to the non-release position. The 

release element is movable to the release position by 
movement of the shift lever from the home position in 

the other direction. 
The shift lever is connected to the takeup reel 
through a one-way mechanism which transmits only 

movement in the wire winding direction. Consequently,  
 

the takeup reel is successively shifted in the winding 
direction by reciprocating the shift lever on one side 

of the home position. When the shift lever is shifted 
to the other side of the home position, the takeup 

reel is freed from position retention by action of the 
release element. As a result of the release, the 

takeup reel urged in the wire unwinding direction 
rotates in the unwinding direction, thereby effecting 

a return through change speed stages. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SHIMANO INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGANO MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
NAGANO, MASASHI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a speed control
system
according to the precharacterizing portion of claim 1 (cF. GB-A-2 012 893). Conventional bicycle speed control systems of the
type noted above are known from Japanese Patent
Publication Kokai No. 1990-88384 and U.S. Patent No.
5,012,692, for example. These control systems include
a release lever besides a shift lever, for releasing a
change speed wire takeup reel from a position
retaining device. Further, a spring is provided for
urging the takeup reel in a wire unwinding direction
in order to expedite rotation in the unwinding
direction of the takeup reel after its release from
the position retaining device.In such a construction, the shift lever returns
to home position after each shifting operation. This
feature provides the advantage of allowing the shift
lever to be operated within an optimal stroke range
from the human engineering point of view, even when
the shift lever is operated to provide a speed many
stages away from the home position. That is, the
shift lever is shifted back and forth plural times to
effect change speed in the wire winding direction,
i.e. in a positive direction. Conversely, when
effecting change speed in the wire unwinding
direction, i.e. in a negative direction, the release
lever is operated to release the takeup reel from the
position retaining device, whereby the takeup reel 
automatically rotates backward.However, since the release lever is provided
besides the shift lever, the cyclist could easily
operate the wrong lever in a change speed operation.
As a result, there is not a little chance of effecting
change speed in the wrong direction. Furthermore,
this type of speed control system may be disposed
adjacent a grip of a handlebar. In such a case, the
position of the shift lever optimal from the human
engineering point of view is limited for manipulation
with the thumb and finger. Consequently, where the
two levers are provided, at least one must be located
in a position difficult to operate.In addition, according to the above construction,
the force of the spring for urging the takeup reel in
the wire unwinding direction presents a resistance to
turning of the shift lever in the wire winding
direction. This provides the drawback of giving a
heavy feeling when the cyclist operates the shift
lever in the wire winding direction.An object of the present invention is to provide
a bicycle speed control system which is capable of
checking an operational error with respect to a change
speed direction, and allows a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A speed control system adapted to be
mounted to a handlebar of a bicycle for controlling a

change speed device through a change speed wire (58)
comprising:


a control member (38) movable between a
first shift end and a second shift end, said control

member (38) having a home position provided between
said first shift end and said second shift end;
takeup means (36) connectable to one end of
said change speed wire (58), and movable in a wire

winding direction by a movement of said control
member (38) toward said second shift end and in a

wire unwinding direction by a movement of said
control member (38) toward said first shift end, said

takeup means (36) being urged in said wire unwinding
direction;
first one-way transmission means (101) for
transmitting only movement of said control member

(38) toward said second shift end to said takeup
means (36); 
position retaining means (210) for
retaining said takeup means (36) in a plurality of

winding positions; and
retention canceling means (410) for
canceling retention of said takeup means (36) by said

position retaining means (210) and allowing said
takeup means (36) to move in said wire unwinding

direction;
said retention canceling means (410)
including a release element (33) movable between a

release position and a non-release position, and
urging means (46) for urging said release element

(33) to said non-release position, said release
element (33) being movable to said release position

by movement of said control member (38) from said
home position toward said first shift end,
characterized in that

said control member (38) is adapted to surround said
handlebar and to rotate substantially coaxially with

an axis of said handlebar.
A speed control system as claimed in claim
1 characterized in that said release element (33) is

connectable to said takeup means (36) to transmit a
force in said wire unwinding direction directly or

indirectly to said takeup means (36), said urging
means (46) being operable to urge said takeup means

(36) in said wire unwinding direction through said
release element (33) 
A speed control system as claimed in claim
1 characterized in that said first one-way

transmission means (101) includes a first one-way
teeth (48) rotatable in unison with said takeup means

(36) and first one-way pawl (50) operatively
connected to said control member (38).
A speed control system as claimed in claim
1 further comprising a second one-way transmission

means (102) for rotating said release element (33) in
said wire unwinding direction wherein said second

one-way transmission means (102) includes a second
one-way teeth (51) formed on said release element

(33) and a second one-way pawl (52).
A speed control system as claimed in claim
3 further comprising a feed plate (35) interlocked

with said takeup means (36) such that said feed plate
and said takeup means (36) rotate in unison wherein

said first one-way teeth (48) are formed on said feed
plate (35).
A speed control system as claimed in claim
5 characterized in that said position retaining means

(210) includes position retaining teeth (54) formed
on said feed plate (35) and a position retaining pawl

(55) engageable with said position retaining teeth
(54), said position retaining teeth (54) having

increasingly higher height in said wire winding
direction. 
A speed control system as claimed in claim
6 characterized in that said retention canceling

means (410) includes retention canceling cams (57)
which have outwardly increasing heights in said wire

winding direction.
A speed control system as claimed in claim
7 c
haracterized in that relative heights of said
position retaining teeth (54) and said retention

canceling cams (57) define restricting means (310)
for a wire unwinding operation wherein each retention

canceling cam (54) is higher than a position
retaining tooth (54) engaged with said position

retaining pawl (55) prior to said wire unwinding
operation and lower than a next retaining tooth (54)

located in the wire winding direction whereby said
unwinding operation is restricted to one pitch of the

position retaining teeth (54).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
