<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0657927</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of forming Flash EPROM devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01L29792	H01L29788	H01L27115	H01L27115	H01L2170	H01L2966	H01L218247	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01L29	H01L29	H01L27	H01L27	H01L21	H01L29	H01L21	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A flash EPROM device is provided for programmably storing 
digital data within a core array of electrically programmable 

transistors. A row or column within the array can be substituted 
for a spare or redundant row or column selectively connected to 

row or column decoder circuits by a redundancy select transistor. 
Self-aligned source regions within the array and redundancy 

select area are provided using a single mask for opening the 
self-aligned source regions and for implanting a light dosage of 

phosphorus directly into the underlying silicon substrate. 
Careful control and elimination of residue within the etched area 

via a subsequent wet etch helps ensure the implant edges are 
anisotropically controlled and isolated for subsequent lateral 

diffusion/drive-in. Accordingly, the flash EPROM device of a 
plurality of transistors within the array and within the 

redundancy select area are process controlled and demonstrate a 
significant reduction in threshold skewing. A result being an 

array of electrically programmable transistors which read, write 
and erase at substantially the same threshold level for each 

transistor. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARG SHYAM G
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICHART ROBERT B
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG FEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GARG, SHYAM G.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RICHART, ROBERT B.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WANG, FEI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a method of forming a
flash EPROM circuit with redundancy columns.Programmable read only memories (PROM) and technologies
associated therewith are well-known. PROMS can be formed in
either bipolar or MOS technology. Bipolar PROMs generally are
programmed using fusible-link techniques. Conversely, MOS
devices can employ several reversible writing procedures in order
to update their programmability. Accordingly, MOS PROMs can be
formed using one of three currently available technologies:
EPROM, EEPROM or flash EPROM.EPROM devices have three characteristic features. EPROMs
are non-volatile, can be bulk-erased via ultraviolet light, and
generally require only a single transistor in each memory cell.
As such, EPROMs can be re-programmed by passing the monolithic
circuit through an ultraviolet light in order for the user to redefine
a stored program therein. Pulling the EPROM device from
the system and subjecting it to ultraviolet light is often
cumbersome as witnessed by the advent of electrically erasable
devices (referred to as "EEPROM"). EEPROMs generally require
both a select transistor as well as the programmable storage
transistor for each cell. The select transistor can be either
separate from or part of the storage transistor. In either case,
each cell of an EEPROM device is generally larger than a cell of
an EPROM device. Accordingly, EEPROMs storage media is less
dense than EPROM, and EEPROMs are classified as not having bulk-erase
capability. Instead, EEPROMs can be byte-erased and can, 
in many instances, operate at conventional 5-volt levels.In order to obtain some advantages found in both EPROMs and
EEPROMs, flash EPROMs were developed. Flash EPROMs utilize a
single transistor for each cell. Accordingly, flash EPROM cells
do not have an independent controllable select gate in addition
to a control gate for selecting and controlling digital memory
stored in each cell. Thus, flash EPROMs appear similar to EPROM
technology. Instead of being erased via ultraviolet light, flash
EPROMs are electrically erasable -- similar to EEPROM technology.
Still further, flash EPROMs are bulk-erased instead of byte-erased.Program and erase of a flash EPROM can be achieved using
well known technologies such as: (i) floating gate tunnel oxide,
(ii) textured poly, (iii) metal nitrite oxide silicon (MNOS), and
(iv) EPROM-tunnel oxide (ETOX). Floating gate tunnel oxide is a
popular program and erase technology and consists of a floating
gate transistor with a thin oxide grown over the drain
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for etching and implanting source regions within a programmable
core area and a programmable redundancy select area comprising the steps of:


providing a semiconductor substrate (48) having a core area (12);
selectively growing field oxide to form a pair of substantially parallel field
oxide strips (42) within said core area;

   forming polysilicon upon said substrate and patterning the polysilicon
to form a pair of substantially parallel polysilicon word strips (22) within said core

area, said polysilicon word strips being substantially perpendicular to said field oxide
strips (42);
placing photoresist (52) upon said core area and said redundancy select area; and
selectively removing said photoresist using a single mask to form a first
photoresist window overlying a region between said pair of polysilicon word strips

(22);

   
characterised by
:

additionally providing a redundancy select area (20) on the substrate (48);
forming an oxide opening within the redundancy select area when selectively
growing the field oxide;
forming a control polysilicon strip (28) within the redundancy select area
when patterning said polysilicon;
forming a second photoresist window overlying a portion of said oxide
opening on one side of said control polysilicon strip (28) when selectively removing

said photoresist;
plasma etching said field oxide strips (42) beneath said first photoresist
window within said core area (12) and simultaneously etching a native oxide (54)

formed beneath said second photoresist window within said redundancy select area
(20);
substantially removing residue (56) resulting from said plasma etching from
said substrate directly beneath said photoresist windows; and 
implanting impurities through said photoresist windows and directly into said
substrate to form first and second source regions (62) in said redundancy select area

and said core area, respectively.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said redundancy select area (20)
comprises an electrically programmable transistor having said first source region.
A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said core area comprises an array of
electrically programmable transistors (14) arranged in a plurality of rows and

columns, each said programmable transistor having said second source region.
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein a row of said array of electrically
programmable transistors is controlled by an electrical signal sent from a row decoder

(24) through one line of one pair of said pairs of polysilicon word strips.
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein a common bit line (16) output from a
column of said array of electrically programmable transistors is sent to a column

decoder (18).
A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein a common bit line (16) output from a
column (26) of said array of electrically programmable transistors is connected to said

first source region of an electrically programmable transistor within said redundancy
select area.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said field
oxide is selectively grown by selectively removing a nitride layer and

thereafter growing the field oxide to a thickness in areas void of nitride.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said residue
is removed by wet etching. 
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said residue
is removed without substantially removing the masking photoresist.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising
heating said substrate after implanting said impurities to drive said impurities in a

lateral direction within said substrate to a point spaced below said polysilicon word
strips.
A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further comprising
further implanting impurities into said redundancy select area through said oxide

opening and into said core area to form source and drain dopant regions on respective
opposite sides of said control polysilicon strip and on respective opposite sides of said

polysilicon word strips.
A method according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising:

providing a column decode circuit (18) and a row decode circuit (24) upon
said substrate and proximate to said core area (12);
providing a column (26) of redundant electrically programmable transistors
(14) upon said substrate and proximate to said core area;
said polysilicon control strip (28) being adapted for receiving electrical signals
for programmably connecting said column (26) of redundant electrically

programmable transistors to said column decode circuit (18), and wherein said
polysilicon control strip (28) is adapted for receiving electrical signals from said row

decode circuit (24) upon said connecting.
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said redundancy select area
co
mprises an electrically programmable transistor having said first source region (30)
on one side of said transistor.
A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said core area (12) comprises an
array of electrically programmable transistors (14) arranged in a plurality of rows and 

columns, each said programmable transistor within a row of transistors having said
second source region arranged on one side of one of said pair of polysilicon word

strips (22).
A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein a common bit line output from a
column of said array of electrically programmable transistors is sent to said column

decoder.
A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said common bit line output is
connected to said first source region of an electrically programmable transistor,

whereby said electrical signals programmably connect said common bit line output to
said column decode circuit.
A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said field oxide is thermally grown
to several thousand Angstroms thickness.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
