<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0633826</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MODULAR PUNCH PRESS STATION AND METHOD OF OPERATION.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B21J1500	B21J1510	B21J1532	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B21J	B21J	B21J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B21J15	B21J15	B21J15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PYLON TOOL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PYLON TOOL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZALESKI MITCHELL J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ZALESKI, MITCHELL, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 S P E C I F I C A T I O NTITLE :MODULAR PUNCH PRESS STATION AND METHOD OF OPERATIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to punch press equipment and more particularly to a modular punch press station and its method of operation.Punch press devices are well known and include a ram usually vertically movable toward and away from an anvil. In some cases the piece of metal being operated on by the punch press will be struck by a punch pin and deformed by the pin or, in other cases the metal will be perforated by the pin which travels through the metal into a die held by the anvil. Usually each station in a punch press is capable of performing a single operation, that is the punching of a particular sized hole or the deforming of the metal within the punch press in a single particular way. Many punch presses have means, such as rotatable turrets for providing different tools at a particular punch station. Those punch tools can range from relatively simple tools such as a cooperating punch pin and die or can be complex tools, particularly if a complex operation, such as the insertion and the joining by deformation of two or more pieces of metal is to occur.In the past, such complex tools have comprised a multitude of parts which must be assembled and 

disassembled for each time a new series of parts is being manufactured with the punch press. It would be an advantageous advance in the art if such complex tooling were provided which did not require the assembly and disassembly of a multitude of parts when a particular manufacturing operation is to be performed.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a modular station for use in a punch press, which modular station contains a number of individual components assembled together to provide a complex series of steps necessary in a punch press operation. By combining all of the components into a modular unit, the entire unit itself need only be inserted or removed from the punch press station in order to provide a complex operation. No longer is it needed or required that a large number of components be assembled and disassembled each time the complex operation is to be performed.In a particular embodiment of the invention, a modular station is provided for feeding, guiding and inserting a rivet-like electrical contact piece into a separate metal piece such that when the punch pin engages the contact, the contact will be deformed and held secure or staked to the separate metal piece.This particular modular station provides a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I CLAIM AS MY INVENTION;
1. A modular punch press station as a single station in a progressive die of a punch press having a vertically movable ram, said station useful for inserting a headed contact into an aperture in a single carrier piece undergoing multiple operations in said punch press, comprising: a mounting plate for attaching to said punch press at a single station in said progressive die; a supply reservoir mounted on said mounting plate for receiving a plurality of said contacts; a guide for carrying said contacts, mounted on said mounting plate; a means for feeding said contacts from said supply reservoir to said guide, in a single file fashion; a shuttle mechanism for receiving a single contact from said guide and for delivering said single contact to a track; means for moving said contact along said track towards an insertion station; said insertion station comprising means for positioning said contact below said ram in a vertical orientation in said aperture in said carrier piece; anvil means positioned in line below said ram and carried on said mounting plate, for engaging 



 and supporting a lower end of said contact when said ram descends into engagement with a top end of said contact; whereby, said contact will be deformed between said ram and said anvil while positioned in said aperture in said carrier piece so as to be fixed to said single carrier piece.
2. A modular punch press station according to claim 1, wherein said mounting plate supports said supply means, insertion station, means for feeding, shuttle mechanism and said anvil means.
3. A modular punch press station according to claim 1, wherein said supply reservoir comprises a vibratory feeder mechanism. 4. A modular punch press station according to claim 1, wherein said means for feeding comprises a track with a groove therein in which said contacts slide in single file fashion.
5. A modular punch press station according to claim 1, wherein said insertion station comprises a funnel shaped member for directing said contact into said aperture in said carrier piece.
6. A modular punch press station according to claim 1, wherein said insertion station comprises a pair of opposed jaw members for receiving and grasping said contact. 


 7. A modular punch press station according to claim 1 including means for moving said anvil means upwardly into engagement with said contact upon descent of said ram. 8. A modular punch press station for use with a punch press having a vertically movable ram, said station useful for inserting a rivet-like contact into an aperture in a carrier piece, comprising: a mounting plate; a supply reservoir mounted on said mounting plate for receiving a plurality of said contacts; a guide for carrying said contacts, mounted on said mounting plate; a means for feeding said contacts from said supply reservoir to said guide, in a single file fashion; a shuttle mechanism for receiving a single contact from said guide and for delivering said single contact to a track; means for moving said contact along said track towards an insertion station; said insertion station comprising means for positioning said contact below said ram in a vertical orientation in said aperture in said carrier piece; anvil means positioned in line below said ram and carried on said mounting plate, for engaging and supporting a lower end of said contact 


 when said ram descends into engagement with a top end of said contact; whereby, said contact will be deformed between said ram and said anvil while positioned in said aperture in said carrier piece so as to be fixed to said carrier piece, wherein said anvil means comprises an anvil member and an anvil support member and wherein said anvil support member is movable relative to said anvil member upon descent of said ram such that said anvil member will be moved into an exposed position to engage and support said lower end of said contact. 9. A modular punch press station for use with a punch press having a vertically movable ram, said station useful for inserting a rivet-like contact into an aperture in a carrier piece, comprising: a mounting plate; a supply reservoir mounted on said mounting plate for receiving a plurality of said contacts; a guide for carrying said contacts, mounted on said mounting plate; a means for feeding said contacts from said supply reservoir to said guide, in a single file fashion; a shuttle mechanism for receiving a single contact from said guide and for delivering said single contact to a track; 


 means for moving said contact along said track towards an insertion station; said insertion station comprising means for positioning said contact below said ram in a vertical orientation in said aperture in said carrier piece; anvil means positioned in line below said ram and carried on said mounting plate, for engaging and supporting a lower end of said contact when said ram descends into engagement with a top end of said contact; whereby, said contact will be deformed between said ram and said anvil while positioned in said aperture in said carrier piece so as to be fixed to said carrier piece, wherein said means for feeding and said insertion station are arranged to present said contact below said ram and to insert it in said aperture and said carrier piece from below said carrier piece.
10. A modular punch press station according to claim 1, wherein said means for feeding and said insertion station are arranged to present said contact below said ram and to insert it in said aperture in said carrier piece from above said carrier piece.
11. A modular punch press station as a single station in a progressive die of a punch press having a vertically movable ram, said station useful for 


inserting a headed contact into an aperture in a single carrier piece undergoing multiple operations in said punch press, comprising: a mounting member for attaching to said punch press at a single station in said progressive die; supply means secured on said mounting member for receiving a plurality of said contacts; an insertion station on said mounting member comprising means for positioning a single contact below said ram in a vertical orientation in said aperture in said carrier piece; means for feeding said contacts from said supply means to said insertion station, such that only a single contact is presented to said insertion station at a time; anvil means positioned in line below said ram and carried on said mounting member, for engaging and supporting a lower end of said contact when said ram descends into engagement with a top end of said contact; whereby, said contact will be deformed between said ram and said anvil while positioned in said aperture in said carrier piece to fix said contact to said carrier piece. 


 12. A modular punch press station according to claim 11, wherein said mounting member comprises a plate supporting said supply means, insertion station, means for feeding and anvil means. 13. A modular punch press station according to claim 11, wherein said supply means comprises a vibratory feeder mechanism.
14. A modular punch press station according to claim 11, wherein said means for feeding comprises a shuttle mechanism capable of segregating a single contact from said supply means and presenting it to said insertion station.
15. A modular punch press station according to claim 11, wherein said insertion station comprises a funnel shaped member for directing said contact into said aperture in said carrier piece.
16. A modular punch press station according to claim 11, wherein said insertion station comprises a pair of opposed jaw members for receiving and grasping said contact.
17. A modular punch press station according to claim 11 including means for moving said anvil means upwardly into engagement with said contact upon descent of said ram. 18. A modular punch press station for use with a punch press having a vertically movable ram, said station useful for inserting a rivet-like contact into an aperture in a carrier piece, comprising: 



a mounting member; supply means secured on said mounting member for receiving a plurality of said contacts; an insertion station on said mounting member comprising means for positioning a single contact below said ram in a vertical orientation in said aperture in said carrier piece; means for feeding said contacts from said supply means to said insertion station, such that only a single contact is presented to said insertion station at a time; anvil means positioned in line below said ram and carried on said mounting member, for engaging and supporting a lower end of said contact when said ram descends into engagement with a top end of said contact; whereby, said contact will be deformed between said ram and said anvil while positioned in said aperture in said carrier piece to fix said contact to said carrier piece, wherein said anvil means comprises an anvil member and an anvil support member and wherein said anvil support member is movable relative to said anvil member upon descent of said ram such that said anvil member will be moved into an exposed position to engage and support said lower end of said contact. 


 19. A modular punch press station for use with a punch press having a vertically movable arm, said station useful for inserting a rivet-like contact into an aperture in a carrier piece, comprising: a mounting member; supply means secured on said mounting member for receiving a plurality of said contacts; an insertion station on said mounting member comprising means for positioning a single contact below said ram in a vertical orientation in said aperture in said carrier piece; means for feeding said contacts from said supply means to said insertion station, such that only a single contact is presented to said insertion station at a time; anvil means positioned in line below said ram and carried on said mounting member, for engaging and supporting a lower end of said contact when said ram descends into engagement with a top end of said contact; whereby, said contact will be deformed between said ram and said anvil while positioned in said aperture in said carrier piece to fix said contact to said carrier piece, wherein said means for feeding and said insertion station are arranged to present said contact below said ram and to insert it in said 


 aperture in said carrier piece from below said carrier piece, 20. A modular punch press station according to claim 11, wherein said means for feeding and said insertion station are arranged to present said contact below said ram and to insert it in said aperture in said carrier piece from above said carrier piece. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
