<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0623276</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PLANT HOLDER.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01G902	A01G902	A47G700	A47G702	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01G	A01G	A47G	A47G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01G9	A01G9	A47G7	A47G7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A plant holder, including a base (2) adapted to be 
supported on a horizontal surface, a vertically-extending column (6) 

fixed to the base (2), a plurality of horizontally-extending 
containers (8) mounted at different levels to the vertically-extending 

column (6), with each container adapted to receive a 
quantity of plant growing medium, and a pump (10) for pumping water 

from the reservoir (4) to the topmost container (8) mounted to the 
column (6). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N C A LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
N.C.A. LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHLOMO NEVO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SHLOMO, NEVO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to plant holders, and 
particularly to holders for holding plants in a vertical manner 
for decorative purposes and/or for maximizing the use of 
available ground area for growing plants. In order to more fully exploit the available ground 
area for growing plants, e.g., in greenhouses, gardens, and the 
like, it has been proposed to grow the plants at a plurality of 
different levels. One technique developed for this purpose 
includes a vertical pipe filled with a plant growing medium and 
having walls pierced at various levels for accommodating the 
stems of the plants. Thus, the plant roots are located within the 
pipe and are nourished by the plant growing medium, water and 
fertilizer within the pipe, whereas the plant stems and fruit 
carried by the stems grow externally of the pipe. However, this 
technique was found unsatisfactory because of the lack of 
sufficient horizontal soil area, and also because of excessive 
soil compression at the lower levels. Another system, described in US Patent 5,136,807, 
includes a plurality of containers stacked one on top of the 
other, with each container supporting the overlying containers  
 
but allowing open spaces between the side walls of the containers 
for growing the plants. Such an arrangement, however, also 
limits the amount of horizontal soil area available for plant 
growth and not subjected to excessive compression because of the 
weight of the overlying containers. An object of the present invention is to provide 
another type of plant holder enabling plants to be grown at a 
plurality of vertical levels for optimizing available ground 
area, and/or for decorative purposes. According to the present invention, there is provided a 
plant holder comprising: a base adapted to be supported on a 
horizontal surface; a vertically-extending column fixed to the 
base; a plurality of horizontally-extending containers mounted at 
different levels to the vertically-extending column, with each 
container adapted to receive a quantity of a plant growing 
medium; and a pump for pumping water from the reservoir to the 
topmost container mounted to the column. In the preferred embodiment of the invention described 
below, each of the containers includes a drain opening for 
draining excess water therein to the underlying container in the 
column. According to further features in the described 
preferred embodiment, the column further includes a plurality of 
water-collector members, each being located under the drain 
opening of
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A plant holder, comprising: 
   a base adapted to be supported on a horizontal surface; 

   a resevoir mounted within said base and adapted to 
receive a quantity of water; 

   a vertically-extending column fixed to said base; 
   a plurality of horizontally-extending containers 

mounted at different levels along said vertically-extending 
column, with each container adapted to receive a quantity of 

plant growing medium; and 
   a pump for pumping water from said reservoir to the 

topmost container mounted to said column. 
The plant holder according to claim 1, wherein each 
of said containers includes a drain opening for draining excess 

water therein to the underlying container in the column. 
The plant holder according to claim 2, wherein said 
column further includes a plurality of water-collector members, 

each being located under the drain opening of one container and 
over the upper end of an underlying container to direct the water 

from an overlying container to the underlying container. 
The plant holder according to claim 3, wherein each 
of said water-collector members is rotatably mounted on the 

 
column to permit presetting its position on the column according 

to the relative positions of said overlying and underlying 
containers. 
The plant holder according to claim 4, wherein said 
water-collector member comprises a ring rotatably mounted on the 

column, said ring having an upper end which is formed with a 
water inlet opening for at least a part of its circumference for 

receiving water drained from the overlying container, and a lower 
wall formed with an outlet opening for directing the water to the 

underlying container. 
The plant holder according to claim 5, wherein said 
lower wall is formed with a slope for directing the water to said 

outlet opening. 
The plant holder according to either of claims 5 or 
6, wherein
 the upper end of each of said water-collector rings is 
closed by a cover formed with said water inlet opening for a part 

of its circumference. 
The plant holder according to any one claims 5-7, 
wherein each of said containers is formed at its lower end with a 

step for receiving said water-collector ring, said step including 
an upper wall spaced upwardly from the bottom wall of the 

container and formed with said drain opening alignable with the 
water inlet opening in the respective water-collector ring. 
The plant holder according to any one of claims 5-8, 
wherein said column is formed with an annular rib for 

supporting said ring of the water-collector member. 
The plant holder according to any one of claims 1-9, 
wherein said column further includes a mounting means for 

mounting each of said containers in cantilever fashion to said 
column. 
The plant holder according to claim 10, wherein 
said mounting means comprises a ring fixed to the column for each 

of said containers, and extensions carried by each of said 
containers engageable with their respective mounting rings for 

mounting the containers in cantilever fashion. 
The plant holder according to any one of claims 1-11, 
wherein each of said containers includes a side wall formed 

with a vertically-extending cavity for receiving and partially 
enclosing said column, said extension being carried at the upper 

end of said side wall and located to straddle said column, said 
extension being formed with depending flanges engaging the 

respective mounting ring for side-mounting the containers in 
cantilever fashion to the column. 
The plant holder according to any one of claims 1-12, 
wherein said column is located centrally of said base, said 

column being hollow and including a feed tube for feeding the 
 

water from the reservoir to the topmost container mounted to the 
column. 
The plant holder according to claim 13, wherein 
said central column is formed of a plurality of tubular sections 

assembled together in telescoping relation. 
The plant holder according to any one of claims 1-14, 
wherein said plant holder further includes at least one 

additional vertically-extending column mounting a further 
plurality of horizontally-extending containers at different 

levels therealong with each container also adapted to receive a 
quantity of a plant-growing medium, and a feed tube from the pump 

in said reservoir to the topmost container in said additional 
vertically-extending column to which water is also pumped from 

said reservoir by said pump. 
The plant holder according to claim 1 and further 
comprising a cover adapted to cover said base. 
The plant holder according to claim 16 wherein 
said cover is formed with a depression adapted to receive a 

quantity of plant growing medium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
