<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653917</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
OUTDOOR COOKING DEVICE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A47J3707	A47J3707	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A47J	A47J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A47J37	A47J37	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is provided an outdoor cooking device (10) comprising a heat source (28), means (30) for supporting the food to be cooked above the heat source (28), a baffle (32) interposed between the heat source (28) and said food supporting means (30), the baffle (32) being located and shaped so as to both prevent drippings from the food being cooked from falling on to said heat source (28) and collect said drippings together above the heat source (28), a receptacle (24) disposed below the heat source (28), and means (38) to channel the drippings collected by the baffle (32) to the receptacle (24) without contacting the heat source (28). There is also described an outdoor cooking device (10) comprising a heat source (28) arranged so as to extend over a predetermined area, said area including a void region comprising a substantially vertical hole through the heat source (28). There is also described an outdoor cooking device (10) comprising a baffle (32) being located and shaped so as to concentrate the heat generated by the heat source (28) in the region of the aperture (42). There is also described an outdoor cooking device (10) comprising two or more independently controllable heat sources (43, 45), one of said sources (45) being located so as to heat particularly a region of the baffle (32) over which drippings are collected. There is also described an outdoor cooking device (10) comprising a heat source (28) being moveable between a first position (A) in which the source (28) is capable of heating the food to be cooked and a second position (B) in which in addition the source (28) is capable of particularly heating a region of the baffle (32) over which dirppings are collected.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINGWOOD ANTHONY MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LINGWOOD, ANTHONY MICHAEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINGWOOD ANTHONY MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LINGWOOD, ANTHONY MICHAEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to outdoor cooking 
devices. In recent times the use of outdoor cooking devices 
such as barbecues has become increasingly popular. 
However, one of the problems associated with cooking 
food on a barbecue is that fat and other drippings 
falling from the food to be cooked impact upon the heat 
source and have a tendency to ignite resulting in an 
uncontrolled flare up that can ruin the food to be 
cooked. Another problem particularly associated with gas 
type barbecues that employ a heat absorbent material 
such as lava rock, is that the fats and other drippings 
falling from the food to be cooked collect on the lava 
rock where they are absorbed so that the lava rock then 
becomes unsightly. In use the accumulated fats and 
other drippings absorbed by the lava rock may ignite 
giving rise to a disproportionately large and unexpected 
flare-up and when not in use may give rise to stale 
odours that when the barbecue is first used again after 
a prolonged period may taint the food to be cooked. Furthermore, although various devices have been 
proposed for collecting the fats and other drippings 
falling from the food to be cooked, because these 
drippings fall over a relatively large area the 
collecting receptacles have had a similarly large 
surface area and so have required considerable cleaning 
after use. Even so the collection of fats and other 
drippings for re-use has in the past only been 
associated with gas type barbecues as it has not been 
thought appropriate to attempt to recycle fats and other 
drippings that have come into contact with the charcoal 
or the other combustible media of traditional barbecues. One design of cooking device which has sought to 
overcome these difficulties is described in US-A-5,129,385 
(see preamble of claims 1 and 4). Nevertheless  
 
it remains an object of the present invention to address 
the problems associated with the prior art. According to a first aspect of the present 
invention there is provided an outdoor cooking device 
comprising: a heat source; means for supporting the food 
to be cooked above the heat source; a baffle interposed 
between the heat source and said food supporting means, 
the baffle being located and shaped so as to both 
prevent drippings from the food being cooked from 
falling on to said heat source and collect said 
drippings together above the heat source; a receptacle 
disposed below the heat source; and means to channel the 
drippings collected by the baffle to the receptacle 
without
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An outdoor cooking device comprising: 

a heat source (28); 
means (30) for supporting the food to be cooked 
above the heat source (28); 
a baffle (32) interposed between the heat source 
(28) and said food supporting means (30), the baffle 

(32) being located and shaped so as to both prevent 
drippings from the food being cooked from falling on to 

said heat source (28) and collect said drippings 
together above the heat source (28); 
a receptacle (24) disposed below the heat source 
(28); and 
means (38) to channel the drippings collected by 
the baffle (32) to the receptacle (24) without 

contacting the heat source (28), characterised in that 
those regions of the baffle (32) which are heated to a 

temperature sufficient to cause vaporisation of some of 
the drippings with which they come into contact are 

inclined at an angle to the horizontal within the range 
from 30째 to 70째. 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 1, 
wherein the receptacle (24) is disposable. 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 1 or 
claim 2, wherein the heat source (28) is arranged so as 

to extend over a predetermined area, said area including 
a void region comprising a substantially vertical hole 

through the heat source (28), said channelling means 
(38) directing the drippings to the receptacle (24) 

through said void region. 
An outdoor cooking device comprising: 


a heat source (28) arranged so as to extend over a 
predetermined area, said area including a void region  

 
comprising a substantially vertical hole through the 

heat source (28); 
means (30) for supporting the food to be cooked 
above the heat source (28); 
a baffle (32) interposed between the heat source 
(28) and said food supporting means (30), the baffle 

(28) being located and shaped so as to prevent drippings 
from the food being cooked from falling on to said heat 

source (28); and 
means (28) to channel the drippings through said 
void region to a region beneath the heat source (28), 

characterised in that those regions of the baffle (32) 
which are heated to a temperature sufficient to cause 

vaporisation of some of the drippings with which they 
come into contact are inclined at an angle to the 

horizontal within the range from 30째 to 70째. 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 4, 
wherein a receptacle (24) is disposed below said void 

region. 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 5, 
wherein the receptacle (24) is disposable. 
A cooking device in accordance with any of claims 
1 to 3 or claims 5 to 6, wherein the baffle (32) is 

formed integrally with said receptacle (24). 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 7, 
wherein the baffle (32) is comprised of two or more 

components (34,36) and the component (34) which is 
formed integrally with the receptacle (24) is adapted so 

as to be disposable. 
A cooking device in accordance with any preceding 
claim, wherein the baffle (32) includes an opening (38) 

and is so shaped that drippings from the food being  
 

cooked falling on the baffle (32) are directed toward 
the opening (38). 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 9, 
wherein the baffle (32) is provided with a depending 

wall (54) surrounding said opening (38) to define a path 
by which the drippings may be channelled without 

contacting the heat source (28). 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 10, 
wherein said path defined by the depending wall (54) is 

capable of being closed at an end remote from the 
opening (38) so as to define a receptacle in which to 

collect the drippings. 
A cooking device in accordance with any of claims 
9 to 11 when dependant on claim 3 or claim 4, wherein 

the opening (38) in the baffle (32) is in vertical 
alignment with said void region. 
A cooking device in accordance with any preceding 
claim, wherein means (32) are provided to concentrate 

the heat generated by said heat source (28) on to a 
selected region of said food supporting means (30). 
A cooking device in accordance with any preceding 
claim, wherein the baffle (32) is comprised of two or 

more components (34,36), at least one of said components 
(36) being capable of being arranged so as to 

concentrate the heat generated by said heat source (28) 
on to a selected region of said food supporting means 

(30). 
A cooking device in accordance with any preceding 
claim comprising two or more independently controllable 

heat sources(43,45), one of said sources (43) being  
 

located so as to heat particularly a region of the 
baffle (32) over which drippings are collected. 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 15, 
wherein an upper surface of the baffle (32) is inclined 

upwardly and away from the region over which the 
drippings are collected and the sources (43,45) are 

arranged so as to heat different regions of said upper 
surface. 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 15 or 
claim 16, wherein the baffle (32) is substantially bowl 

shaped and the sources (43,45) are arranged 
substantially coaxially. 
A cooking device in accordance with any of claims 
15 to 17, wherein the heat sources (43,45) are 

substantially annular. 
A cooking device in accordance with any preceding 
claim, wherein the heat source (53) is moveable between 

a first position (A) in which the source (53) is capable 
of heating the food to be cooked and a second position 

(B) in which in addition the source (53) is capable of 
particularly heating a region of the baffle (32) over 

which drippings are collected. 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 19 and 
additionally comprising means to control the quantity of 

heat generated by the heat source (53). 
A cooking device in accordance with claim 19 or 
claim 20, wherein the heat source (53) is rotatable 

between said first and second positions (A,B).  
 
A cooking device in accordance with any of claims 
19 to 21, wherein the heat source (53) comprises a gas burner. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
