<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0651697</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD FOR MAKING A MATERIAL WITH ARTIFICIAL DIELECTRIC CONSTANT.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29D3100	B29D3100	H01Q138	H01Q138	H01Q1500	H01Q1500	H01Q1508	H01Q1700	H01Q1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29D	B29D	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29D31	B29D31	H01Q1	H01Q1	H01Q15	H01Q15	H01Q15	H01Q17	H01Q17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method for making a material with an artificial dielectric constant is carried out by choosing the desired dielectric constant for a particular electromagnetic field, selecting a substantially non-electrically conductive sheet material (2) from which the cellular core material (26) is to be made, applying an electrically conductive material (8) to selected areas on the sheet material and thereafter forming a cellular core material from layers of the sheet material having the conductive material already applied thereto.
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEXCEL CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HEXCEL CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIAZ RODOLFO E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DIAZ, RODOLFO, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD FOR MAKING A MATERIAL WITH ARTIFICIAL DIELECTRIC CONSTANTBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION A dielectric material is a material which, when in the presence of electric field, stores more energy than is stored in free space. That is, the dielectric material stores electrical potential energy inside itself. Many common materials, such as glass and epoxies, act as dielectrics.This ability of the dielectric is commonly expressed in terms of permittivity. The permittivity for free space is identified as eQ while relative permittivity for a material, unitless, is identified as er and is equal to the ratio of permittivity of the material to the permittivity of free space. The relative permittivity for air is approximately equal to l. For purposes of this application, permittivity means relative permittivity unless otherwise indicated.In the presence of time varying electric fields a dielectric dissipates a portion of its stored energy as heat. This loss is indicated by assigning the permittivity real and imaginary parts for the special case of steady state sinusoidally varying fields.Thus the complex permittivity is defined by the following equation: e r = β? - je" , where j = •/-!"■These real and imaginary parts are in general functions of the frequency (ω) so that the permittivity is better expressed as the following: er(ω) = e'(ω) - je" ( ω) , where j = s - . 

 See Fig. 1 for a plot of € (ω) as a function of frequency for a simple material. It is seen that as frequency increases, e' attains the value of 1, that is the permittivity of free space, while e" has one or more peak values at special frequencies. The imaginary part of the permittivity, e", acts like the first derivative of e ' . That is, where the rate of change of e ' is the greatest, e" peaks to provide what is called an absorption band.One of the uses for dielectric materials is in the form of lenses to increase the amount of power that an antenna can collect. Such lenses work because electromagnetic radiation travels slower in the lens than in free space and thus bends. A lens, to be effective, must have a diameter greater than two times the wave length (λ) of the electromagnetic radiation. Since the wave length equals the speed of light divided by the frequency, at a frequency of, for example 200MHz, the wave length will be about 5 feet. Therefore, extremely large lenses are required at radio frequencies. This makes the use of natural dielectrics, such as glass and epoxies, impractical for radio frequency lens applications because of their
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. Method for making a material with an artificial dielectric constant comprising the following steps: selecting a substantially non-electrically conductive sheet material; choosing a desired dielectric constant for a particular electromagnetic field; applying an electrically conductive material to selected areas on the sheet material; and thereafter forming a cellular core material from layers of the sheet material.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the selecting step is carried out by selecting sheets of resin impregnated fabric.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the choosing step is carried out by selecting a relative permittivity of between about 1.03 and 20.
4. The method of claim l wherein the applying step is carried out by applying the electrically conductive material in line patterns made up of a plurality of lines, said lines having preselected widths and thicknesses and spacings.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein at least one of the preselected widths, thicknesses and spacings is varied to change the conductance of the line patterns of the electrically conductive material.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the forming step is carried out by forming the layers of the sheet material into a honeycomb cellular core material having hexagonal cells, said hexagonal cells defining an open interior and orthogonal L, W and T directions, said T direction passing axially through the open interior, said L direction oriented generally parallel to 


sheet material and the W direction oriented generally perpendicular to the sheet material.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the hexagonal cells are defined as follows: sizing each of two opposite sides as length X; sizing each of the other four sides as length Xe
0*5
; and forming the included angles between first and second adjacent sets of said other four sides as 2.37T.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the applying step is carried out by applying the electrically conductive material in a grid pattern of first and second sets of spaced-apart, parallel lines intersecting generally at right angles to one another.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the applying step includes the step of aligning the first set of parallel lines with the L direction and the second set of parallel lines with the T direction, said first and second sets of parallel lines creating repeating unit lengths in the T and L direction respectively.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the applying step includes the step of sizing the parallel lines to have equal widths, and sizing the unit length in the L direction to be about 2 to 2.5 times the unit length in the T direction to create the cellular core material which exhibits approximately equal conductivities with respect to an electric field oriented in each of the L, T and W directions.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step is carried out by applying said electrically conductive material in a grid pattern, the grid pattern having first and second sets of parallel, spaced-apart grid elements oriented 


transversely to one another, the grid elements having preselected widths and thicknesses.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the applying step is carried out so that the sets of grid elements are perpendicular to one another.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein the applying step is carried in a manner such that the widths of the grid elements are varied according to the desired conductance of the cellular core material.
14. The method of claim 11 wherein the applying step includes the step of picking the thicknesses of the grid elements according to the desired conductance of the cellular core material.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the thickness picking step is carried out by making the first set of grid elements thicker than the second set of grid elements.
16. The method of claim 11 wherein the applying step includes the step of spacing the spaced-apart grid elements of said first and second sets at preselected spacings.
17. The method of claim l wherein the applying step is carried out by applying said electrically conductive material in an array of unit cells, each said unit cell having a chosen pattern of said electrically conductive material, said chosen pattern such that the electrically conductive material in one said unit cell does not contact the electrically conductive material in an adjacent unit cell.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein said applying step is carried out with said chosen pattern having an undulating shape. 


 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the applying step includes the step of varying the amount of said electrically conductive material used in each said chosen pattern.
20. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step is carried out by applying said electrically conductive material in pattern of parallel, spaced-apart strips, each said strip having a preselected width and a preselected thickness and separated from an adjacent strip by a preselected gap.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein the forming step is carried out by forming the layers of the sheet material into a honeycomb cellular core material having hexagonal cells, said hexagonal cells defining an open interior and orthogonal L, W and T directions, said T direction passing axially through the open interior, said L direction oriented generally parallel to sheet material and the W direction oriented generally perpendicular to the sheet material.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the forming step includes the step of orienting the strips generally parallel to the L direction.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the forming step includes the step of orienting the strips generally parallel to the T direction. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
