<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629137</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CORNEAL SCULPTING USING LASER ENERGY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1700	A61B1700	A61B1820	A61B1820	A61F9007	A61F9007	A61F901	A61M100	A61M100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B18	A61B18	A61F9	A61F9	A61F9	A61M1	A61M1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A corneal sculpting system utilized for performing surgery to reshape the cornea of the eye. The system includes a laser delivery system that is coupled to a filter positioning system and a corneal topography system. The filter positioning system suspends a sculpting filter above the surface of the cornea. The sculpting filter controls the level of tissue removal that occurs in each area of the cornea by absorbing a certain percentage of the incident laser energy in various areas of the filter. The positioning system also has a conduit for delivering water to the corneal surface. A thin layer of water is heated by the application of the laser to cause microexplosions that dislodge and propel the tissue to ablate the cornea. The corneal topography system provides real time feedback on the curvature of the cornea, before, during and after the surgery.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREMIER LASER SYSTEMS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PREMIER LASER SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COZEAN COLETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEBERG ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESCOAT HEE JUNG KOH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
COZEAN, COLETTE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FRIEBERG, ROBERT, J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESCOAT, HEE, JUNG, KOH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 CORNEAL SCULPTING USING LASER ENERGYBackground of the Invention Field of the Invention This invention relates generally to the field of corneal sculpting. Description of the Related ArtIn order to alter the focal point of the eye, several surgical techniques have been used. The most common of these techniques is Radial Keratotomy which comprises cutting slits in the cornea of the eye. The slits selectively weaken portions of the eye to allow intraocular pressure to distort the corneal surface and therefore change the shape of the cornea. Radial keratotomy has been found to be effective when the surgery is performed correctly. However, this procedure is a non-repeatable procedure and thus, high precision is necessary. The precision that is required to alter the cornea to the exact shape to refocus the lens is difficult to achieve using conventional cutting techniques especially when the rate of scar formation from these cuts causes variations in the final results. Another technique, called corneal sculpting,•has been used to alter the focal point of the eye. Unlike radial keratotomy, which requires relatively deep precisely located cuts, corneal sculpting involves wide area ablation which covers the entire optical zone of the cornea. Typically, ultraviolet (UV) laser light is used to shave off thin layers of corneal tissue in a process analogous to "sanding." Although UV lasers such as excimer lasers are able to achieve the accuracy necessary to shape the cornea, such lasers have inherent disadvantages for surgical applications on the eye. For example, Excimer lasers are very large expensive systems that utilize toxic gases to generate the required laser energy. In addition, some physicians believe the ultraviolet radiation of the excimer laser is potentially mutagenic and may cause unacceptable long term side effects to the remaining exposed tissues of the eye. 

 Al hough infrared (IR) lasers do not suffer from the disadvantages of UV lasers, infrared lasers have not been widely used for ablation of eye tissue, because of other disadvantages which include the possibility of thermal damage to the eye. The temperature of the surrounding eye tissue tends to increase during the application of the laser, due to the fact that eye tissue has a high water content. As the temperature of the tissue increases, so does the risk of long term thermal damage to the cornea. Thus, an improved method for tissue removal that avoids thermal damage is necessary for performing corneal sculpting with IR lasers.In order to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
IN THE CLAIMS :
1. An apparatus for performing wide area ablation on corneal tissue to reshape a cornea of an eye, comprising: a laser delivery system comprising a laser that produces pulses of radiation which form a light beam for ablating corneal tissue, said laser delivery system directing said laser beam to ablate substantially the entire optical zone of the cornea, and thereby reshape the cornea to correct a vision deficiency; and a sculpting filter, interposed between the laser delivery system and the eye so as to receive said laser beam, said sculpting filter being formed of a material which permits sustained transmission of said laser beam without erosion of said material, said filter being positioned in a plane substantially perpendicular to said laser beam, and having attenuation characteristics which vary across said plane such that some portions of said cornea receive radiation of greater intensity than other portions, said attenuation characteristics being selected to cause said radiation to ablate said cornea to the desired shape.
2. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said laser beam has a spot size which covers substantially the entire optical zone of the cornea, such that corneal tissue within said zone is ablated simultaneously.
3. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said laser radiation comprises infrared radiation having a wavelength of about 3 microns. 4. The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein said laser comprises an erbium:YAG laser which produces said infrared radiation at a wavelength of 2.94 microns.
5. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said filter comprises a structure which contains water. 6. The apparatus of Claim 5, wherein said structure comprises a pair of spaced juxtaposed walls having said water therebetween, the walls being variably spaced to provide said 


non-uniform attenuation characteristics.
7. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said filter comprises a solid material that is permeable to a liquid, so as to retain said liquid therein, the permeability of said material being nonuniform such that said liquid is distributed non-uniformly through said material to provide said attenuation characteristics.
8. The apparatus of Claim 7, wherein said liquid comprises water. 9. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said filter has a uniform thickness.
10. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein said laser delivery system comprises a collimated beam expander to produce a collimated beam of laser radiation. 11. The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the intensity of the radiation that reaches said cornea is at least about 750 mJ per square centimeter.
12. The apparatus of Claim 1, additionally comprising a debris removal system which delivers a fluid to said optical zone to propel debris from the surface of the cornea.
13. The apparatus of Claim 1, additionally comprising a debris removal system which delivers a suction to said optical zone to extract debris from the surface of the cornea.
14. The apparatus of Claim 1, additionally comprising means for forming a layer of liquid on the cornea which is thermally reactive to said laser radiation, said layer of liquid having a thickness selected to cause microexplosions when subjected to said laser radiation to thereby remove particles of corneal tissue from the cornea without thermally damaging the cornea.
15. A method of removing corneal tissue from an eye of a patient, comprising: forming a layer of liquid on the cornea which is thermally reactive to laser radiation of a predetermined wavelength at a thickness selected to cause microexplosions when subjected to said laser radiation; directing said laser radiation onto said liquid; and 


 ablating said corneal tissue by using said microexplosions to remove particles of corneal tissue from said cornea.
16. The method of Claim 15, wherein said directing step comprises the step of directing laser radiation having a wavelength of about 3 microns on said corneal tissue.
17. The method of Claim 15, wherein said forming step comprises the step of forming a layer of water on said cornea.
18. The method of Claim 15, additionally comprising the steps of attaching a positioning device to said eye and injecting said fluid through said positioning device.
19. The method of Claim 15, wherein said directing step comprises the step of irradiating said cornea with a laser beam having a spot size which covers a substantial portion of said cornea, and wherein said ablating step comprises the step of simultaneously ablating corneal tissue within said spot size.
20. The method of Claim 15, wherein said directing step comprises the step of passing said laser radiation through a filter comprising an attenuating liquid to provide a predetermined intensity profile for said beam, and wherein said ablating step comprises the step of using said predetermined intensity profile to non-uniformly ablate said cornea, and thereby alter the shape of said cornea. 21. The method of Claim 15, additionally comprising the step of applying suction to said cornea of said eye to remove said particles of corneal tissue.
22. The method of Claim 15, additionally comprising the step of applying fluid to said cornea of said eye to remove said particles of corneal tissue.
23. The method of Claim 15, wherein said ablating step comprises the step of removing corneal tissue from the optical zone of an eye of a patient, to reshape the surface of the cornea to a desired corneal profile, and thereby correct a vision deficiency, said removing step comprising:
(a) using a laser beam to ablate said corneal tissue; 


 (b) following step (a) , measuring the curvature of said cornea at multiple locations to provide a mapping of the entire surface of the ablated cornea;
(c) following step (b) , comparing the mapped 5 surface with the desired corneal profile; and
(d) following step (b) , further ablating cornea tissue in accordance with the results of step (c) .
24. The method of Claim 23, wherein step (a) comprises the step of irradiating the entire optical zone of said cornea
10 with a laser beam that has a predetermined intensity profile selected in accordance with said desired corneal profile.
25. The method of Claim 23, wherein each of steps; (a) and (d) comprise the step of passing said laser beam through a filter which selectively attenuates said laser beam so that
15 selected portions of said cornea are ablated more than other portions of said cornea.
26. The method of Claim 25, additionally comprising the step of using the results of step (c) to select a filter for use in step (d) .
20 27. The method of Claim 23, additionally comprising the step of measuring the curvature of said cornea at multiple locations prior to step (a) to provide a mapping of the entire surface of the unablated cornea, and using the results to select a filter which selectively attenuates said laser beam 
•
25 in accordance with a desired corneal profile.
28. The method of Claim 15, wherein the step of ablating comprises the step of removing corneal tissue from the optical zone of the eye of a patient to reshape the surface of the cornea to a desired profile to correct a vision deficiency,
30 said removing step comprising: producing a laser beam having a spot size which is sufficiently large to substantially entirely cover the optical zone of the cornea; directing said laser beam at the optical zone of the 35 cornea; blocking a first selected portion of the beam prior to reaching said cornea to provide a first ablating beam 


 which covers a first portion of said optical zone; using said first ablating beam to simultaneously ablate tissue within said first portion of said optical zone; blocking a second selected portion of the beam prior to reaching said cornea to provide a second ablating beam which covers a second portion of said optical zone using said second ablating beam to simultaneously ablate tissue within said second portion of said optical zone; and monitoring changes in the shape of said cornea caused by said ablation by mapping the corneal surface during said ablation.
29. The method of Claim 28, wherein said first and second portions of said optical zone are circular in shape. 30. The method of Claim 28, wherein said first and second portions of said optical zone are annular in shape.
31. The method of Claim 28, wherein one of said portions of said optical zone is within the other of said portions.
32. An apparatus for removing corneal tissue from an eye of a patient, comprising: a device adapted for positioning adjacent said eye, said device comprising an irrigation channel for supplying to said eye a liquid which is thermally reactive to pulsed laser radiation of a predetermined wavelength and a predetermined energy, said irrigation channel being arranged to form, in use, a layer of liquid on the cornea of said eye at a thickness selected to cause microexplosions when subjected to said laser radiation; and a laser which, in use, supplies pulses of laser radiation at said predetermined wavelength and energy to cause said microexplosions, said energy being sufficient to remove eye tissue by ablation.
33. An apparatus for removing corneal tissue from the optical zone of an eye of a patient, to reshape the surface of the cornea to a desired corneal profile, and thereby correct a vision deficiency, comprising: 


 a laser adapted for directing a laser beam against said corneal tissue at an energy and wavelength which, in use, removes said corneal tissue to provide said reshaping; and a corneal topography system adapted to provide, in use, real-time monitoring of the corneal profile of said cornea during said reshaping.
34. An apparatus for removing corneal tissue from the optical zone of an eye of a patient, to reshape the surface of the cornea to a desired corneal profile, and thereby correct a vision deficiency, comprising: a laser adapted for directing a laser beam against said corneal tissue at an energy and wavelength which, in use, removes said corneal tissue to provide said reshaping, said laser beam being sufficiently large to cover substantially the entire optical zone of said cornea; and an aperturing device which has an opening or mask positioned to block a portion of said laser beam prior to reaching said optical zone, said aperturing device being adjustable so that, in use, the blocked portion of the laser beam can be varied to achieve a desired corneal profile. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
