<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0638957</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Slot-coupled fed dual circular polarization TEM mode slot array antenna.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01P1165	H01P117	H01Q1310	H01Q1310	H01Q1500	H01Q1524	H01Q2106	H01Q2106	H01Q2124	H01Q2124	H01Q2500	H01Q2500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01P	H01P	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	H01Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01P1	H01P1	H01Q13	H01Q13	H01Q15	H01Q15	H01Q21	H01Q21	H01Q21	H01Q21	H01Q25	H01Q25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A slot antenna is provided which includes first (16) and second 
(12) oppositely disposed 

metallic plates with a dielectric layer (14) disposed therebetween. 
An array of horizontal and 

vertical radiating elements (34,36) are formed on the first metallic 
plate. An array of horizontal 

coupling slots (42) and an array of vertical coupling slots (40) 
are formed in the second metallic 

plate. The antenna further includes first and second beam formers (28) 
for providing a 

necessary field of view beam coverage. The array of horizontal coupling 
slots are 

operatively coupled to the first beam former and the array of vertical 
coupling slots are 

operatively coupled to the second beam former. Accordingly, the slot 
antenna may 

operate to transmit and receive linearly polarized energy. The antenna 
may further 

include a polarizer (24) disposed above the upper metallic plate for 
converting between linear 

and circular polarization so as to allow for antenna operation with 
single or dual circular polarization energy. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRW, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN CHIEN-AN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHEN, CHIEN-AN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to a slot antenna and, more particularly, to a dual 
circular polarization double-layer slot array antenna which is capable of providing a dual 
circular polarized beam with optimum efficiency and bandwidth. Direct communication systems commonly employ antennas for transmitting and 
receiving energy between remote locations. Modernly, antennas are widely employed for 
an increasing number of applications, many of which require a low profile, wide 
bandwidth antenna that can operate with polarized radiating energy. For example, 
advanced Direct Broadcast Systems (DBS) are currently being developed for future 
generation cable television transmission. Currently, North America Direct Broadcast 
Systems are being developed which transmit circular polarized (CP) energy. These 
systems require low cost dual circular polarization eighteen inch aperture antennas at 
remote television locations for receiving the circular polarized signals via satellite 
transponders. In the past, conventional reflector antennas were used which typically consisted 
of a reflector operatively coupled to a feed horn (polarizer) via a strout and an 
associated mounting structure. Such antennas include a Cassegrain antenna in which the 
feedhorn is displaced from the reflector at a focal point on the front side thereof.  
 
However, such conventional reflector antennas generally occupy a relatively large volume 
and are easily susceptible to damage from the environment. More low profile antenna concepts have been developed which include planar slot 
antennas. One type of slot antenna includes a double-layer structure which forms two 
propagation layers. Double-layer slot antennas historically have included the excitation 
of a transverse-electromagnetic (TEM) mode travelling wave between a pair of parallel 
metallic plates. This type of slot antenna further involves radio frequency (RF) energy 
leakage through radiating slots formed on the upper metallic plate so as to form a 
boresight pencil beam. Such slot antennas have generally exhibited a relatively simple 
mechanical structure with potentially low fabrication costs. However, there are 
recognized limitations associated with the conventional slot antenna approaches. These 
limitations include the fact that either single feed designs or overly complicated multiple 
feed designs are generally employed to excite a pure TEM mode travelling wave between 
the parallel plates. While a number of feed design approaches have been proposed, the 
prior
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A slot antenna comprising: 
   first and second oppositely disposed metallic plates spaced separate from 

one another; 
   beam forming means for providing a predetermined field of view; 

   radio-wave connecting means coupled to said beam forming means; 
   an array of radiating elements formed in said first metallic plate; and 

   an array of coupling slots formed in said second metallic plate and 
operatively coupled to said beam forming means. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 1 further comprising polarization 
conversion means disposed above said metallic plates for converting energy between a 

linear polarization and a circular polarization. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 2 wherein said polarization means 
comprises a pair of oppositely disposed Meanderline polarizer sheets disposed above said 

metallic plates. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 1 wherein said array of coupling slots 
comprises: 

   a first array of horizontal coupling slots; and 
   a second array of vertical coupling slots. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 4 wherein said beam forming means 
comprises: 

   a first beam forming network operatively coupled to said first array of 
horizontal coupling slots; and 

   a second beam forming network operatively coupled to said second array 
of vertical coupling slots. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 5 wherein each of said first and second 
beam forming networks include stripline circuitry. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 4 wherein said first and second array of 
coupling slots each comprise a one dimensional array of rectangular slots which are 

separated from said beam forming means via a dielectric layer. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 1 further comprising a first dielectric layer 
disposed between said first and second metallic plates. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 1 wherein said radiating elements are 
formed in horizontal and vertical arrays. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 9 wherein said radiating elements are 
further formed in pairs and have lengths which are selected to provide substantially 

optimum energy transmission therethrough. 
A dual circular polarization slot antenna comprising: 
   first and second oppositely disposed metallic plates spaced separate from 

one another via a dielectric medium and which allow transverse-electromagnetic energy 
to propagate therebetween; 

   an array of horizontal and vertical radiating elements formed in said first 
metallic plate; 

   beam forming means for providing a predetermined field of view; 
   radio-wave connecting means coupled to said beam forming means and 

having a first port for channeling vertical polarization energy and a second port for 
channeling horizontal polarization energy; 

   a first array of horizontal coupling slots formed in said second metallic 
plate and operatively coupled to said beam forming means and which cooperate with said 

horizontal radiating elements so that vertical polarized energy may pass through said 
horizontal radiating elements and coupling slots; 

   a second array of vertical coupling slots formed in said second metallic 
plate and operatively coupled to said beam forming means and which cooperate with said 

vertical radiating elements so that horizontal polarized energy may pass through said 
vertical radiating elements and coupling slots; and 

   polarization conversion means disposed above said metallic plates for 
converting radiating energy between a linear and circular polarization. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 11 wherein said polarization means 
comprises a pair of oppositely disposed Meanderline polarizer sheets disposed above said 

metallic plates. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 11 wherein said beam forming means 
comprises: 

   a first beam forming network coupled to said first array of horizontal 
coupling slots; and 

   a second beam forming network coupled to said second array of vertical 
coupling slots. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 13 wherein said first and second beam 
forming networks include stripline circuitry. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 11 wherein said first and second array of 
coupling slots each comprise a one dimensional array of rectangular slots which feed said 

beam forming means. 
The antenna as defined in Claim 11 wherein said radiating elements are 
formed in pairs and have lengths which are selected so as to provide substantially 

optimum energy transmission therethrough. 
A method for receiving circular polarized energy comprising: 
   receiving circular polarized radiating energy; 

   transmitting said circular polarized radiating energy through a pair of Meanderline 
polarizer sheets so as to convert said circular polari
zation to a linear polarization; 
   passing said linear polarization radiating energy through a first metallic plate 

having vertical and horizontal radiating elements formed therein so as to allow the 
horizontal and vertical components of linear polarization to pass therethrough; 

   radiating said vertical and horizontal components polarization between said first 
metallic plate and a second metallic plate which has vertical and horizontal coupling slots 

formed thereon; 
   exciting currents on a first beam forming network from said horizontal coupling 

slots; 
   exciting currents onto a second beam firming network from said vertical coupling 

slots; and 
   summing each of the associated currents on each of the beam forming networks 

to provide a horizontal polarization reception signal and a vertical polarization reception 
signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
