<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0614166</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Kicker pulse circuit for an addressing structure using an ionizable gaseous medium
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F11333	G09G336	G09G336	G02F113	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G09G	G09G	G02F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G09G3	G09G3	G02F1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An addressing structure (10, 10') using an 
ionizable gaseous medium has plural nonintersecting 

channels (20, 20') extending in a first direction and 
filled with an ionizable gaseous medium. Each channel 

contains a reference electrode (30, 30') and a row 
electrode (62, 62'). An amplifier (100) provides a kicker 

pulse to one or both of the first and second electrodes in 
a channel at a time coincident with the application of a 

second electrical signal to the second electrode. The 
kicker pulse and the second electrical signal cooperate to 

promote ionization of the gaseous medium within a 
predetermined discharge initiation delay time tolerance. 

The ionization captures across a liquid crystal material 
(44) data signals placed on column electrodes (18); the 

data signals place display elements (16) associated with 
the electro-optic material in predetermined data storage 

or display element states. When data signals are applied 
to first electrodes (18) extending transversely across a 

channel and are of a type that does not repeat in 
immediately successive image fields data signals having 

the same polarity with respect to the reference electrode, 
the kicker pulse is applied to some or all channels in 

some or all image fields. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TEKTRONIX, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ILCISIN KEVIN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE JOHN S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ILCISIN, KEVIN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MOORE, JOHN S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention pertains to electrical 
circuits for stimulating ionization in systems of data 
storage elements which employ an ionizable gas to address 
the storage elements. U.S. Patent No. 4,896,149, issued January 23, 
1990, to Buzak et al. ("'149 Patent") and assigned to the 
assignee of the present application, discloses an 
addressing structure using an ionizable gaseous medium. 
Such an addressing structure may be used in a system 
constructed of data storage elements which addresses those 
data storage elements with the use of an ionizable gas. 
An example of such a system is a flat panel display, a 
video camera, or a memory system. The system disclosed in the '149 Patent has an 
electrode structure which defines rows of channels, each 
of which is filled with an ionizable gas. Extending along 
the base of each of those channels are a row electrode and 
a reference electrode. The row electrode is electrically 
driven as a cathode, and the reference electrode is 
referenced to ground and acts as an anode when the row 
electrode is electrically driven as a cathode. When a 
particular row electrode is driven as a cathode, the 
ionizable gas in the particular channel which contains 
that row electrode is ionized. Some of the gas atoms are  
 
ionized, some are merely excited but not ionized, and the 
system operates as disclosed in the '149 Patent. One embodiment of the system disclosed in the 
'149 Patent is a flat panel display system in which the 
electric field across an electro-optic material is changed 
in response to data signals provided over column 
electrodes. For certain electro-optic materials (for 
example, liquid crystals) it is necessary to ensure that 
no long term net DC electrical field is applied to the 
materials; if such a field is applied, the material loses 
its desired electro-optical properties, or other undesired 
effects (such as dissociation of a liquid crystal 
material) can occur. In a flat panel display system this 
is preferably accomplished by alternating the polarity in 
immediately succeeding image fields of the data signals 
applied to the data storage elements ("pixels"). In operating a flat panel display of this type 
it often happens that pixels do not display the image they 
are supposed to display. Some such problems are caused by 
a variety of different cross-talk effects which (together 
with solutions for mitigating them) are described in U.S. 
Patent Applications Nos. 07/854,145, filed March 19, 1992, 
for REDUCING CROSS TALK EFFECTS IN
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An addressable electro-optic system 
(10) having multiple light pattern data storage 

elements (16), comprising: 

a first substrate (48) supporting on a major 
surface thereof plural nonoverlapping first electrodes 

(18) that extend in a first direction; 
a second substrate (54) having plural 
nonintersecting channels (20) that extend along a 

major surface thereof in a second direction, each of 
the channels (20) containing an ionizable gaseous 

medium and having one of plural second electrodes (62) 
and one of plural reference electrodes (30) extending 

along a substantial portion of the length of the 
channel (20); 
the first and second substrates (48, 54) 
being disposed face-to-face and spaced-apart with the 

first direction transverse to the second direction to 
define overlapping regions of the first electrodes 

(18) and the channels (20); 
a layer (44) of material having electro-optic 
properties positioned between the first and 

second substrates (48, 54), the layer (44) of electro-optic 
material and the overlapping regions defining 

plural light pattern data storage elements (16) that 
selectively store an image field representing 

typically nonuniform light pattern information carried 
by the first electrodes (18); 
first means (24) for providing first 
electrical signals to the first electrodes (18) and 

second means (28) for providing second electrical 
signals to the second electrodes (62), the first and 

second means (24, 28) providing in each of successive 
image fields the coincident application of respective 

first and second electrical signals only once to each  
 

of the storage elements (16) to effect ionization of 
the gas associated with the storage elements (16) and 

to change in response to the first electrical signal 
the electro-optical properties of the regions of the 

layer (44) associated with the storage elements (16); 
 
   characterised in that the system further 

comprises: 

third means (100) for providing to one of 
selected second and reference electrodes (62, 30) 

positioned in a selected one of the channels (20) a 
third electrical signal at a time coincident to the 

application of the second electrical signal to the 
selected second electrode, the third electrical signal 

cooperating with the second electrical signal to cause 
ionization of the gaseous medium in the selected 

channel (20) within a predetermined discharge 
initiation delay time tolerance. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 1, wherein the third electrical signal 

increases the electrical potential difference between 
the selected second and reference electrodes (62, 30). 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the third 

electrical signal does not substantially change the 
response of the electro-optic material (44) to the 

first and second signals during a predetermined data 
capture time. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the third means 

(100) applies the third electrical signal to the 
selected reference electrode (30). 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the third means 

(100) applies the third electrical signal to the 
selected second electrode (62).  

 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the third means 

applies multiple third electrical signals to the 
selected reference and second electrodes (30, 62). 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the electro-optic 

material (44) is of the RMS-responding type and 
the third signal is of a character insufficient to 

affect substantially the RMS field applied to the 
electro-optic material (44) during a succession of 

image fields. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the electro-optic 

material (44) comprises a nematic liquid crystal 
material. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 8, wherein the second substrate (54) 

includes plural support structures (66) defining the 
channels (20), and further comprising a layer (46) of 

a dielectric material disposed between the first and 
second substrates (48, 54), separating the liquid 

crystal material from the ionizable gaseous medium, 
and cooperating with the support structures (66) to 

separate the ionizable gaseous medium in adjacent 
channels (20). 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein: 


the selected reference electrode (30) has a 
nominal electrical potential; 
the first electrical signals provide one of 
an OFF storage element state and a preselected ON 

storage element state, the first electrical signals 
including an OFF signal, an ON signal of higher 

potential, and an ON signal of lower potential, the 
OFF signal providing storage elements (16) in the OFF  

 
storage element state, the ON signals of higher and 

lower potential providing storage elements (16) in the 
preselected ON storage element state, the ON signal of 

higher potential placing first electrodes (18) at a 
potential higher than the nominal electrical 

potential, the ON signal of lower potential placing 
first electrodes (18) at a potential lower than the 

nominal electrical potential, the second electrical 
signal placing the selected second electrode (62) at 

lower potential than the nominal electrical potential 
to produce ionization in the channel; and 
the first electrodes (18) do not receive an 
ON signal of higher potential in an image field 

immediately succeeding an image field in which the 
first electrodes (18) received an ON signal of higher 

potential, and the first electrodes (18) do not 
receive an ON signal of lower potential in an image 

field immediately succeeding an image field in which 
the first electrodes (18) received an ON signal of 

lower potential. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the third electrical signal 

is applied to any specific channel (20) in an image 
field in which, for at least one data storage element 

(16) defined in part by the specific channel (20), the 
first electrical signal is an ON signal of lower 

potential and was, in the immediately preceding image 
field, an ON signal of higher potential. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the third electrical signal 

is applied to any specific channel (20) in an image 
field in which, for at least one data storage element 

(16) defined in part by the specific channel (20), the 
first electrical signal is an ON signal of lower 

potential.  
 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the third electrical signal 

is applied to any specific channel (20) in an image 
field in which, for at least one data storage element 

(16) defined in part by the specific channel (20), the 
first electrical signal in the immediately preceding 

image field was an ON signal of higher potential. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the third electrical signal 

is applied to substantially all channels (20) in any 
image field in which any of the first electrical 

signals is an ON signal of lower potential. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the third electrical signal 

is applied to substantially all channels (20) in any 
image field in which, for at least one data storage 

element (16) defined in part by the specific channel 
(20), the first electrical signal in the immediately 

preceding image field was an ON signal of higher 
potential. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the third electrical signal 

is applied to substantially all channels (20) in 
substantially all image fields which do not 

immediately succeed an image field in which any of the 
first electrical signals is an ON signal of lower 

potential. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the third electrical signal 

is applied to substantially all channels (20) in 
substantially all image fields. 
The addressable electro-optic system 
(10) of claim 10, wherein the OFF signal is at the 

nominal electrical potential. 
A method of addressing data elements  
 

(16) in a device comprising a plurality of first 
electrodes (18) and, extending transversely thereto, 

a plurality of channels (20) each containing an 
ionizable medium and having associated therewith a 

second electrode (62) and a reference electrode (30) 
extending along the length of the channel (20), each 

data element (16) being defined by a respective 
intersection of a first electrode (18) and a channel 

(20), the method comprising applying predetermined 
potentials to the first, second and reference 

electrodes (18, 62, 30) associated with the data 
element (16) throughout a predetermined period, 

characterised in that the method further comprises 
applying to one of said second and reference 

electrodes (62, 30), for part of that period, a 
further electrical potential sufficient to cause 

relatively rapid ionization of the medium. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
