<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610607</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method of evaluating image processing performed on a radiographic image.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B600	A61B600	G01T100	G01T100	G06T100	G06T100	G06T500	G06T500	H04N121	H04N121	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	G01T	G01T	G06T	G06T	G06T	G06T	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B6	A61B6	G01T1	G01T1	G06T1	G06T1	G06T5	G06T5	H04N1	H04N1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Method and apparatus for reading a radiation image stored in a 
photostimulable phosphor sheet or on a photographic film provided 

with the possibility of convenient evaluation of the performed image 
processing. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA GEVAERT NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AGFA-GEVAERT NAAMLOZE VENNOOTSCHAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSSENS DANNY C O AGFA-GEVAER
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VUYLSTEKE PIETER C O AGFA-GEVA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JANSSENS,DANNY C/O AGFA-GEVAERT N.V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VUYLSTEKE,PIETER C/O AGFA-GEVAERT N.V.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is in the field of digital radiography. 
The invention more specifically relates to a method and an apparatus 
permitting evaluation of processing performed on the digital signal 
representation of a radiographic image in a most convenient way. In the field of digital radiography a wide variety of image 
acquisition techniques have been developed such as computerised 
tomography, nuclear magnetic resonance, ultrasound, detection of a 
radiation image by means of a CCD sensor or a video camera etc.
 
   In still another technique a radiation image, for example an 
image of x-rays transmitted by an object, is stored in a screen 
comprising a photostimulable phosphor such as one of the phosphors 
described in European patent publication 503 702 published on 
16.09.92 and US Ser. 07/842,603. The technique for reading out the 
stored radiation image consists of scanning the screen with 
stimulating radiation, such as laser light of the appropriate 
wavelength, detecting the light emitted upon stimulation and 
converting the emitted light into an electric representation for 
example by means of a photomultiplier.
 
   The signal is then digitized, processed and subsequently used to 
control the hard copy recording in image reproducing system such as 
a laser recorder. For diagnostic purposes the reproduction is 
viewed and analysed on an lightbox. In an alternative image acquisition system a digital 
representation of a radiographic image can be obtained by scanning a 
radiographic film carrying a radiographic image with light, 
detecting the image-wise modulated light (reflected or transmitted) 
and converting the detected light into a digital signal 
representation. Likewise the digital signal can be processed and 
can subsequently be used for controlling hard copy recording or 
display of the processed image. Previous to image reproduction, the image signal can be 
subjected to image processing algorithms serving various kinds of  
 
purposes and involving the selection and setting of several kinds of 
processing parameters depending on the specific type of examination.
 
   The different kinds of processing methods that can be applied 
will be described in extenso furtheron in the application. In 
summary these processing methods may comprise processing for the 
purpose of image analysis such as a method of recognising the 
borders of an irradiation field in case of shielded irradiation and 
image enhancing processing methods such as spatial frequency 
processing, noise reduction,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of evaluating image processing performed on a digital 
representation of a radiation image comprising the steps of 


acquiring a digital representation of a radiation image, 
producing for said radiation image an image representation of a 
reduced number of pixels, 
storing in a storage device data identifying an image, said reduced 
image representation, parameters used in course of said processing 

and intermediate processing results. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein a radiation image has been 
stored in a photostimulable phosphor screen and wherein a digital 

representation of a radiation image is obtained by the steps of 
scanning said screen with stimulating irradiation, detecting the 

light emitted upon stimulation, converting the emitted light into a 
digital signal representation. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said radiation image has 
been stored in a radiographic film and wherein said digital 

representation of said radiation image is obtained by the steps of 
scanning said film with light, detecting image-wise modulated light 

and converting said image-wise modulated light into a digital signal 
representation. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said reduced image 
representation is obtained by low pass filtering said digital signal 

representation and subsampling the result hereof to obtain an 
intermediate reduced image representation and iteratively applying 

the filtering and subsampling steps on the result of the previous 
iteration step until a specified array size is obtained. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein said data identifying an 
image, said reduced image representation, said processing parameters 

and said intermediate processing results pertaining to N 
successively read-out images are stored in a sequentially organized 

storage device and wherein data originating from an N+1th read-out 
image are stored at the expense of the data originating from a first 

of N stored images. 
A method according to claim 1 comprising the steps of 
 

identifying an image to be evaluated, retrieving from said storage 
device data pertaining to said identified image and outputting said 

retrieved data. 
A method according to claim 6 wherein said data relating to an 
image to be evaluated are identified by displaying consecutively 

said stored identification data and by selecting among the displayed 
data the data identifying said image. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein upon command a number of 
memory locations in said storage device can no longer be changed and 

wherein the remainder of locations in said storage device is filled 
with a reduced image representation, identification data, processing 

parameters and intermediate processing results of subsequently read-out 
images and the remaining locations are organized as a first in, 

first out memory. 
An apparatus for evaluating image processing performed on a 
radiographic image comprising means for acquiring a digital signal 

representation of a radiographic image, means for determining a set 
of processing parameters, means for processing said digital signal 

representation on the basis of said set of processing parameters, 
characterised in that the apparatus further comprises 


means for deducing from said signal representation a reduced 
version representing a reduced number of pixels, 
means for storing data identifying an image, said processing 
parameters, intermediate processing results and said reduced version 

of a predefined number of read-out images. 
An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein a radiographic image 
has been stored in a photostimulable phosphor screen and wherein 

said means for acquiring a digital representation of a radiographic 
image comprise means for scanning said screen with stimulating 

irradiation, means for detecting the light emitted upon stimulation 
and means for converting the detected light into a digital signal 

representation. 
An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein a radiographic image 
has been stored in a radiographic film and wherein said means for 

acquiring a digital signal representation comprise a light source, 
means for scanning said film with the light emitted by said light 

 
source, means for detecting the light modulated by said image and 

means for converting the image-wise modulated light into a digital 
signal representation. 
An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said means for 
producing a reduced image representation comprise means for low pass 

filtering said digital signal representation and means for 
subsampling the result hereof so as to obtain an intermediate 

reduced image representation and means for iteratively filtering and 
subsampling the result of the previous iteration step until a 

specified array size is obtained. 
An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said storage device is 
a sequentially organized storage device capable of storing data 

pertaining to N read-out images, said storage device being organized 
so that data originating from an N+1-th read-out image is stored at 

the expense of data originating from a first of N read-out images. 
An apparatus according to claim 9 comprising 

means for identifying an image to be evaluated, 
means for retrieving said data pertaining to said identified image, 
means for outputting the retrieved data. 
An apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said means for 
identifying an image to be evaluated comprise 


means for displaying stored identification data, 
means for scrolling through said identification data and for 
controlling retrieval of a reduced version, processing parameters 

intermediate processing results corresponding with displayed 
identification data. 
An apparatus according to claim 13 comprising control means 
which upon activation prohibit shift out of the data pertaining to 

at least one identified image from said storage device. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
