<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656787</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD OF INHIBITING REDUCTION OF DISULFIDE BONDS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K31095	A61K31095	A61K31185	A61K3119	A61K3128	A61K31305	A61K31415	A61K31415	A61K3800	A61K3800	A61K3806	A61K3806	A61K39395	A61K39395	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K38	A61K39	A61K39	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
This invention pertains to a method of altering (inhibiting or enhancing), directly or indirectly, reduction of disulfide bonds of membrane-bound macromolecules, particularly proteins, and, as a result, inhibiting (totally or partially) or enhancing the cellular penetration and the respective effects of these macromolecules. In particular, the present invention relates to a method of inhibiting, directly or indirectly, the reductive function of cell membranes, particularly the cell surface (plasma) membrane, which is capable of cleaving disulfide bonds in membrane-bound proteins which must be cleaved for the proteins to enter cells and produce their respective effects on cells they have entered. Cleavage of disulfide bonds in this manner is a metabolic step required for the ultimate function of the protein or macromolecule. As described herein, applicant has demonstrated that the reductive function of cell surface membranes is catalyzed by protein disulfide isomerase (PDI). The method of the present invention is useful to prevent adverse effects of toxins, such as diphtheria toxin, on cells. It is also useful in preventing infection (e.g., viral or bacterial) or the spread of an established infection. The method may also be useful in enhancing uptake of macromolecules whose presence within a cell is desired.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV BOSTON
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TRUSTEES OF BOSTON UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYSER HUGUES J-P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RYSER, HUGUES, J.-P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 METHOD OF INHIBITING REDUCTION OF DISULFIDE BONDSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONEntry of many toxins and viruses into cells is driven by receptor-mediated endocytosis, in which a specific receptor protein on the membrane surface recognizes an extracellular macromolecule (ligand) and binds to it. Subsequently, this region of the plasma membrane, which includes the ligand bound to the surface receptor, invaginates, forming an endosome, which is a new intracellular membrane-bound vesicle completely surrounded by the cell cytoplasm. The endosome undergoes acidification which in many instances causes the receptor and ligand to dissociate. The receptor is recycled back to the plasma membrane; the ligand often becomes trapped by intracellular vesicles called lysosomes which contain enzymes that degrade the ligand.Cleavage of disulfide bonds is a necessary step in the activation of a variety of endocytosed macromolecules, such as the tcxins diphtheria toxin, ricin, abrin, modeccin, pseudomonas endotoxin, cholera toxin and tetanus toxin, which are made of two chains held together by disulfide bonds. A well-characterized example of this process is the translocation of the diphtheria toxin, secreted by the Corynebacterium Diphtheriae, across the membrane of early endosomes. Diphtheria toxin, which kills cells by irreversibly inhibiting protein synthesis, is secreted as a single-chain precursor comprised of 2 polypeptide chains, A and B, which are linked by a disulfide bond. It is currently believed both chains of the diphtheria toxin are internalized within the cell by receptor-mediated endocytosis. It is also believed that the B chain of nicked diphtheria toxin undergoes conformational changes in acidic endosomes and inserts itself into the endosomal membrane to facilitate 

translocation of the A chain into the cytoplasm, where inhibition of protein synthesis occurs. It is assumed that prior to translocation of the A chain, reduction of the interchain disulfide bond occurs, which allows the two chains to separate. However, little is known about the site or mechanism of this reductive cleavage, except that in the case of diptheria toxin it must occur very soon after binding of the toxin to its surface receptor.Just as the chain B of diphtheria toxin directs the chain A to the endocytic pathway, other macromolecule such as alpha-2 macroglobulins are known to act as carriers of endocytosis for other proteins, such as enzymes and peptide hormones and they do so by linking themselves by disulfide bond(s) to the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
SEQUENCE LISTING
(1) GENERAL INFORMATION:
(i) APPLICANT:
(A) NAME: Trustees of Boston University
(B) STREET: 80 East Concord Street
(C) CITY: Boston
(D) STATE: MA
(E) COUNTRY: USA
(F) POSTAL CODE (ZIP): 02218
(ii) TITLE OF INVENTION: Method of Inhibiting Reduction of Disulfide Bonds
(iii) NUMBER OF SEQUENCES: 1
(iv) COMPUTER READABLE FORM:
(A) MEDIUM TYPE: Floppy disk
(B) COMPUTER: IBM PC compatible
(C) OPERATING SYSTEM: PC-DOS/MS-DOS
(D) SOFTWARE: Patentin Release #1.0, Version #1.25
(2) INFORMATION FOR SEQ ID NO:l:
(i) SEQUENCE CHARACTERISTICS:
(A) LENGTH: 181 amino acids
(B) TYPE: amino acid
(C) STRANDEDNESS: single
(D) TOPOLOGY: linear
(xi) SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION: SEQ ID NO:l:
Asn Ala Lys Thr He He Val Gin Leu Asn Gin Ser Val Glu He Asn 1 5 10 15 


Cyβ Thr Arg Pro Aβn Asn Asn Thr Arg Lys Ser He Arg He Gin Arg 20 25 30
Gly Pro Gly Arg Ala Phe Val Thr He Gly Lys He Gly Asn Met Arg 35 40 45
Gin Ala His Cyβ Aβn He Ser Arg Ala Lys Trp Asn Asn Thr Leu Lye 50 55 60
Gin He Asp Ser Lye Leu Arg Glu Gin Phe Gly Asn Asn Lys Thr He 65 70 75 80
He Phe Lys Gin Ser Ser Gly Gly Asp Pro Glu He Val Thr His Ser 85 90 95
Phe Asn Cys Gly Gly Glu Phe Phe Tyr Cys Asn Ser Thr Gin Leu Phe 100 105 110
Asn Ser Thr Trp Glu Asn Ser Thr Trp Ser Thr Lys Gly Ser Asn Asn 115 120 125
Thr Glu Gly Ser Asp Thr He Thr Leu Pro Cys Arg He Lye Gin He 130 135 140
He Asn Met Trp Gin Glu Val Gly Lys Ala Met Tyr Ala Pro Pro He 145 150 155 160
Ser Gly Gin He Arg Cys Ser Ser Asn He Thr Gly Leu Leu Leu Thr 165 170 175
Arg Asp Gly Gly Asn 180 

CLAIMS
The invention claimed is:
1. Use of a) a sulfhydryl blocker; b) a protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor; or c) a combination of (a) and (b) , for the manufacture of a medicament to effect inhibition of the reduction function of a eukaryotic cell membrane.
2. Use of a) a sulfhydryl blocker; b) a protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor; or c) a combination of (a) and (b) for the manufacture of a medicament to inhibit protein disulfide isomerase for inhibiting protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in the binding area of specific macromolecular ligands at the cell surface membrane of a eukaryotic cell.
3. The use of Claim l or Claim 2, wherein the sulfhydryl blocker is 5,5'-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid, p- chloromer-curiphenylsulfonic acid or thiolyte MQ and the protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor is an anti-protein disulfide isomerase antibody or bacitracin.
4. Use of a) a sulfhydryl blocker; b) a protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor or c) a combination of (a) and (b) for the manufacture of a medicament for reducing the cytotoxicity to a eukaryotic cell of a cell surface membrane-bound toxin containing disulfide bonds, e.g. by inhibiting protein disulfide isomerase- catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in the cell surface membrane-bound toxin, so as to reduce 


 entry of the cell surface membrane-bound toxin into the cell and the cytotoxicity to the cell of the toxin.
5. The use of Claim 4 wherein the cell surface membrane- bound toxin is diphtheria toxin and the eukaryotic cell is a mammalian cell.
6. Use of a sulfhydryl blocker or a protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor for the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting infection of a human lymphoid cell by HIV, e.g. by inhibiting the reductive function of the human cell surface membrane which is required for the infective interaction of HIV.
7. The use of Claim 5 or Claim 6, wherein the sulfhydryl blocker is 5,5'-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid, p- chloromer-curiphenylsulfonic acid or thiolyte MQ and the protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor is an anti-protein disulfide isomerase antibody or bacitracin.
8. Use of a sulfhydryl blocker, a protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor or a combination thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting infection of a human cell by HIV, e.g. by inhibiting protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds at the cell surface membrane of the human cell.
9. The use of Claim 8 wherein the sulfhydry blocker is DTNB or pCMBS and the protein disulfide isomerase- specific inhibitor is an anti-protein disulfide isomerase antibody or bacitracin. 


10. Use, for the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting passage across a eukaryotic cell membrane of all or a part of a cell membrane-bound macromolecule which includes disulfide bonds, cleavage of which is necessary for passage of the macromolecule across the cell membrane, of a sulfhydryl blocker, a protein disulfide isomerase-specific inhibitor or both, in an amount to inhibit protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in cell membrane- bound macromolecules.
11. The use of Claim 10 wherein the macromolecule is selected from the group consisting of: a) viruses, particularly retroviruses which contain a disulfide bond in their outer shell, e.g. HIV, and b) toxins which contain a disulfide bond, cleavage of which is required for passage across a cell membrane, said toxins e.g. being selected from the group consisting of: diphtheria toxin, modeccin, pseudomonas toxin E, gelonin, toxic ribonucleases.
12. Use, for the manufature of a medicament for enhancing passage across a eukaryotic cell membrane of all or a part of a cell membrane-bound macromolecule which includes disulfide bonds, cleavage of which is necessary for passage of the macromolecule across the cell membrane, of a substance which enhances protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in the macromolecule, in particular in a cell membrane-bound macromolecule, e.g. a hormone, selected from the group consisting of: growth hormone, interleukins, lymphokines, hematopoietic stimulating factors, specific epithelial, endothelial and fibroblast stimulating factors, transforming growth factors. 


13. A sulfhydryl blocker or an inhibitor of protein disulfide isomerase, for use to reduce the ability of protein dirulfide isomerase to cleave disulfide bonds at a eukaryotic cell surface membrane.
14. The use of Claim 13 wherein the sulfhydryl blocker is 5.5'-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid, p-chloromercur- iphenylsulfonic acid or thiolyte MQ and the inhibitor of protein disulfide isomerase is an anti-protein disulfide isomerase antibody or bacitracin.
15. A method of determining whether an agent is an inhibitor of protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in eukaryotic cell surface membrane-bound macromolecules, e.g. toxins or viruses, comprising the steps of: a) combining a eukaryotic cell having bound to the cell surface membrane thereof a macromoloecule, referred to as a cell surface membrane-bound macromolecule and an agent to be assessed; b) maintaining the product of (a) under conditions sufficient for protein disulfide isomerase- catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in cell surface membrane-bound macromolecules; c) determining the extent to which the cell surfacemembrane-bound macromolecule crosses the cell surfacemembrane; and d) comparing the determination made in (c) with the extent to which the cell surface membrane-bound macromolecule crosses the cell membrane in the absence of the agent to be assessed, wherein if the cell surface membrane-bound macromolecule crosses the cell surface membrane to a lesser extent in the
'
 presence of the agent to be assessed than in the absence of the agent to be assessed, 


 the agent to be assessed is an inhibitor of protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in cell surface membrane-bound macromolecules.
16. An inhibitor of protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in cell surface membrane-bound macromolecules identified by the method of Claim 22.
17. The use of Claim 6 wherein reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds is reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds in gpl20, e.g. occurring in the V3 loop.
18. Use, for the manufacture of a therapeutic agent against protein disulfide isomerase-catalyzed reductive cleavage of disulfide bonds by contacting the human immunodeficiency virus with said agent, of a reducing agent, a specific inhibitor of the disulfide bond containing domains of human immunodeficiency virus or a combination thereof.
19. The use of Claim 18 wherein the reducing agent is dithiothreitol, 3-mercaptoethanol, GSH, and/or the specific inhibitor is a monoclonal antibody directed against a critical disulfide bond-containing domain of human immunodeficiency virus.
20. Use of a reducing agent, a specific inhibitor of a disulfide bond-containing domain, or both for the manufacture of an inhibiting agent against cleavage of the disulfide bonds by the reductive function of the cell membranes for inhibiting infection of a eukaryotic cell by a virus by contacting the disulfide bonds of the virus which require cleavage for passage of the 


 virus across the cell membrane, prior to a virus-cell interaction.
21. The use of Claim 20 wherein the reducing agent is dithiothreitol, 0-mercaptoethanol or GSH.
22. The use of Claim 20 wherein the specific inhibitor of the disulfide bond-containing domain comprises an antibody directed against disulfide bond-containing domains of the virus.
23. The use of Claim 20 wherein the virus is human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis virus, herpes virus, papilloma virus, enterovirus or paramyxovirus.
24. A substance which inhibits cleavage of virus disulfide bonds by protein disulfide isomerase, for inhibiting infection of a eukaryotic cell by the virus, said virus, for example, being human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis virus, herpes virus, papilloma virus, enterovirus or paramyxovirus.
25. The substance of Claim 24 which is a reducing agent, e.g. dithiothreitol, β-mercaptoethanol or GSH.
26. The substance of Claim 24 which is a specific inhibitor of the viral disulfide bonds, e.g. antibodies directed against disulfide bond-containing domains of the virus.
27. A method of inhibiting infection of a eukaryotic cell by a virus comprising contacting the disulfide bonds of the virus which require cleavage for passage of the virus across the cell membrane, prior to a virus-cell interaction, with: 



 a) a reducing agent in an amount sufficient to cleave the disulfide bonds of the virus; b) a viral disulfide specific inhibitor in an amount sufficient to inhibit cleavage of the disulfide bonds by the reductive function of the cell membrane; or c) a combination of (a) and (b) in an amount sufficient to cleave the disulfide bonds of the virus and inhibit cleavage of the disulfide bonds by the reductive function of the cell membrane thereby inhibiting infectin of a eukaryotic cell by a virus.
28. The use of Claim 19 wherein the disulfide bond containing domains of human immunodeficiency virus is in gpl20 of human immunodeficiency virus.
29. The use of Claim 28 wherein the critical disulfide bond containing domain of the gpl20 of the human immunodeficiency virus is in the C3 region, the C4 region or the V3 loop. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
