<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0626827</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SPINAL FIXATION SYSTEM.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1756	A61B1756	A61B1770	A61B1770	A61F244	A61F244	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61B	A61B	A61F	A61F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61B17	A61F2	A61F2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANEK MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
DANEK MEDICAL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUMFIELD DAVID L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARRIS ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRUMFIELD DAVID L
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FARRIS ROBERT A
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 SPINAL FIXATION SYSTEMBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates in general to spinal pedicular and interlaminal fixation systems useful for maintaining the vertebrae in a desired relationship. In particular, the invention concerns improvements to the spinal fixation system disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,790,297 and 4,913,134 to Eduardo Luque and assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Segmental spinal fusion plates with bolts and nuts have their genesis in 1948 through the work of Baker and Hoit. Since then, spinal fusion plates have become more sophisticated, as have the bolts and screws used to fix the plates to vertebrae. These fusion plates have been used to maintain certain vertebrae in rigid position relative to each other, for instance to facilitate fusion of a vertebra.In the last decade, spinal fixation systems have been developed using generally rigid plates which span several vertebrae and are engaged on each side of the spinous process. One such type of spinal fixation system and rigid plate is illustrated in the patents to Steffee, U.S. Patent . Nos. 4,611,581 and 4,696,290. In this system, the spinal plate is provided with a series of openings for receiving the threaded portions of force transmitting members, such as bone screws. This spinal plate, known in the art as the Steffee plate, includes a number of bridge elements between each of the series of openings in the plate, which tend to increase the rigidity of the plate.Another type of spinal fixation system is shown in the aforementioned patents to Luque, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,790,297 

and 4,913,134. In this system, a spinal fixation plate, known as the Luque plate, is described which includes a single elongated opening that extends substantially along the length of the plate. A number of scallops or depressions are formed in the top surface of the plate at the edge of the central opening. The scallops aie used to engage a convex portion of a force-transmitting member, such as a a bone screw. The system also includes plate ring means which prevents the plate from spreading when the bone screws are tightened down onto the scallops of the plate.While the Luque system has proven very effective in spinal fixation, practitioners in the field of spinal implants have sought improvements to the system to render them more easily used and adapted to a variety of procedures. In addition, improvements to the systems have been sought to reduce the trauma to the vertebrae or surrounding tissue during and after implantation.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for use with bone engaging fasteners for maintaining the vertebrae in a desired relationship, comprising: substantially rigid plate means for being placed over th vertebrae, said plate means having a lower surface for facin the vertebrae and an opposite lower surface; a number of slot openings defined through said plate means between said upper and lower surfaces, each of said number of slot openings being sized to receive a bone engaging fastener therethrough; and scallop means for blocking sliding movement of a bone engaging fastener relative to said plate means, said scallop means including a first set of scallops and a second set of scallops, each set of scallops being formed by a number of depressions defined in at least one of said lower surface an said upper surface of said plate at said number of slot openings, wherein said first set of scallops is defined at a spherical radius that is different from said second set of scallops.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein for said first se of scallops each of said number of depressions is defined at a first spherical radius, and for said second set of scallop each of said number of depressions is defined at a second spherical radius greater than said first spherical radius.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein: the centroid of said first spherical radius is at a first distance from said at least one of said lower surface and upper surface of said plate; and the centroid of said second spherical radius is at a second distance from .said at least one of said lower surface' and upper surface of said plate, said second distance being greater than said first distance. 


 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said second distance is greater than said first spherical radius.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said scallop means further includes each of said first set of scallops and said second set of scallops formed by a number of depressions defined in both of said lower surface and said upper surface of said plate at said number of slot openings.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first set of scallops is nested within said second set of scallops.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein for said first set of scallops each of said number of depressions is defined at a first spherical radius, and for said second set of scallops each of said number of depressions is defined at a second spherical radius greater than said first spherical radius.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein: the centroid of said first spherical radius is at a first distance from said at least one of said lower surface and upper surface of said plate; and the centroid of said second spherical radius is at a second distance from said at least one of said lower surface and upper surface of said plate, said second distance being greater than said first distance.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said second distance is greater than said first spherical radius.
10. An apparatus for maintaining the vertebrae in a desired relationship, comprising: substantially rigid plate for being placed over the vertebrae, said plate having an lower surface for facing the 


vertebrae and an opposite upper surface; a first bone engaging fastener for connecting said plate to the vertebrae and having a first plate engaging portion; a second bone engaging fastener for connecting said plate to the vertebrae and having a second plate engaging portion; said plate including a number of elongated slot openings defined therethrough between said upper and lower surfaces, each of said number of slot openings being sized to receive each of said pair of bone engaging fasteners therethrough; an scallop means for blocking sliding movement of a bone engaging fastener relative to said plate, said scallop means including a first set of scallops and a second set of scallops, each set of scallops being formed by a number of depressions defined in at least one of said upper surface and said lower surface of said plate at said number of slot openings for receiving said plate engaging portion of each of said pair of bone engaging fasteners, wherein said first set of scallops is defined at a spherical radius that is different from said second set of scallops.
li. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said first plate engaging portion of said first bone engaging fastener is formed at a first spherical radius, and said second plate engaging portion of said second bone engaging fastener is defined at a second spherical radius greater than said first spherical radius.
12. An apparatus for maintaining the vertebrae in a desired relationship, comprising: substantially rigid plate for being placed over the vertebrae, said plate having an lower surface for facing the vertebrae and an opposite upper surface; a pair of bone engaging fasteners for connecting said plate to the vertebrae; said plate including a pair of opposite side walls 


defining a number of elongated slot openings therebetween, said slot openings extending through said plate between said upper and lower surfaces, each of said number of slot openings being sized to receive each of said pair of bone engaging fasteners therethrough; each of said fasteners including means for tightening the fastener against said.plate between said side walls; and ring means for encircling said plate to preventing said side walls of said plate from spreading apart when one of said bone engaging fasteners is tightened down onto said plate, said ring means including a pair of opposite arms extending adjacent said side walls of said plate and defining a gap between one end of each of said arms, said gap having a dimension less than the greatest width dimension of said plate at said side walls.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said ring means includes a C-shaped body including said pair of opposite arms
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein: each of said side walls have a curved outer surface; and each of said opposite arms have a curved inner surface corresponding to said curved outer surface of each of said side walls.
15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said one end of each of said opposite arms projects beyond said bottom surface of said plate when said ring means is encircling said plate.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said one end of each of said opposite arms do not project beyond said bottom surface of said plate when said ring means is encircling said plate. 


 17. the apparatus of claim 12, further comprising: scallop means for blocking sliding movement of a bone engaging fastener relative to said plate, said scallop means including a set of scallops being formed by a number of depressions defined in at least one of said upper surface and said lower surface of said plate at said number of slot openings for receiving one of said pair of bone engaging fasteners. 

ΛMEMDED CLAIMS
[received by the International_______ on 14 June 1993 (14.06.93); original claim 1 amended; other claims unchanged (1 page)!
What is claimed is:
1. An apparatus for use with bone engaging fasteners for maintaining the vertebrae in a desired relationship, comprising: substantially rigid plate means for being placed over the vertebrae, said plate means having a lower surface for facing the vertebrae and an opposite upper surface; a number of slot openings defined through said plate means between said upper and lower surfaces, each of said number of slot openings being sized to receive a bone engaging fastener therethrough; and scallop means for blocking sliding movement of a bone engaging fastener relative to said plate means, said scallop means including a first set of scallops and a second set of scallops, each set of scallops being formed by a number of depressions defined in at least one of said lower surface and said upper surface of said plate at said number of slot openings, wherein said first set of scallops is defined at a spherical radius that is different from said second set of scallops.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein for said first set of scallops each of said number of depressions is defined at a first spherical radius, and for said second set of scallops each of said number of depressions is defined at a second spherical radius greater than said first spherical radius.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein: the centroid of said first spherical radius is at a first distance from said at least one of said lower surface and upper surface of said plate; and the centroid of said second spherical radius is at a second distance from said at least one of said lower surface and upper surface of said plate, said second distance being greater than said first distance. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
