<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613796</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Air-conditioned bus.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60H100	B60H100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60H	B60H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60H1	B60H1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Air-conditioned bus which comprises at least an air 
channel (3) mounted against or in the roof (1) and 

provided with at least an air inlet opening (10, 11) and 
at least an air outlet opening (21) for leading air to the 

inside of the bus, which bus comprises in this air channel 
(3), between the air inlet opening (10, 11) and the air 

outlet opening (21), at least a ventilator (5) an a heat 
exchanger (7), characterized in that the bus is equipped 

with air-conditioning units (4), in other words local 
installations which allow that locally air is taken away 

which is then led to the mutual air channel (3) extending 
in the longitudinal direction of the bus, whereby these 

local air-conditioning units (4) are formed by a local 
inlet channel (16, 17) which extends transversally with 

respect to said air channel (3) , and at least one upright 
internal channel (12), which connects with its upper 

extremity to said inlet channel (16, 17) and with its 
lower extremity to said air channel (3), in which the 

ventilator (5), which is an axial ventilator, and the heat 
exchanger (7) are mounted above each other. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HOOL NV
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
VAN HOOL, NAAMLOZE VENNOOTSCHAP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKX LUCAS R M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HENDRICKX, LUCAS R.M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to an air-conditioned bus which 
comprises at least an air channel mounted against or in 
the roof and provided with at least an air inlet opening 
and at least an air outlet opening for leading air to the 
inside of the bus, which bus comprises between the air 
inlet opening and the air outlet opening, at least a 
ventilator and a heat exchanger. Because of limitations in building space and the higher 
demands concerning air-conditioning, it is more and more 
preferred to mount the air channel with the ventilator and 
the heat exchanger in or against the roof instead of on 
the floor. In known air-conditioned buses with the air channel in or 
against the roof, use is made of one or more radial 
ventilators and one or more compact heat exchangers. 
Radial ventilators, which blow the air away radially, can 
be very compact, are relatively noiseless in use and cause 
a limited air delivery at high lifts. This offers a great 
liberty in lay-out of the components in the air channel. 
The relatively high air speeds, however, lead to a 
relatively high air resistance with the compact heat 
exchangers, which results in a high power consumption of 
the ventilators. Due to the limited air delivery of the radial ventilators, 
also large temperature differences can occur between the 
conditioned air which is blown in the inside of the bus, 
and this inside. In the French patent application No. 2.608.103 it has been 
disclosed to use axial ventilators which are mounted 
between a first longitudinal channel, which is in  
 
communication with the open air by means of openings, and 
a second longitudinal channel, which is in communication 
with the inside of the bus by means of openings. However, the construction disclosed in FR 2.608.103 
presents several disadvantages. A first major 
disadvantage consists in that, because the air is sucked 
in through a longitudinal channel, this air will 
turbulate, which will lead to energy losses and noise nuisance. A second disadvantage consists in that, due to the fact 
that use is made of a longitudinal channel for sucking in 
the air, this channel does not leave room for mounting 
other accessories. Another disadvantage consists in that the construction as 
disclosed in FR 2.608.103 requires a interruption in the 
roof construction in the longitudinal direction, this 
weakening the entire coachwork of the bus. The invention aims at remedying these disadvantages. To this end, the invention relates to an air-conditioned 
bus which comprises at least an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
1.- Air-conditioned bus which comprises at least an air 
channel (3) mounted against or in the roof (1) and 

provided with at least an air inlet opening (10, 11) and 
at least an air outlet opening (21) for leading air to the 

inside of the bus, which bus comprises in this air channel 
(3), between the air inlet opening (10, 11) and the air 

outlet opening (21), at least a ventilator (5) an a heat 
exchanger (7), characterized in that the bus is equipped 

with air-conditioning units (4), in other words local 
installations which allow that locally air is taken away 

which is then led to the mutual air channel (3) extending 
in the longitudinal direction of the bus, whereby these 

local air-conditioning units (4) are formed by a local 
inlet channel (16, 17) which extends transversally with 

respect to said air channel (3) , and at least one upright 
internal channel (12), which connects with its upper 

extremity to said inlet channel (16, 17) and with its 
lower extremity to said air channel (3), in which the 

ventilator (5), which is an axial ventilator, and the heat 
exchanger (7) are mounted above each other. 
2.- Air-conditioned bus according to claim 1, 
characterized in that the inlet channel (16, 17) and the 

air inlet opening (10, 11) extend essentially over the 
same distance in the longitudinal direction of the bus, 

whereby the inlet channel (16, 17) is delimited at the 
side by end walls (16A, 17A). 
3.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the air inlet 

opening (10, 11) is an inlet opening (10) for open air. 
4.- Air-conditioned bus according to the preceding claim, 
characterized in that this open air inlet opening (10) is 

applied in the roof (1). 
5.- Air-conditioned bus according to claim 3, 
characterized in that the open air inlet opening (10) is 

applied in the side wall (2). 
6.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the air inlet 

opening (10, 11) is in communication with the inside of 
the bus and is thus an opening (11) for circulation air. 
7.- Air-conditioned bus according to the preceding claim, 
characterized in that the air inlet opening (11) for 

circulation air, during the circulation, is in 
communication with the inlet (13) of the internal channel 

(12) through an inlet channel (17) forming a sound 
labyrinth. 
8.- Air-conditioned bus according to claims 3 and 6, 
characterized in that the air channel (3) is provided with 

at least an inlet opening (10) for open air which is in 
communication with the outside of the bus, as well as with 

at least an inlet opening (11) for circulation air 
communicating with the inside of the bus. 
9.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the air inlet 

opening (10, 11) or the inlet channel (16, 17) 
communicating therewith, which connects the air inlet 

opening (10, 11) with the inlet (13) of the internal 
channel (12), is closeable by a valve (18, 19 or 20). 
10.- Air-conditioned bus according to claims 8 and 9, 
characterized in that both the air inlet opening (10) for 

 
open air and the air inlet opening (11) for circulation 

air are in communication with the inlet (13) of the 
internal channel (12) through an inlet channel (16, 17), 

and in that in each of the channels an air valve (18, 19 
respectively) is mounted. 
11.- Air-conditioned bus according to claims 8 and 9, 
characterized in that both the air inlet opening (10) for 

open air and the air inlet opening (11) for circulation 
air are in communication with the inlet (13) of the 

internal channel (12) through an inlet channel (16, 17), 
and in that a mutual alternating valve (21) can close each 

one of the inlet channels (16, 17) separately or both 
inlet channels (16, 17) partially. 
12.- Air-conditioned bus according to claims 8 and 9, 
characterized in that the air channel (3) is provided at 

two opposite sides with an inlet opening (10) for open air 
and an inlet opening (11) for circulation air. 
13.- Air-conditioned bus according to the preceding claim, 
characterized in that the air channel (3) is mounted in an 

opening (25) in the roof (1) and comprises a lower wall 
part (26) which is provided under the roof (1) at either 

side with an inlet opening (11) for circulation air and 
comprises an upper part (27) which is provided above the 

roof (1) at either side with an inlet opening (10) for 
open air. 
14.- Air-conditioned bus according to claims 11 and 12, 
characterized in that at either side of the internal 

channel (12) an alternating valve (20) is mounted for 
totally or partially closing the inlet openings (10 and 

11) at the corresponding side. 
15.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the axial 

ventilator (5) is located above the heat exchanger (7). 
16.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that each air-conditioning 

unit (4) comprises two axial ventilators (5) 
which are mounted next to each other. 
17.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that a filter (6) is 

mounted between the ventilator (5) and the heat exchanger 
(7). 
18.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the pressure 

difference over the axial ventilator (5) is between 70 and 
170 Pa and in that the air speed through the ventilator 

(5) is between 3 and 8 m/s. 
19.- Air-conditioned bus according to any one of the 
preceding claims, characterized in that the heat exchanger 

has such an air flow surface that the air speed 
therethrough is between 1 and 2,5 m/s. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
