<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612787</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Polyester-flexible polymer block copolymer coated fiber structures and utilization thereof in a polymer matrix.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29B1116	B29B1116	B29B1510	B29B1510	B29C7010	B29C7010	B29K6700	B29K10508	C08F28700	C08F28700	C08G8100	C08G8100	C08G8102	C08J504	C08J506	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29B	B29B	B29B	B29B	B29C	B29C	B29K	B29K	C08F	C08F	C08G	C08G	C08G	C08J	C08J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29B11	B29B11	B29B15	B29B15	B29C70	B29C70	B29K67	B29K105	C08F287	C08F287	C08G81	C08G81	C08G81	C08J5	C08J5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A composite material having a coated fiber 
structure dispersed in a polyester matrix. The coating 

is a block copolymer having an elastomer block bonded to 
an ester block. The coating provides a flexible barrier 

between the fiber structure and the polyester matrix 
which results in a strong fiber reinforced composite 

having better crack resistance and improved toughness. 
The composite is particularly suited for use as a 

molding compound for use in the production of automotive 
body panels and structural components, aircraft components, 

sporting goods, housings for electrical and 
various other consumer goods, etc. 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENCORP INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENCORP INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCBAIN DOUGLAS S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGARRY FREDERICK J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCBAIN, DOUGLAS S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCGARRY, FREDERICK J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a molding compound 
having a flexible polymer block copolymer coated fiber 
reinforcement to provide a toughened composite material. Fiber reinforced composite materials are now 
widely used in a variety of applications where high 
strength to weight ratios and the ability to be readily 
molded into complicated shapes are desirable. Polymer 
composites typically comprise a fibrous or particulate 
reinforcement distributed in a thermosetting or thermoplastic 
resin matrix. In such composite materials, an 
applied load is transferred from the matrix to the 
reinforcement which is typically a very stiff material. 
While the reinforcement improves the strength of the 
matrix, the toughness and crack resistance of the 
composite is generally not improved and is often less 
than that of the matrix material alone. This reduction 
in toughness and crack resistance has been attributed to 
the high stress concentrations which normally develop at 
the fiber-matrix interface during loading, and to 
internal stresses created at the fiber-matrix interface 
during the curing process because of the difference 
between the thermal expansion coefficient of the matrix 
and that of the fibers. U.S. Patent No. 4,478,963 to McGarry relates 
to a composite comprising filler particles having a thin 
film of a reactive liquid polymer embedded in a polymeric 
matrix made by mixing the reactive liquid polymer and 
the filler in order to provide a thin film of the 
reactive liquid polymer on the filler particles, mixing  
 
the coated filler particles with a polymeric matrix, and 
forming the composite. This patent generally discloses 
reactive polymer coated filler materials which are 
embedded in a polymeric matrix to improve fracture 
toughness and hence does not relate to improving the 
crack resistance and energy to failure of composites 
strengthened with fiber reinforcement. The present invention interposes a flexible 
barrier between the fiber structure and the matrix 
material of a composite to relieve internal stresses and 
high stress concentrations at the fiber-matrix interface. 
Specifically, the fiber structure is coated with 
a block copolymer, having a flexible B block and an 
unsaturated polyester A block, before the fiber structure 
is distributed in the matrix. The incorporation of 
a flexible barrier between the fiber structure and the 
matrix results in a reinforced composite having better 
crack resistance and improved toughness. Elastic 
deformation of the flexible barrier is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A composite material, comprising: 
   a fiber structure coated with a block copolymer 

of the formula AB or ABA, or mixtures thereof and 
optionally contain small amounts of A(BA)n, where A is 

an unsaturated polyester having a molecular weight of 
from about 100 to about 5000, B is a flexible polymer 

having a Tg of about 0oC or less, and n is 1 to 5, the 
coated fiber structure being dispersed in a polyester 

matrix. 
A composite material as set forth in Claim 
1, wherein the fiber structure is an individual fiber, 

a woven fabric, or a non-woven fabric. 
A composite material as set forth in Claim 
1, wherein the fibers are made of glass, aramid, nylon, 

carbon, polyester, graphite, or boron. 
A composite material as set forth in Claim 
1, wherein said B block is a nitrile containing copolymer, 

a copolymer of a vinyl substituted aromatic having 
from 8 to 12 carbon atoms and a conjugated diene having 

from 4 to 12 carbon atoms, a polymer made from one or 
more conjugated dienes having from 4 to 12 carbon atoms, 

a hydrogenated polymer made from one or more conjugated 
dienes having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms, a hydrogenated 

polymer made from one or more olefins having from 2 to 
6 carbon atoms, a polymer made from one or more cyclic 

ethers having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms, or a saturated 
polyester made from one or more dicarboxylic acids or 

anhydrides having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms and a glycol 
having from 2 to 15 carbon atoms. 
A composite material as set forth in Claim 
4, wherein said A block and said B block are connected 

 
by an ester linkage, an amide linkage, a urea linkage, 

or a urethane linkage, wherein the Tg of said B block is 
about minus 20oC or less, and wherein the molecular 

weight of said unsaturated polyester is from about 500 
to about 2000. 
A composite material as set forth in Claim 
1, wherein the strength of the bond between the coating 

and the matrix is at least equal to the shear strength 
of the coating, and wherein said fiber structure is 

chopped strands, a mat, a woven fabric, a fiber bundle, 
or a woven roving. 
A composite material as set forth in Claim 
1, wherein said A block is connected to said B block by 

a urethane linkage, wherein said B block is polybutadiene, 
poly(butadiene-co-acrylonitrile), or 

poly(tetrahydrofuran), and wherein said A block is 
polypropylene fumarate. 
A molding compound, comprising: 
   a fiber structure; 

   a block copolymer coating the fiber structure, 
   a polyester matrix into which the coated fiber 

structure is dispersed; and 
   a curing agent uniformly dispersed in the 

matrix to cause the matrix material to set when the 
molding compound is exposed to an elevated temperature. 
A molding compound as set forth in Claim 
8, wherein the fiber structure is an individual fiber, 

a woven fabric, or a non-woven fabric. 
A molding compound as set forth in Claim 
9, wherein the fibers are made of glass, aramid, nylon, 

carbon, polyester, graphite, or boron. 
A molding compound as set forth in Claim 
10, wherein the block copolymer is the reaction product 

of a mono or difunctional hydroxyl, carboxyl, amine, or 
isocyanate terminated polyester block, and a mono or 

dihydroxyl, carboxyl, amine, or isocyanate terminated 
flexible polymer block having a Tg of 0oC or less, and 

said flexible block is a nitrile containing copolymer, 
a copolymer of a vinyl substituted aromatic having from 

8 to 12 carbon atoms and a conjugated diene having from 
4 to 12 carbon atoms, a polymer made from one or more 

conjugated dienes having from 4 to 12 carbon atoms, a 
hydrogenated polymer made from one or more conjugated 

dienes having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms, a hydrogenated 
polymer made from one or more olefins having from 2 to 

6 carbon atoms, a polymer made from one or more cyclic 
ethers having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms, or a saturated 

polyester made from one or more dicarboxylic acids or 
anhydrides having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms and a glycol 

having from 2 to 15 carbon atoms. 
A molding compound as set forth in Claim 
11, wherein said flexible polymer block is polybutadiene, 

a copolymer of polybutadiene and acrylonitrile, 
or polytetrahydrofuran, and wherein said polyester block 

is polypropylene fumarate. 
A molding compound as set forth in Claim 
12, wherein the strength of the bond between the coating 

and the matrix is at least equal to the shear strength 
of the coating. 
A molding compound as set forth in Claim 
13, wherein said polyester block is unsaturated, and 

wherein said flexible polymer block is a saturated 
polyester. 
A molding compound as set forth in Claim 
13, wherein the curing agent is styrene. 
A molding compound as set forth in claim 
14, wherein said curing agent is styrene. 
An article made by molding a composite 
material, comprising: 

   a fiber structure; 
   a block copolymer coating the fiber structure, 

   a cured polyester matrix into which the coated 
fiber structure is dispersed. 
An article as set forth in Claim 17, 
wherein the article is made by compression molding. 
A process for producing a composite 
material comprising; coating a fiber structure with a 

block copolymer, said block copolymer made by reacting 
a mono or di functional hydroxyl, carboxyl, amine, or 

isocyanate terminated unsaturated polyester with a mono 
or a di hydroxy, amine, carboxyl, or isocyanate terminated 

flexible polymer block, and forming an an AB, ABA, 
or A(BA)n block copolymer, where n is 2 to 5, said 

flexible polymer block having a Tg of 0oC or less, and 
said block copolymer having at least 50 percent by 

weight of said B block therein. 
A matrix reinforcement structure, comprising: 
   a fiber structure coated with a block copolymer 

comprising a block copolymer of the formula AB or 
A(BA)n where A is an unsaturated polyester having a 

molecular weight of from 100 to 5000, B is a flexible 
polymer having a Tg of 0oC or less, and n is 1 to 5. 
A matrix reinforcement structure as set 
 

forth in Claim 21, wherein the fiber structure is an 
individual fiber, a woven fabric, or a non-woven. 
A matrix reinforcement structure as set 
forth in Claim 21, wherein the fibers are made of glass, 

aramid, nylon, carbon, polyester, graphite, or boron. 
A matrix reinforcement structure as set 
forth in Claim 22, wherein said B block is a nitrile 

containing copolymer, a copolymer of a vinyl substituted 
aromatic having from 8 to 12 carbon atoms and a conjugated 

diene having from 4 to 12 carbon atoms, a polymer 
made from one or more conjugated dienes having from 4 to 

12 carbon atoms, a hydrogenated polymer made from one or 
more conjugated dienes having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms, 

a hydrogenated polymer made from one or more olefins 
having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms, a polymer made from one 

or more cyclic ethers having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms, 
or a saturated polyester made from one or more dicarboxylic 

acids or anhydrides having from 1 to 10 carbon 
atoms and a glycol having from 2 to 15 carbon atoms. 
A matrix reinforcement structure as set 
forth in Claim 23, wherein said A block and said B block 

are connected by an ester linkage, an amide linkage, a 
urea linkage, or a urethane linkage, and wherein the Tg 

of said B block is minus 20oC or less, 
A matrix reinforcement structure as set 
forth in Claim 21, wherein the strength of the bond 

between the coating and the matrix is at least equal to 
the shear strength of the coating, and wherein said 

fiber structure is chopped strands, a mat, a woven 
fabric, a non-woven fabric, or a woven roving. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
