<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0611107</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Rotor movement sensing system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G07B1700	G01P1300	G01P1300	G07B1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G07B	G01P	G01P	G07B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G07B17	G01P13	G01P13	G07B17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A rotor movement sensing system is provided for use 
in a postage meter to permit detection of the printing of 

postage even in the event that power is lost during the 
printing cycle. A sensor (11) is provided to sense the magnet (10) 

on a disk (13) when the rotor is substantially past its home 
position. When the disk magnet (10) passes near a memory 

element (16), the memory element (16) is magnetized. A Hall-effect 
sensor is positioned at the memory element (16) so that it 

provides a signal to the processor (70) indicative of the 
magnetization of the memory element (16). A solenoidal 

winding (18) is provided around the memory element (16). The 
processor (70) has an output which causes a current to flow 

through the winding (18), whereby the memory element (16) is 
demagnetized. A flip-flop provides a bistable latch 

backed up by a lithium cell, and the output of the flip-flop 
provides a datum for the processor (70). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASCOM HASLER MAILING SYS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ASCOM HASLER MAILING SYSTEMS AG
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLUCKIGER DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FLUCKIGER, DANIEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a rotor movement
sensing system and method adapted for use in a postage meter having a rotor
for printing postage by cyclic rotation thereof.In any electronic postage meter it is important
that the electronic registers faithfully reflect the actual
mechanical printing of postage by the print rotor. In
nearly all instances of the printing of postage, electric
power is available for the entirety of the print cycle and
the processor, which controls and monitors printing of
postage, is able to decrement and increment the descending
and ascending registers accordingly.Most of the time, when the rotor is not in motion
(because it is not printing postage) the rotor is in or very
near to a "home" position. It is standard to have a sensor
that indicates to the processor that the rotor is in the
home position. A typical sensor arrangement is to place a
permanent magnet on a disk attached to the rotor shaft. A
Hall-effect sensor is positioned so that the sensor is "on"
when the rotor is in its home position. If a print cycle is
in progress, the processor can confirm the completion of the 
cycle by sensing the return of the rotor to the home
position.It is also standard to have a ratchet or other
mechanical arrangement coupled to the rotor shaft so that
the rotor cannot be moved very far backwards. However, a
number of design constraints limit how tightly the ratchet
performs its task. For example, at the end of a print
cycle, it is not uncommon that the rotor may reach the home
position (as expected) but may also go slightly past the
home position due to rotational inertia or due to drag from
a large item being franked. If the meter is to be
satisfactory to the user, the ratchet must permit the slight
reverse rotation back to the home position.The design of the meter must necessarily take into
account, however, the prospect that power may fail
unexpectedly. The processor may thus be in the situation of
not having quite enough information to distinguish whether
or not a print cycle has occurred. For example, one of the
indications to the processor that a print cycle has begun is
the home sensor turning off. This indicates that the rotor
has moved from the home position. But if power is lost
after the home sensor has turned off, then later when the
processor again has power the processor may find that the
home sensor is again on. This could have happened, however,
due to either of two mechanical sequences.On the one hand, the rotor may indeed have printed
a print cycle, finished while
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A rotor movement sensing system adapted for use in a
postage meter having a rotor (77) for printing postage by cyclic

rotation thereof, and having a register relating to postage
printed by the rotor, the rotor position between postage

printing cycles defining a home position, characterised in that

the sensing system
comprises:

bistable means (16,16') having an output (Q), a setting
input and a resetting input (R), the setting input operatively

coupled to the rotor (77) so as to set the bistable means upon
rotation of the rotor by a first predetermined angle past

the home position, and
means responsive to the output of the bistable means (16,16') for changing
the register contents and for actuating the resetting input.
The rotor movement sensing system of claim 1
wherein:


the bistable means comprise a magnetic
memory element (16), a Hall-effect sensor (17) and a solenoid (18)

adjacent the magnetic memory element,
the setting input comprises a permanent
magnet (10) operatively coupled with the rotor,
the output comprises the output of the
Hall-effect sensor (17), and
the resetting input comprises leads of the
solenoid (18).
The rotor movement sensing system of claim 1
wherein:


the bistable means comprise a flip-flop (16') with
a reliable source of power,
the setting input comprises a permanent
magnet (10') operatively coupled with the rotor,
the output comprises the output of the
flip-flop (Q), and
the resetting input comprises a signal (18') to a
reset input of the flip-flop.
The rotor movement sensing system of claim 1,

2 or 3 wherein:

   the means responsive to the output of the bistable means (16,16') comprises
a microprocessor executing a stored program.
The rotor movement sensing system of claim 1,2,3 or 4
further comprising ratchet means operatively coupled with

the rotor whereby the rotor cannot move oppositely to the
direction for printing postage by more than a second

predetermined angle, and wherein the first predetermined
angle is selected to be greater than the second

predetermined angle.
The rotor movement sensing system of claim 4 or 5
wherein the output further comprises an interrupt to the

processor, and wherein the stored program further comprises
an interrupt routine. 
A rotor movement sensing system of any of claims 1
to 6, further including means responsive to application

of power to the meter for making record of the occurrence
of the output being present upon the application of

power.
A method adapted for use in a postage meter having a
rotor (77) for printing postage by cyclic rotation thereof, and

having a register relating to postage printed by the rotor,
the rotor position between postage printing cycles defining

a home position, characterised in that

the sensing system comprises bistable
means (16,16') having an output, a setting input and a resetting

input, the setting input is operatively coupled to the rotor whereby the method
comprises the step of setting the bistable means upon rotation of the rotor by a

first predetermined angle past the home position,
and further comprises the step of changing the register contents
and actuating the resetting input in response to the output of the bistable means (16,16').
The method of claim 8 including applying power to
the meter and determining the state of the output and if

the output is present changing the register contents and
actuating the resetting input.
The method of claim 8 or 9 wherein the histahle
means comprises a magnetic memory element, and a Hall-effect

sensor and a solenoid adjacent the magnetic memory element,
the setting input comprises a permanent magnet operatively

coupled with the rotor, and the output comprises the output
of the Hall-effect sensor, the step of actuating the

resetting input further comprising the step of applying
current to the solenoid. 
The method of claim 8 or 9 wherein the bistable
means comprises a flip-flop with a reliable source of power,

the setting input comprises a permanent magnet operatively
coupled with the rotor, and the output comprises the output

of the flip-flop, the step of actuating the resetting input
further comprising the step of applying voltage to a reset

input of the flip-flop.
The method of any of claims 8 to 11 wherein the
determining step further comprises the step, if the output

is present, of making record of the occurrence of the output
being present upon the application of power.
The method of any of claims 8 to 12 wherein the meter
further comprises a processor, and the output further

comprises an interrupt to the processor, and wherein the
method further comprises responding to the interrupt.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
