<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0652686</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Adaptive microphone array
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04R300	H04R300	H04R140	H04R140	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04R	H04R	H04R	H04R	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04R3	H04R3	H04R1	H04R1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to a method of apparatus of enhancing 
the signal-to-noise ratio of a microphone array. The array includes a plurality of 

microphones and has a directivity pattern which is adjustable based on one or more 
parameters. The parameters are evaluated so as to realize an angular orientation of a 

directivity pattern null. This angular orientation of the directivity pattern null 
reduces microphone array output signal level. Parameter evaluation is performed 

under a constraint that the null be located within a predetermined region of space. 
Advantageously, the predetermined region of space is a region from which undesired 

acoustic energy is expected to impinge upon the array, and the angular orientation of 
a directivity pattern null substantially aligns with the angular orientation of 

undesired acoustic energy. Output signals of the array microphones are modified 
based on one or more evaluated parameters. An array output signal is formed based 

on modified and unmodified microphone output signals. The evaluation of 
parameters, the modification of output signals, and the formation of an array output 

signal may be performed a plurality of times to obtain an adaptive array response. 
Embodiments of the invention include those having a plurality of directivity patterns 

corresponding to a plurality of frequency subbands. Illustratively, the array may 
comprise a plurality of cardioid sensors. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CEZANNE JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELKO GARY WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CEZANNE, JUERGEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ELKO, GARY WAYNE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to microphone arrays which employ directionality
characteristics to differentiate between sources of noise and desired sound sources.Wireless communication devices, such as cellular telephones and other personal
communication devices, enjoy widespread use. Because of their portability, such devices
are finding use in very noisy environments. Users of such wireless communication
devices often find that unwanted noise seriously detracts from clear communication of
their own speech. A person with whom the wireless system user speaks often has a
difficult time hearing the user's speech over the noise.Wireless devices are not the only communication systems exposed to unwanted
noise. For example, video teleconferencing systems and multimedia computer
communication systems suffer similar problems. In the cases of these systems, noise
within the conference room or office in which such systems sit detract from the quality of
communicated speech. Such noise may be due to electric equipment noise (e.g.,
cooling fan noise), conversations of others, etc.Directional microphone arrays shave been used to combat the problems of noise
in communication systems. Such arrays exhibit varying sensitivity to sources of noise as
a function of source angle. This varying sensitivity is referred to as a directivity pattern.
Low or reduced array sensitivity at a given source angle (or range of angles) is referred
to a directivity pattern null. Directional sensitivity of an array is advantageously focused
on desired acoustic signals and ignores, in large part, undesirable noise signals.While conventional directional arrays provide a desirable level of noise rejection,
they may be of limited usefulness in situations where noise sources move in relation to
the array. The reader is referred to US-A-4802227,
which discloses the features of the preamble of claim 10.A method and apparatus in accordance with the invention are defined in claims 1
and 10 respectively.The present invention provides a technique for adaptively adjusting the directivity
of a microphone array to reduce (for example, to minimize) the sensitivity of the array to
background noise. In accordance with the present invention, the signal-to-noise ratio of a
microphone array is enhanced by orienting a null of a directivity pattern of the array
in such a way as to reduce microphone array output signal level. Null orientation is
constrained to a predetermined region of space adjacent to the array.
Advantageously, the predetermined region of space is a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of enhancing the signal-to-noise ratio of a microphone array, the array
including a plurality of microphones and having a directivity pattern, the directivity pattern

of the array being adjustable, based on one or more parameters, the method

characterised by
 the steps of:

a. evaluating (135) one or more parameters to realize an angular orientation of a directivity
pattern null, which angular orientation reduces microphone array output signal

level in accordance with a criterion, said evaluation performed under a constraint
that the null be precluded from being located within a predetermined region of

space which comprises a range of directions about the array, which range reflects
a predetermined directional variability of the desired acoustic energy with respect

to the array;
b. modifying output signals of one or more microphones of the array based on the
one or more evaluated parameters; and
c. forming (140) an array output signal based on one or more modified output signals and
zero or more unmodified microphone output signals.
The method of claim 1 wherein steps a, b, and c, are performed a plurality of
times to obtain an adaptive array response.
The method of claim 1 wherein a region of space other than the predetermined
region of space includes sources of undesired acoustic energy.
The method of claim 1 wherein the array has a plurality of directivity patterns
corresponding to a plurality of frequency subbands, one or more of the plurality of

directivity patterns including a null. 
The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of forming a plurality of
subband microphone output signals based on an output signal of a microphone of the

array, wherein the step of modifying output signals comprises modifying the subband
microphone output signals based on the one or more evaluated parameters.
The method of claim 1 wherein the array comprises a plurality of cardioid
sensors.
The method of claim 6 wherein the plurality of cardioid sensors comprises a
foreground cardioid sensor and a background cardioid sensor and wherein the step of

evaluating comprises determining a parameter reflecting a ratio of (i) a product (130) of output
signals of the foreground and background cardioid sensors to (ii) the square (125) of the

output signal of the background cardioid sensor.
The method of claim 6 wherein the plurality of cardioid sensors comprises a
foreground cardioid sensor and a background cardioid sensor and wherein the step of

evaluating comprises determining a scale factor for an output signal of the background
cardioid sensor.
The method of claim 8 wherein the scale factor is determined based on an
output signal of the background cardioid sensor and the array output signal.
An apparatus for enhancing the signal-to-noise ratio of a microphone array, the
array including a plurality of microphones (10,12) and having a directivity pattern, the directivity

pattern of the array being adjustable, based on one or more parameters (β), 
characterised
by
a. means for evaluating (50) one or more parameters (β) to realize an angular orientation of a
directivity pattern null, which angular orientation reduces microphone array output

signal level in accordance with a criterion, said evaluation performed under a
constraint that the null be precluded from being located within a predetermined

region of space which comprises a range of directions about the array, which
range reflects a predetermined directional variability of the desired acoustic energy

with respect to the array;
b. means (55) for modifying output signals of one or more microphones of the array based
on the one or more evaluated parameters; and
c. means (60,65) for forming an array output signal based on one or more modified output
signals and zero or more unmodified microphone output signals.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein a region of space other than the
predetermined region of space includes sources of undesired acoustic energy.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the array has a plurality of directivity
patterns corresponding to a plurality of frequency subbands, one or more of the plurality

of directivity patterns including a null.
The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising means (215) for forming a plurality of
subband microphone output signals based on an output signal of a microphone of the

array, wherein the means for modifying output signals comprises means (225,226,227) for modifying
the subband microphone output signals based on the one or more evaluated

parameters.
The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the means for evaluating comprises a
polyphase filterbank. 
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the means for modifying comprises a
means fo
r performing fast convolution (212).
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the array comprises a plurality of cardioid
sensors.
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the plurality of cardioid sensors comprises
a foreground cardioid sensor and a background cardioid sensor and wherein the means

for evaluating comprises means for determining a parameter reflecting a ratio of (i) a
product of output signals of the foreground and background cardioid sensors to (ii) the

square of the output signal of the background cardioid sensor.
The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the plurality of cardioid sensors comprises
a foreground cardioid sensor and a background cardioid sensor and wherein the means

for evaluating (50) comprises means for determining a scale factor (β) for an output signal of the
background cardioid sensor.
The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the scale factor (β) is determined based on an
output signal of the background cardioid sensor and the array output signal.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the array comprises a cardioid sensor and
a dipole sensor.
The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the array comprises an omnidirectional
sensor and a dipole sensor.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
