<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0613416</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AN ULTRASONICALLY WELDED PLASTIC RIBBON AND APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR FORMING SAME.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B29C6500	B29C6500	B29C6508	B29C6508	B29C6578	B29C6578	B29D2300	B29D2300	B29L3160	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29C	B29D	B29D	B29L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29C65	B29D23	B29D23	B29L31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-tubing ribbon (8) wherein the side-by-side lengths of plastic tubing (18a-18d) are ultrasonically welded together at spaced intervals (30) along the length of the ribbon (8) whereby to provide a multi-tubing ribbon (8) having non-welded sections (20, 22) spaced along its length which renders it very adaptable for use in a variety of situations and a process and apparatus for fabricating same.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LAB
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOUDHURY HRISHIKESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CHOUDHURY, HRISHIKESH
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AN ULTRASONICALLY WELDED PLASTIC RIBBON AND APPARATUS AND PROCESS FOR FORMING SAMEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONIn the field of medicament administration, the development of multi-flow infusion pumps has improved the simultaneous delivery and administration of more than one medicament. To prevent the tangle of individual plastic medical tubes that would normally result from such multi-drug/solution delivery set-ups and the problems that could result therefrom, unitary ribbons comprising two or more lengths of plastic tubing disposed sideby-side were developed for the delivery of multiple drugs and solutions simultaneously without mixing them together until just prior to infusion of same into a patient. Such tubing ribbons have been fabricated by several different methods including the extrusion of multi-tubing ribbon, chemical bonding of individual lengths of tubing to one another, adhesively securing individual lengths of tubing together, and the use of external hot air to bond side-by-side lengths of tubing to one another. The ribbon extrusion method is very costly, due to custom-designed molds and fixtures, as is the chemical-bonding and adhesive processes which are also relatively messy and require "clean-up" procedures. Bonding by means of the application of external heat is a lengthy procedure and one which can result in heat distortion of the lengths of plastic tubing.It is understood that with all of the processes described herein, the lengths of tubing are secured together throughout the entire length of the unitary multi-tubing ribbon which results in a major problem when the ends of the individual tubing lengths 

 comprising the ribbon must be separated from one another, as for example, for connection to more widely- spaced-apart inlet ports of a manifold connector to which the tubing ribbon is to be connected. In separating the bonded tubing ends, the wall portions of the ends are often damaged so that the connection thereof to such manifold inlet ports results in leaks rather than properly sealed connections. Further, it would be difficult, if not virtually impossible, to connect a connector or adapter, such as a Y-connector, into just one of the individual tubing lengths of the multi-tubing bonded ribbon.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is directed to a new and novel unitary ribbon formed of two or more lengths of plastic medical tubing secured together in side-by-side relationship and to an apparatus and process for fabricating same.This new and novel unitary ribbon is unique
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
WE CLAIM:
1. A unitary ribbon of plastic tubing formed by positioning two or more lengths of plastic tubing side- by-side in a series of elongated grooves formed in an outer face of a support member, positioning a sonic horn means in engagement with the outer surface of each two adjacent lengths of tubing, and activating said sonic horn means at an ultrasonic frequency to weld said adjacent lengths of tubing to one another.
2. The unitary ribbon of claim 1 wherein said sonic horn means engages said adjacent lengths of tubing at spaced intervals along the length thereof whereby to provide non-welded sections at spaced intervals along the length of said ribbon.
3. A unitary ribbon of plastic tubing comprising, multiple lengths of plastic tubing disposed in side-by- side relationship and ultrasonically welded to one another.
4. The unitary ribbon of claim 3 wherein said side- by-side lengths of tubing are ultrasonically welded to one another only at spaced intervals along the length thereof. 5. The unitary ribbon of claim 4 wherein a cut through a non-welded portion of said ribbon provides free tubing ends which may be sealingly connected to a multi-inlet manifold having inlet ports which are spaced further apart than the tubing ends of an ultrasonically welded portion of said ribbon.
6. The unitary ribbon of claim 4 wherein individual tubing lengths in a non-welded portion of said ribbon may be cut for connection of a Y-adapter or the like therein. 7. The unitary ribbon of claim 3 wherein said multiple lengths of plastic tubing is four in number. 


 8. A unitary ribbon of plastic tubing comprising, multiple lengths of plastic tubing disposed in side-by¬ side relationship and secured to one another at spaced intervals along the length thereof. 9. The unitary ribbon of claim 8 wherein said lengths of tubing are secured to one another at spaced intervals by an ultrasonic welding operation.
10. The unitary ribbon of claim 8 wherein said multiple lengths of plastic tubing is four in number. 11. A unitary ribbon of plastic elements comprising multiple lengths of elongated plastic elements disposed in sideby-side relationship and ultrasonically welded to one another.
12. The unitary ribbon of claim 11 wherein said side-byside lengths of elongated plastic elements are ultrasonically welded to one another only at spaced intervals along the length thereof.
13. Apparatus for forming a unitary ribbon of plastic tubing in the form of a plurality of lengths of tubing disposed in side-by-side relationship, said apparatus comprising, a base member having a plurality of side-by-side grooves formed in the top surface thereof for receiving said lengths of tubing therein, and sonic welding horn means for ultrasonically welding said side-by-side lengths of tubing to one another at spaced intervals along the length thereof to form a unitary ribbon of plastic tubing having non-welded portions spaced along the length thereof.
14. Apparatus as defined in claim 13 wherein releasable means are provided on said base member for retaining said lengths of tubing in said groves during said ultrasonic welding thereof.
15. Apparatus for forming a unitary ribbon of plastic tubing in the form of two or more lengths of tubing disposed in side-by-side relationship, said apparatus comprising, an elongated base member having two or more parallel, generally semi-cylindrical, 


 longitudinally extending and closely adjacent grooves formed in the upper surface thereof and defining a nest for two or more lengths of plastic tubing, a series of releasable clamps disposed along the length of said base member in spaced relationship for retaining said lengths of tubing in said grooves, a series of sonic welding horns disposed one between each pair of clamps and having one or more longitudinally disposed welding blades each vertically aligned with the spacing between each two side-by-side lengths of tubing, means for moving said sonic welding horns downwardly into sonic welding engagement with said side-by-side lengths of tubing, and means for activating said sonic welding horns at an ultrasonic frequency for welding said side- by-side tubing lengths together at spaced intervals along the length thereof to define a unitary ribbon of plastic tubing.
16. Apparatus as defined in claim 15 wherein four grooves are provided in said elongated base member with four lengths of plastic tubing nested therein, and wherein each sonic horn is provided with three welding blades.
17. Apparatus as defined in claim 15 wherein said clamps are hingedly mounted on said elongated base member.
18. Apparatus as defined in claim 15 wherein the lateral thickness of each sonic welding blade is slightly greater than the closest distance between its side-by-side lengths of tubing. 19. A process for forming a unitary ribbon of plastic tubing in the form of a plurality of lengths of tubing disposed in side-by-side relationship, said process comprising, positioning a plurality of lengths of tubing in side-by-side grooves formed in the top surface of a base member, and then ultrasonically welding said side-by-side lengths of tubing to one another at spaced intervals along the length thereof to 


 form a unitary ribbon of plastic tubing having non- welded portions spaced along the length thereof.
20. The process as defined in claim 19 including retaining said lengths of tubing in said grooves during said ultrasonic welding thereof.
21. A process for forming a unitary ribbon of- plastic tubing in the form of two or more lengths of tubing disposed in side-by-side relationship, said apparatus comprising, positioning two or more lengths of plastic tubing in side-by-side, generally semi- cylindrical grooves formed in the top surface of an elongated base member, clamping the lengths of tubing in said grooves at spaced intervals along the length of said grooves, positioning a series of sonic welding horns one between each pair of clamps with one or more longitudinally disposed welding blades thereon in sonic welding engagement with said side-by-side lengths of tubing, and activating said sonic welding.horns at an ultrasonic frequency for welding said side-by-side tubing lengths together at spaced intervals along the length thereof to define a unitary ribbon of plastic tubing.
22. The process as defined in claim 21 wherein four grooves are provided in said elongated base member with four lengths of plastic tubing nested therein, and wherein each sonic horn is provided with three welding blades.
23. The process as defined in claim 21 wherein the lateral thickness of each sonic welding blade is slightly greater than the closest distance between its side-by-side lengths of tubing. 24. A process for joining two lengths of plastic tubing in side-by-side contact comprising the steps of, positioning said tubes in grooves in a base fixture so that adjacent tubes are disposed in closely spaced relationship, positioning a sonic horn between said tubes so that said horn contacts 


both tubes, and activating said horn so as to ultrasonically weld said tubes together. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
