<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624106</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CLOSED LOOP DRUG DELIVERY.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M500	A61M500	A61M5168	A61M5172	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	A61M5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A closed-loop drug delivery system uses patient response and rule based decision making methods to achieve operator specified responses for diagnostic purposes. In the preferred embodiment, cardiac diagnosis is performed by pharmacologically stressing the heart by administration of an exercise simulating agent drug. In the preferred method, a protocol is defined, which preferably includes a target for a physiologic variable, such as heart rate, and a plan to achieve that target value. Preferably, the plan includes a specification of the desired rate of increase in that variable, such as the rate of increase in the heart rate per minute. The plan comprises the desired changes in the physiologic variable as a function of time. While any desired function may be used, the more common modes include RAMP, HOLD, LEVEL and TARGET mode. In one aspect of this invention, the protocol may be varied by the operator after drug administration has begun. Futher, in one embodiment, the protocol includes a definition of an acceptable zone of deviation from the plan, such that if the patient physiologic variable deviates from the permissible zone, alternate control rules are implemented. Preferably, saturation detection and avoidance is implemented.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENSIA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GENSIA INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOCHENKO WALTER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLMAN ROBERT STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALCKE CHRISTIAN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOCHENKO WALTER JOHN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HILLMAN ROBERT STEVEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VALCKE CHRISTIAN PAUL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 DESCRIPTION* Method and Apparatus for Closed Loop Drug Delivery'* Cross-Reference to Related ApplicationsThis application is related to U.S. Serial No.308,683, filed February 9, 1989, which is a continuation- in-part of U.S. Serial No. 157,875, filed February 19,5 1988, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.Field of the InventionThe invention relates generally to a closed loop drug delivery system using a rule based administration method.10 More particularly, the invention relates to methods and apparatus for use in the administration of an exercise simulating agent ("ESA") which elicits a cardiovascular response similar to that resulting from aerobic activity. This apparatus and method is used advantageously in the15 diagnosis, evaluation and treatment of coronary artery disease, by providing for closed loop drug delivery to generate a cardiac stress related response.Background and Introduction to the InventionHeart disease is the number one killer in the United20 States and a leading cause of death worldwide. Currently, heart disease, stroke and related disorders account for nearly one million deaths per year in the United States, almost as many deaths as from all other causes combined.Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases affects ■ '» 25 approximately 65 million people in the United States, roughly one out of every four. Approximately 5 million people in the United States suffer from coronary artery disease ("CAD"), resulting in over 1.5 million heart attacks yearly, of which over 500,000 are fatal. The30 annual economic cost of cardiovascular disease alone is estimated to be 85 billion dollars. 

 Atherosclerosis is the most common form of arteriosclerosis, commonly referred to as 'hardening of the arteries' . Atherosclerosis is a degenerative process that narrows or blocks arteries in the heart, brain and other parts of the body. The interior walls become lined with deposits of fat, cholesterol, fibrin, cellular waste products and calcium. These deposits form a rough, thick surface inside the blood vessels and interfere with both the smooth flow of blood and the amount of blood carried through the arteries. This narrowing of the blood vessels restricts blood flow, causing ischemia (deficiency of blood at the heart tissue due to either functional con¬ strictions or obstructions of a blood vessel) , and is the underlying pathologic condition in many forms of cardio- vascular disease including CAD, aortic aneurysm, peripheral vascular disease and stroke.In the majority
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A method for cardiac diagnosis using an exercise simulating agent in a closed-loop drug delivery system which controls the patient heart rate comprising the steps of: a) defining a protocol, the protocol including at least a target heart rate and a plan to achieve the target heart rate, b) begin drug delivery to execute the protocol, and c) modifying the protocol after drug delivery begins.
2. The method for cardiac diagnosis of claim 1 where in step c the protocol is modified by varying the target heart rate.
3. The method for cardiac diagnosis of claim 2 where in step c the protocol is modified by varying the plan.
4. The method for cardiac diagnosis of claim 1 where in step a the protocol further includes defining the desired rate of increase in patient heart rate during closed-loop delivery.
5. The method of claim 4 where in step c the proto¬ col is modified by varying the desired rate of increase in the patient's heart rate.
6. A method for control of a patient physiological variable in a closed-loop drug delivery system comprising the steps of: a) defining a protocol including a target value of the patient physiological variable and a plan to achieve the target value of the patient physiological variable, and an acceptable zone of deviation from the plan, 



 b) initiate drug delivery under a control system defined by a first set of rules, c) monitor the patient physiological variable, and d) change from the first set of rules to alternate rules if the patient physiological variable is outside the acceptable zone of deviation from the plan.
7. The method of claim 6 where in the patient physiological variable is the heart rate.
8. The method of claim 6 or 7 where in step d the alternate rules include an alert or alarm condition.
9. The method of claim 6 or 7 where in step d the alternate rule includes open-loop administration of the drug.
10. The method of claim 6 or 7 where the alternate rule includes a proportional-integral control.
11. The method of claim 6 or 7 where in step d the alternate rule includes a proportional-integral-derivative control.
12. The method of claim 6 or 7 where in step a the acceptable zone of deviation from plan includes definition of a maximum acceptable value for the patient physiologi¬ cal variable.
13. The method of claim 6 or 7 where in step a the acceptable zone of deviation from plan includes a maximum acceptable rate of increase in the patient physiological variable.
14. The method of claim 6 or 7 where in step b the control system is a proportional-integral control system. 


 15. The method of claim 6 or 7 where in step b the control system is a proportional-integral-derivative control system.
16. A control system for closed-loop drug delivery for diagnostic purposes comprising the steps of: a) administering the drug, b) monitoring the patient response to the adminis¬ tered drug, c) determining the individual patient response to the administered drug, and d) conduct diagnostic procedure with the closed- loop controller utilizing the individual patient response information.
17. The method of claim 16 where the individual patient response information includes patient gain.
18. The method of claim 16 where in the individual patient response includes an estimation of the time constant for drug response for the patient.
19. The control system of claim 16 where the indi- vidual patient response information includes the onset delay for the drug.
20. The method of claim 16 where in the drug is an exercise simulation agent used for cardiac diagnosis.
21. A method for medical diagnosis using closed-loop drug delivery and a variation of a patient physiological variable comprising the steps of: a) specifying a desired rate of increase in the patient physiological variable, b) administering a drug which causes variation in the patient's physiological variable, c) monitoring the patient physiological variable, 


 d) determining the rate of change in the patient physiological variable, and e) controlling the drug delivery in the closed-loop system to achieve the determined rate of change of the patient physiological variable equal to the desired rate of change in the patient physiological variable.
22. The method of claim 21 where in the patient physiological variable is heart rate.
23. The method of claim 21 where in the desired rate of change in the patient physiological variable is a positive number.
24. A method for closed-loop drug delivery for cardiac diagnosis using an exercising simulating agent drug comprising the steps of: a) specifying a protocol, the protocol including a target heart rate, b) establishing a baseline heart rate, c) determining the individual patient response to the drug, d) monitoring the heart rate, e) administering the drug based upon predefined rules, the monitored heart rate and the individual patient response, and f) output the results to the operator.
25. The method of claim 24 where in the protocol specifies the desired rate of increase in the heart rate.
26. The method of claim 24 where in the protocol specifies the time of hold at the target heart rate.
27. The method of claim 24 where in the protocol specifies patient specific information. 


 28. The method of claim 24 further including the step of establishing a baseline for the blood pressure.
29. The method of claim 24 where in step c where in the individual patient response is determined in response to an open loop administration of the drug.
30. The method of claim 24 where in the step c the determination of individual patient response includes the patient gain.
31. The method of claim 24 where in step c the determination of individual patient response includes determination of the time constants for the patient to the drug.
32. The method of claim 24 where in the monitored heart rate is average prior to use in step e.
33. The method of claim 24 further including the step of monitoring the patient blood pressure.
34. The method of claim 24 further including the step of monitoring for saturation.
35. The method of claim 24 where in step e the rules include control for a ramp mode.
36. The method of claim 24 where in step e the rules include an initialization mode.
37. The method of claim 24 where in step e the rules include a level mode.
38. The method of claim 24 where in step e the rules include a proportional-integral control method. 


 39. The method of claim 24 where in step f the output includes a trend plot.
40. The method of claim 24 where in step f the output includes real time data provided to the operator.
41. The method of claim 24 further including the step of issuing alerts or alarms.
42. The method of claim 24 further including the step of filtering the monitored heart rate.
43. The method of claim 24 where in step e the rules respond to receipt of a hold command.
44. A method for a achieving a RAMP mode in a closed-loop drug delivery system where the rate of drug delivery affects a physiological parameter, comprising the steps of defining a desired rate of increase in the physiologic parameter, and administering the drug at a rate so as to achieve a rate of increase in the physiolog¬ ic parameter equal to the desired rate.
45. A method of claim 44 where in the physiologic parameter is the heart rate.
46. A method for achieving a HOLD mode in a closed- loop drug delivery system where the rate of drug delivery affects a physiologic parameter, comprising the steps of: receipt of the HOLD condition, initial reduction in the rate of drug delivery, subsequent increase in the rate of drug delivery, such that at the end of the increase, the rate of drug delivery results in maintenance of the physiologic parameter at the desired value. 


 47. The method of claim 46 where in the initial reduction in the rate of drug delivery is to a zero rate of infusion.
48. The method of claim 46 in which the increase in the rate of drug is done exponentially from the rate after reduction to the rate which results in maintenance of the physiologic parameter at the desired value.
49. A filtering method for use in a closed-loop drug delivery system, where drug is administered and the physiologic parameter of the patient is monitored and used as the input to a closed-loop control system, the method comprising the steps of: clipping outliers based upon preset limits, and low pass filtering the physiologic parameter.
50. The filtering method of claim 50 where the patient's heart rate is the monitored physiologic parameter.
51. The filtering method of claim 50 where in outliers in the range outside of +6 and -8 beats per minute are clipped.
52. The filtering method of claim 50 where in a first fraction of the current measured value is combined with a second fraction of a value based upon previously measured values.
53. A method for detecting saturation in cardiac response to an ESA drug comprising the steps of: sampling a signal indicative of heart rate, monitoring for peak heart rate, determining the length of time since the last heart rate peak was detected, 


 generating a signal indicative of saturation when the length of time since the last heart rate peak was detected exceeds a pre-set time limit.
54. The method of claim 28 where in the preset time limit is 30 seconds.
55. A filtering method for use in a closed-loop drug delivery system, where drug is administered and a physio¬ logical parameter of the patient is monitored and used as the input to a closed-loop control system, when in a RAMP mode, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the physiologic parameter of the patient, determining the slope of the physiologic parameter as a function of time, comparing the computed slope with a threshold value, and generating a signal indicative of saturation condi¬ tion if the measured slope is less than the threshold slope.
56. A method for determining an excessive rate of increase in a cardiac diagnostic procedure comprising the steps of: calculating a value indicative of the heart rate at a first time, calculating a value indicative of the heart rate at a second time, generating the difference between the two calculated values, comparing the difference with a preset value, and generating a signal indicative of an excessive rate of increase if the difference meets or exceeds the preset value.
57. In a closed-loop drug delivery method, where a physiologic parameter is controlled for diagnostic 


purposes based upon drug administration, the improvement comprising the addition of a hold mode which permits the an operator to specify a hold mode to maintain the value of the physiologic parameter.
58. The method of claim 32 where in the physiologic parameter is the heart rate.
59. In a closed-loop drug delivery system adminis¬ tering an exercising simulating agent to elicit stress, where the patient heart rate is monitored in response to the administration of the drug, the improvement comprising monitoring the patient for a saturation level of the drug.
60. A method for determining when a target heart rate has been achieved in a closed-loop drug delivery system using an excessive simulating agent, comprising the steps of: monitor the patient heart rate, determine the patient heart rate slope, generate a threshold to target valve based in part on the heart rate slope, and terminate drug delivery when the patient heart rate exceeds the target heart rate minus the threshold to target value.
61. The method for determining when a target heart rate has been achieved in claim 60 where the threshold to target value is generated based upon the heart rate slope and the desired slope.
62. The method for determining when a target heart rate has been achieved of claim 61 where the threshold to target value is generated based upon the average of the heart rate slope and the desired slope. 


 63. A method for determining an alarm condition during a cardiac diagnostic procedure utilizing more than one alert condition, comprising the steps of: monitoring for a first alert condition, monitoring for a second alert condition, and generating an alarm condition if the two alert conditions are coincident.
64. The method of claim 63 where the first alert condition is falling systolic blood pressure alert and the second alert condition is a heart rate saturation alert.
65. A drug delivery system for closed-loop adminis¬ tration of an exercise simulation agent for purposes of inducing cardiac stress in a patient comprising: means for acquiring data from the patient, including the patient heart rate, means for controlling the drug delivery based upon the data from the patient and predefined rules, a memory for storing the predefined rules, a drug delivery system, and means for interfacing with an operator of the system.
66. The drug delivery system of claim 65 where the drug delivery system includes a transdermal drug delivery electrode.
67. The drug delivery system of claim 65 where the drug delivery system includes an intravenous delivery system.
68. The drug delivery system of claim 65 where the means for acquiring data from the patient further acquires blood pressure data. 


 69. The drug delivery system of claim 65 where the means for interfacing with an operator of the system includes a graphic display.
70. The drug delivery system of claim 65 where the means for interfacing with an operator of the system includes a audio generator. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
