<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0656697</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for creating fast fading at a receiver using orthogonally polarized antennas and transmitter time diversity.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B702	H04B704	H04B706	H04B710	H04B1404	H04B1404	H04L102	H04L106	H04L2700	H04L2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B7	H04B14	H04B14	H04L1	H04L1	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A system for inducing rapid fading in wireless communication systems
(10), such as digital radio and television transmission is described. Orthogonal

polarization from antennas (30,32) combined with time varying offsets introduced by
mixer (24) and oscillator (26) are combined to ensure rapid fading and result in

improved signal reception at receiver antenna (35).

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANS MICHAEL JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEERACKODY VIJITHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINTERS JACK HARRIMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GANS, MICHAEL JAMES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WEERACKODY, VIJITHA
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WINTERS, JACK HARRIMAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to the field of wireless 
data transmission and reception. More particularly it 
relates to inducing rapid fading characteristics and 
improving reception. In wireless communication systems, such as digital 
radio or television transmission, an information signal is 
communicated from a transmitter to a receiver as multiple 
signals via a channel comprising several independent paths. 
These multiple signals are called multipath signals and the 
channel is called a multipath channel. Because of the 
complex addition of multipath signals, the overall signal 
strength at a receiver will vary. The phenomenon of 
received signal strength variation due to complex addition 
of multipath signals is known as "fading". A channel encoder (also known as a "channel coder") or 
similar device can be employed to compensate for fast 
fading. If the signal strength at a receiver "fades" 
slowly, however, a receiver experiencing a low signal 
strength, called a "deep fade", will observe a weak signal 
strength for a longer period of time than can be readily 
compensated for using a channel coder. Slow fading is a 
particular problem in car radio receivers. Two types of channel coding systems are block coding 
and convolutional coding. Slow fading may cause a burst of 
incorrect data symbols at a data receiver. If the burst of 
incorrect data symbols is short enough the channel coder can 
detect or correct it. However, when fading is too slow, 
long bursts of errors can occur which cannot be adequately 
corrected and unacceptable performance results.  Interleaving/deinterleaving with a channel coder can be 
used to further combat slow fading. An interleaver at the 
transmitter rearranges a set of data symbols in a 
pseudorandom fashion and a deinterleaver at the receiver 
rearranges the symbols in the original order. However, 
interleaving/deinterleaving with a channel coder is not 
sufficient to combat fading if the deep fades last for long 
enough periods of time. Spatial diversity can also be used to combat slow 
fading. Spatial diversity involves the use of a plurality 
of receiving and/or transmitting antennas. If two receiving 
antennas, for example, are spatially diverse from one 
another, the two signals received at the individual antennas 
will have independent fading characteristics and can be 
combined to reduce the probability of deep fades, 
independent of the fading rate. Unfortunately, spatial diversity may require wide 
spacing of receiver antennas, typically at least a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus for transmitting data comprising: 
   a carrier signal source, 

   a data signal source, 
   a modulator having a first input, a second input, and an 

output, the first input connected to the carrier signal source 
and the second input connected to the data signal source, said 

modulator having an output, 
   a first channel having an input and an output, said input 

connected to the modulator output, 
   a second channel having an input and an output, said input 

connected to the modulator output, the second channel further 
comprising an offset device for applying a time varying offset to 

the data signal, 
   a first transmitting antenna coupled to the output of the 

first channel; and 
   a second transmitting antenna coupled to the output of the 

second channel, said first and second transmitting antennas being 
arranged to transmit signals which are substantially orthogonally 

polarized with respect to one another. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the modulator uses 
differentially encoded modulation. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the modulator uses coherent 
modulation. 
The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the time varying offset is 
a time varying phase offset and the time varying phase offset 

induces a fixed frequency offset which is between 1 to 2% of the 
data rate. 
An apparatus for transmitting data comprising: 
   a first channel having an input and an output; 

   a second channel having an input and an output, the second 
channel further comprising an offset device for applying a time 

varying offset to the data signal; 
   a first transmitting antenna coupled to the output of the 

first channel; and 
   a second transmitting antenna coupled to the output of the 

second channel, said first and second transmitting antennas being 
arranged to transmit signals which are substantially orthogonally 

polarized with respect to one another. 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first transmitting 
antenna is a linear antenna which is arranged to transmit a 

signal with vertical polarization and the second transmitting 
antenna is a linear antenna which is arranged to transmit a 

signal with horizontal polarization. 
The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first transmitting 
antenna is a circularly polarized antenna which is arranged to 

transmit a signal left hand circularly polarized and the second 
 

transmitting antenna is a circularly polarized antenna which is 
arranged to transmit a signal right hand circularly polarized, 
The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the first transmitting 
antenna and the second transmitting antenna are helical antennas. 
The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a data signal 

source for producing a data signal wherein the inputs of the 
first and second channels are connected to the signal source. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 9 wherein the data signal source 
comprises: 

   a digital message source for producing message data symbols, 
and a channel encoder. 
The apparatus of claim 10 and further comprising an 
interleaver for rearranging data symbols. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 5 wherein the offset device 
applies a time varying phase offset. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 5 wherein the offset device 
applies a time varying amplitude offset. 
The apparatus of claim 1 or 5 wherein the frequency of the 
carrier signal is about 100HHz. 
A method for transmitting data comprising the steps of: 
   generating a carrier signal, 

   generating a data signal, 
   modulating the carrier signal based upon the data signal to 

form a modulated carrier signal, 
   applying the modulated carrier signal to the input of a 

first channel and to the input of a second channel, 
   applying a time varying offset to the modulated carrier 

signal in the first channel, 
   applying the output of the first channel to the input of a 

first transmitting antenna and the output of the second channel 
to the input of a second transmitting antenna, 

   wherein the first and second transmitting antennas produce 
output signals which are substantially orthogonally polarized 

with respect to each other. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the step of generating the 
data signal comprises the steps of generating a digital message 

comprising message data symbols and encoding the digital message. 
The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of 
interleaving data symbols. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the step or modulating 
comprises the step of differentially encoding the digital data. 
The method of claim 15 wherein the time varying offset 
applied is varied at a rate between 1 to 2% of the data rate. 
An apparatus for receiving data comprising 
   a first receiving antenna having an input and an output, 

   a second receiving antenna having an input and an output, 
   said first and second receiving antennas arranged to receive 

signals at their inputs which are substantially orthogonally 
polarized with respect to one another, 

   a first channel having an input and an output, said input 
connected to the output of the first receiving antenna, 

   a second channel having an input and an output, said input 
connected to the output of the second receiving antenna, said 

second channel comprising an offset device for applying a time 
varying offset to a signal at the second channel's input to 

create a signal with a time varying offset at the second 
channel's output, said time varying offset being substantially 

independent of the signal at the second channel's input, 
   a signal combiner having an output, and first and second 

inputs connected to the outputs of the first and second channels 
respectively, 

   and signal processing means having an input connected to the 
output of the signal combiner. 
The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the first receiving 
antenna is configured to receive a linearly polarized signal in 

the vertical direction and the second receiving antenna is 
 

configured to receive a linearly polarized signal in the 
horizontal direction. 
The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the first receiving 
antenna is configured to receive a left hand circularly polarized 

signal and the second receiving antenna is configured to receive 
a right hand circularly polarized signal. 
The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the signal processing 
means further comprises a decoder and a deinterleaver. 
An apparatus for receiving data comprising 
   a first receiving antenna having an input and an output, 

   a second receiving antenna having an input and an output, 
   said first and second receiving antennas arranged to receive 

signals at their inputs which are substantially orthogonally 
polarized with respect to one another, 

   a first channel having an input and an output, said input 
connected to the output of the first receiving antenna, 

   a second channel having an input and an output, said input 
connected to the output of the second receiving antenna, said 

second channel comprising an offset device for applying a 
periodic time varying offset to a signal at the second channel's 

input to create a signal with a periodic time varying offset at 
the second channel's output,

 
   a signal combiner having an output, and first and second 

inputs connected to the outputs of the first and second channels 
respectively, 

   and signal processing means having an input connected to the 
output of the signal combiner. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
