<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622627</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for detecting particles on a substrate.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N1506	G01N1506	G01N1514	G01N1514	G01N2188	G01N2188	G01N2194	G01N2195	G01N21956	H01L2166	H01L2166	H01S300	H01S300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	H01L	H01L	H01S	H01S	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	G01N15	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	G01N21	H01L21	H01L21	H01S3	H01S3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The apparent size of sub-micron contaminant particles 
(11a,11b) on a wafer surface (12) is enlarged by selective 

condensation of a vapor on the particles. The substrate (12) 
is located proximate to and spaced apart from a liquid vapor 

source which is heated. The vaporized liquid (47a,47b) 
adheres to the particles (11a,11b), and after a predetermined 

period of time, condensation of vapor on the substrate is 
stopped, and the substrate (12) is scanned for detecting the 

particles (11a,11b). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUPTA ANAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YE YAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GUPTA, ANAND
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
YE, YAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention is directed to a method 
and apparatus useful for detecting particles on a substrate, 
which particles can be sub-micron particles. Particulate contamination of semiconductor 
wafers during processing of the wafer is a serious 
problem. Semiconductor devices, such as integrated 
circuit chips, have micron and sub-micron sized features. 
Deposition of sub-micron sized contaminant particles, 
such as dust, on these features during processing of the 
wafer can render the integrated circuits on the wafer 
nonfunctional. Consequential, semiconducting wafers are 
processed in clean rooms to minimize deposition of 
contaminant particles on the substrate surfaces. Even with processing in ultra clean 
environments, sub-micron sized contaminant particles can 
-still deposit on the substrates during-processing. Thus, 
it is important to nondestructively detect these 
contaminant particles during the initial stages of 
fabricating the integrated circuit chip. Failure to 
detect the contaminant particles until the final stages 
of the manufacturing process, results in the loss of a 
wafer, which at this stage may be worth as much as 
$50,000 to $100,000. Scrapping wafers due to particle 
contamination is very costly.  Conventional techniques, such as laser 
scanning, allow detection of particles sized larger than 
about 0.1 µm. Laser scanning techniques detect and 
measure the scattering of a laser beam which is scanned 
over the surface of the substrate. The laser beam is 
scattered by the contaminant particles on the substrate 
surface. However, such techniques are of limited value 
for detecting particles which are sized smaller than 0.1 
µm . Accordingly, there is a need for methods and 
apparatus for nondestructively detecting sub-micron sized 
contaminant particles on the surfaces of semiconductor 
substrates. This object is solved by the method of any one of independent 
claim 1 and the apparatuses of independent claims 21 and 31. 
Further advantageous features, aspects and details of the 
invention are evident from the dependent claims, the 
description and the drawings. The claims are intended to be 
understood as a first non-limiting approach of defining the 
invention in general terms. The present invention allows non-destructively detecting sub-micron sized 
contaminant particles on the surface of semiconductor substrates and 
therefor satisfies the above need. The apparatus of the invention enlarges 
the apparent size of sub-micron sized 
particles on the substrate surface so that
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for detecting particles on the surface of a 
substrate comprising the steps of: 


a) contacting the surface of the substrate with a vapor; 
b) selectively condensing the vapor to form condensate 
on particles on the substrate surface ; and 
c) detecting the particles with condensate thereon on 
the substrate surface. 
The method of claim 1 wherein condensation of vapor on 
the substrate surface is stopped before the surface of 

the substrate between the particles has condensate 
thereon. 
The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the condensation of 
vapor on the substrate surface is stopped before the 

entire surface of the substrate has condensate thereon. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein 
selectively condensing the vapor is effected by 

maintaining the surface of the substrate at a temperature 
up to the dew point of the vapor. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
step of contacting the surface of the substrate with a 

vapor comprises heating a vapor forming substance to a 
first temperature to form the vapor and the step of 

selectively condensing vapor comprises cooling the 
substrate surface to or maintaining the substrate surface 

at a second temperature which second temperature is below 
said first temperature. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
step of contacting the surface of the substrate with a 

vapor comprises heating a liquid to above room 
temperature to form the vapor. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
step of selectively condensing vapor comprises 

maintaining the substrate surface at or cooling the 
substrate surface to a temperature of about room 

temperature. 
The method of any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the step 
of maintaining the substrate at or cooling the substrate 

to a second temperature preferably about room temperature 
comprises contacting the substrate with a heat sink. 
The method of claim 8 wherein said heat sink is exposed 
to room temperature. 
The method of claim 8 or 9 wherein the step of contacting 
the substrate with a heat sink comprises holding the 

substrate to the heat sink with a vacuum. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
step of stopping condensation of the vapor on the 

substrate surface comprises removing the substrate from 
contact with the vapor. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
step of stopping condensation of vapor comprises stopping 

condensation after condensate forms on at least some of 
the particles which are less than 0.1 µm in diameter, and 

before condensate forms in the interstices between the 
particles. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims where the 
step of detecting comprises detecting particles less than 

0.1 µm in diameter. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims where the 
step of detecting comprises detecting by laser scanning. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the 
substrate comprises a silicon wafer. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the 

substrate has at least one deposited film thereon. 
The method of any one of the preceding claims for 
detecting sub-micron size particles on the surface of a 

substrate comprising the steps of: 

a) placing the substrate in a condensation zone; and 
b) introducing vapor into the condensation zone. 
The method of claim 17 wherein the condensation zone is 
in a condensation chamber into which the substrate is 

placed, the chamber containing a liquid to be evaporated 
The method of claim 18 wherein the step of placing the 
substrate in the condensation chamber comprises securing 

the substrate in a substantially horizontal position 
above and spaced apart from the liquid. 
The method of claim 18 or 19 wherein the step of 
detecting comprises detecting particles less than 0.1 µm 

in diameter by laser scanning. 
Apparatus for at least temporarily enlarging the apparent 
size of particles (11) on the surface (12) of a substrate 

 
(14) to facilitate detection of the particles (11), the 

apparatus comprising: 

a) a condensation chamber (16); 
b) a holder (18) for holding the substrate (12) in the 
chamber (16); 
c) a vapor source (20) for providing vapor in the 
condensation chamber (16) for contacting the surface 

(12) of the substrate having particles (11) thereon; 
and 
d) means (34) for adjusting the temperature of the 
substrate surface so that condensate is selectively 

formed on particles (11) on the substrate (14) 
surface without condensate forming on the surface of 

the substrate per se and preferably without 
condensate forming on the entire surface (12) of the 

substrate (14). 
The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the means for 
adjusting the temperature of the substrate surface 

maintain the temperature of the substrate surface at a 
predetermined value. 
The apparatus of claim 21 or 22, wherein the temperature 
is adjusted or maintained up to the dew point of the 

vapor. 
The apparatus of claims 21 to 23 in which the holder (18) 
holds the substrate (12) spaced apart from and 

substantially parallel to the vapor source (20). 
The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims in which 
the vapor source (20) comprises a liquid, and a heater 

(24) for heating the liquid. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 21 to 25 in which the 
means for adjusting the temperature of the substrate 

surface comprises a heat sink (34) for contacting the 
substrate (12) to maintain the substrate (12) at about 

room temperature. 
The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the heat sink (34) 
comprises a vacuum port (40) for holding the substrate 

(12) to the heat sink (34) with a vacuum. 
The apparatus of any one of the claims 21 to 27 
comprising a metallic lid (34) for the chamber (16), 

wherein the lid (34) contacts the substrate (12) and 
thereby serves as the means for adjusting the temperature 

of the substrate surface by serving as a heat sink. 
The apparatus of any one of claims 21 to 28 further 
comprising means (48) for detecting the particles with 

condensate thereon on the substrate surface. 
The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the detecting means 
(48) comprises a laser scanning device. 
In apparatus for detecting particles on the surface of a 
substrate comprising detecting means (48) for particles 

and an apparatus for enlarging at least temporarily the 
apparent size of particles on the surface of the 

substrate according to any one of claims 21 to 30. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
