<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648437</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Wrist restrainer and wrist restraining glove.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A41D1305	A41D1308	A41D19015	A41D19015	A63B7108	A63B7114	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A41D	A41D	A41D	A41D	A63B	A63B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A41D13	A41D13	A41D19	A41D19	A63B71	A63B71	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A wrist restrainer comprises a band member being wrapped 
around a wrist and a restraining plate made of resilient 

material. One end of the restraining plate being tightly 
connected to the band member. The other end thereof extends 

along a back surface of a hand when the band member is 
wrapped around the wrist. 
A wrist restraining glove (20) comprises a hand 
receiving portion (21) for wearing on a hand, a band member 

(23) being connected to the hand receiving portion integrally 
and being wrapped around a wrist, and a restraining plate 

(25) made of resilient material. The restraining plate is 
joined on the back surface of the hand receiving portion and 

the band member integrally. A bending rigidity of the 
restraining plate against an outward bending pivotal movement 

is greater than that against a lateral bending pivotal 
movement. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
HISATOMI KK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KABUSHIKI-KAISHA HISATOMI
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAKAMI HISATOMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAWAKAMI, HISATOMI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a wrist restrainer and 
a wrist restraining glove which are suitable for golfing and 
by which an unnecessary pivotal movement of the wrist can be 
suppressed to enable an accurate and powerful swing of a golf 
club. The present invention also relates to a wrist restrainer 
and a wrist restraining glove which are also suitable for 
sports such as baseball, tennis and by which an unnecessary 
pivotal movement of the wrist can be suppressed to reduce arm 
fatigue. The present invention further relates to a wrist restrainer 
and a wrist restraining glove which are suitable for 
driving and physical working to reduce fatigue in the arm. It is well-known that pivotal movement of the hand about 
the wrist during a swing of a golf club greatly influences a 
direction and speed of a ball hit by the club. For example as 
shown in Figs.19A-19B, during a swing of a golf club 1, the 
pivotal movement of a hand 50 about a wrist 53 within a plane 
parallel to a back 51 of the hand 50 ( the pivotal movement  
 
as shown by an arrow "X" in Fig.19A, which is called as "a 
cocking movement" in a golf swing) is effective for making a 
powerful swing to increase a speed of a ball hit by a club 
without varying a direction of flight of the ball. However, the pivotal movement of the hand 50 about the 
wrist 53 to the direction perpendicular to the back 51 of the 
hand 50 (the pivotal movement shown by a arrow "Y" in 
Fig.19B) is undesirable because it results in a decreased 
speed of the ball and incorrect direction of flight. In particular, it is desirable during a swing of a golf 
club to permit or induce the pivotal movement of the hand 51 
about the wrist within the plane parallel to the back 51 of 
the hand 50 (in the swing direction), but it is desirable to 
suppress the pivotal movement of the hand 50 about the wrist 
53 in a direction perpendicular to the back 51 of the hand 50 
(movement in an outer direction perpendicular to the back 
51). However, it is quite natural for a human hand to be 
moved in an outer direction perpendicular to the back of the 
hand about the wrist (i.e. to move toward the direction "Y" 
as shown in Fig.19B). It is rather unnatural to move the hand 
within the plane parallel to the back of the hand (i.e. to 
move toward the direction "X" as shown in Fig.19A). Accordingly, 
for an amateur or untrained golf player, the hand 
tends to be moved outward during a swing of a golf club 
resulting in a decreased speed and in a wrong direction of  
 
flight of the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A wrist restrainer for restraining pivotal movement 
of the hand about the wrist including a wrist band and characterised 

by a resilient restraining member having one end 
portion anchored to said wrist band and an opposite and portion 

for extending along the back of the hand when said wrist 
band is secured on the wrist so as to restrain pivotal movement 

of the hand about the wrist in an outward direction 
while permitting pivotal movement of the hand about the wrist 

in a lateral direction, perpendicular to the outward direction. 
A wrist restrainer according to claim 1, wherein 
the restraining member comprises a resilient plate. 
A wrist restrainer according to claim 1 or claim 2, 
wherein said restraining member comprises a plurality of ribs 

which extend transversely of said band member. 
A wrist restrainer according to claim 3, wherein at 
least some of said ribs are sinuous. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 1 
to 4 including a hand engaging portion locating said opposite 

end portion of the restraining member on the back of the 
 

hand. 
A wrist restrainer according to claim 5, wherein the 
hand engaging portion provides a pocket on the back of the 

hand in which the said opposite end of the restraining member 
is trapped by receipt therein as a free fit in the lateral 

direction. 
A wrist restrainer according to claim 5 or claim 6 
wherein the hand engaging portion is connected to the wrist 

band. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 4 
to 6 wherein the hand engaging portion engages at least one 

finger. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 1 
to 8, wherein the restraining member has a greater resistance 

to bending in an outward direction than to bending in the 
lateral direction. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 5 
to 9, wherein said hand engaging portion includes a part for 

extending along the back of the hand and the restraining 
member is joined integrally with a back of said part. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 2 
to 10, wherein said restraining plate has a gourd-shape configuration 

comprising a narrow medial portion interconnecting 
respective wide portions thereof adjacent the wrist and 

fingers. 
A wrist restrainer according to claim 11, wherein 
said medial narrow portion is thicker than said portions 

adjacent the wrist and fingers, respectively. 
A wrist restrainer according to claim 5 or any one 
of claims 6 to 12 when dependent on claim 5 wherein the hand 

receiving portion is fingerless and includes an annular, palm 
receiving portion from which a wearer's fingers extend in 

exposed condition. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 1 
to 13 wherein at least a part of said wrist band is extensible 

around the wrist. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 1 
to 13 wherein the wrist band has free opposite ends provided 

with interengageable male and female fastening means for 
keeping said wrist band wrapped firmly around the wrist. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 1 
 

to 15, wherein said restraining member comprises a wrist-end 
portion connected tightly to the wrist band and a knuckle-end 

portion for extending along the outer back surface of the 
hand, and the knuckle-end portion is bent inward with respect 

to the wrist-end portion in a free condition. 
A wrist restrainer according to any one of claims 1 
to 16, wherein said restraining member is in flexed condition 

to exert an inward biassing force against the back of the 
hand in the normal club holding position. 
A golf swing training device comprising a wrist 
restrainer according to any one of claims 1 to 17 wherein the 

lateral direction corresponds to the direction of swing. 
A golf swing training glove comprising a golf swing 
training device according to claim 16 when dependent on claim 

7 wherein the hand engaging portion provides a flap in which 

the pocket is formed, the flap being pivotable away from and 
toward the back of the hand to open and fasten the wrist 

band, respectively. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
