<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612467</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Leash-controllable dog harness.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A01K2700	A01K2700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A01K	A01K	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A01K27	A01K27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A leash-controllable harness for a dog having a shoulder, a 
chest, left and right forelegs, a left foreleg crotch and a 

right foreleg crotch, each crotch leading to a sensitive 
foreleg pit, said harness comprising: 


(a) a junction (J) to which a leash (21) is attachable, said 
junction when the harness is installed on the dog 

lying over its shoulder; and 
(b) a pair of flexible loops (10,11) depending from the junction (J) 
and joined thereto at an angle to each other, the 

loops when the harness is installed crossing over at 
a crossover site (15) against the chest of the dog at a 

position well above the forelegs, one loop (10) running at 
angle from the crossover site through the left crotch 

and back to the junction, the other loop (11) running at 
an opposing angle from the crossover site through the 

right crotch back to the junction (J), whereby should the 
leash (21) be pulled by a leash holder or strained against 

by the dog, the loops (10,11) then ride up the left and right 
crotches to engage and apply pressure to the foreleg 

pits, thereby inducing the dog to take an action 
relaxing the pressure. 
 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPORN JOSEPH S
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SPORN, JOSEPH S.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPORN JOSEPH S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SPORN, JOSEPH S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates generally to a dog harness 
which is connected to a leash held by an individual walking 
the dog, and more particularly to a leash-controllable dog 
harness adapted to inhibit the dog from straining against 
the leash and inducing the dog to come to a halt or to walk 
at a pace acceptable to the leash holder. A leash is a chain or strap attached to the collar or 
harness of a dog, the leash being used to lead the dog or to 
hold it in check. As pointed out in the Bloom U.S. Patent No. 
2,233,397, when a dog strains against a leash attached to 
the dog harness, it is important that the harness then avoid 
a choking effect on the throat of the dog or undue pressure 
on throat muscles, cords and nerves, for these may have 
adverse effects on the lungs and heart of the dog. While Bloom discloses a non-choking harness, this 
harness does not act to discourage the dog from straining 
against the leash. Indeed, because the harness is non-choking, 
there is nothing to inhibit such straining and to 
hold the dog in check. The need exists, therefore, for a harness to break 
older dogs of the habit of straining at the leash and for 
training younger dogs not to strain at the leash. When a 
dog strains at the leash, it may, in doing so, wrest the 
leash from the hands of its master who then loses control of 
the dog. But this is perhaps a less objectionable aspect of 
straining, for in the case of a master of advanced years or 
in relatively weakened condition, should the master hold 
tightly onto the strained leash to maintain control of the  
 
dog, the master may then be pulled to the ground or 
otherwise upset, with possibly damaging consequences. To prevent straining at the leash, hobble type dog 
harnesses are known, such as the hobble harness disclosed in 
the Patience et al. U.S. Patent No. 2,670.712, which 
normally permits free movement of the animal but which 
restricts the action of the forelegs when the dog attempts 
to run away or otherwise go out of control. The Patience et al. harness includes a conventional 
dog collar and a shoulder strap that has hoops at its 
opposite ends that loosely fit over the forelegs of the dog. 
The shoulder strap is adjustable so that the foreleg hoops 
can be drawn up but not so tightly as to interfere with 
normal movement of the dog's forelegs. However, if the dog 
strains on the leash, this strain is also exerted on the 
shoulder strap, and the foreleg hoops are then drawn 
upwardly so that movement of the forelegs is restrained and 
the dog
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A leash-controllable harness for a dog having a 
shoulder, a chest, left and right forelegs, a left foreleg 

crotch and a right foreleg crotch, each crotch leading to a 
sensitive foreleg pit, said harness comprising: 


(a) a junction to which a leash is attachable, said 
junction when the harness is installed on the dog 

lying over its shoulder; and 
(b) a pair of flexible loops depending from the junction 
and joined thereto at an angle to each other, the 

loops when the harness is installed crossing over at 
a crossover site against the chest of the dog at a 

position well above the forelegs, one loop running at 
angle from the crossover site through the left crotch 

and back to the junction, the other loop running at 
an opposing angle from the crossover site through the 

right crotch back to the junction, whereby should the 
leash be pulled by a leash holder or strained against 

by the dog, the loops then ride up the left and right 
crotches to engage and apply pressure to the foreleg 

pits, thereby inducing the dog to take an action 
relaxing the pressure. 
A harness as claimed in claim 1 in which attached to 
the junction is a short strap terminating in a ring to which 

a leash is attachable. 
A harness as claimed in claim 1 in which said 
junction is formed by a slide having an opening, and each 

loop is formed by a strap, one end of the strap being 
attached to the slide, and the other end of the strap 

slidably passing through said opening in said slide for 
coupling to a leash. 
A harness as claimed in claim 3 in which said slide 
has a left and a right opening to slidably receive a strap; 

one end of each of said straps coupled to said slide, the 
other end going through a respective opening, whereby when 

the harness is installed the strap of one loop passes 
through the left crotch and from there through the left 

opening to be coupled to said leash; the strap of the other 
loop passes through the right crotch and from there through 

the right crotch and from there through the right opening to 
be coupled to said leash. 
A harness as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 in which 
the slide is a diamond shaped ring formed by a pair of 

angled lower arms having an apex, and a pair or angled upper 
arms having an apex, the one end of each strap passing 

through the ring and sliding under a respective upper arm to 
extend beyond the slide. 
A harness as claimed in claim 5 in which said diamond 
is divided into two open triangular sections by a bar 

bridging the upper and lower apexes. 
A harness as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 6 in 
which the ends of the loops which extend beyond the slide 

are connected to a common ring to which the leash is 
coupled. 
A harness as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 including 
means to detachably fasten together the said other ends of 

the straps extending beyond the slide . 
A harness as claimed in claim 8 in which the slide is 
formed by a generally triangular ring provided with a T-shaped 

bar which defines left and right openings. 
A harness as set forth in claim 8 or claim 9 in which 
each said other end terminates in a grommet, the grommets 

being in registration with each other when the said other 
ends are fastened together whereby the grommets may be 

connected to the coupling ring of a leash connector. 
A harness as set forth in claim 7 in which secured to 
complementary inner surfaces of the said other ends of the 

straps are the complementary components of a hook and loop 
fastener. 
A harness as set forth in any one of claims 8 to 11 
in which the loops are interconnected at said crossover site 

by a rivet. 
A harness as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the loops are formed by fabric webbing 

material. 
A harness as claimed in claim 13 in which the webbing 
has a width of about three quarters of an inch. 
A harness as claimed in claim 13 or claim 14 in which 
the webbing is woven of nylon or cotton fibres. 
A harness as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which the size of the loops is adjustable relative 

to the dimensions of the dog. 
A harness as claimed in claim 16, in which means to 
adjust the length of the loop includes a slide shiftable in 

the loop. 
A harness as set forth in claim 17, in which said 
loop adjusters are constituted by a first tri-slide mounted 

on the strap between the leading end linked to the junction 
and the crossover site, and asecond tri-slide mounted on the 

strap between the crossover site and the said other end. 
A harness as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims in which each loop is joined at one end to the 

junction by a releasable buckle, so that when installing the 
harness each unbuckled loop, after being passed through the 

related crotch, may then be buckled to the junction to close 
the loop. 
A harness as claimed in claim 19, in which the buckle 
is a side release buckle having a female socket coupled to 

the junction, and a male plug attached to an end of the loop 
and insertable in the socket. 
A harness as claimed in any one of the preceding 
claims which includes a protective sleeve of flexible 

material mounted on each loop to prevent chafing of the dog 
by the loops when they are tightened. 
A harness as claimed in claim 21 in which the sleeve 
has a tubular smooth inner liner on which is anchored an 

outer coat of soft material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
