<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641717</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for applying labels onto small cylindrical articles
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65C914	B65C900	B65C926	B65C300	B65C918	B65C300	B65C906	B65C926	B65C902	B65C922	B65C908	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	B65C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65C9	B65C9	B65C9	B65C3	B65C9	B65C3	B65C9	B65C9	B65C9	B65C9	B65C9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus 
(10)
 for applying a label onto a 
small, cylindrical article (A), such as a dry cell battery, 

is disclosed. A rotatable label transport drum 
(20)
 has a 
central, horizontal axis. A label is fed to the drum 

surface, retained thereto as the drum rotates, and moved 
with the rotating drum into an article wrapping position 


(21)
 defined at the upper area of the drum. An article 
delivery system 
(240)
, such as a star transfer wheel, 
delivers the articles sequentially onto the drum surface. 

The delivery system is spaced outward from the drum surface 
to clear the trailing edge of the label which is outwardly 

positioned from the drum surface. An attractive force is 
imparted on the article in a direction so as to aid smooth 

delivery of the article onto the drum surface and the label 
moving therewith. In one aspect of the invention, when the 

articles are magnetically attractive drycell batteries, at 
least one magnet 
(252)
 retains the drycells against an 
article engaging surface 
(434a)
 of a pressure plate 
(434)
 
which defines an article entrance portion 
(250)
 that is 
disposed downward to the drum surface so that the drycells 

are smoothly and tangentially transferred onto the drum 
surface. In another aspect of the invention, a web feed and 

cutting mechanism is disclosed. In still another aspect of 
the invention, an adhesive delivery system using a gravure 

roller is disclosed. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMS GILBRETH PACKAGING SYSTEMS
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CMS GILBRETH PACKAGING SYSTEMS, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALCHEFSKI JOHN M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTBURY IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GALCHEFSKI, JOHN M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WESTBURY, IAN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to an apparatus and method 
for applying a label onto a small, cylindrical article by 
smoothly and tangentially delivering the articles onto a 
label transport drum for wrap around labeling of the 
article. US-A-4 108 710 describes an apparatus for applying labels to 
containers wherein adhesive is applied to a predetermined location 
upon each of a succession of containers moved past a vacuum drum applying 
the leading edge of a label to each container at such location. The 
labels are successively cut from a strip by means ensuring continuous 
label movement and have an adhesive applied to a trailing edge thereof 
before application to containers. The containers are then moved to a 
discharge station where the labels are wrapped about the containers.  
 According to EP-A-579 984 (post-published; Art 54(3) EPC) 
small articles such as 
drycell batteries, lipstick containers, lip balm containers 
and the like are labeled with high quality, thin film 
polymeric labels. A strip of label material is fed to a 
label transport drum, which has an outer surface with a 
plurality of predetermined label areas on which labels are 
retained as the drum rotates. The labels are initially fed 
as a strip onto the drum surface, and then cut on the drum 
surface into labels of predetermined size. As each label moves with the rotating drum in its 
respective label area, an adhesive is applied onto the area 
adjacent the leading edge of the label to give the leading 
edge a tacky quality to the edge. A predetermined amount of 
solvent is evenly applied onto the area adjacent the 
trailing edge of the label so as to dissolve a portion of 
the treated surface of the label. The label moves to an 
article wrapping position where small articles, such as  
 
drycell batteries, are wrapped, securing first the leading 
edge to the article, followed by overlapping the trailing 
edge onto the leading edge so that the solvent positioned on 
the trailing edge of the label creates a solvent-seal bond. 
The labels are then heat shrunk over the articles. The 
apparatus provides for high quality cylindrical labeling of 
small articles such as drycell batteries using thin film, 
polymeric labels, e.g., typically less than 88.9 µm (0.0035") 
thickness. As disclosed in the copending parent application, 
a predetermined amount of solvent is applied to the area 
adjacent the trailing edge of the label by rotating a wiper 
member at a surface speed different from the speed of the 
label transport drum. The speed
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An apparatus 
(10)
 for applying a label onto 
a small cylindrical article (A) comprising, a label 

transport drum 
(20)
 that defines a central axis, means for 
supplying a label (L) onto the surface of said drum 
(20)
, 
means 
(44a)
 for rotating said drum 
(20)
 about its axis so 
that the label moves with the drum into an article wrapping 

position 
(21
), and means 
(24a)
 for 
delivering small cylindrical articles from a position that 

is spaced outward from the drum surface into engagement with 
the drum 
(20)
 and the label, being characterized in that said delivering 
means (24a) deliver said articles into engagement with the drum (20) 

and the label as the label moves into the 
article wrapping position 
(21)
 for wrap around labeling, and in that 
means 
(248, 252)
 are provided for imparting an attractive force 
on the article in a direction that aids in smooth, 

tangential delivery of articles onto the drum surface and 
into engagement with a label positioned at the article 

wrapping position, wherein the force attracts the article in a direction 

away from the drum. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the 
delivered articles are less than about 44.45 mm (1.75 inches) in 

diameter. 
An apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, 
wherein said attractive force imparting means comprises 

means 
(248)
 for drawing a vacuum onto said article to 
attract said article in a direction away from the drum. 
An apparatus according to claim 1, 2 or 
3, wherein said articles are magnetically attractive and 

said force imparting means comprises means 
(252)
 for 
imparting attractive magnetic forces onto said article. 
An apparatus according to claim 4 wherein 
said magnetic force imparting means is positioned for  

 
imparting attractive forces on the article in a direction 

away from the label transport drum. 
An apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, 
wherein said article delivery means comprises a star transfer 

wheel 
(240c)
 mounted adjacent said label transport drum and 
having at least one article receiving pocket 
(242)
, 
and said magnetic means comprises at least one magnet 

positioned adjacent said article receiving pocket. 
An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein 
said magnet comprises a neodymium magnet. 
An apparatus according to any one of 
claims 1 to 7, including an article engaging surface 
(434a)
 
spaced from said drum surface adjacent the article 

wrapping position 
(21)
 for engaging delivered articles 
and applying pressure thereto, said article engaging surface 

defining an article entrance area 
(250)
 that is disposed 
a distance greater than the diameter of the articles, and 

wherein said attractive force imparting means retains articles 
onto the article engaging surface during article delivery 

into said article entrance area so that the articles move 
along the article engaging surface into smooth, tangential 

engagement with the drum surface. 
An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein 
said article engaging surface 
(434a)
 forms an arcuate curve 
disposed outwardly from the drum surface of the article 

entrance area to aid in imparting rotative spin to the 
article as the article initially engages the article 

engaging surface.  
 
An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein 
said article engaging surface comprises a pressure plate 


(434)
. 
An apparatus according to claim 8 or 9, 
said said article delivery means initially pushes said 

article along said article engaging surface during delivery 
into said article entrance area. 
An apparatus according to any one of 
claims 3 to 11, wherein the generated magnetic force is 

about eight times the weight of the article. 
A method for applying a label onto a small 
cylindrical article comprising: feeding a label onto the 

surface of a horizontally disposed label transport drum 
(20)
 
while rotating the drum about its horizontal axis so as to 

move the label with the drum into an article wrapping 
position 
(21)
, applying an adhesive onto an area adjacent 
the leading edge 
(30a)
 of the label, and being characterized 
by the steps of: positioning the trailing edge 
(30b)
 of the 
label outwardly from the drum surface and engaging the 

trailing edge with a wiper 
(170)
 that is spaced outward from 
the drum surface so that a predetermined amount of solvent 

is applied onto the trailing edge of the label when the 
trailing edge of the label engages the wiper, and delivering 

small cylindrical articles into tangential spinning 
engagement with the drum and into rotative engagement with 

the label, while also imparting attractive forces onto the 
article in a direction such as to aid in smooth, tangential 

deliverance of the article onto the drum surface and into 
engagement with a label positioned at the article wrapping 

position, wherein the force attracts the article in a direction away 
from the drum.  

 
A method according to claim 13 wherein the 
articles are magnetically attractive and including the step 

of applying magnetic forces onto the article to create an 
attractive biasing force on the article to ensure smooth, 

tangential delivery of the article onto the surface of the 
label transport drum. 
The method according to claim 14 wherein 
magnetic forces are imparted in a direction away from the 

label transport drum. 
A method according to claim 13, 14 or 15, 
including the step of magnetically retaining the article 

against the article engaging surface 
(434a)
 of a pressure 
plate 
(434)
 which is disposed toward the drum so that the 
article is smoothly and tangentially delivered onto 

the label transport drum. 
A method according to any one of claims 
13 to 16, including drawing a vacuum onto the article for 

exerting a biasing force on the article in a direction 
to assist in smooth tangential delivery of the article 

onto the drum surface. 
A method according to claim 17 including the 
further step of retaining by vacuum the article against the 

article engaging surface 
(434a
) of a pressure plate 
(434)
 
which is disposed toward the drum so that the article is 

smoothly and tangentially delivered onto the label transport 
drum. 
A method according to any one of claims 
13 to 18, wherein the step of positioning the trailing edge 

outward from the label transport drum includes the step of 
biasing the trailing edge outward from the drum with a 

spring biased plunger 
(132)
.  
 
A method for feeding a small cylindrical 
article (A) onto a label transport drum for wrap around 

labeling comprising the steps of delivering small 
cylindrical articles from a position spaced outward from the 

surface of a label transport drum 
(20)
 while imparting 
attractive forces onto the articles in a direction away from the 

transport drum so as to 
aid in smooth, tangential deliverance of the article onto 

the drum surface. 
A method according to claim 20, including 
drawing a vacuum onto the article for biasing the article 

in a direction to aid in smooth, tangential delivery. 
A method according to claim 20 or 21, 
wherein the articles are magnetically attractive and 

including the step of imparting magnetic forces onto the 
article to bias the article into smooth, tangential 

delivery onto the label transport drum. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
