<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643506</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Digital CDMA receiver.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B1707	H04B1707	H04L2722	H04L2722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04L	H04L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04L27	H04L27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A spread spectrum receiver (102) for use in spread spectrum 
communication systems includes an analog-to-digital converter (104) for receiving 

an analog spread spectrum signal (on 154), and for converting the received analog 
signal to a digital signal (on 156). The spread spectrum receiver also includes a 

digital frequency offset correction device (106,120,118,114), for modifying the 
digital signal in accordance with a frequency correction term signal to thereby 

correct for frequency offset in the received analog signal. The spread spectrum 
receiver also contains a Rake receiver (103). The spread spectrum receiver searches 

through the modified digital signal to identify M of the main and multipath return 
signals having the strongest signal strengths. The identified main and multipath 

return signals are processed in accordance with predetermined maximum likelihood 
techniques to thereby generate phase correction and maximal-ratio combining 

weighting factors for each of the M signals, as well as the overall frequency 
correction term signal. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUBRAMANIAN RAVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SUBRAMANIAN, RAVI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to communication systems, and more 
particularly to receivers for use in spread spectrum communication systems. In the past, direct-sequence spread-spectrum techniques have not been widely 
used due to their relatively high cost. However, the recent development and use of 
custom digital VLSI (very large scale integration) techniques have made the cost of 
spread-spectrum signal processing affordable. Consequently, direct-sequence spread-spectrum 
techniques have received much attention in the last few years as a viable 
technological option for many commercial applications, such as for commercial 
portable mobile communication systems. Conventionally, spread-spectrum transceiver components are implemented in 
an economic manner using application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips. The 
use of ASIC chips in spread spectrum transceiver components has heretofore been 
deemed necessary due to the rather unique signal processing requirements associated 
with spread spectrum communication. In particular, in a spread-spectrum receiver, the 
design philosophy is to tolerate interference. Designing to tolerate interference results 
in a higher quality radio, and can lead to an increase in the network capacity. As will 
be appreciated, such design philosophy associated with spread-spectrum receivers 
generally differs from the design philosophy employed when developing conventional 
narrowband radios. As a result of the rather unique signal processing requirements associated with 
spread spectrum communication, in the past it has not been possible to employ 
standard digital signal processing techniques when developing spread-spectrum 
receivers. This represents a disadvantage of conventional spread-spectrum receivers, 
since digital signal processing techniques offer the ability to employ powerful signal  
 
conditioning and processing algorithms that give rise to robust receivers. 
Consequently, generic, general purpose spread spectrum digital signal processors (DSP) 
do not currently exist. The present invention is directed to a spread spectrum receiver for use in a 
spread spectrum communication system. The receiver of the present invention includes 
an analog-to-digital converter for receiving an analog spread spectrum signal, and for 
converting the received analog signal to a digital signal. The received analog signal 
includes a plurality of main and multipath return signals of varying signal strengths. 
The spread spectrum receiver also includes a Rake
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A spread spectrum receiver for use in a spread spectrum communication 
system, said spread spectrum receiver comprising: 

   an analog-to-digital converter for receiving an analog spread spectrum signal, 
and for converting said received analog signal to a digital signal, said received analog 

signal having a plurality of main and multipath return signals of varying signal 
strengths; 

   a frequency offset correction device, coupled to said analog-to-digital converter, 
for modifying said digital signal in accordance with a frequency correction term signal 

to thereby correct for frequency offset in said received analog signal; 
   searching means for receiving said modified digital signal, and for searching 

through said modified digital signal to identify M of said main and multipath return 
signals having the strongest signal strengths; and 

   processing means, coupled to said searching means and said frequency offset 
correction device, for processing said identified main and multipath return signals in 

accordance with predetermined maximum likelihood techniques to thereby generate 
said frequency correction term signal. 
The spread spectrum receiver of claim 1, wherein said searching means 
comprises a plurality of correlators each accumulating signal strength information for 

one of said main and multipath return signals of said received analog signal, said 
spread spectrum receiver also comprising a plurality of pseudo noise (PN) code 

generators each coupled to one of said correlators, said PN code generators comprising 
means for generating PN codes with different offsets, wherein said PN codes are 

compared to values accumulated by said correlators to thereby identify said M of said 
main and multipath return signals having the strongest signal strengths. 
The spread spectrum receiver of claim 1, wherein said processing means 
comprises a plurality of phase estimators, coupled to said searching means, for 

processing said identified main and multipath return signals in accordance with 
 

predetermined maximum likelihood techniques to thereby generate carrier phase 
correction estimates and weighting factors for said identified main and multipath return 

signals. 
The spread spectrum receiver of claim 3, wherein said processing means 
also comprises a plurality of phase correcting circuits, coupled to said phase estimators, 

for correcting for respective phase offsets in said identified main and multipath return 
signals by modifying said identified main and multipath return signals as a function 

of said carrier phase correction estimates. 
The spread spectrum receiver of claim 4, wherein said processing means 
also comprises weighting means, coupled to said phase correcting circuits, for using 

said weighting factors to weight said phase corrected main and multipath return signals 
in accordance with signal strength, said processing means further comprising a 

maximal-ratio diversity combiner, coupled to said weighting means, for combining said 
weighted main and multipath return signals to thereby produce a maximal-ratio 

combined return signal. 
The spread spectrum receiver of claim 5, wherein said processing means 
also comprises a frequency offset estimator, coupled to said maximal-ratio diversity 

combiner, to process said maximal-ratio combined return signal in accordance with 
predetermined maximum likelihood techniques to thereby generate said frequency 

correction term signal. 
The spread spectrum receiver of claim 5, further comprising a slicer, 
coupled to said maximal-ratio diversity combiner, for estimating a symbol content of 

said maximal-ratio combined return signal. 
A method of receiving spread spectrum signals, comprising the steps of: 
(a) receiving an analog spread spectrum signal having a plurality of main 
and multipath return signals of varying signal strengths; 
(b) converting said received analog signal to a digital signal; 
(c) modifying said digital signal in accordance with a frequency correction 
term signal to thereby correct for frequency offset in said received analog signal; 
(d) searching through said modified digital signal to identify M of said main 
and multipath return signals having the strongest signal strengths; and 
(e) processing said identified main and multipath return signals in 

accordance with predetermined maximum likelihood techniques to thereby generate 
said frequency correction term signal. 
The method of claim 8, wherein step (e) comprises the steps of: 
   processing said identified main and multipath return signals in accordance with 

predetermined maximum likelihood techniques to thereby generate carrier phase 
correction estimates and weighting factors for said identified main and multipath return 

signals; 
   correcting for respective phase offsets in said identified main and multipath 

return signals by modifying said identified main and multipath return signals as a 
function of said carrier phase correction estimates; 

   using said weighting factors to weight said phase corrected main and multipath 
return signals in accordance with signal strength; and 

   combining said weighted main and multipath return signals to thereby produce 
a maximal-ratio combined return signal. 
The method of claim 9, wherein step (e) further comprises the step of 
processing said maximal-ratio combined return signal in accordance with 

predetermined maximum likelihood techniques to thereby generate said frequency 
correction term signal. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
