<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0631297</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method for low temperature growth of epitaxial silicon and devices produced thereby.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C01B3300	C01B3302	G02F113	G02F11368	H01L2102	H01L2120	H01L21203	H01L21205	H01L21336	H01L2966	H01L2978	H01L29786	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C01B	C01B	G02F	G02F	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C01B33	C01B33	G02F1	G02F1	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L21	H01L29	H01L29	H01L29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A thin layer of epitaxial silicon is grown at low temperatures at or below 
300°C by the steps of providing a substrate, forming an oriented dielectric buffer 

layer on the substrate and growing epitaxial silicon on the buffer layer. Preferably 
the substrate has a glass surface and the oriented buffer layer is cubic ZrO
2
. The 
buffer layer is preferably oriented by bombarding it with a directed ion beam while 

the buffer layer is being deposited on the substrate. For example, a buffer layer of 
(100) cubic ZrO
2
 can be grown at a temperature as low as 300°C. The oriented cubic 
ZrO
2
 is an excellent buffer for epitaxial silicon on glass due to a good match of 
lattice parameters with silicon and a good match of thermal expansion coefficients 

with glass. An oriented (100) silicon epitaxial film can then be grown on the 
epitaxial template provided by the buffer layer at a temperature as low as 250°C. 

This low temperature process for producing epitaxial films offers multiple 
advantages: (1) reduced silicon interfacial defect densities and enlarged grain size 

permitting improved thin film transistor performance due to a lowered "off" current; 
(2) higher electron mobility permitting the fabrication of integrated displays; (3) 

lower temperature processing permitting the use of inexpensive glass substrates such 
as 
borosilicates; (4) sufficiently low temperature processing to permit the use of new 
lightweight substrates such as glass-coated polymeric materials (glass-coated 

plastics) which can substantially reduce the weight of displays and thus enhance the 
portability of portable computers, video telephones, and personal communicators; 

and (5) the use of new buffer layers such as ZrO
2
 which can block the diffusion of 
Na ions from the substrate. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWO JUEINAI RAYNIEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KWO, JUEINAI RAYNIEN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to methods for growing at low temperature 
layers of epitaxial silicon. Such layers are particularly useful for making thin film 
transistors and lightweight flat-panel display devices. With the rapid expansion of capacity to transmit and process 
information, devices for visually displaying information have become increasingly 
important. Lightweight, flat visual display devices are particularly needed for 
portable computers and wireless communications instruments. One promising approach to providing flat-panel displays is the active 
matrix liquid crystal device (AMLCD). In essence the AMLCD comprises an array 
of thin film transistors, capacitors and electrodes formed on a transparent substrate 
and incorporated in an LCD display. Each thin film transistor controls an electrode 
which, in turn, polarizes a pixel-size region of liquid crystal. Typically the 
transistors are comprised of thin films of amorphous silicon. One difficulty with 
these devices, however, is that amorphous silicon lacks sufficient electron mobility 
to be used for drivers and registers in the display. Hence a hybrid structure 
combining amorphous silicon on glass and a crystalline silicon chip is required. Polysilicon has higher electron mobility than amorphous silicon, and if 
polysilicon can be substituted for amorphous silicon in AMLCD devices, the entire 
display --complete with drivers-- can be integrated on the substrate. However, few 
transparent materials can withstand the high temperatures, typically in excess of 
600°C, required to grow polysilicon. Consequently efforts to make polysilicon based 
displays have required substrates of high temperature glass, such as fused quartz 
which are expensive, heavy, and fragile. Moreover typical thin films of polysilicon 
have randomly oriented grains producing random distribution of defect densities and 
non-uniform etching and oxidation characteristics. Accordingly, there is a need for a 
method for low temperature growth of silicon of enhanced electron mobility and 
reduced grain structure (hereafter "epitaxial silicon") which can utilize a wider 
variety of substrate materials.  A thin layer of epitaxial silicon is grown at low temperatures at or below 
300°C by the steps of providing a substrate, forming an oriented dielectric buffer 
layer on the substrate and growing epitaxial silicon on the buffer layer. Preferably 
the substrate has a glass surface and the oriented buffer layer is cubic ZrO₂. The 
buffer layer is preferably oriented by
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for growing a layer of silicon comprising the steps of: 
   providing a substrate; 

   depositing on the substrate a buffer layer of dielectric material and, at 
the same time, bombarding the substrate with a directed beam of ions in order to 

promote oriented growth of said buffer layer; and 
   depositing a layer of silicon on said buffer layer at substrate temperature 

of 300°C or less. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises a glass layer. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises a body of 
borosilicate glass. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises a body of 
polymeric material. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said buffer layer is deposited by 
electron beam evaporation. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said silicon is deposited by sputter 
deposition. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said silicon is deposited by chemical 
vapor deposition. 
The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises a glass layer 
and said buffer layer comprises ZrO₂,CeO₂,PrO₂ or Y₂O₃. 
A silicon device comprising: 
   a substrate comprising a body of material having a planar major surface 

and a layer of glass overlying said major surface; 
   overlying said glass layer a (100) oriented buffer layer of dielectric 

material; and
 

   overlying said buffer layer a (100) oriented layer of silicon. 
A device according to claim 9 wherein said substrate is transparent to 
visible light. 
A device according to claim 9 wherein said body comprises a body 
of polymeric material. 
A device according to claim 11 wherein said polymeric material is a 
polyimide or a polyethersulfone. 
A device according to claim 9 wherein said buffer layer comprises 
ZrO₂,CeO₂,PrO₂ or Y₂O₃. 
A thin film transistor comprising a source, a gate-controlled channel 
and a drain disposed upon a substrate having a planar major surface wherein said 

source, channel and drain comprise a layer of (100) oriented silicon overlying said 
planar major surface and said substrate comprises a body of polymeric material. 
The transistor of claim 14 wherein said substrate further comprises a 
layer of glass overlying said body of polymeric material. 
The transistor of claim 15 further comprising a buffer layer of (100) 
oriented dielectric 
material disposed between said layer of glass and said layer of 
silicon. 
A liquid crystal display comprising a common electrode, a liquid 
crystal medium, and a plurality of transistor-controlled local electrodes for 

controlling local regions of the liquid crystal medium wherein one or more of the 
transistors for controlling said local electrodes comprises a transistor in accordance 

with claim 14 or 15 or 16. 
A liquid crystal display comprising a common electrode, a liquid 
crystal medium, and a plurality of transistors and local electrodes disposed on a 

common substrate wherein a plurality of said transistors are thin film transistors 
having sources, channels and drains comprised of a (100) oriented layer of silicon 

 
and said common substrate comprises a body of polymeric material. 
A display device according to claim 15 wherein said common 
substrate comprises a body of polymeric material having a planar major surface and 

a layer of glass overlying said major surface. 
A display device according to claim 16 further comprising a buffer 
layer of (100) oriented dielectric material disposed between said layer of glass and 

said oriented layer of silicon. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
