<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0639847</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Field emission cathode structure and method for production thereof
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H01J1304	H01J130	H01J130	H01J902	H01J902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	H01J	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H01J1	H01J1	H01J1	H01J9	H01J9	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A field emission cathode which comprises an emitter 
provided with a sharp point for emission of electrons and a 

controlling gate electrode is composed of a supporting 
substrate (17), an emitter material layer (18) formed of an 

emitter material, superposed on and attached fast to the 
supporting substrate, and provided with an emitter hole (18a), 

an insulator layer (13) so formed on the surface of the 
emitter material layer (18) as to expose the tip part of the 

emitter projection (18a) therethrough, and an impurity 
diffusion layer (12) formed on the surface of the insulator 

layer (13) and enabled to function as an etching stopper 
layer. The method for the production of the field emission 

cathode comprises a step of forming a first hole (11a) pointed 
toward the tip thereof on a first supporting substrate (11), a 

step of forming the impurity diffusion layer (12) on the 
surface of the first supporting substrate (11), a step of 

forming the insulator layer (13) on the surface of the 
impurity diffusion layer (12), a step of depositing an emitter 

material layer (18) on the surface of the insulator layer 
including a hole while filling the hole with an emitter 

material thereby giving rise to a laminate, a step of 
integrally joining a second supporting substrate (17) to the 

surface of the emitter material layer (18) of the laminate, a 
step of removing by etching the first supporting substrate 

(11) thereby exposing the surface of the impurity diffusion 
layer (12) including the projection corresponding to the first 

hole (lla), and a step of selectively removing the impurity  
 

diffusion layer (12) and the insulator layer (13) thereby 
exposing a tip (18t) of the projection (18a) of the emitter 

layer (18). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a field emission cathode for 
use as in flat panel displays and a method for the production 
thereof. In recent years, the development of field emission 
cathodes has come to be promoted energetically owing to the 
conspicuous advance of the technology for manufacture of 
microminiaturized LSI's. C. A. Spindt et al., for example, 
have disclosed in Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 47, No 12, 
December 1976, pages 5248-5263 a method for the manufacture of 
a field emission cathode by the use of the thin-film technique 
and the electron beam microlithography. The method of this kind proceeds sequentially through the 
steps of manufacture shown with a model in Fig. 6A, Fig. 6B, 
and Fig. 6C, for example. First as shown in Fig. 6A, a SiO2 
layer 3 is superposed on a silicon (Si) single crystal 
substrate 1, a gate electrode material layer 9 and a 
separating layer 6 are sequentially superposed further 
thereon, and then pin holes 4 of a diameter of about 1.5 µm 
are bored through the superposed layers. Then, an emitter  
 
material 8 destined to effect field emission is formed in the 
form of a conical body 8a as by the vacuum deposition method 
on the substrate 1 as shown in Fig. 6B. To be more specific, the SiO2 layer 3 is superposed as by 
the CVD method and the Mo layer 9 and the Al layer 6 are 
further superposed sequentially as by the sputtering method on 
the Si single crystal substrate 1. Subsequently, the SiO2 layer 3 mentioned above, the Mo 
layer 9 as a gate electrode layer, and the Al layer 6 as a 
separating layer are selectively etched to bore a pin hole 
having a diameter of about 1.5 µm as shown in Fig. 6A. The Si single crystal substrate 1 is disposed 
substantially horizontally and rotated and, in the meanwhile, 
a material such as, for example, Mo which has the function of 
an emitter is vacuum deposited on the surface of the substrate 
from a direction perpendicular thereto as shown in Fig. 6B. 
In consequence of the vacuum deposition of Mo, the Mo is 
accumulated inside the pin hole and on the Al layer 6. Since 
the mouth of the pin hole 4 is gradually closed with the 
progress of the accumulation, the Mo is deposited in the shape 
of a sharply pointed cone on the substrate 1 inside the pin 
hole 4. Thus, a conical body 8a of Mo is obtained. After the conical body 8a with a sharply pointed tip has 
been formed on the substrate inside the pin hole in 
consequence of the deposition of a pertinent emitter material 
as described above, the Mo layer 8 deposited on a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A field emission cathode structure comprising an 
emitter provided with a sharp pointed tip for emission of 

electrons and a controlling gate electrode, said structure 
comprising a second supporting substrate (17), an emitter 

material layer (18) made of an emitter material, provided with 
a projection (18a), and formed on said second supporting substrate, 

an insulator layer (13) formed on the surface of said emitter 
material layer (18) so as to expose a tip (18t) of said projection 

(18a) therethrough. 
A field emission cathode structure according to claim 
1, wherein an impurity diffusion layer (12) is 

formed on the surface of said insulator layer (13) and enabled 
to function as an etching stopper layer when a first supporting substrate (11) formed on said impurity diffusion layer is removed by etching, said impurity diffusion layer (12) may be a g
ate 
electrode layer. 
A field emission cathode according to claim 1, which 
further comprises a gate electrode layer (19a) formed on the 

surface of said impurity diffusion layer (12) and along the 
contour of said projection (18a) of said emitter material 

layer (18) and provided with an opening (19b) encircling said 
tip of said projection (18a). 
A field emission cathode according to claim 1, 
wherein said supporting substrate (17) is a glass plate. 
A field emission cathode according to any of claims 1 
to 4, wherein said impurity diffusion layer (12) is a silicon 

layer containing a p-type impurity. 
A field emission cathode according to any of claims 1 
to 5, wherein said p-type impurity is boron (B) and is  

 
diffused at a concentration of not less than 3 x 10
19
 cm
-3
. 
A field emission cathode according to any of claims 1 
to 6, wherein said impurity diffusion layer (12) has electric 

resistivity of not more than 10
-3
 Ω·cm. 
A field emission cathode according to any of claims 1 
to 7, wherein said insulator layer (13) is a thermally 

oxidized insulating layer formed of SiO
2
. 
A method for the production of a field emission 
cathode structure comprising an emitter provided with a sharp 

point for emission of electrons and a controlling gate 
electrode, comprising a step of forming a 

hole (11a) having a sharp pointed tip on a first 
supporting substrate (11), a step of forming an impurity 

diffusion layer (12) on the surface of said first supporting 
substrate (11) including the wall surface of said hole (11a), a step of 

forming an insulator layer (13) on the surface of of said 
impurity diffusion layer (12) including the wall surface of said hole, a step of 

depositing an emitter material layer (18) on the surface of 
said insulator layer (13) including said hole while filling 

said hole with the emitter material, a step of integrally 
joining a second substrate (17) to the surface of said emitter 

material layer (18), a step of removing by etching said first 
substrate (11) thereby exposing the surface of said impurity 

diffusion layer (12) provided with a projection 
corresponding to said hole (11a), and a step of 

selectively removing said impurity diffusion layer (12) and 
said insulator layer (13) thereby exposing a tip (18t) of the 

projection (18a) of said emitter material layer (18).  
 
A method according to claim 9, wherein said impurity 
diffusion layer (12) is formed as a gate electrode layer. 
A method according to claim 9, which further 
comprises a step of forming a gate electrode layer (19a) on 

the surface of said impurity diffusion layer (19) after the 
step of removing by etching said first supporting substrate 

(11) thereby exposing the surface said impurity diffusion 
layer (19) provided with a projection corresponding to said 

first hole (11a) and the step of selectively removing said 
impurity diffusion layer (12) and said insulator layer (13) 

thereby exposing the tip (18t) of the projection (18a) of said 
emitter material layer (18). 
A method according to any of claims 9 through 11, 
wherein the integral union of said emitter material layer (18) 

and said second supporting substrate (17) is carried out by 
the electrostatic bonding method. 
A method according to any of claims 9 through 12, 
wherein the formation of said insulator layer (13) is effected 

by thermally oxidizing said impurity diffusion layer (12). 
A method according to any of claims 9 through 13, 
wherein said impurity diffusion layer (12) is formed by doping 

at least one element selected from the group consisting of B, 
Al, In, P, As, Ti, Ge, and Sn as an impurity into Si. 
A method according to claim 14, wherein the 
concentration of said impurity is not less than 3 x 10
19
 cm
-3
. 
A method for the production of a field emission 
cathode structure comprising an emitter provided with a sharp point for 

emission of electrons and a controlling gate electrode,  
 

comprising a step of forming a hole (11a) 
having a sharp point on a first supporting substrate (11), a 

step of forming an insulator layer (13) on the surface of said 
first supporting substrate (11) including the wall surface of said hole (11a), a 

step of depositing an emitter material layer (18) on the 
surface of said insulator layer including said hole while 

filling said hole with an emitter material, a step of 
integrally joining a second supporting substrate (17) to 

the surface of said emitter material layer (18), a step of 
etching said first supporting substrate (11) through the 

exposed surface thereof until the end of a tip (18t) of the 
projection (18a) of said emitter material layer (18) provided 

with the projection (18a) corresponding to said first hole 
(11a) falls flush with the surface of said supporting 

substrate (11) after completion of said etching, and a step of 
selectively removing said insulator layer (13) thereby 

exposing the tip (18t) of the projection (18a) of said emitter 
material layer (18). 
A method for the production of a field emission 
cathode structure comprising an emitter provided with a sharp point for 

emission of electrons and a controlling gate electrode, 
comprising a step of forming an etching 

stopper layer (12) on the first main surface of a first 
supporting substrate (11), a step of forming a hole (11a) 

having a sharp pointed tip on said first main surface side of 
said supporting substrate (11) through said etching stopper 

layer (12) to a depth reaching halfway along the thickness of 
said first supporting substrate (11), a step of forming an  

 
insulator layer (13) on the surface of said etching stopper 

layer (12) including the wall surface of said hole (11a), a step of depositing an 
emitter material layer (18) on the surface of said insulator 

layer (13) including the hole while filling said hole with an 
emitter material, a step of integrally joining a second 

supporting substrate (17) to the surface of said emitter 
material layer (18), a step of removing by etching said first 

supporting substrate (11) from a second main surface side 
thereof until said etching stopper layer (12) thereby exposing 

an end part of said insulator layer (13) of a protruding part 
of corresponding said hole (11a), and a step of selectively 

removing said insulating layer thereby exposing a tip (18t) of 
a projection (18a) of said emitter material (18). 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
