<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0643786</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
METHODS OF RAILWAY TRACK MAINTENANCE
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>E01B3500	E01B3500	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>E01B	E01B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>E01B35	E01B35	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of adjusting the geometry of a stretch of railway track uses a track maintenance machine which runs on the track and which has at least one measuring reference system (13) guided by feelers (10 and 12) on the track and sensors (14 and 15) for determining the position of the track relative to the measuring reference system (13) and which also has track correcting tools (16). The method comprises performing a preliminary measuring run to acquire a series of track measurements at spaced points along the track by the sensor (14). A design profile is then determined from these measurements and correction values prescribed necessary to achieve the design profile. Then a maintenance run is performed during which the track correcting tools are controlled in accordance with the prescribed correction values whereby to adjust the track geometry. Also during both the preliminary measuring run and the maintenance run a second series of track measurements is made by sensor (15) at spaced points along the track and offsets measured by the sensor (15) during the preliminary measuring run and the maintenance run are used to determine the actual adjustment values made at said spaced points along the track.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH RAILWAYS BOARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BRITISH RAILWAYS BOARD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARRIOTT DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WISEMAN PAUL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MARRIOTT, DAVID CHARLES
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WISEMAN, PAUL WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to methods of railway track 
maintenance utilising a track maintenance machine which 
runs on the track. The invention is applicable to both the 
correction of horizontal track geometry (i.e. alignment) 
and vertical track geometry (i.e. level). Track lining 
systems are described for example in GB-A-2112050 and FR-A-2300171 The present invention is based upon the known two-pass 
track maintenance method in which a survey of a 
stretch of track to be maintained is first made and from 
the data obtained an improved horizontal or vertical track 
geometry (i.e. a design profile) is determined and the 
necessary adjustments to be made to the track to achieve 
the design profile calculated. The predetermined 
adjustments are then made by the track maintenance machine 
as it runs along the track. One such commonly used method for track alignment 
involves the use of a lining machine fitted with a 
measuring system for measuring the local curvature of the 
track. The survey comprises a preliminary measuring run 
by the machine during which the pattern of curvature is 
recorded throughout the stretch of track to be maintained. 
An improved pattern of track curvature, i.e. the design 
profile, is determined either by graphical or computational 
means. This then provides the basis for determining the 
correction values necessary to achieve the design profile. 
These correction values are then used to control the sluing 
of the track as the machine passes along the stretch of 
track during a subsequent maintenance run. Such a method 
is described in GB 2036379B. The accuracy of track lining by this method is 
significantly compromised however by errors in the sluing 
of the track. These errors arise from a number of 
sources, such as the natural lateral stiffness of the track 
structure which causes track "springback" immediately after 
lining, and tolerances in the lining control system. On 
most machines the track is tamped after lining has taken  
 
place and this often causes the track to slide sideways, 
especially where heavily canted.  
 In the case of track level adjustment by tamping a 
similar method to that described above may be applied to 
the correction of vertical track misalignments. Again the 
survey comprises a preliminary measuring run by a track 
level correcting machine during which track level 
measurements are recorded throughout the stretch of track 
to be maintained in order to determine the existing track 
profile from which an improved vertical track profile , 
i.e.
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of adjusting the geometry of a stretch of 
railway track using a track maintenance machine which runs 

on the track and which has a) track correcting tools, b) at 
least one measuring reference system guided by feelers on 

the track and comprising at least one straight reference 
line extending from a front position located forwardly of 

the track maintenance machine on uncorrected track to a 
rear position located rearwardly of the machine on 

corrected track and c) a sensor arrangement comprising a 
first sensor means located in the vicinity of the track 

correcting tools and a second sensor means located 
rearwardly of the rearmost load bearing wheels of the track 

maintenance machine for measuring the respective offsets of 
the track from said line at these locations, the method 

comprising performing a preliminary measuring run to 
acquire a series of track measurements at spaced points 

along the track by said first sensor means ,determining a 
design profile from these measurements and prescribing the 

correction values necessary to achieve the design profile 
and then performing a maintenance run during which the 

track correcting tools are controlled in accordance with 
said prescribed correction values whereby to adjust the 

track geometry, characterised in that during both the 
preliminary measuring run and the maintenance run a second 

series of track measurements is made by said second sensor 
means at spaced points along the track and offsets measured 

by said second sensor means during the preliminary 
measuring run and the maintenance run are used to determine 

the actual adjustment values made at said spaced points 
along the track. 
A method according to Claim 1, characterised in that 
said actual adjustment values are determined utilising the 

difference in the offsets measured at each of said spaced 
points by said second sensor means during the preliminary 

measuring run and the maintenance run.  
 
A method according to Claim 1 or 2, characterised in 
that said actual adjustment values are calculated according 

to the formula: 

CC' = CE - C'E' + ((CA/DA)*DD') 
 
where 


CC' is the actual adjustment value at point C, 
CE is the offset measured at point C by the 
second sensor means during the preliminary 

measuring run, 
C'E' is the offset measured at point C by the 
second sensor means during the maintenance run, 
CA is the distance from the point C to the 
front position of the reference line, 
DA is the distance between the front and rear 
positions of the reference line, and 
DD' is the actual adjustment value 
made previously at the rear position of 

the reference line. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, 
characterised in that said determined adjustment values are 

used during the maintenance run as the adjustment values 
made at the rear position of the reference line as said 

rear position reaches each of said spaced points in turn. 
A method according to any preceding Claim, 
characterised in that the measurements obtained from said 

first sensor means during the maintenance run are used to 
monitor the offsets of the track from said reference line 

in order to control the track correcting tools to apply the 
prescribed correction values. 
A method according to any preceding Claim as applied 
to track alignment, characterised in that said first and 

second sensor means measure the horizontal offsets of the 
track from said reference line.  

 
A method according to Claim 6, characterised in that 
systematic errors are compensated for in the values of the 

prescribed correction values (i.e. slues) to be applied. 
A method according to claim 7, characterised in that 
the magnitude of the systematic errors are determined by 

monitoring the slue errors within a worksite or part of a 
site. 
A method according to claim 8, characterised in that 
it is assumed that : 


slue error = L + M*slue +N*cant 
 
   where L, M and N are constants 

and L, M and N are determined by measuring over a short 
length of a worksite for which the applied slue and cant 

are known and then these constants are used to calculate 
the prescribed slue value to be applied at the next 

maintenance position. 
A method according to claim 9, characterised in that 
a rolling window of measured errors is used to update the 

constants as the machine passes through the worksite. 
A method according to any one of Claims 1 to 5 applied 
to track level correction by tamping, characterised in that 

said first and second sensor means measure the vertical 
offsets of the track from said reference line. 
A method according to Claim 11, characterised in that 
said first sensor means is used during the maintenance run 

to monitor the level at the position of the track 
correcting tools to which the track has been lifted.  

 
A method according to Claim 11 or 12, characterised in 
that said first sensor means comprises two sensors spaced 

from each other along the track, one of said two sensors 
being used during the prelimin
ary measuring run and the 
other during the maintenance run. 
A method according to Claim 13, characterised in that 
said two sensors are associated with respective reference 

lines one of which extends from the position of said second 
sensor means to said front position. 
A method according to any one of Claims 11 to 14, 
characterised in that said second series of measurements is 

utilised to control overlifting of the track. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
