<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0612257</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTO CPAP SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M1600	A61M1600	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M16	A61M16	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention relates to systems and methods for automatically and continuously regulating the level of nasal pressure to an optimal value during OSA treatment. OSA therapy is implemented by a device (2) which automatically re-evaluates an applied pressure and continually searches for a minimum pressure required to adequately distend a patient's pharyngeal airway. For example, this optimal level varies with body position and stage of sleep throughout the night. In addition, this level varies depending upon the patient's body weight and whether or not alcohol or sleeping medicine has been ingested.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV TECHNOLOGIES INT
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIVERSITY TECHNOLOGIES INTERNATIONAL INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FEROAH THOMAS R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REMMERS JOHN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SURATT PAUL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FEROAH, THOMAS, R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
REMMERS, JOHN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SURATT, PAUL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to systems
for treating sleep disorders. More
particularly, the invention relates to systems
for treating obstructive sleep apnea using an
adaptive control system for applying air pressure to
the nasal airway.Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a newly
recognized disease that victimizes 15% of adult males.
The disorder arises during sleep when the victim
undergoes repeated cessation of breathing. This
cessation results from an obstruction of the throat air
passage (pharynx) due to a collapse of the throat air
passage. Repeated cessation of breathing reduces blood
oxygen and disturbs sleep. Reduction in blood oxygen
can cause heart attacks and strokes. Sleep
disturbances can produce excessive daytime sleepiness,
a leading cause of auto accidents.Medical research over the past decade has provided
only one effective and practical approach to OSA
therapy, known as nasal continuous positive airway
pressure (CPAP). In this therapeutic approach, a
patient's nose is covered with a mask that forms a
pressure seal with the surrounding face. While the
patient sleeps, the mask is pressurized to a level that
distends the collapsible throat air passage, thereby
preventing obstruction. This therapeutic approach provides two significant
advantages: it is uniformly effective, and it is
entirely benign. A major disadvantage of this approach
is that the patient must remain overnight in a hospital
sleep center to undergo a full night polysomnography
study with the pressure mask in place to determine the
therapeutic level of pressure. A further disadvantage
of this approach is that the pressure delivered to the
patient during the polysomnography study is constant
and fixed at the prescribed level, even though the
patient's requirements may vary throughout the night
and from night-to-night.The overnight study represents a major bottleneck
to treating hundreds of thousands of patients with OSA
because it typically requires two full night
polysomnographic studies for each new patient: one to
establish the diagnosis (diagnostic-polysomnogram) and
another to establish the aforementioned therapeutically
optimal pressure (therapeutic-polysomnogram). The
therapeutic polysomnographic study is necessary to
determine the minimum level of pressure required to
produce a patient pharyngeal airway (i.e., to determine
the necessary therapeutic pressure required for
properly treating the patient). These studies,
performed in a specialized hospital sleep center, allow
a specialist to specify the pressure
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
System (2) for providing continuous positive airway
pressure in an upper airway system of a patient, said

system being of the type having means (4) for
generating pressure to said upper airway system in

response to a command pressure and means for
adaptively controlling said pressure generating means

(4), the system (2) being characterized by:

means for detecting (8) a rate of airflow within the
system;
means for partitioning said airflow into respiratory
and non-respiratory components in response to the

detecting means (8);
means for identifying periods off inspiration and
expiration by taking account of non-respiratory airflow information;
means (106) for extracting a first respiratory airflow
profile for a plurality of breaths at a first supply

pressure;
means (136) for determining a second respiratory
airflow profile for at least one breath at a second

supply pressure once the supply pressure has been
changed from the first supply pressure to the second

supply pressure by said pressure generating means (4);
means (138) for comparing the first and second airflow
profiles; and

wherein the means for adaptively controlling the
pressure generating means comprises means (10,12) for

preventing a patient breathing disturbance from
occurring by adaptively controlling said pressure 

generating means (4) in response to said comparing
means (138)

.
System (2) of claim 1, wherein the extracting means
(106) is further adapted to extract peak inspiratory

airflow information for a plurality of breaths at the
first pressure, and wherein the determining means

(136) is further adapted to determine a second peak
inspiratory airflow for at least one breath at a

second pressure, and wherein the comparing means (138)
is further adapted to compare the first and second

peak inspiratory airflow along with the first and
second airflow profile.
System (2) according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said
adaptive control means (10,12) further includes:


means for averaging airflow information over a
predetermined period of time and for determining non-respiratory

flow using said averaged information; and
means for identifying periods of inspiration and
expiration using said non-respiratory flow

information.
System (2)according to claim 3, wherein said adaptive
control means (10,12) identifies a critical pressure

(P
crit
) as a pressure at which a predetermined upper
airway obstruction occurs during said inspiration.
System (2) according to claim 4, wherein said adaptive
control means (10,12) extracts features indicative of

airflow resistance in said upper airway system to 
identity said critical pressure (P
crit
) and to set said
command pressure.
System (2) according to claim 5, wherein said
extracted features include flatness, roundness and

peak flow.
System (2) of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein means (8)
for detecting a rate of airflow is adapted to detect

airflow to the upper airway system in predetermined
increments of time to allow the production of airflow

profiles for the breaths.
System (2) of claim 7, wherein the means (106) for
extracting a first respiratory airflow profile

further extracts from the first respiratory airflow
profile features comprising peak inspiratory airflow,

flatness and/or roundness and wherein the means for
determining a second respiratory airflow profile

further determines from the second respiratory airflow

profile features comprising peak inspiratory airflow
and either flatness or roundness.
System (2) of claim 8, wherein the comparing means is
adapted to comparing the peak inspiratory airflow and

the flatness or roundness of the first airflow profile
with the same features extracted from said second

respiratory airflow profile.
System (2 of any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the means
for determining a second respiratory airflow profile 

is such that the at least one breath comprises a
single breath.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein
said system further includes:


means for determining an inspiratory airflow profile
for said at least one period of inspiration.
System according to claim 11, wherein said determining
means further includes:


means for calculating a roundness feature and a
flatness feature for said at least one period of

inspiration.
System according to claim 12, further including:

means for establishing a predetermined airflow limit
from at least said roundness feature, said flatness

feature and a peak airflow signal, said predetermined
airflow limit being adjusted in accordance with

predetermined limit modifiers.
System according to claim 13, further comprising:

means for updating said predetermined airflow limit
modifiers in response to patient sleep stage and

detected respiratory instabilities.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, further
comprising:


means for identifying test periods suitable for
adjusting said upper airway pressure, said identifying

means further including means for detecting 
respiratory instabilities which would render said test

periods inaccurate.
System according to claim 15, wherein said identifying
means further includes:


means for initiating a test period when respiratory
instabilities have been detected for a predetermined

number of inspiration and expiration periods.
System according to claim 15, wherein said means for
detecting respiratory instabilities further includes:


means for determining that predetermined upper airway
system performance indices are within predetermined

physiological ranges.
System according to claim 17, wherein said determining
means further includes:


means for detecting respiratory variation, apnea and
hypoventilation.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein
said means for determining the non-respiratory

component further includes:

means for detecting airflow leaks in an airflow path
connected with said upper airway system.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein
said means for determining a critical pressure further

includes:

means for reducing pressure in said upper airway
system by a first predetermined amount; and 
means for incrementally reducing pressure in said
upper airway system by a second predetermined amount

less than said first predetermined amount.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, further
including:


a memory for storing extracted features and
incremental pressure adjustments.
System according to claim 13, wherein said first and
second predetermined airflow profiles correspond to

peak airflow limits when said roundness and flatness
features have not changed by more than a predetermined

amount.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, further
comprising:


an additional external input from an oxygen saturation
monitor or a snoring monitor.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, further
comprising:


an additional external input from a monitor of
pressure, sound, oxygen saturation or body position.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein
said adaptive control means further includes:


means for identifying a critical pressure (P
crit
) at
which a significant obstruction occurs during said

inspiration; and 
means for identifying an optimum pressure for
eliminating said obstruction during said inspiration.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein
said adaptive control means performs the adjustment by

identifying relative changes in airflow during said
step of detecting.
System according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein
said adaptive control means further includes:


means for extracting features indicative of airflow
resistance in said upper airway system.
System according to claim 25, wherein said means for
identifying a critical pressure and an optimum

pressure further includes:

means for introducing incremental pressure
perturbations into said upper airway system;
means for extracting characteristic features of said
upper airway system during inspiration;
means for using said extracted characteristics to
identify the optimum pressure and the critical

pressure.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
