<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0642096</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Arrangement for simultaneously interrogating a plurality of portable radio frequency communication devices
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06K700	H04B726	G06K700	G01S1376	H04B726	H04B159	G01S1379	G07B1102	H04B159	G01S1375	G01S1300	H04B502	G07B1100	H04B502	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06K	H04B	G06K	G01S	H04B	H04B	G01S	G07B	H04B	G01S	G01S	H04B	G07B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06K7	H04B7	G06K7	G01S13	H04B7	H04B1	G01S13	G07B11	H04B1	G01S13	G01S13	H04B5	G07B11	H04B5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An updatable, interrogation system (10) is provided for simultaneously 
interrogating a plurality of portable data cards (20). Operable over a plurality of 

radio frequencies, the interrogation system sequentially communicates with each 
portable data card as it comes within communication range on a first one of the 

plurality of radio frequencies for determining a unique identification number 
associated with each data card. Once the identification number for a card is obtained 

by the interrogation system, a predetermined transaction, such as deactivating an 
electronic barrier to entering a limited access area, for the holder of the identified 

card is initiated. The interrogation system then selects and moves with each card to 
a different one of the plurality of radio frequencies for completing a data transfer 

portion of the transaction. The interrogation system simultaneously completes each 
predetermined transaction of reading from and writing data to each one of the 

plurality of cards while communicating with each card on the respectively selected 
ones of the plurality of radio frequencies. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT 
&
 T CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
AT
&
T CORP.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDELBAUM RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MANDELBAUM, RICHARD
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to interrogators for, and
to methods of, remotely interrogating a portable data card.Wireless technology is fueling a major revolution in communications.
This technology allows new access connections to landline networks. However, the
impact of wireless is far more profound than simply being another method of access.
Wireless technology allows the customer to have mobility in his or her
communications and not be constrained to the tether of wired access. Wireless
technology also permits the customer to gain access to an application from wherever
he or she wishes, within the constraints of wireless network deployment and range.What is still in its infant stages, however, is wireless communications
which enables a user of a smart card-like device to become completely untethered
when using such a device in short range wireless communications.A number of proposals have been made with regard to providing a
customer with a wireless connection for performing various financial transactions.
One such proposal, for example, is described in United States Patent 4,977,501
which issued to J. P. Lefevre on December 11, 1990. This patent describes a fare
collection system for operators of transport vehicles wherein information is
periodically exchanged at microwave frequencies between a smart card-like ticket,
held by a passenger in the vehicle, and a transceiver also in the vehicle. A credit
balance initially assigned to the ticket is decremented by circuitry in the transceiver
which interrogates the ticket.Other proposals have also been made with regard to providing a holder
of a smart card-like device with an identifying radio frequency signal which
uniquely identifies the individual holder of the device. One proposed wireless
system for providing a radio frequency emitting identifier is described in U. S. Patent
4,384,288 issued to C. A. Walton on May 17,1983. This patent describes an
electronic identification system comprising a credit card-shaped identifier which
generates a programmable pulse position-modulated signal in the radio frequency
range for identification of the user. It is becoming increasingly necessary to quickly and accurately identify
people located at a terminal remote to a central processing station. Such identification
is necessary for making financial transactions or for expediting the movement of people
through electronic barriers. In such systems, the identification must be accurate and, to
conserve computer time, done relatively quickly.As wireless communication
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
An interrogator (10) for remotely interrogating a portable data card
(20), the interrogator being operable over a plurality of radio frequencies, the

interrogator including:

means (11, 12, 18) for communicating with the portable data card (20) on
a first one of the plurality of radio frequencies for ascertaining, by the interrogator (10),

a unique identification number associated with the data card (20);
means (17) for initiating a predetermined transaction responsive to
receipt of the unique identification number by the interrogator (10);
and 
CHARACTERIZED BY
means (17) for completing the predetermined transaction while
communicating with the card (20) on a second one of the plurality of radio frequencies,

the interrogator (10) serving to read data from and write data to the card (20) while
communicating over the second one of the plurality of radio frequencies, the second one

of the plurality of radio frequencies being a different radio frequency from the first one
of the plurality of radio frequencies; and
means for transmitting a locking command and a subsequent lock reset
command to the card (20), the locking command being operable to be registered in the

card (20) and being operable to be disabled by the lock reset command issued by the
interrogator (10) in response to the interrogator (10) completing the predetermined

transaction, the locking command being operable to prevent the unique identification
number from being subsequently read from the card (20).
An interrogator as claimed in claim 1 wherein the initiation means
includes activation means for gaining access to a limited access area, the activation

means serving to deactivate an electronic barrier to entering the limited access area.
An interrogator as claimed in claim 1 wherein a first read/write
command from the interrogator (10) to the card (20) in a transaction includes the

locking command. 
An interrogator as claimed in claim 3 wherein a last read/write
command from the interrogator (10) to the card (20) in a transaction includes the lock

reset command.
An interrogator as claimed in claim 4 wherein, in the absence of the
predetermined transaction being completed by the completion means (17), the locking

command remains registered in the card (20) for disabling the card (20).
A method of remotely interrogating a portable data card (20) from an
interrogation station (10), the interrogation station (10) being operable over a plurality

of radio frequencies, the method including the steps of:

communicating with the portable data card (20) on a first one of the

plurality of radio frequencies for ascertaining, by the interrogation station (10), a unique
identification number associated with the data card (20);
initiating a predetermined transaction responsive to receipt of the unique
identification number by the interrogation station (10);
and 
CHARACTERIZED BY
completing the predetermined transaction while communicating with the
card (20) on a second one of the plurality of radio frequencies, the second one of the

plurality of radio frequencies being a different radio frequency from the first one of the
plurality of radio frequencies, and
transmitting a locking command to the card (20) and transmitting a
subsequent lock reset command to the card (20), the locking command being operable

to be initially registered in the card (20) upon receipt and being operable to be disabled
in the card (20) upon receipt of the lock reset command, the locking command being

operable to prevent the unique identification number from being subsequently read from
the card (20), and the lock reset command being issued by the interrogation station (10)

in response to the interrogation station (10) completing the predetermined transaction.
A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the completing step includes
the steps of reading data from the card (20) and writing data while communicating over

the second one of the plurality of radio frequencies. 
A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the initiation step includes
the step of deactiviating an electronic barrier for gaining access to a limited access area

controlled by the barrier.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
