<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0624876</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Recording and reproduction of digital video and audio data
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04N546	H04N546	G10H136	G10H136	H04N5926	G11B2730	H04N5926	H04N592	H04N982	G11B2734	G11B2730	G11B2710	H04N5445	H04N5775	G11B2710	H04N5445	G11B2734	H04N5775	H04N982	H04N592	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04N	H04N	G10H	G10H	H04N	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	G11B	G11B	G11B	H04N	H04N	G11B	H04N	G11B	H04N	H04N	H04N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04N5	H04N5	G10H1	G10H1	H04N5	G11B27	H04N5	H04N5	H04N9	G11B27	G11B27	G11B27	H04N5	H04N5	G11B27	H04N5	G11B27	H04N5	H04N9	H04N5	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An apparatus and method for recording digital video and audio 
data on a record medium receives digital video and audio data and topic 

data having identifying topics, and generates menu data in accordance 
with those identifying topics. The video and audio data, topic data 

and menu data are recorded on a record medium in the form of a coded 
signal having a recording format comprising respective video, audio and 

subcode areas in which the video data, the audio data and the menu 
data, respectively, are provided. The video and audio areas have 

respective auxiliary areas in which the topic data is provided. In 
addition, auxiliary character data is generated when character 

information is received by a teletext broadcast system and recorded in 
the auxiliary areas of the video and audio areas of each track. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
SONY CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIMURA MASANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURO MASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KIMURA, MASANORI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
OGURO, MASAKI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to recording and reproduction of digital video
and audio data. The invention can be applied to a digital video tape recorder and,
more particularly, to apparatus for recording and reproducing digital video and audio
signals with menu and topic data including table of content data.Digital video tape recorders which record and reproduce video and audio
signals in coded form in tracks on a record medium are known in the art. It is also
known to record auxiliary information in a subcode area of each track. The auxiliary
information may represent character information indicative of, for example, a title or
recording date of the video and audio signals which have been recorded on the record
medium. One example of such a system is disclosed in European Patent Application
No. 0,561,281.JP-A-5076047 discloses recording and reproduction devices wherein an index
area is set aside for holding character information such as speech or a title.However, there is a present need for a digital video tape recorder which is
capable of displaying a "menu" of the auxiliary information recorded on the record
medium, thus providing an easy mechanism for selecting auxiliary information to be
utilized. Existing digital tape recorders do not provide for such a menu. In addition,
it would be advantageous to provide a table of contents of the programs and chapters
stored on the record medium to facilitate automatic location and reproduction of a
user-selected chapter.Further, there is a present need for a digital video tape recorder to utilize a
teletext signal in which alpha-numeric and graphic characters are broadcast. Such a
system may, for example, 
automatically provide program title and other information about a
transmitted program, and in addition, enhance the functionality of
selecting a program or programs to be recorded at a future time by
providing a television program list within the broadcast signal. The
user may select from the list a desired program to be recorded.
Existing devices do not contain such a feature.Another shortcoming of existing digital video tape recorders
is that all of the auxiliary information recorded on a track is
reproduced even when less than all of the auxiliary information is
needed, thus resulting in unnecessary reproductions, a need for large
storage capacity and a slower response time.Respective different aspects of the present invention are set
forth in Claims 1, 18, 22 and 38.Embodiments of the present invention provide an apparatus and
method for recording and
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Apparatus for recording digital video and audio data on a record medium (21),
the apparatus comprising:


means for receiving digital video and audio data and topic data having
identifying topics to be recorded;
means for generating menu data in accordance with said identifying topics;
means for arranging said digital video and audio data, said topic data and said
menu data in a predetermined format for recording, said format including video,

audio and subcode areas in which video data, audio data and menu data, respectively,
are provided, said video and audio areas

including
respective auxiliary areas in which

topic data is provided; and
means for recording successive tracks on said record medium (21), each track
containing said digital video data, said digital audio data, said topic data and said

menu data in said predetermined format.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said topic data is associated with
either said digital video data or said digital audio data, and said means for arranging

provides topic data associated with said digital video data in said auxiliary area of
said video area, and provides topic data associated with said digital audio data in said

auxiliary area of said audio area.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said menu data includes position
data indicative of the respective area of a track in which said topic data is located,

and said means for recording records said position data in said subcode area of each
of said successive tracks.
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, including means for generating
table-of-content data identifying the content of the data recorded in said video and

audio areas of each track, and wherein said means for recording records said table-of-content
data in said subcode area of each of said successive tracks. 
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said means for recording is operable
to after record said table-of-content data on tracks already having video and audio

data recorded thereon.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5, wherein said table-of-content data
includes an identifying topic TOC, and said menu data includes said identifying topic

TOC.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein said table-of-content
data identifies chapters of a program recorded on tracks on said record

medium.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said table-of-content data identifies
the chapter in which said track having said table-of-content data is recorded.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, wherein said table-of-content data
identifies parts of each of said chapters and also identifies the part in which said

table-of-content data is recorded.
Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein said means for
generating table-of-content data includes means for determining a beginning and an

ending of each of said chapters, and wherein said table of content data includes data
corresponding to said beginning and said ending of each of said chapters.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said table-of-content data recorded
on a respective track identifies the chapter in which said respective track is located.
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said topic data
corresponding to at least one of said identifying topics includes character data

representing a plurality of languages.
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said menu data 
comprises a list of said identifying topics.
Apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, including:

means for reproducing said menu data from said subcode area of a track; and
means for generating a menu list of said identifying topics from said menu
data.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 14, including means for selecting one of said
identifying topics from said menu list and means for providing said topic data

corresponding to said selected identifying topic as an output.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for providing includes
means for reproducing only said respective area of said track in which said topic data

corresponding to said selected identifying topic is located.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16, wherein said topic data
corresponding to at least one of said identifying topics includes character data

representing a plurality of languages, said means for selecting includes means for
selecting a language of said selected identifying topic, and topic data corresponding

to said selected identifying topic and said selected language is provided as an output.
Apparatus for recording and reproducing digital video and audio data on a
record medium (21), the apparatus comprising:


means for receiving digital video data, digital audio data, topic data having
identifying topics and character information from a teletext broadcast system;
means for generating auxiliary character data from said character information
in accordance with said teletext broadcast system;
means for arranging said digital video and audio data, said topic data and said
auxiliary character data in a predetermined format for recording, said format

including video and audio areas in which video data and audio data, respectively, are
provided, said video and audio areas

including
respective auxiliary areas in which

auxiliary character data and topic data are provided; and 
means for recording successive tracks on said record medium, each
track containing said digital video data, said digital audio data, said topic data
and said auxiliary character data in said predetermined format.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein said auxiliary character data

includes a list of broadcast programs identifying said digital video and audio data that
can be received.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 18 or claim 19, wherein said character
information includes a control code, and said auxiliary character data is generated in

accordance with said control code.
Apparatus as claimed in claim 18 or claim 19, wherein said character
information includes a character code, and said auxiliary character data is generated

in accordance with said character code.
A method of recording digital video and audio data on a record medium (21),
the method comprising the steps of:


receiving digital video and audio data and topic data having identifying topics
to be recorded;
generating menu data in accordance with said identifying topics;
arranging said digital video and audio data, said topic data and said menu data
in a predetermined format for recording, said format including video, audio and

subcode areas in which video data, audio data and menu data, respectively, are
provided, said video and audio areas

including
respective auxiliary areas in which topic

data is provided; and
recording successive tracks on said record medium (21), each track containing
said digital video and audio data, said topic data and said menu data in said

predetermined format.
A method as claimed in claim 22, wherein said topic data is associated with
either said digital video data or said digital audio data, topic data associated with said 

digital video data is recorded in said auxiliary area of said video area, and topic data
associated with said digital audio data is recorded in said auxiliary area of said audio

area.
A method as claimed in claim 22 or claim 23, wherein said menu data
includes position data indicative of the respective area of a track in which said topic

data is located, and said step of recording records said position data in said subcode
area of each of said successive tracks.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 24, including the steps of
generating table-of-content data identifying the content of the data recorded in said

video and audio areas of each track, and post-recording said table-of-content data in
said subcode area of each of said successive tracks.
A method as claimed in claim 25, wherein said table-of-content data includes
identifying topic TOC, and said menu data includes said identifying topic TOC.
A method as claimed in claim 25 or claim 26, wherein said table-of-content
data identifies chapters of a program recorded on tracks on said record medium.
A method as claimed in claim 27, wherein said table-of-content data identifies
the chapter in which said track having said table-of-content data is recorded.
A method as claimed in claim 27 or claim 28, wherein said table-of-content data
identifies parts of each of said chapters and also identifies the part in which said track

having said table-of-content data is recorded.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein said step of
generating table-of-content data determines a beginning and an ending of each of said

chapters, and wherein said table-of-content data includes data corresponding to said
beginning and said ending of each of said chapters. 
A method as claimed in claim 30, wherein said table-of-content data recorded
on a respective track identifies the chapter in which said respective track is located.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 31, wherein said topic data
corresponding to at least one of said identifying topics includes character data

representing a plurality of languages.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 32, wherein said menu data
comprises a list of said identifying topics.
A method as claimed in any one of claims 22 to 33, including the
steps of:


reproducing said menu data from said subcode area of a track; and
generating a menu list of said identifying topics from said menu data.
A method as claimed in claim 34, including the steps of selecting one of said
identifying topics from said menu list and providing said topic data corresponding to

said selected identifying topic as an output.
A method as claimed in claim 35, wherein said step of providing provides said
topic data by reproducing only said respective area of said track in which said topic

data is located.
A method as claimed in claim 35 or claim 36, wherein said topic data
corresponding to at least one of said identifying topics includes character data

representing a plurality of languages, said step of selecting includes selecting a
language of said selected identifying topic, and topic data corresponding to said

selected identifying topic and said selected language is provided as an output.
A method of recording digital video and audio data on a record medium (21),
the method comprising the steps of:


receiving digital video data, digital audio data, topic data having identifying 
topics and character information from a teletext broadcast system;
generating auxiliary character data from said character information in
accordance with said teletext broadcast system;
arranging said digital video and audio data, said topic data and said auxiliary
character data in a predetermined format for recording, said format including video

and audio areas in which video data and audio data, respectively, are provided, said
video and audio areas

including
respective auxiliary areas in which auxiliary character

data and topic data are provided; and
recording successive tracks on said record medium (21), each track containing
said digital video data, said digital audio data, said topic data and said auxiliary

character data in said predetermined format.
A method as claimed in claim 38, wherein said auxiliary character data
includes a list of broadcast programs identifying said digital video and audio data that

can be received.
A method as claimed in claim 38 or claim 39, wherein said character
information includes a control code, and said auxiliary character data is generated in

accordance with said control code.
A method as claimed in claim 38 or claim 39, wherein said character information
includes a character code, and said auxiliary character data is generated in accordance

with said character code.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
