<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615677</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
INDUCTION HEATING APPARATUS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F27D2300	H05B610	H05B636	H05B640	H05B602	H05B602	H05B636	F27D2300	H05B610	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F27D	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	H05B	F27D	H05B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F27D23	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	H05B6	F27D23	H05B6	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EA TECH LTD
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EA TECHNOLOGY LIMITED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACKSON WILLIAM BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
JACKSON, WILLIAM, BARRY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to induction heating
apparatus, particularly for heating elongate metal
workpieces of uniform width.GB-A-1546367 discloses such
an apparatus in which magnetic pole pieces extend
transversely of the length of the workpiece the associated
windings being energised from an alternating current
supply. A difficulty which arises with induction heating
apparatus is obtaining a uniform temperature profile
across the width of the workpiece being heated. In the
prior art, attempts to obtain such a uniform temperature
profile have involved seeking to control the flux density
produced per unit width across the workpiece. In
GB-A-1546367, flux per unit width is controlled by
appropriate shaping, construction or arrangement of the
pole pieces, or by the use of appendages attached to these
pole pieces.An alternative form of induction heating
apparatus that has been proposed is described in
GB-A-712066. Here the magnetic pole pieces extend
longitudinally along the length of the workpiece, so that
currents are induced in the major surfaces of the
workpiece flowing longitudinally rather than transversely
across the width. This arrangement can assist in avoiding
the heat distortions caused by transversely flowing
current loops being completed by longitudinal currents at
the workpiece edges. However, longitudinally extending
pole pieces imply alternative magnetic poles across the
width of the workpiece, in turn implying a periodic
distribution of longitudinal eddy currents across the
width. Clearly, such a periodic spatial distribution of
eddy current can result in a corresponding variation in
heating effect over the workpiece width.GB-A-712066 suggests that this may not be a
problem provided the spacing between adjacent magnetic
poles across the workpiece width is sufficiently small, 
e.g. 1 to 2 cms. However, the magnetic efficiency of such
an arrangement would be very low due to these small
magnetic pole spacings. This prior art specification does
also propose an arrangement in which "it is not even
necessary to use particularly small pole pitches" in which
the width of the workpiece is equal substantially exactly
to an even number of magnetic pole pitches. Then it is
stated that a completely uniform heating across the width
of the strip can be obtained by energising the windings of
the inductor to provide both sine and cosine magnetic
field distributions across the width of the workpiece.
This is achieved either by energising the windings at two
different frequencies, or at the same frequency but
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Induction heating apparatus for heating an
elongate metal workpiece (5) of predetermined width w,

comprising means (1,2,3:23,24,25,26) to generate
time varying magnetic fields having magnitudes with

spatial profiles across the width w of the workpiece
(5) which respectively correspond to time averaged

longitudinal eddy current distributions in the
workpiece (5) having distributions across the width of

the workpiece (5) which are substantially:

J(x) Cos(x)

and

√κ J(x) Sin(x)

where

x is the distance across the width of the workpiece
from the centre line,
J(x) is proportional to the magnitude of induced current
density in the workpiece at a distance x from the centre

line required to produce a desired profile P(x) across the
width w of heat energy generated in the workpiece,
κ is the ratio of the time for which said field
corresponding to said sine eddy current distribution is

generated relative to the time for which said field
corresponding to said cosine eddy current distribution is

generated, and
(x) is a function of x selected such that in substance
-w/2
 ∫ 
w/2
 J(x) e
j(x)
 dx = 0 ;

characterised in that
said magnetic field generating means is arranged for

generating said fields with said
corresponding eddy current distributions when J is

non-uniform.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said
magnetic field generating means generates said respective

fields simultaneously at different energising frequencies. 
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said
magnetic field generating means generates said respective

fields simultaneously at the same energising frequency but
in phase quadrature.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said
magnetic field generating means generates said respective

fields successively in time.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said
respective fields are generated alternatively.
Apparatus as claimed in any of Claims 2 to 5
wherein said magnetic field generating means generates

said respective magnetic fields over the same region of a
workpiece.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said
magnetic field generating means generates said respective

magnetic fields simultaneously at the same energising
frequency and phase, but over spaced apart regions of a

workpiece so that said fields do not interact.
Apparatus as claimed in Claims 2 to 6 for heating
a workpiece of sufficient thickness that magnetic fields

in opposite broad faces do not interact wherein both of
said respective fields are generated over one broad face

of said workpiece and said magnetic field generating means
is arranged to generate corresponding further said

respective fields over the other broad face of said
workpiece at the same location along the length of the

workpiece, said corresponding further fields being
generated simultaneously with said respective fields over

the one face to have corresponding eddy current 
distributions across the width of the workpiece which are

in time antiphase to the eddy currents produced in said
one face.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 7, wherein said
regions are longitudinally spaced along the workpiece.
Apparatus as claimed in Claim 7, wherein said
regions are on opposite sides of a workpiece of sufficient

thickness that the fields do not interact.
Apparatus as claimed in any
preceding claim and including transport means for moving a

workpiece lengthwise past said magnetic field generating
means.
Apparatus as claimed in
any preceding claim wherein said magnetic field

generating means comprises electric current conductors
(7,8:20:24) aligned to be longitudinal relative to the

workpiece and arranged in a parallel array across the
workpiece width, and means

(57,58;61-64) for selectively connecting said
conductors to a source of time varying current whereby

the current in the conductors is selected to produce
said respective magnetic fields.
Apparatus as claimed in
Claim 12, wherein said selectively connecting means

(57,58) is arranged for connecting selected said
conductors in series.
Apparatus as claimed in
Claim 13, wherein said selectively connecting means

(57,58) is arranged for connecting together
corresponding ends of selected pairs of said

conductors to form respective single coil windings. 
Apparatus as claimed in
any of Claims 12 to 14 wherein said means for

selectively connecting includes adjustment means
(68,69) for adjusting the relative currents arranged

to flow in the conductors.
Apparatus as claimed in
any of Claims 12 to 15 whe ein said magnetic field

generating means includes a plurality of sources
of time varying current and said selectively

connecting means is arranged for connecting said
conductors selectively to said sources.
Apparatus as claimed in
Claim 16, wherein said plurality of sources (Fig.7)

comprise sources of different magnitude of current.
Apparatus as claimed in
either of Claims 15 and 16, wherein said plurality of

sources comprise sources of different
frequency.
Induction heating apparatus as claimed in
any of Claims 15 to 17 wherein said plurality of

sources comprise sources of the same frequency
but in phase quadrature.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
