<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640146</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
DNA SEQUENCING METHOD
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C12N1509	C12Q168	C12Q168	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C12N	C12Q	C12Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C12N15	C12Q1	C12Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
There is disclosed a method for determining the sequence of a nucleic acid comprising the steps of: a) forming a single-stranded template comprising the nucleic acid to be sequenced; b) hybridising a primer to the template to form a template/primer complex; c) extending the primer by the addition of a single labelled nucleotide; d) determining the type of the labelled nucleotide added onto the primer; e) removing or neutralising the label; and f) repeating steps (c) to (e) sequentially and recording the order of incorporation of labelled nucleotides. There is also disclosed apparatus for carrying out the method.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOEHRINGER MANNHEIM GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOEHRINGER MANNHEIM GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRENNER SYDNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BRENNER, SYDNEY
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROSENTHAL, ANDRE
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method for sequencing 
DNA. In particular, the present invention concerns a method 
for the automated sequencing of large fragments of DNA. DNA sequence analysis has become one of the most important 
tools available to the molecular biologist. Current 
sequencing technology allows sequence data to be obtained 
from virtually any DNA fragment. This has allowed not only 
the sequencing of entire genes and other genomic sequences 
but also the identification of the sequence of RNA 
transcripts, by the sequencing of cDNA. Currently, emphasis 
is being placed on genomic sequencing in order to determine 
the DNA sequence of entire genomes. Ultimately, it is hoped 
that the sequence of the human genome will be deciphered. Traditional DNA sequencing techniques share three essential 
steps in their approaches to sequence determination. 
Firstly, a multiplicity of DNA fragments are generated from 
a DNA species which it is intended to sequence. These 
fragments are incomplete copies of the DNA species to be 
sequenced. The aim is to produce a ladder of DNA fragments, 
each a single base longer than the previous one. This can 
be achieved by selective chemical degradation of multiple 
copies of the DNA species to be sequenced, as in the Maxam 
and Gilbert method (A. Maxam and W. Gilbert, PNAS 74, p.560, 
1977). Alternatively, the DNA species can be used as a 
template for a DNA polymerase to produce a number of 
incomplete clones, as in the Sanger method (F. Sanger, S. 
Nicklen and A. Cculson, PNAS 74, p.5463, 1977). These 
fragments, which differ in respective length by a single 
base, are then separated on an apparatus which is capable of 
resolving single-base differences in size. A thin 
polyacrylamide gel is invariably used in this process. The 
third and final step is the determination of the nature of 
the base at the end of each fragment. When ordered by the 
size of the fragments which they terminate, these bases  
 
represent the sequence of the original DNA species. Determination of the nature of each base is achieved by 
previously selecting the terminal base of each fragment. In 
the Sanger method, for example, dideoxy nucleoside 
triphosphates (ddNTPs) are used to selectively terminate 
growing DNA clones at an A, C, G or T residue. This means 
that four separate reactions need to be performed for each 
sequencing exercise, each in a separate tube using a 
different ddNTP. In one tube, therefore, each labelled 
fragment will terminate with an A residue, while in the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining the sequence of a nucleic 
acid comprising the steps of: 


a) forming a single-stranded template comprising the 
nucleic acid to be sequenced; 
b) hybridising a primer to the template to form a 
template/primer complex; 
c) extending the primer by the addition of a single 
labelled nucleotide, wherein said labelled nucleotide is not a chain 

elongation inhibitor; 
d) determining the type of the labelled nucleotide added 
onto the primer; 
e) removing or neutralising the label; and 
f) repeating steps (c) to (e) sequentially and recording 
the order of incorporation of labelled nucleotides. 
A method according to claim 1 wherein the 
template/primer complex is bound to a solid-phase support. 
A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein step 
(c) comprises the use of a mixture of both labelled and 

unlabelled nucleotides. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the 
labelled nucleotide is added to the template/primer complex 

in the presence of chain elongation inhibitors. 
A method according to claim 4 wherein the chain 
elongation inhibitors are chain terminators which are 

incorporated into the template/primer complex and step (e) 
further comprises removing the chain terminators. 
A method according to claim 5 wherein the chain elongation inhibitors are dideoxynucleoside triphosphates.  
 
A method according to claim 4 wherein the chain 
elongation inhibitors are not incorporated into the 

template/primer complex. 
A method according to claim 7 wherein the chain 
elongation inhibitors are deoxynucleoside 5'-[α, β-methylene]
 
triphosphates, deoxynucleoside diphosphates or 

deoxynucleoside monophosphates. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein the 
template/primer complex comprises a primer having a 

phosphorothioate nucleoside derivative at its 3' end. 
A method according to claim 8 wherein step (e) 
comprises: 


i) removing the labelled nucleotide with an exonuclease; 
and 
ii) replacing the labelled nucleotide with a corresponding 
unlabelled phosphorothioate nucleoside derivative in the 

presence of chain elongation inhibitors. 
A method according to any preceding claim wherein 
steps (c) and (d) are repeated sequentially a multiplicity 

of times before the removal or neutralisation of the label or labelled nucleotide. 
A method according to any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein 
the label is a fluorescent label and step (e) comprises 

neutralising the label by bleaching with laser radiation or 
by chemical means, or by dissociating the label from the 

labelled nucleotide. 
A process for sequencing a DNA fragment comprising the 
steps of: 


i) hybridising a capped primer containing a 
phosphorothioate nucleoside derivative to a template to form  

 
a template/primer complex; 
ii) adding a labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate, wherein said labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate is not a chain elongation inhibitor, 
together with heterogeneous chain terminators and a suitable 

polymerase to the template/primer complex; 
iii) removing excess reagents by washing; 
iv) measuring the amount of incorporated label; 
v) treating the template/primer complex with an 
exonuclease to remove the labelled nucleotide and the chain terminators; 
vi) removing the exonuclease by washing; 
vii) adding a phosphorothioate deoxynucleoside triphosphate 
corresponding to the labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate 

added in Step ii together with heterogeneous chain 
terminators; 
viii) removing excess reagents by washing; 
ix) treating the template/primer complex with an 
exonuclease to remove the chain terminators; 
x) removing the exonuclease by washing; and 
xi) repeating steps ii to x, each time with a different labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate. 
A process for sequencing a DNA fragment comprising the 
steps of: 


i) hybridising a capped primer containing a 
phosphorothioate nucleoside derivative to a template to form 

a template/primer complex; 
ii) adding a labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate, wherein said labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate is not a chain elongation inhibitor, together with 
heterogeneous chain terminators and a suitable polymerase to the template/primer complex; 
iii) removing excess reagents by washing;  
 
iv) measuring the amount of incorporated label; 
v) removing the labelled nucleotide and the chain 
terminators with an exonuclease; 
vi) removing the exonuclease by washing; 
vii) adding a phosphorothioate deoxynucleoside triphosphate together 
with heterogeneous chain elongation inhibitors not 

incorporated into the chain; 
viii) removing excess reagents by washing; and 
ix) repeating steps ii to viii, each time with a different labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate. 
A process for sequencing a DNA fragment comprising the 
steps of: 


i) hybridising a capped primer containing a 
phosphorothioate deoxynucleoside derivative to a template to form a 

template/primer complex; 
ii) adding a labelled deoxynucleotide triphosphate, wherein said labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate is not a chain elongation inhibitor, together 
with heterogeneous chain elongation inhibitors not 

incorporated into the chain and a suitable polymerase to the template/primer complex; 
iii) removing excess reagent by washing; 
iv) measuring the amount of incorporated label; 
v) repeating steps ii to iv until all four different 
labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphates in the presence of their corresponding 

heterogeneous chain elongation inhibitors not incorporated 
into the chain have been added; 
vi) removing all labelled nucleotides with exonucleases; 
vii) removing the exonuclease by washing;  
 
viii) adding the phosphorothioate deoxynucleoside triphosphate 

corresponding to the first labelled deoxynucleoside triphosphate added to 
the reaction in step ii, together with heterogeneous chain 

elongation inhibitors not incorporated into the chain and a 
suitable polymerase to the template/primer complex; 
ix) removing excess reagents by washing; 
x) repeating steps viii and ix with the three remaining 
phosphorothioate deoxynucleoside triphosphates. 
A process for sequencing a DNA fragment comprising the 
steps of: 


i) hybridising a capped primer to a template to form a 
template/primer complex; 
ii) adding a fluorescent nucleoside triphosphate, wherein said fluorescent nucleoside triphosphate is not a chain elongation inhibitor, together 
with three heterogeneous chain elongation inhibitors not 

incorporated into the chain and a suitable polymerase to the template/primer complex; 
iii) removing excess reagents by washing; 
iv) measuring the amount of incorporated label; 
v) repeating steps ii to iv using all three different 
nucleoside triphosphates, each with a fluorescent label, in 

the presence of the respective heterogeneous chain 
elongation inhibitors not incorporated into the chain; 
vi) destroying the fluorescent labels by bleaching with 
a laser or by a suitable chemical reaction, or removing the 

fluorescent labels by a chemical cleavage step. 
A DNA sequencing kit comprising a plurality of the 
following: 


i) a linker for attaching a DNA template to a solid-phase  
 

matrix, the linker comprising a primer having a 
phosphorothioate deoxynucleoside residue at its 3' end; 
ii) chain elongation inhibitors; 
iii) labelled nucleoside triphosphates; 
iv) phosphorothioate deoxynucleoside triphosphates; 
v) a 5' →3' DNA polymerase; and 
vi) a 3' →5' exonuclease. 
An automated sequencing machine adapted to sequence 
a nucleic acid essentially by executing the steps of a 

method according to any one of claims 1 to 15 comprising: 

i) means for moving a solid-phase support to which the 
template/primer complex is bound into and out of the 

necessary reagent and washing solutions, or means for 
pumping reagents and washing solutions over the solid 

support sequentially; and 
ii) means for detecting the presence of a label. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
