<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1023676</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AUTOMATICALLY RECOGNIZING THE DISCOURSE STRUCTURE OF A BODY OF TEXT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G06F1727	G06F1727	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G06F	G06F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G06F17	G06F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
The present invention is directed to recognizing a discourse structure of a body of text. In a preferred embodiment, a discourse structure recognition facility utilizes syntactic information associated with the body of text to generate a discourse structure tree that characterizes the discourse structure of the body of text. The facility first identifies in the body of text a number of clauses. The facility then determines, for each distinct pair of clauses, which of a number of possible discourse relations should be hypothesized between the pair of clauses, based on the syntactic structure and semantic of the body of text relative to the pair of clauses. The facility then applies the hypothesized relations to the clauses in order to produce a discourse structure tree characterizing the discourse structure of the body of text. In certain embodiments, the facility further generates from the produced discourse structure tree a synopsis of the body of text reflecting the primary goals pursued by its author.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORSTON SIMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE CAMPOS MIGUEL CARDOSO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CORSTON, SIMON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
DE CAMPOS, MIGUEL, CARDOSO
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 AUTOMATICALLY RECOGNIZING THE DISCOURSE STRUCTURE OF A BODY OF TEXTTECHNICAL FIELDThe invention relates generally to the field of computational linguistics, and, more specifically, to the field of discourse processing.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONDiscourse theory is an approach to understanding the content and significance of natural language documents and other units of natural language. According to discourse theory, each natural language document has a "discourse structure" that reflects the purposes of the document's author in authoring the document. Discerning the discourse structure of a natural language document is commonly regarded as an important component of understanding the document.The discourse structure of documents is frequently modeled using hierarchical "discourse structure trees," or simply "trees," such as the "rhetorical structure theory trees" ("RST trees") proposed by Mann and Thompson, "Relational Propositions in Discourse," Discourse Processes 9:57-90 (1986). Such discourse structure trees characterize the relative significance of the constituent segments of the documents, called "propositions." These propositions are generally clauses or phrases. A discourse structure tree identifies the relationships, or "discourse relations," that exist between propositions in the document.Discourse structure trees are typically generated manually, at significant cost, by experts trained as linguists. Because the manual generation of discourse structure trees is expensive, they remain a largely a theoretical tool used to study discourse in general. An automated approach to inexpensively generating discourse structure trees representing the discourse structure of natural language documents, however, would permit the application of discourse theory to the analysis of arbitrary documents. 

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe invention is directed to automatically recognizing the discourse structure of a body of text or other natural language expression. The discourse structure exhibited by a body of text is the organization, or "structure," of the multiple-word textual elements, or "propositions," from which the body of text is constructed. Recognizing the discourse structure of a body of text helps to facilitate the discovery of the author's goals in writing the body of text, and thus helps in some senses to identify the central meaning of the body of text.In order to recognize the discourse structure of an input text, the facility generates one or more discourse structure trees. As discussed herein, a
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
 CLAIMS We claim: 1. A method in a computer system for determining a quantitative score for a discourse structure tree that reflects the likelihood that the discourse structure tree correctly characterizes the discourse structure of a body of text comprised of clauses, the discourse structure tree comprising nodes representing clauses, the nodes including both terminal nodes and non-terminal nodes, the non-terminal nodes each identifying a discourse relation between two or more child nodes, exactly one of the nodes being a root node that is not the child of any node, the method comprising the steps of: for each non-terminal node: determining a quantitative score for the discourse relation represented by the current node that reflects the likelihood that the discourse relation has been correctly recognized between the clauses represented by the child nodes of the current node, combining the scores of any non-terminal child nodes with the score of the discourse relation represented by the current node, and attributing to the current node the combined score; and attributing to the discourse structure tree the score of the root node.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the combining step comprises the step of summing the scores of any non-terminal child nodes with the score of the discourse relation represented by the current node.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: repeating the recited steps for each of a plurality of discourse structure trees characterizing the discourse structure of the body of text to attribute a score to each discourse structure tree of the plurality; and selecting as the preferred discourse structure tree a discourse structure tree to which the largest score is attributed. 

4. A computer-readable medium whose contents cause a computer system to generate a discourse structure tree for a natural language expression that characterizes the discourse structure of the natural language expression, utilizing syntactic information associated with the natural language expression, by performing the steps of: selecting in the natural language expression a plurality of clauses; for each pair of clauses, determining which of a plurality of possible discourse relations to hypothesize between the pair of clauses based upon the syntactic structure of the natural language expression relative to the pair of clauses; and applying the hypothesized relations to the clauses to produce a discourse structure tree characterizing the discourse structure of the natural language expression.
5. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of receiving the natural language expression as a body of text.
6. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of receiving the natural language expression as a body of speech.
7. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of receiving the natural language expression as a body of visual signing.
8. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the determining step determines to hypothesize the discourse relation between a selected pair of clauses based upon the information procured from a lexical knowledge base relative to words occurring in the selected pair of clauses. 

9. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of generating from the natural language expression a syntactic parse result containing the syntactic information utilized by the method.
10. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of generating from the natural language expression a logical form containing at least a portion of the syntactic information utilized by the method.
11. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein semantic information associated with the natural language expression is further utilized, and wherein the determining step determines to hypothesize a discourse relation between a distinguished pair of clauses based upon the semantic information relative to the selected pair of clauses.
12. The computer-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the produced tree is comprised of nodes each having a depth in the tree, the nodes including clause nodes representing clauses identified in the natural language expression and relation nodes representing relations applied to the clauses, and wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of generating a summary of the natural language expression by eliminating from the natural language expression clauses whose clause nodes have a depth in the tree that is deeper than a predetermined cutoff depth.
13. A computer memory containing a discourse relation hypothesizing data structure for use in hypothesizing discourse relations between a pair of clauses, the data structure comprising, for each of a plurality of relations, a list of one or more entries each containing: 


 a list of conditions having an indicated order of application to linguistic information relating to the pair of clauses; and a quantitative score reflecting the relative likelihood that the relation correctly relates the pair of clauses where the list of conditions is satisfied, such that, for the pair of clauses, for one or more of the relations, for each of the entries, the list of conditions may be applied to linguistic information relating to the pair of clauses, and, if the list of conditions is satisfied, the quantitative score may be combined into an overall quantitative score of the relative likelihood that the relation correctly relates the pair of clauses.
14. The computer memory of claim 13 wherein the list of conditions of the discourse relation hypothesizing data structure each apply to syntactic information relating to the pair of clauses.
15. The computer memory of claim 13 wherein the list of conditions of the discourse relation hypothesizing data structure each apply to semantic information relating to the pair of clauses.
16. The computer memory of claim 13 wherein the list of conditions of the discourse relation each apply to syntactic and semantic information relating to the pair of clauses.
17. The computer memory of claim 13 wherein the list of conditions of the discourse relation hypothesizing data structure each apply to information available from a lexical knowledge base relating to words within the pair of clauses.
18. An apparatus for recognizing one or more likely discourse relations between two clauses occurring in a body of natural language text, comprising: for each of a plurality of possible relations 


 a memory storing, for each of a plurality of possible relations, one or more sets of conditions, each condition relating to the syntactic structure of the body of text relative to the two clauses; and a likely relation recognition subsystem that, for each of the plurality of possible relations, recognizes the possible relation as a likely relation between the two clauses where each of the conditions of at least one of the sets of conditions is satisfied by the syntactic structure of the body of text relative to the pair of clauses.
19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the memory stores conditions relating to the syntactic or semantic structure of the body of text relative to the two clauses.
20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the memory further stores, for each of the ordered sets of conditions determined to be satisfied, a quantitative score associated with the satisfied ordered set of conditions representing the likelihood that the current possible discourse relation has been correctly recognized between the clauses based upon the satisfaction of the satisfied ordered set of conditions, the apparatus further comprising a scoring subsystem that, for each of the ordered sets of conditions determined to be satisfied, sums the obtained quantitative score into a total score for the current possible discourse relation, such that, after the operation of the apparatus, each relation recognized as a likely relation has a total score representing the relative likelihood that the relation has been correctly recognized between the clauses in view of all of the sets of conditions that are satisfied for the relation. 


</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
