<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1206577</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
BINARY ENCODED SEQUENCE TAGS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C12N1509	C07K14705	A61K3800	G01N3353	G01N33566	G01N33566	C12Q168	A61K3800	G01N3353	C07K14435	C12Q168	C12N1509	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C12N	C07K	A61K	G01N	G01N	G01N	C12Q	A61K	G01N	C07K	C12Q	C12N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C12N15	C07K14	A61K38	G01N33	G01N33	G01N33	C12Q1	A61K38	G01N33	C07K14	C12Q1	C12N15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
Disclosed is a method for the comprehensive analysis of nucleic acid samples and a detector composition for use in the method. The method, referred to as Binary Encoded Sequence Tags (BEST), involves generation of a set of nucleic acid fragments; adding an adaptor to the ends containing recognition site for cleavage at a site offset from the recognition site; cleaving the fragment to generate fragments having a plurality of sticky ends; indexing of the fragments into sets based on the sequence of sticky ends. The fragments are indexed by adding an offset adaptor to newly generated ends. A different adaptor will be coupled to each different sticky end. The resulting fragments - which will have defined ends, be of equal lengths (in preferred embodiment), and a central sequence derived from the source nucleic acid molecule - are binary sequence tags. The binary sequence tags can be used and further analyzed in numerous ways. For example, the binary sequence tags can be captured by hybridization and coupling, preferably by ligation, to a probe. The probe is preferably immobilized in an array or on sortable beads. One form of the BEST method, referred to as modification assisted analysis of binary sequence tags (MAABST), assesses modification of sequences in nucleic acid molecules by detecting differential cleavage based on the presence or absence of modification in the molecules.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
UNIV YALE
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YALE UNIVERSITY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENG LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN JOSEPH C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATIMER DARIN R
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIZARDI PAUL M
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTH MATTHEW E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
FENG, LI
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KAUFMAN, JOSEPH, C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LATIMER, DARIN R.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LIZARDI, PAUL, M.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
ROTH, MATTHEW, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The disclosed invention is generally in the field of nucleic acid characterization and analysis, and specifically in the area of analysis and comparison of gene expression patterns, nucleic acid samples, and genomes.The study of differences in gene-expression patterns is one of the most promising approaches for understanding mechanisms of differentiation and development. In addition, the identification of disease-related target molecules opens new avenues for rational pharmaceutical intervention. Currently, there are two main approaches to the analysis of molecular expression patterns: (1) the generation of mRNA-expression maps and (2) examination of the 'proteome', in which the expression profile of proteins is analyzed by techniques such as two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry [matrix-assisted-desorptionionization-time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) or electrospray] and by the ability to sequence sub-picomole amounts of protein. Classical approaches to transcript imaging, such as northern blotting or plaque hybridization, are time-consuming and material-intensive methods to analyze mRNA-expression patterns. For these reasons, other methods for high-throughput screening in industrial and clinical research have been developed.A breakthrough in the analysis of gene expression was the development of the northern-blot technique in 1977 (Alwine et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 74:5350-5354 (1977)). With this technique, labeled cDNA or RNA probes are hybridized to RNA blots to study the expression patterns ofmRNA transcripts. Alternatively, RNase-protection assays can detect the expression of specific RNAs. These assays allow the expression of mRNA subsets to be determined in a parallel manner. For RNase-protection assays, the sequence of the analyzed mRNA has to be known in order to synthesize a labeled cDNA that forms a hybrid with the selected mRNA; such hybrids resist RNA degradation by a single-strand-specific nuclease and can be detected by gel electrophoresis. As a third approach, differential plaque-filter hybridization allows the identification of specific differences in the expression of cloned cDNAs (Maniatis et al. Cell 15:687-701 (1978)). Although all of these techniques are excellent tools for studying differences in gene expression, the limiting factor of these classical methods is that expression patterns can be analyzed only for known genes.The analysis of gene-expression patterns made a significant advance with the development of subtractive cDNA libraries, which are generated
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of producing binary sequence tags from nucleic acid fragments in a nucleic acid sample, the method comprising

(a) incubating a nucleic acid sample with one or more first nucleic acid cleaving reagents to produce nucleic acid fragments, wherein the first nucleic acid cleaving reagents are type II restriction enzymes,
(b) mixing one or more offset adaptors with the nucleic acid sample and covalently coupling the offset adaptors to the nucleic acid fragments,
(c) incubating the nucleic acid sample with one or more second nucleic acid cleaving reagents to produce nucleic acid fragments with sticky ends, wherein the second nucleic acid cleaving reagents cleave at a site offset from their recognition sequence, wherein each offset adaptor has a recognition sequence for at least one of the second nucleic acid cleaving reagents,
(d) mixing one or more adaptor-indexers with the nucleic acid sample and covalently coupling the adaptor-indexers to the nucleic acid fragments, wherein each adaptor-indexer has a different sticky end, wherein each sticky end of the adaptor-indexers is compatible with one of the possible sticky ends that could be generated by the second nucleic acid cleaving reagents,

wherein the nucleic acid fragments to which offset adaptors and adaptor-indexers have been coupled are binary sequence tags.
The method of claim 1 wherein the binary sequence tags are amplified, detected, identified, sequenced, cataloged, or a combination.
The method of claim 2 wherein the binary sequence tags are detected, wherein detection comprises determining, directly or indirectly, the presence, amount, presence and amount, or absence of one or more binary sequence tags.
The method of claim 1 wherein binary sequence tags are amplified.
The method of claim 4 wherein binary sequence tags are amplified by the polymerase chain reaction.
The method of claim 1 further comprising

detecting the binary sequence tags by mass spectroscopy.
The method of claim 6 wherein the binary sequence tags are hybridized to detector probes prior to detection.
The method of claim 1 further comprising,
diluting each nucleic acid sample and dividing into aliquots containing, on average, one binary sequence tag molecule per aliquot, and

amplifying the binary sequence tag in each aliquot.
The method of claim 1 wherein each adaptor-indexer contains a label.
The method of claim 9 further comprising

sorting or separating the binary sequence tags via the labels.
The method of claim 1 further comprising

separating the strands of the binary sequence tags.
The method of claim 11 wherein each binary sequence tag comprises a top strand and a bottom strand,

wherein the top strands have offset adaptor sequence at their 5' ends, wherein the bottom strands have adaptor-indexer sequence at their 5' ends,

wherein the top strands of the binary sequence tags are separated from the bottom strands of the binary sequence tags.
The method of claim 12 further comprising

hybridizing one or more ligator-detectors with either the top strands of the binary sequence tags or the bottom strands of the binary sequence tags, wherein each ligator-detector comprises sequence matching or complementary to all or part of sequence including, and adjacent to, the sticky end of at least one of the adaptor-indexers,

mixing the nucleic acid sample with a detector array comprising one or more probes and covalently coupling the ligator-detectors to the probes, wherein each probe has a different sequence, and

detecting, directly or indirectly, coupling of ligator-detectors to the detector array probes.
The method of claim 1 further comprising

hybridizing one or more ligator-detectors with the binary sequence tags, wherein each ligator-detector comprises sequence matching or complementary to all or part of sequence including, and adjacent to, the sticky end of at least one of the adaptor-indexers,

mixing the nucleic acid sample with a detector array comprising one or more probes and covalently coupling the ligator-detectors to the probes, wherein each probe has a different sequence, and

detecting, directly or indirectly, coupling of ligator-detectors to the detector array probes.
The method of claim 14 wherein the nucleic acid cleaving reagents generate sticky ends having N different sequences, and wherein the sample is divided into N index samples.
The method of claim 14 wherein the detector array probes all have similar hybrid stability.
The method of claim 14 wherein each offset adaptor, adaptor-indexer, ligator-detector, or detector array probe contains a label, wherein coupling of the ligator-detectors to the probes is detected via the label.
The method of claim 1 wherein the collection of binary sequence tags produced from the nucleic acid sample constitutes a catalog of binary sequence tags for the nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 1 further comprising

performing steps (a) through (d) on a plurality of nucleic acid samples.
The method of claim 19 further comprising

performing steps (a) through (d) on a control nucleic acid sample,

identifying differences between the collection of binary sequence tags produced from the nucleic acid samples and the control nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 20 wherein the differences are differences in the presence, amount, presence and amount, or absence of binary sequence tags produced from the nucleic acid samples and the control nucleic acid sample.
The method of any one of claims 1, 4 or 5 further comprising identifying differences in the binary sequence tags produced from the control nucleic acid sample and tester nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 19 further comprising

identifying differences between the collection of binary sequence tags produced from the nucleic acid samples.
The method of claim 1 further comprising identifying or preparing nucleic acid fragments corresponding to the binary sequence tags produced from the nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 24 further comprising using the prepared nucleic acid fragments as probes for analyzing a different nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 25 wherein analysis of the different nucleic acid sample involves detection, quantitation, identification, comparison, screening, sequencing, culling,
 destruction, sorting, capturing, or a combination, of nucleic acid molecules in the different nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the first nucleic acid cleaving reagents is sensitive to modification of its recognition site.
The method of claim 27 wherein the modification to the recognition site is methylation, alkylation, dimerization, derivatization, depurination, or ADP-ribosylation.
The method of claim 27 wherein the pattern of the presence, amount, presence and amount, or absence of binary sequence tags constitutes a catalog of nucleic acid fragments in the nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 29 further comprising preparing a second catalog of nucleic acid fragments in a second nucleic acid sample and comparing the first catalog and second catalog, wherein differences in the first and second catalogs indicate differences in modification of the first and second nucleic acid samples.
The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acid sample is a cDNA sample, wherein the cDNA is synthesized in the presence of one or more dideoxy nucleoside triphosphates,

the method further comprising

identifying correlated binary sequence tags.
The method of claim 31 wherein the correlated binary sequence tags are identified by calculating the expression levels and the expression ratios of a plurality of the binary sequence tags,

identifying binary sequence tags that have similar expression ratios,

grouping the binary sequence tags that have similar expression ratios in binary pairs, to generate a list of correlated binary sequence tags,

ordering the binary pairs in the list of correlated binary sequence tags according to expression level of the binary sequence tags, and

fitting the values of the expression levels to a standard curve based on an inverse exponential function.
The method of claim 32 further comprising

identifying correlated binary sequence tags using a different a cDNA sample, wherein the cDNA is synthesized in the presence of a different concentration of the one or more dideoxy nucleoside triphosphates or a different set of one or more dideoxy nucleoside triphosphates,
correlating changes in expression of each list of correlated binary sequence tags with the predicted slope changes predicted by the inverse exponential function corresponding to each of the dideoxy terminator levels, and

predicting the order and position within the cDNA of each list of binary tags.
The method of claim 31 wherein the cDNA is synthesized using one or more anchored primers.
The method of claim 1 further comprising

performing steps (a) through (d) on a second nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 35 wherein the second nucleic acid sample is a sample from a different cellular compartment than the first nucleic acid sample.
The method of claim 1 further comprising,

dividing the nucleic acid sample into a plurality of index samples.
The method of claim 37 wherein a different adaptor-indexer is mixed with each index sample.
The method of claim 37 wherein a different second nucleic acid cleaving reagent is mixed with each index sample.
The method of claim 37 wherein a different offset adaptor is mixed with each index sample.
The method of claim 37 wherein a different first nucleic acid cleaving reagent is mixed with each index sample.
The method of claim 37 wherein the nucleic acid sample is divided into a plurality of index samples prior to step (d).
The method of claim 37 wherein the nucleic acid sample is divided into a plurality of index samples prior to step (c).
The method of claim 37 wherein the nucleic acid sample is divided into a plurality of index samples prior to step (b).
The method of claim 37 wherein the nucleic acid sample is divided into a plurality of index samples prior to step (a).
The method of claim 37 wherein one or more of the index samples are divided into a plurality of secondary index samples.
The method of claim 46 wherein a different adaptor-indexer is mixed with each secondary index sample.
The method of claim 46 wherein a different second nucleic acid cleaving reagent is mixed with each secondary index sample.
The method of claim 46 wherein a different offset adaptor is mixed with each secondary index sample.
The method of claim 46 wherein one or more of the secondary index samples are divided into a plurality of tertiary index samples.
The method of claim 50 wherein a different adaptor-indexer is mixed with each tertiary index sample.
The method of claim 50 wherein a different second nucleic acid cleaving reagent is mixed with each tertiary index sample.
The method of claim 37 wherein the binary sequence tags are amplified prior to dividing the nucleic acid sample into a plurality of index samples.
The method of claim 37 wherein the binary sequence tags are amplified following dividing the nucleic acid sample into a plurality of index samples.
The method of claim 1 further comprising, following step (d),

mixing the nucleic acid sample with one or more different hairpin primers, wherein each hairpin primer comprises a different primer sequence, wherein each primer sequence is complementary to all or part of the sequence of at least one of the adaptor-indexers,

incubating the nucleic acid sample under conditions that promote amplification of binary sequence tags, wherein amplified binary sequence tags are formed which have hairpin primer sequences at one or both ends,

incubating the nucleic acid sample under conditions that promote formation of hairpin structures by the hairpin primer sequences at the ends of the amplified binary sequence tags,

mixing the nucleic acid sample with a plurality of detector probes and covalently coupling the hairpin structures to the probes, wherein each probe has a different sequence, and

detecting coupling of the amplified fragments to different detector probes.
The method of claim 1 wherein the concentration of the binary sequence tags is normalized.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
