<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-1305887</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MULTI-PROTOCOL RECEIVER
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>H04B106	H04B128	H04B128	H04B130	H04B140	H04B130	H04B110	H04B140	H04B710	H04B106	H04B110	H04B702	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B1	H04B7	H04B1	H04B1	H04B7	H04B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A multi-protocol receiver system for receiving wireless communications. The system comprises programmable stages for controlling each steps of the demodulation of at least one broadband signal to provide the I and Q signals of at least one specific frequency narrow band for further processing. The receiver can be used in a software defined radio system.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LYRTECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LYRTECH INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUNEAU LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LUNEAU, LOUIS
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to wireless receivers. More precisely,
this invention describes a multi-protocol receiver for intercepting,
monitoring and/or recording conversation over a cellular network.With the increasing complexity of telecommunication means,
criminals are finding new ways to escape from the surveillance of the police
or other law enforcement agencies. This can, potentially, become a threat
to society. More specifically this problem is increasing with the global
development of mobile telecommunication means.The term mobile telecommunication can include technologies
ranging from cordless telephones, digital cellular mobile radios, and
personal communication systems that are evolving to wireless data and
networks.A mobile telecommunication system is usually composed of a base
station 13, connected to the public telephone network via a Mobile
Telephone Switching Office (MTSO), and of a group of mobile users 14.
The base station 13 covers a certain geographical area.A communication between a mobile user and a standard public
network user is thus performed using the base station 13. Each
communication link uses a particular frequency band known as a voice
channel. The uplink transmission refers to the signal sent by a mobile
station 14 to a base station 13, while the downlink transmission refers to a
signal sent by the base station 13 to a mobile station 14. Therefore, a
single conversation requires two voice channels. The monitoring of a
particular conversation implicitly requires the monitoring of the two voice
channels. One prior technique for monitoring cellular telephone 
conversations involves a simple tuner that scans voice channels. This
technique is not efficient when the number of communications to handle is
high and when the frequency of the voice channel changes often.A second technique consists of monitoring the two voice channels
and the traffic channels of the communication system in order to handle the
handover (i.e. when a user, by a physical displacement, changes base
stations). Thus it is possible to track a user through a cellular network.Focusing more precisely on wide band receivers, the prior art
comprises one type of system which is composed of a group of front end
radio frequency demodulation stages which include parallel narrow-band
receivers. Usually, the Radio Frequency (RF) band coverage provided by
these narrow-band receivers is of adjacent frequency. Each RF stage has
its own local oscillator frequency and Intermediate Frequency (IF) stages.
Such a system is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A multi-protocol receiver for receiving wireless transmissions
comprising:


a plurality of RF receiver units (11) each adapted to receive a wireless
signal and output a different broadband IF signal;
at least one tunable down converter unit (23), each able to tune over a
frequency range of all of said broadband IF signal of all of said RF

receiver units, said tunable down converter units (23) outputting raw I
and Q signals;
at least one tunable filter (24) receiving said raw I and Q signals from
one of said at least one tunable down converter units (23) and providing

filtered I and Q output signals;
a switch (22) for connecting a selected one of said RF receiver units
(11) to a selected one of at least one of said tunable down converter

unit (23);
a management unit (15) receiving a request for a specific frequency
band and setting a tuning frequency of a selected one of a plurality of at

least one tunable down converter unit (23), setting filter parameters of a
selected one of a plurality of at least one of said tunable filter (24), and

setting said switch (22) to obtain said filtered I and Q output signals
corresponding to said specific frequency band.
The receiver as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of ADC
units (21) each connected to one of said RF receiver units (11), wherein

said switch (22) connects a broadband digital output of said ADC units
(21) to said tunable down converter units (23).
The receiver as claimed in claim 1 wherein the management unit (15)
comprises: 


a channel selection signal input;
a memory for storing said filter parameters for channels from said
broadband IF signal of all of said RF receiver units (11) and frequency

parameters for all of said tunable down converter units (23) and switch
parameters;
an interpreter receiving a selection signal and setting said filter
parameters, said tunable down converter, and said switch parameters

based on data stored in said memory.
The receiver as claimed in claim 2 wherein the management unit (15)
comprises:


a channel selection signal input;
a memory for storing said filter parameters for channels from said
broadband IF signal of all of said RF receiver units and frequency

parameters for all of said tunable down converter units (23) and switch
parameters;
an interpreter receiving a selection signal and setting said filter
parameters, said tunable down converter, and said switch parameters

based on data stored in said memory.
The receiver as claimed in claim 1 wherein there are at least two of said
tunable down converter units (23) in order to receive full duplex

conversations.
The receiver as claimed in claim 2 wherein there are at least two of said
tunable down converter units (23) in order to receive full duplex

conversations.
The receiver as claimed in claim 3 wherein there are at least two of said
tunable down converter units (23) in order to receive full duplex

conversations, said memory for storing switch parameters provides
information for allocating said at least two of said tunable down

converter units (23) to said full duplex conversations. 
The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 1-5, wherein a single
frequency band, larger than one handled by a single one of said RF

receiver unit (11), is handled by a plurality of said RF receiver units
(11).
The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 2, 4 and 6 wherein sait at
least one tunable filter (24) is an N tap FIR filter.
The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 2, 4, 6 and 9 wherein said
switch (22) is provided by an FPGA.
The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 1-10 wherein each of said
RF receiver unit (11) handles at least 25 MHz bandwidth signal.
The receiver as claimed in claim 2, 4, 6, 9 or 10 wherein each of said
ADC units (21) performs the conversion at a rate of at least 50 MHz.
The receiver as claimed in daims 1-12, wherein said specific frequency
is a cellular frequency band.
A method for receiving a wireless communication, the method
comprising the steps of:


providing a plurality of RF receiver units (11), each of said RF receiver
units (11) outputting a different IF broadband signal;
providing at least one tunable down converter unit (23);
providing at least one tunable filter, (24) receiving raw I and Q signals
from one of the tunable down converter units (23);
selecting a specific frequency band and a combination of at least one of
said plurality of RF receiver units (11) and at least one tunable down

converter unit (23);
setting the tuning frequency of the selected one of the plurality of
tunable down converter units (23), setting filter parameters of the

selected one of the plurality of the tunable filters (24) and setting a
switch (22) to obtain filtered I and Q output signals from the tunable 

filter (24) corresponding to the specific frequency band;
in use, receiving a wireless signal from an antenna (10) at said selected
one specific frequency band and outputting an IF broadband signal;
down converting the IF broadband signal to provide raw I and Q
signals;
filtering said raw I and Q signals to provide I and Q signals.
The method as clailmed in claim 14, further comprising the step of
digitizing the IF broadband signal using an ADC before said down

converting.
The method as daimed in any one of claims 14-15, wherein the step of
providing at least one tunable down converter unit (23) comprises the

step of loading the parameters of said at least one tunable down
converter unit (23).
The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-16, wherein the steps
of providing a plurality of RF receiver units (11) comprises the step of

loading the parameters of said plurality of RF receiver units (11).
The method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said step of loading the
parameters of said at least one tunable down converter unit (23)

comprises the step of accessing a look-up table, the look-up table
comprising said parameters and an identifier for each of said

parameters.
The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said step of loading the
step of loading the parameters of said plurality of RF receiver units (11)

comprises the step of accessing a look-up table, the look-up table
comprising said parameters and an identifier for each of said filter

parameters.
The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-19, further comprising
the steps of: 


selecting at least one channel to monitor;
monitoring the control channel of said selected at least one channel;
in use, adjusting the parameters of the selected combination of at least
one of said plurality of RF receiver units (11) and at least one tunable

converter unit (23) in order to track at least one user located on said at
least one channel to monitor.
The method as claimed in claim 20, further comprising the step of
displaying at least one identifier, each of the at least one identifier

characterizing each of the at least one user located on said at least one

channel to monitor over time.
The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-19, further comprising
the step of:


selecting a user to monitor, the user being selected using an
identification of its mobile unit (14);
monitoring a control channel;
in use, adjusting the parameters of the selected combination of at least
one of said plurality of RF receiver units (11) and at least one tunable

converter unit (23) in order to track the user located on a channel.
The method as claimed in claim 22, further comprising the step of
displaying the location of said selected user using the parameters of

said control channel.
The method as claimed in claim 22, wherein the step of selecting a
user to monitor comprise the step of accessing a look-up table, the

look-up table comprising an identifier for said user and the identification
of its mobile unit (14).
The method as claimed in any one of claims 14-24, further comprising
the step of recording I and Q signal over time.
The receiver as claimed in any one of claims 3 and 7 wherein 
the interpreter is a Digital Signal Processor (DSP).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
