<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1998033546</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
MEDICAL STENTS, APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MAKING SAME
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61F206	A61F206	A61F282	A61F282	A61F284	A61F290	A61M2900	A61M2900	A61M2902	A61M2902	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61F	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61F2	A61M29	A61M29	A61M29	A61M29	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An expandable stent and stent graft having a small initial diameter, flexibility along its longitudinal axis prior to expansion and a large expanded and rigid Local strain on the stent material is minimized, as and after the balloon is expanded. More particularly, the stent has rotation joints having minimal strain during stent expansion. The stent is substantially the same length before and after expansion and being flexible longitudinally when constrained, it is easy to locate. A method of manufacturing stents is described comprising rotation of a tube beneath a moving fil, with light passing through the film onto the tube, at selected locations. A laser scanning system for stent manufacture is also disclosed.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBERMAN OREN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GLOBERMAN, OREN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOBERMAN OREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
GLOBERMAN, OREN
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 Medical Stents, Apparatus and Method for Making SameField of the InventionThe present invention relates to an improved stent and stent graft for use in constricted body tubes, and for widening a stenosis in a body cavity such as in an artery, in the bile duct, esophagus, and so forth. The present invention also relates to stent production technology, and a method for manufacture of the improved stent device.Background of the Invention and Description of the Prior ArtIntraluminal endovascular stenting is a method by which a prosthesis is inserted into a body tube and expanded so as to reopen a collapsed vessel wall and prevent the wall from recollapsing into the lumen. Endovascular stenting is particularly useful for arteries which are blocked or narrowed and is an alternative to surgical procedures that intend to bypass the occlusion.Previous structures used as stents or intraluminal vascular grafts have included coiled stainless steel springs; helical wound spring coil made from shape memory alloy; expanding metal stents formed in a zig-zag pattern; diamond shaped, rectangular shaped, and other mesh and non-mesh designs. Some of the stents currently available employ a self expanding concept, whereby stent expansion is primarily achieved by removing a restraint mechanism holding the stent in a constricted configuration. Other stents in the prior art are delivered to the site by a balloon catheter system, and primarily employ balloon dilation to achieve proper stent expansion.Problems with this variety of stents is inadequate radial force to maintain expansion; inappropriate scaffolding of tissue to the wall; pre-dilated longitudinal rigidity which negatively impacts on stent delivery; and shortening of the stent as a consequence of radial expansion. Pre-dilation stent longitudinal rigidity is a significant shortcoming, and prevents the threading of the stent through long 

tortuous vessels and lesions. Shortening of the stent is also a problem, as it is important that the stent cover the entire lesion to minimize the risk of postoperative complications. Obviously, therefore, there is a need for a long yet flexible stent that will provide the appropriate scaffolding effect, will be able to track well in-curved vessels, will not shorten during radial expansion, and yet will have sufficient outward radial force to hold the artery open, even in the presence of hard calcified lesions. The stent disclosed herein overcomes these disadvantages. No stent having all of the desired features appears to exist,
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I Claim:
1. A medical stent, comprising: at least two radial rings, each of said radial rings having windings, each of said rings having both a constricted state and an expanded state corresponding to the constricted and expanded state of said windings of said stent, said constricted state being a state of said rings in which said windings are curled in shape, said expanded state being a state of said rings in which said windings are uncurled in shape such that each of said rings becomes substantially circular and of greater diameter than said ring in said constricted state; and, longitudinal connectors, said longitudinal connectors connecting said radial rings to form said stent in a cylindrical shape, said constricted state of said stent allowing delivery of said stent on a catheter into a patient, and said expanded state of said stent causing said rings to rest against the walls of a body vessel into which said stent is placed, said rings being selectively expandable from said constricted state to said expanded state, said stent being flexible along substantially its entire longitudinal axis when said stent is in said constricted state, said stent being substantially rigid when said stent is expanded to said expanded state, and said stent being substantially the same length independent said of whether said rings or said stent are in said constricted or said expanded states.
2. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said stent is expandable by a balloon catheter.
3. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said rings have points on said windings, said points rotating forty-five (45) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state. 

4. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said rings have points on said windings, said points rotating ninety (90) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state.
5. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said rings have points on said windings, said points rotating one hundred and eighty (180) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state.
6. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said rings have points on said windings, said points rotating three hundred and sixty (360) degrees upon expansion of said rings from said constricted state to said expanded state.
7. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said rings have at least two points on said windings, at least one of said points rotating forty-five (45) degrees in a first direction and at least one of said points on said same ring rotating ninety (90) degrees in a direction opposite to said first direction.
8. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein at least two of adjacent rings are paired, the winding of a said second ring of said pair being the mirror image of the winding of said first ring of said pair.
9. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said longitudinal connectors are substantially straight when said stent is in said constricted state. 

10. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said longitudinal connectors are substantially straight both when said stent is in said constricted state and when said stent is in said expanded state.
11. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said longitudinal connectors are curved when said stent is in said constricted state, and become straight when said stent expands into said expanded state.
12. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein at least one of said longitudinal connectors between adjacent of said rings is omitted.
13. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein at least one segment of at least one of said rings is omitted.
14. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the shape of said stent in said expanded state is a hollow cylinder of substantially rigid rectangular mesh.
15. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising rotatable joints on at least one of said rings.
16. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said rotatable joints are circular.
17. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said rotatable joints are points of connection between said rings and said longitudinal connectors..
18. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 15, wherein said rotatable joints are circular and hollow. 

19. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein at least some of either said rings or said longitudinal connectors comprise undulating segments.
20. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 19 wherein said undulating segments are opposed and offset U-shapes.
21. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 15 wherein said adjacent of said rings are paired, said rings comprise peaks and valleys and and said peaks and valleys are offset with respect to one another by about 0 to 180 degrees.
22. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 21 wherein said undulating segments are opposed and offset U-shapes.
23. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, in which at least part of said stent is comprised of tantalum.
24. A medical balloon-expandable stent as claimed in Claim 3, wherein said windings also will rotate one hundred and eighty (180) degrees opposite to said rotation of forty-five (45) degrees upon expansion of said stent from said constricted state to said expanded state.
25. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said expanded state is a hollow cylinder of substantially rigid rectangular mesh, the connections between said rings and said longitudinal connectors being circular and rotatable joints at the corners of the rectangles of said mesh.
26. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the radial expansion of said rings is enhanced, at least in part, by strain of said stent material. 

27. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said rings are expanded by both uncurling of said windings and strain of said stent material.
28. A medical stent as claimed in Claim 27 wherein said stent is made, at least in part, from tantalum.
29. A method of manufacturing a medical stent comprising the steps of:
(a) first forming a cylinder;
(b) relative rotation of said cylinder adjacent to a moving film having a pattern to be provided to said cylinder;
(c) directing concentrated light through said said film and toward said cylinder;
(d) exposing to light those portions of said cylinder not blocked by said pattern of said film, to form masked portions of said cylinder; and
(e) removing the material of said cylinder not masked.
30. A method of manufacturing a medical stent comprising the steps of:
(a) first forming a cylinder;
(b) creating a pattern to be provided to said cylinder;
(c) relative rotating of said cylinder about its longitudinal axis in the vicinity of a laser scanning along the cylinder's longitudinal axis; and
(d) proving said pattern to said cylinder by coordination of said scanning laser and relative rotation of said cylinder.
31. A medical stent as claimed in claim 1 comprising a Y-shaped stent graft. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
