<DOC>
<DOCNO>WO-1999018006</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
FOLDED CARDBOARD ARTICLE FOR PACKAGING SPURS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B65D7300	B65D7300	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B65D73	B65D73	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A single-piece cardboard sheet (10) into which slots and tabs are strategically cut to permit its folding into a carton for packaging a spur. The top section (12) of the unfolded cardboard carton contains a cutout (20) and an elongated tab (14) projecting upwards; the end of the tab consists of a distal foldable flap (16) separated from the tab by two lateral indentations (18). The central section (30) of the carton contains a hanging slot (36) suitable for receiving a hook of a display rack and two lower vertical slots (38). A horizontal slit (44) sized to receive the tab when the upper section of the carton is folded over the central section is cut above and between the two vertical slots. The bottom section (42) of the cardboard carton contains a horizontal opening (52) to receive the tab (14) to provide a fastening mechanism for the entire structure when the section is also folded to complete the packaging assembly.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTWEST INTERNATIONAL TAIWAN
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PARTRADE TRADING CORP
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
EASTWEST INTERNATIONAL (TAIWAN) ENTERPRISES
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
PARTRADE TRADING CORPORATION
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSI-CHANG CHANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
HSI-CHANG, CHANG
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 FOLDED CARDBOARD ARTICLE FOR PACKAGING SPURSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the InventionThis invention is related in general to the field of packaging and displaying of commercial articles. In particular, the invention consists of a novel cardboard carton for packaging and displaying riding spurs.Description of the Related ArtFor marketing purposes , it is desirable to package products such that they are visible and easily placed on a shelf, preferably hanging from a display hook. In addition, it is desirable to package them in a relatively inexpensive container or carton. In the case of riding spurs, it is also necessary that the packaging allow a potential buyer the opportunity to touch and feel the spurs, and try them on the footwear for which they are intended. Accordingly, it is important that the package be suitable for easy opening and removal of the spur, and further for easy reassembly into an undamaged package.Products are often packaged in folded cardboard structures especially designed for the task at hand. Typically, the carton is produced by shaping a flat cardboard sheet to fit the dimensions of the article to be packaged and by cutting appropriate tabs and slots to form the carton around the article. The present invention relates to a novel cardboard structure for packaging spurs.A spur is a pointed device secured to a rider's boot heel to urge on a horse. Typically, spurs have a U-shaped configuration consisting of a curved portion with substantially straight ends, for mounting on the heel of a boot, and a point protruding outwardly from the curved 

 portion. As a result of their geometry, spurs are not conveniently suitable for hanging on a display rack. Thus, they are usually displayed in plastic bags or loosely on a rack.Therefore , it would be desirable to have an inexpensive and practical packaging cardboard structure for visibly containing and displaying a spur on a shelf. This invention is directed at a simple device for achieving that purpose.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONOne primary goal of this invention is a cardboard structure for packaging a spur for display on a rack.Another goal of the invention is a packaging structure that is folded around a spur to form a package suitable for display.Another objective is a package that can be assembled around a spur simply and quickly.Finally, an objective of the invention is a device that is inexpensively manufactured from material readily available in commerce, preferably cardboard.Therefore, according to these and other
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
I claim:
1. A foldable carton for packaging a spur having a point protruding from a substantially U-shaped structure with spaced-apart ends, the carton comprising: a top section including an elongated tab projecting therefrom; a central section including a slit for receiving said elongated tab folded over a front side of the carton and two slots for receiving the ends of the spur; and a bottom section including a latch slot for engaging said elongated tab after the tab has been passed through the slit to a backside of the carton.
2. The carton of Claim 1 , f rther including a hanging slot in the central section for receiving a hook of a display rack.
3. The carton of Claim 1, wherein said top, central and bottom sections consist of an integral piece of material .
4. The carton of Claim 3, wherein said material is cardboard.
5. A foldable carton for packaging a spur having a point protruding from a substantially U-shaped structure with spaced-apart ends, the carton comprising: a top section including an elongated tab projecting therefrom; a central section including a slit for receiving said elongated tab folded over a front side of the carton and two slots for receiving the ends of the spur; a bottom section including a latch slot for engaging said elongated tab after the tab has been passed through the slit to a backside of the carton; and a partial cut between said top and central sections to define a hanging region within the central section extending outwardly into the top section. 

6. The carton of Claim 5, further including a cutout in the top section for receiving the point of the spur.
7. The carton of Claim 5 , wherein said hanging region contains a hanging slot for receiving a hook of a display rack.
8. The carton of Claim 5, wherein said elongated tab includes a distal flap defined by two indentations in the tab and said latch slot includes a portion adapted for engagement with said flap.
9. The carton of Claim 5, wherein a portion of the top section is folded over the central section and attached to it.
10. The carton of Claim 5, further including a cutout in the top section for receiving the point of the spur, and including a hanging slot in the hanging region for receiving a hook of a display rack; and wherein the elongated tab includes a distal flap defined by two indentations in the tab and said latch slot includes a portion adapted for engagement with said flap, a portion of the top section is folded over the central section and attached to it, and the carton consists of an integral piece of cardboard material.
11. The carton of Claim 5, wherein said top, central and bottom sections consist of an integral piece of material.
12. A method of packaging a spur in a foldable carton, where the spur has a point protruding from a substantially U-shaped structure with spaced-apart ends, comprising the following steps: (a) providing a foldable carton comprising: a top section including an elongated tab projecting therefrom; 


 a central section including a slit for receiving said elongated tab and two substantially parallel slots for receiving the ends of the spur; and a bottom section including a latch slot for engaging said elongated tab;
(b) placing the ends of the spur through the parallel slots toward a backside of the carton;
(c) folding the top section forward such that the elongated tab wraps around the U-shaped structure of the spur;
(d) inserting the elongated tab through the slit in the central section to the backside of the carton;
(d) folding the bottom section backwards and engaging the elongated tab in the backside of the carton with the latch slot.
13. The method of Claim 12, further comprising the steps of: including a cutout in the top section for receiving the point of the spur; and placing the point of the spur through the cutout while carrying out step (c) .
14. The method of Claim 12, further comprising the steps of: including a hanging slot in the central section for receiving a hook of a display rack.
15. The method of Claim 12, further comprising the steps of: including a partial cut between said top and central sections to define a hanging region within the central section extending outwardly into the top section; and including a hanging slot in said hanging region for receiving a hook of a display rack.
16. The method of Claim 12, further comprising the steps 


 of : providing said elongated tab with a distal flap defined by two indentations in the tab; and providing said latch slot with a portion adapted for engagement with said flap.
17. The method of Claim 12, further comprising the steps of: folding and attaching a portion of the top section over the central section.
18. The method of Claim 12, wherein said top, central and bottom sections used in step (a) consist of an integral piece of material.
19. The method of Claim 18, wherein said material is cardboard.
20. The method of Claim 12, further comprising the steps of: including a cutout in the top section for receiving the point of the spur and placing the point of the spur through the cutout while carrying out step (c); including a partial cut between said top and central sections to define a hanging region within the central section extending outwardly into the top section; including a hanging slot in said hanging region for receiving a hook of a display rack; providing said elongated tab with a distal flap defined by two indentations in the tab; providing said latch slot with a portion adapted for engagement with said flap; and folding and attaching a portion of the top section over the central section; wherein said top, central and bottom sections used in step (a) consist of an integral piece of cardboard material . 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
