<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0630716</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Interchangeable clamping chuck and method of clamping a workpiece.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B23B3102	B23B3120	B23B3120	B23B3130	B23B3132	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B23B	B23B	B23B	B23B	B23B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B23B31	B23B31	B23B31	B23B31	B23B31	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A quick-change chuck includes a power-assist clamp 
feature for use in a machine tool having a powered draw 

bar. The chuck body (20) includes inner and outer faces 
(24, 26) with a bore (25) formed therethrough. A tapered 

polygon alignment pin (29) extends inwardly from the inner 
face to centre the chuck on a longitudinal axis (L) of the 

machine tool. An axially-movable member (44) is supported 
by the body (20) for reciprocation along the longitudinal 

axis, and jaws (37) which move radially as the axially 
movable member (44) is reciprocated, are connected to the 

movable member for receiving and clamping a workpiece (W). 
The jaws (37) are normally spring-biased to a preload or 

clamped position. A clamping stud (52) is also connected 
to the movable member (44) for receiving the draw bar 

gripping fingers (15). An initial stroke of the powered 
draw bar pulls the stud and registers the chuck onto the 

machine tool, and further stroke in the same direction 
displaces the clamping stud (52) and movable member (44) to 

provide the power-assist clamping to the workpiece. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
CINCINNATI MILACRON INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIOTROWSKI TADEUSZ W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
PIOTROWSKI,TADEUSZ W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
In machine tool operations, it is often necessary 
or desirable to provide a clamping chuck with 
automatic power clamping capabilities to insure 
adequate holding power for workpieces undergoing 
difficult and/or high speed machining. For example, 
power chucks having chuck jaws powered by hydraulic 
fluid or air pressure to provide clamping force for 
workpieces have been available in the industry from a 
variety of sources. Some power chucks are designed for use on 
machines having hydraulic ports formed in the spindle 
nose, while others are provided as self-contained 
units complete with their own pressure gauge, 
pressure regulator, lubricator, filters, lines, 
fittings and the like. While such arrangements may 
be adequate in certain applications, (e.g., dedicated 
machines where the nature and size of the workpieces 
remain fairly constant, and interchange of the chuck 
devices themselves are infrequent), in situations 
where a machine tool is utilized for a variety of 
machining applications and/or the type, size, or 
other qualities of the workpieces vary rather 
frequently, power chucks requiring hydraulic or 
pneumatic pressure can create substantial obstacles  
 
to applicability, efficiency, manufacturing speed, 
and cost optimization. Such power chucks are also 
relatively complex, cumbersome, and expensive. All 
these factors add to the cost of obtaining, 
utilizing, and maintaining machine tools, and add to 
the costs of production of end products. One common form of mechanical clamping device is 
the diaphragm chuck. Conventional diaphragm chucks 
generally include a plurality of clamping jaws 
affixed to a flexible diaphragm member. The jaws are 
normally spring-biased to either their "open" or 
"closed" position. A suitable actuator, such as a 
hydraulic or pneumatic cylinder is utilized to 
selectively axially flex the diaphragm in order to 
cause slight radial movement of the jaws to 
alternately firmly grip or release a workpiece on the 
chuck. Thus, these chucks are (a) normally closed 
and powered open; or (b) normally open and powered 
closed. As with the power chuck arrangements, where 
workpieces of varying sizes or shape are to be 
chucked, a chuck having a different size 
diaphragm/jaw arrangement must normally be 
substituted. A diaphragm chuck of the normally 
closed and powered open type is shown in U.S. Patent 
2,462,501, which issued to G. Hohwart et al. The 
Hohwart et al. diaphragm chuck incorporates the use 
of hydraulic fluid to "spring" the diaphragm in order 
to
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A clamping chuck (10) for use in a machine tool 
having a draw bar which is reciprocable along a 

longitudinal axis (L) said chuck comprising: 
   a body (20) having inner and outer faces (24, 26) 

and a bore (25) extending therebetween; 
   means (28) located adjacent said inner face of 

said body for aligning said chuck with said 
longitudinal axis; 

   an axially movable member (44) supported by said 
body for longitudinal reciprocation relative 

thereto; 
   at least one workpiece clamping device (37) 

connected to said movable member (44) for receiving 
and clamping a workpiece (W), 

   a clamping member (50) having inner and outer ends 
and connected to said movable member such that 

movement of said clamping member in an inward 
direction along said longitudinal axis will 

correspondingly displace said movable member (44); 
and 

   quick release means (56) adjacent said inner end of 
said member and extending inwardly from said inner 

face for receiving a draw bar gripping device, 
whereby an initial stroke of said draw bar clamps 

said chuck to said machine tool, and a further 
stroke of said draw bar along said longitudinal 

axis axially displaces said clamping member and 
said movable member relative to said bore to 

 
further mechanically tighten said workpiece 

clamping device. 
The chuck of Claim 1, wherein said movable member 
(44) contacts a diaphragm (39) which is axially flexible 

along said longitudinal axis, and wherein said workpiece 
clamping device comprises a plurality of radially movable 

jaws (37) attached to said diaphragm (39). 
The chuck of Claim 1, wherein said movable member 
(44) is attached to a clamp piston (46) reciprocally 

supported at least partially within said body (20), and 
said clamping device comprises a peripheral clamping wedge 

(184) arrangement connected to said piston. 
The chuck of Claim 1, wherein said workpiece 
clamping device (37) comprises means (35) for radially 

clamping a workpiece, wherein said clamping means is 
normally biased to its clamped position to passively hold 

a workpiece in clamped position, and wherein said axial 
displacement of said clamping member (50) and said movable 

member powers said radial clamping means (35) to actively 
further mechanically tighten said workpiece therewithin. 
The chuck of Claim 4, wherein said clamping means 
comprises a plurality of radially movable jaws (37). 
The chuck of Claim 5, wherein said jaws (37) 
provide external radial gripping of a workpiece. 
The chuck of Claim 5, wherein said jaws (337) 
provide internal radial gripping of a workpiece. 
An interchangeable clamping chuck (10) and draw bar 
assembly (14) including mechanical power assist clamping 

 
capabilities for use in a machine tool, said assembly 

comprising: 
   a draw bar (15) having a gripping device for 

releasably receiving and clamping a clamping head 
(54) of a machine tool part, said draw bar 

arrangement being reciprocable along a longitudinal 
axis (L) to alternatively clamp and release said 

gripping device, and having a two phase clamping 
stroke; 

   A clamping chuck having a chuck body (20) with 
inner and outer faces (24, 26) and a bore (25) 

extending therebetween; 
   means (28) located adjacent said inner face of said 

body for preliminarily aligning said chuck with 

said longitudinal axis; 
   an axially movable member (44) supported by said 

body (20) for longitudinal reciprocation relative 
thereto; 

   at least one workpiece clamping device (35) for 
receiving and clamping a workpiece, said clamping 

device comprising means (39, 37) for passively 
clamping a workpiece (W) in clamped position and 

being connected to said movable member (44); 
   a clamping member (50) having inner and outer ends 

and connected to said movable member (44) such that 
movement of said clamping member in an inward 

direction along said longitudinal axis will 
correspondingly move said movable member; and

 
   quick release means (56) attached adjacent said 

inner end of said clamping member for receiving 
said draw bar gripping device, whereby the first 

phase of the stroke of said draw bar provides 
clamping between said gripping device and said 

clamping member, and further longitudinal movement 
during the second phase of said draw bar stroke 

axially displaces said clamping member and said 
movable member relative to said bore to further 

mechanically tighten said workpiece clamping 
device. 
The clamping chuck of Claim 8, wherein said means 
for preliminarily aligning said chuck with said 

longitudinal axis comprises a tapered polygon alignment pin 
(29). 
The chuck of Claim 8, wherein said movable member 
comprises a diaphragm which is axially flexible along said 

longitudinal axis, and wherein said workpiece clamping 
device comprises a plurality of radially movable jaws 

attached to said diaphragm. 
The chuck of Claim 8, wherein said movable member 
comprises a piston reciprocably supported at least 

partially within said body, and said clamping device 
comprises a peripheral clamping wedge arrangement connected 

to said piston. 
The chuck of Claim 8, wherein said workpiece 
clamping device comprises means for radially clamping a 

workpiece, wherein said clamping means is normally biased 
to its clamped position to passively hold a workpiece in 

position, and wherein said axial displacement of said 
clamping member and said movable member powers said radial 

 
clamping means to actively further mechanically tighten 

said workpiece therewithin. 
The chuck of Claim 12, wherein said clamping means 
comprises a plurality of radially movable jaws. 
The chuck of Claim 13, wherein said jaws provide 
external radial gripping of a workpiece. 
The chuck of Claim 13, wherein said jaws provide 
internal radial gripping of a workpiece. 
A method for clamping a workpiece to be machined on 
a machine tool, said method comprising the following steps; 

   providing a quick-change chuck having a radially 
movable clamping device and means for moving said 

chuck between a loading/unloading station and a 
machining station on a machine tool; 

   providing means for accurately registering said 
chuck at said loading/unloading station and said 

machining station; 
   clamping a workpiece to said chuck at said 

loading/unloading station by passively biasing said 
radially movable clamping device against said 

workpiece; 
   maintaining the clamped position of said clamping 

device by said passive bias while moving said chuck 
between said loading/unloading and machining 

station; 
   selectively applying additional clamping force to 

said clamping device to mechanically tighten the 
 

workpiece in clamped position by energising power 
assist means which tend to actively further force 

said clamping device against said workpiece for 
machining operations; 

   de-energising said power assist means and thereby 
removing said additional clamping force to said 

clamping device; and 
   maintaining the clamped position of said clamping 

device by said passive bias while said chuck is 
moved between said machining and loading/unloading 

stations. 
The method of Claim 16, wherein said step of 
energising said power assist means comprises reciprocating 

a draw bar gripping device connected to said chuck to 
mechanically tighten the clamping force applied to the 

clamping device. 
The method of Claim 16, further comprising the step 
of securing said chuck at said machining station by means 

of a draw bar located at said machining station. 
The method of Claim 16, wherein said step of 
providing means for accurately registering the chuck at the 

machining station comprises providing a tapered polygon 
alignment pin attached to said chuck. 
The method of Claim 17, wherein said chuck 
comprises a clamping member connected to said clamping 

device such that movement of said clamping member in an 
inward direction along said longitudinal axis will move 

said clamping device radially, and wherein said draw bar 
arrangement initially grasps said clamping member to clamp 

the chuck at the machining station, and wherein further 
 

longitudinal stroke of said draw bar effectively energises 
the power assist means by displacing said clamping member 

inwardly along the longitudinal axis. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
