<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0648686</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Sterile packaging.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61B1900	A61B1902	A61L226	A61L226	B65D2510	B65D2510	B65D7528	B65D7536	B65D8105	B65D81133	B65D8120	B65D8120	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61B	A61B	A61L	A61L	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	B65D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61B19	A61B19	A61L2	A61L2	B65D25	B65D25	B65D75	B65D75	B65D81	B65D81	B65D81	B65D81	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A packaging (10) for the protective sterile 
containment of a rigid product (24) and, more particularly, a 

sealed container protectively enclosing the sterile 
product, such as a liquid-filled vial, during shipment 

and handling of the packaging, and upon opening of the 
packaging in a sterile environment; for instance, a 

surgical operating room, facilitating the sterile 
transfer of the product from the packaging into the 

sterile environment. The packaging (10) includes a 
substantially rigid, resiliently flexible thermoformed 

plastic container (12) having a plurality of indentations or 
recessed wall portions (40,42,52) molded or thermoformed into 

various of the side, end and bottom wall surfaces of the 
container, with such wall portions forming contacting 

surfaces shaped in correlation with the exterior surface 
portions of a product housed in the container so as to 

position the product therein in a specified orientation, 
and in which at least one of the indentations 
includes 
product-gripping structure protectively maintaining the 

product within the packaging container in its fixed 
position during shipping and handling of the container 

so as to be secure from potential damage due to impacts 
or shocks imparted to the packaging. The indentations 

are formed with venting ridges constituting tubular 
passages between the mutually contacting surfaces of the 

container and the product to enable an improved and 
substantially unhindered circulation of sterilizing 

gases throughout the interior of the packaging and about 
the product. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ETHICON, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALINSKI ROBERT J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN NESS WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KALINSKI, ROBERT J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VAN NESS, WILLIAM
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a packaging 
for the protective sterile containment of a rigid 
product and, more particularly, relates to a sealed 
container protectively enclosing the sterile product, 
such as a liquid-filled vial, during shipment and 
handling of the packaging, and upon opening of the 
packaging in a sterile environment; for instance, a 
surgical operating room, facilitating the sterile 
transfer of the product from the packaging into the 
sterile environment. The protective containment or packaging of a 
sterile product, such as a liquid-filled vial which is 
to be removed from the packaging and the contents 
thereof dispensed in a sterile environment may entail 
the provision of a packaging including a substantially 
rigid resiliently flexible thermoformed plastic 
container which incorporates therein a clampingly 
engaging support for the product, and whereby the 
product-containing container is sealed through the 
application of a covering comprising a suitable plastic 
film material to formulate the complete packaging. In 
connection with the foregoing, the interior of the 
product-containing packaging is ordinarily sterilized 
through the circulation therethrough of a suitable  
 
gaseous sterilizing medium in order to maintain the 
product, such as the liquid-filled vial, in a sterile 
condition during shipping and handling of the packaging, 
and also during the product being dispensed from the 
packaging into a sterile environment. For this purpose, 
the container constituent of the packaging, the latter 
of which is generally referred to as a "blister 
package", is formed from a rigid resiliently flexible 
thermoformed plastic material, preferably polypropylene, 
which will retain its shape during the sterilizing of 
the interior thereof with a sterilizing medium, and 
which concurrently incorporates internal structure 
adapted to position and grippingly engage the rigid 
product contained therein so as to maintain the product 
in a fixed position within the container for its 
protection during shipping and handling of the 
packaging. The product-containing container is normally 
sealed through the superposition of a plastic film which 
may be heat-sealed to the container and is peelable 
therefrom when it is desired to gain access to and 
remove the product from the container, possibly in a 
sterile environment. Frequently, packaging including containers of 
this type and forming so-called blister packages, are 
thermoformed from a suitable plastic material, as 
mentioned
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A packaging for the protective sterile containment of 
a rigid product, said packaging comprising a self-supporting 

substantially rigid and resiliently flexible container 
including a bottom wall, sidewalls and end walls integrally 

formed with and extending upwardly from said bottom wall for 
containment of said product; indentations formed in at least 

some of said walls for engaging external surface portions of 
said product and positioning said product within said 

container, at least some of said product surface-engaging 
wall indentations incorporating rib structure forming 

passages enabling the circulation of sterilizing fluids 
about the surface of said product; and covering film means 

being sealed to the upper peripheral edges of said 
upstanding walls to sealingly enclose the product in said 

packaging. 
The packaging as claimed in claim 1, wherein a 
peripheral horizontally extending flange is formed to extend 

about the upper edges of said upstanding walls, said flange 
including a sealing surface for adhesive sealing engagement 

with said covering film means. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 2, wherein said sealing 
surface on said flange includes a raised planar surface 

portion for increasing the sealing surface area contacting 
said covering film means. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 2, wherein said covering 
film means comprises a heat sealable breathable plastic 

film. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 4, wherein said plastic 
film is constituted as polyethylene. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
container is substantially rectangular, said bottom wall 

 
being flat and said sidewalls and end walls extending 

upwardly and outwardly angled from the edges of said bottom 
wall to form said product-receiving containment structure. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 6, wherein a first one 
of said indentations forms a first support for said product 

extending between said sidewalls and said bottom wall; a 
second said indentation forms a second support for said 

product extending between one said end wall and said bottom 
wall; and a third said indentation forms means for 

clampingly engaging said product extending between said 
sidewalls and said bottom wall, said indentations 

collectively constituting abutments for positioning and 
retaining said product in said container in spaced 

relationship with the remaining bottom wall, sidewall and 
end wall surfaces. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 7, wherein rib structure 
is formed in said first and third indentations so as to 

provide fluid-flow passages communicating with the interior 
regions of said container at opposite sides of each of said 

indentations. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 7, wherein said 
indentations inhibit movement of the product positioned 

within said container. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 7, wherein said product 
comprises a liquid-filled vial having a cylindrical body 

portion, said first and third indentations contacting 
circumferential surface portions of said vial and said 

second indentation contacting a bottom end and cylindrical 
body portion of said vial for positioning said vial within 

said container. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 10, wherein said vial 
includes a reducing neck portion at one end of said 

cylindrical body portion opposite the bottom end of said 
 

vial, said first indentation being configured to engage the 
neck portion of said vial and said third indentation 

comprising wall structure resiliently clampingly engaging 
the cylindrical surface of said vial. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 11, wherein said 
passages in said indentations contacting the surface of said 

vial extend in the direction of the longitudinal axis 
thereof so as to communicate the space in said container on 

opposite sides of each of the indentations. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 1, wherein 
finger-grippable means are formed in at least the sidewalls 

of said container. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 13, wherein said 
finger-grippable means comprise ribbed surface portions 

formed in said sidewalls. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one 
of said indentations forms finger-grippable surface 

structure on said container to assist in manual handling of 
the packaging. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 11, wherein said 
container is dimensioned to provide an interior space in 

said container at the neck end of said cylindrical vial to 
enable access thereto for sterile manual removal of said 

vial from said packaging. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 1, wherein said 
container is constituted of thermoformed polypropylene. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interior 
of said packaging containing said product is sterilized with 

a gaseous sterilizing medium. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 18, wherein said 
 

sterilizing medium comprises ethylene oxide. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 18, wherein said 
sterilizing medium comprises steam. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 18, wherein said 
sterilizing medium comprises hydrogen peroxide. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 18, wherein said 
covering film means is permeable to gaseous ethylene oxide 

and steam. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 22, wherein said 
covering film means is constituted from polyethylene fibres. 
A packaging as claimed in claim 22, wherein said 
covering film means is constituted from a spun-bonded olefin 

material. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
