<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641286</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
SLIDING SEAT MECHANISM AND LATCH THEREFOR.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60N206	B60N207	B60N208	B60N208	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60N	B60N	B60N	B60N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	B60N2	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A sliding seat mechanism for a vehicle seat comprises transversely spaced fixed floor runners (10, 12) within which slide co-operating seat runners (14, 16) fixed to the underneath of the seat. Respective pivotally mounted latches (22, 40) are carried by the seat runners (14, 16) for latching engagement within apertures in respective floor runners (10, 12). The latches are movable from their latched to their unlatched positions by means of respective release levers (58, 60) which are themselves biased to an inoperative position in which the latch members are movable from their unlatched to their latched positions independent of the release levers.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON CONTROLS AUTOMOTIVE UK
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
JOHNSON CONTROLS AUTOMOTIVE (UK) LTD.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH RODGER GORDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SMITH, RODGER, GORDON
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
Title: Sliding Seat Mechanism and Latch ThereforThis invention relates to a sliding seat mechanism such as may be provided for a motor vehicle and to a latch mechanism for restraining the seat against sliding movement relative to the vehicle.Sliding seat mechanisms have been used for many years in motor vehicles and typically comprise a pair of laterally spaced runners secured to the vehicle floor and a seat mounted on a pair of laterally spaced rails each of which slides on or in a respective runner. Many differing forms of latching mechanism have been proposed for ensuring that sliding movement of the seat rails relative to the runners is only possible when the latch is positively released by the user. A typical arrangement is for one or both of the floor mounted runners to be provided with a series of longitudinally spaced apart apertures within which a spring biased pivotal latch carried by the seat or seat rails is selectively engageable. Thus when the latch is engaged in an aperture or apertures the seat is restrained against sliding movement longitudinally of the runners i.e. the seat is restrained against forward and rearward movement relative to the vehicle. Typically such a latch has included a release lever, readily accessible by the user at the front or side of the seat, operable to disengage the latch and permit the seat to be adjusted longitudinally on its runners.Such a release lever is usually either integral with or permanently connected to the latch and, when released by the user after sliding adjustment of the seat, permits the latch to pivot into locking engagement with the most adjacent aperture in an associated runner. Frequently, after release of the release lever, the latch is positioned intermediate adjacent apertures abutting a part of the runner between such apertures. The latch then engages with the most adjacent aperture only upon a further small sliding movement of the seat i.e. the seat is usually slid by the user until the latch engages under its spring bias into the most readily engageable aperture. Sometimes however the user inadvertently leaves the latch disengaged from an aperture resting on a part of the runner between adjacent apertures whereby the seat is then free to slide under the 

influence of external forces until the latch reaches a location at which it will engage under its spring bias into an aperture. Such pivotal latching movement of the latch also causes movement of its integral or connected release lever so that, in order for the latch to engage in an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
CLAIMS
1. A sliding seat mechanism for a vehicle seat comprising at least one first runner member (10 or 12) securable in fixed relationship to a part of a vehicle at which a seat is to be mounted; at least one second runner member (14 or 16) securable in fixed relationship to a said seat; said runner members (10, 14 and 12, 16) being engaged with one another for relative sliding movement therebetween whereby when said first runner member is secured in a vehicle and said second runner member is secured to a seat, the seat may slide to and fro in the vehicle; a latch member (22, 40) mounted on or adjacent one of said runner members with spring means biasing a latch element of said latch member towards the other said runner member so as to be engageable with an aperture therein; characterised in that release means (24, 38; 42, 48; 58, 60) are mounted on or adjacent said one runner member and are operable independently of a said latch member to engage it and move it against the bias of its spring means out of engagement with a said aperture, said release means being biased to an inoperative position wherein the latch member is movable from its unlatched to its latched positions independent of said release means.
2. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in claim 1 further characterised in that the latch member and the release means therefor are mounted on or adjacent said second runner member (14, 16), and said first runner member (10, 12) is provided with a plurality of spaced apart said apertures (20) therein.
3. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in either one of claims 1 or 2 further characterised in that the latch member is pivotally mounted about a pivot axis which is parallel to the axes of the runner members (10, 12, 14, 16) so that a latch element of the latch member is movable into engagement with and 


disengagement from a said aperture in a direction laterally of the runner members.
4. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in either one of claims 1 or 2 further characterised in that the latch member is pivotally mounted about a pivot axis which is normal or otherwise inclined to the axes of the runner members (10, 12, 14, 16).
5. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 further characterised in that said release means comprises a user-operable release lever (24, 42) mounted for rotation about a pivot axis which is parallel to the axes of the runner members (10, 12, 14, 16).
6. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in claim 5 further characterised in that the pivot axis of the release lever is coaxial with the pivot axis of the said latch member.
7. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 further characterised in that said release comprises a user-operable release lever (58, 60) mounted for rotation about a pivot axis which is normal to the axes of the runner members (10, 12, 14, 16).
8. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 further characterised in that said release means comprises a user-operable cable system.
9. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further characterised in that a pair of parallel spaced apart first runner members ( 10, 12) are mountable in fixed relationship on a vehicle and a pair of co-operating parallel spaced apart second runner members ( 14, 16) are mountable 


on a vehicle seat, a said latch member (22, 40) being pivotally mounted on each said second runner member for latching engagement with one or more apertures (20) in a respective said first runner member.
10. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in claim 9 further characterised in that a user-operable first said release lever (24, 38) is mounted adjacent a first said latch member (22) and a second said release lever (42, 48) is mounted adjacent a second said latch member (40), said second release lever being operable via a cable or like link by said first release lever whereby both latch members (22, 40) may be moved out of engagement with respective apertures by user operation of said first release lever.
11. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in claim 9 further characterised in that a first said release lever (58) is mounted adjacent a first said latch member (22) and a second said release lever (60) is mounted adjacent a second said latch member (40), said release levers being interconnected by a user-operable rigid stirrup portion (62) whereby both of said latch members (22, 40) may be moved out of engagement with respective apertures by user operation of said stirrup portion.
12. A sliding seat mechanism as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further characterised in that the release means is biased to its said inoperative position by spring means or under the force of gravity. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
