<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646906</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Method and apparatus for driving a display device.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G02F113	G02F1133	G06T500	G06T500	G09G320	G09G320	G09G336	G09G336	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G02F	G02F	G06T	G06T	G09G	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G02F1	G02F1	G06T5	G06T5	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
In order to be able to accurately display an image which is 
represented by image data, even if a display device can express only a 

small number of gradations, frame rate modulation is used. The image 
data, which express a density of one dot by 4-bit dot data, is converted 

into a plurality of frame data, which express a density of one dot by 3 
bits, so that the plurality of the frame data are sequentially displayed 

on the LCD. In the above conversion, the three most significant bits of 
the dot data are extracted to operate data of one dot of each frame. If 

the least significant bit of the first dot data is 1 and the most 
significant bit is 0, then 1 is added to a corresponding portion of the 

respective frame data. If, on the other hand, the least significant bit 
of the dot data is 0 and the most significant bit is 1, then 1 is 

subtracted from a corresponding portion of the respective frame data. In 
accordance with the above description, the image data is converted into 

the frame data as shown in Table 2, and the sum (apparent densities) of 
the plurality of converted frame data always changes in accordance with 

the changes in the dot data. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for driving 
a display device, and more particularly to a method and apparatus in 
which image data is converted into a plurality of frame data, so as to 
drive a display device such as a liquid crystal display or the like by 
the plurality of frame data. In an information processing apparatus such as a personal computer, 
a flat panel-shaped display device, such as a plasma display or a liquid 
crystal display, is conventionally known as a display device for 
displaying an image such as characters or graphics. Such a display 
device displays an image by changing, in accordance with inputted image 
data, respective densities of a plurality of dots which are disposed in 
matrix form. Colour liquid crystal displays, which can generate 
respective calories of red(R), green(G) and blue(B), have become more 
widely used. In a liquid crystal display, for example, respective densities of 
the dots (i.e., the optical reflection rate and the light transmission 
rate thereof) are changed by controlling angles of liquid molecules. The 
angles of the liquid molecules must be accurately controlled so as to 
continuously change the respective densities of the dots or to change the 
respective densities of the dots in grades (i.e., by multiple gradations) 
with small density differences. As a result, the liquid crystal display 
becomes rather expensive. In an ordinary liquid crystal display 
(hereinafter, "LCD"), there is normally only a limited number of 
expressible gradations, and the respective densities of the dots 
typically amount to 8 grades (the number of gradations is 8). In a case 
in which the number of gradations is eight, 512 (512 = 8³) calories can 
be expressed in a colour LCD. In addition, the respective densities of 
the dots can be expressed by 3-bit (8 = 2³) data. Image data is processed by an information processing apparatus and 
is inputted to a driver for driving an LCD. The bit length of each dot 
of image data is often longer (i.e., the number of gradations is larger) 
than the bit length for expressing the density of the dot in the  
 
previously-described LCD. The LCD driver typically uses data, from which 
an extra bit (a least significant bit) of the inputted image data is 
removed, to drive the LCD and to display the image. In this case, there 
is a drawback in that the image data, which has many gradations and is 
inputted from the information processing apparatus, is not effectively 
used. To solve this drawback, a group of frame
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for driving a liquid crystal display device in which image 
data, which expresses respective densities of dots by first dot data of a 

predetermined bit length, is converted into a plurality of frame data, 
which expresses respective densities of dots by second dot data which is 

shorter than said predetermined bit length, so as to drive a display 
device by said plurality of frame data, the method being characterized by 

converting image data into a plurality of frame data by using data, from 
which a least significant bit of said first dot data has been removed, to 

generate said respective second dot data of said plurality of frame data, 
and in a case in which the least significant bit of said first dot data 

is 1 and a most significant bit is 0, adding 1 to a corresponding portion 
of said plurality of second dot data, and in a case in which the least 

significant bit of said first dot data is 0 and the most significant bit 
is 1, subtracting 1 from a corresponding portion of said plurality of 

second dot data. 
A display device driving method according to Claim 1, wherein in a 
case in which a difference between one of said first dot data and a first 

dot data whose most significant bit of said first dot data is 1 and the 
other bits are 0 is small, a number of second dot data for which said 

addition or said subtraction is effected is decreased, and in a case in 
which said difference is large, the number of second dot data for which 

said addition or said subtraction is effected is increased. 
A display device driving method according to any of the preceding 
claims, wherein a liquid-crystal display at which a thin-film transistor 

is provided in correspondence with respective dots is used as said 
display device. 
A display device driving method according to any of the preceding 
claims, wherein image data is converted into three frame data. 
Apparatus for driving a liquid crystal device in which 
image data, which expresses respective densities of dots by first dot 

data of a predetermined bit length, is converted into a plurality of 
frame data, which expresses respective densities of dots by second dot 

data which is shorter than said predetermined bit length, so as to drive 
a display device by said plurality of frame data, said apparatus being 

characterised in that it is adapted to convert image data into a 
 

plurality of frame data by using data, from which a least significant bit 
of said first dot data has been removed, to generate said respective 

second dot data of said plurality of frame data, and in that it is 
adapted to add 1 to a corresponding portion of said plurality of second 

dot data, in the case in which the least significant bit of said first 
dot data is 1 and a most significant bit is 0, and to subtract 1 from a 

corresponding portion of said plurality of second dot data, in the case 
in which the least
 significant bit of said first dot data is 0 and the 
most significant bit is 1. 
Portable computer including a liquid crystal display and apparatus 
for driving said liquid crystal display, as claimed in claim 5. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
