<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0653327</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Modular lighting unit
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60Q104	B60Q126	F21V2100	B60Q126	F21V2100	B60Q104	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60Q	B60Q	F21V	B60Q	F21V	B60Q	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60Q1	B60Q1	F21V21	B60Q1	F21V21	B60Q1	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A modular lighting unit (10) 
with a case having a front and back and a peripheral 

wall extending (14) 
around a light chamber (16). A lens (20) 

is mounted to the case (12). A reflector (22) 
in the light chamber (16) 

directs light from a source (18) forwardly through the lens (20). The 
peripheral wall (14) 

is defined at least partially by an exposed surface (38,40,42,44) 
having a first 

portion that is other than the flat surface extending either fully horizontally or fully 
vertically. Structure is provided on the exposed surface portion for attaching another 

modular lighting unit (10) to the case (12). 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KASBOSKE GEORGE C
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
KASBOSKE, GEORGE C.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASBOSKE GEORGE C
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
KASBOSKE, GEORGE C.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to lighting equipment and, more particularly, to a
modular lighting unit that is particularly suitable for use on on- and off-road vehicles
to serve as at least one of a headlight, turn signal, tail light, running light, brake
light, etc. on the vehicle.It is known to place several different types of lights on on- and off-road
vehicles. On the top of truck cabs, running lights and spot lights are commonly seen.
This latter type of light is commonly mounted upon a bracket that spans laterally
across the top of the vehicle cab. A plurality of lights are mounted in spaced
relationship and project upwardly from the bracket. The individual lights, which may
be relatively heavy, are held in place principally by a depending stem that acts as a
pedestal. It is difficult with such a construction to maintain the lights in a stable
position and in proper alignment. With these lights on off-road vehicles, vibrations
and shock due to rough terrain often tend to work the lights loose from their
mounting. Even if the lights do not work loose, there is a tendency of the lights to
rattle as they flex about the pedestal-type mount.In some constructions, if the light becomes misaligned, it must be removed to
allow the mounting stem to be reshaped. The light must then be re-mounted. A further problem with the above structure is that it is relatively limited
with respect to the number and arrangement of lights on the bracket. Sufficient
spacing must be left between adjacent lights so that the lights do not contact each
other as when they flex with the vehicle in operation. At the same time, the lights
must all be mounted at the same vertical height, as dictated by the mounting
bracket.Still further, most of the brackets and mounting structures for the lights are
made from metal. Consequently, as these parts rust or corrode, it becomes more
difficult, and at times impossible, to disassemble and adjust the lights.Other lights mounted on vehicles, such as those used as headlights, running
lights, tail lights, turn signal lights, running board lights, brake lights, etc., have
the same problems as discussed above.Because of the constraints introduced by conventional mounting systems,
the cases for the above types of lights are usually made relatively simple in shape.
That is, in most instances, the cases are square or rectangular. As a result, most
of these conventional lights are usually unimaginative in terms of their appearance.The inventor herein invented a system for mounting modular lighting units,
wh
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A lighting unit assembly comprising:

   a plurality of modular lighting units (10) including a first and a second
modular lighting unit each having:


a case (12) having a front and back and a peripheral wall (14) extending
around a light chamber (16);
a reflector (22) in said light chamber for directing light from a source
forwardly from said case (28);
first means for mounting at least one of the first and second lighting units
to a mounting base (24) in a first position such that with the at least one of the

first and second lighting units in the first position a fore-and-aft line associated
with the at least one of the first and second lighting units is horizontally oriented,
wherein the peripheral wall (14) on the at least one of the first and second
lighting units is defined at least partially by an exposed surface (38,40,42,44) and

with the at least one of the first and second lighting units in the first position the
exposed surface thereof has a portion that is other than a flat surface extending

either fully horizontally or fully vertically; and
means (30,32) on the exposed surface portion of the at least one of the
first and second lighting units and on the other of the first and second modular

lighting units for attaching the first and the second modular lighting units to each
other,
at least part of the portion of the exposed surface (38,40,42,44) of the at
least one of the first and second lighting units facing upwardly, there being a 

substantial portion of the other of the first and second lighting units that vertically
overlies and bears against the at least part of the portion of the exposed surface

of the at least one of the first and second lighting units, there being another
portion (38,40,42,44) of the other of the first and second lighting units that project

horizontally in cantilever fashion from the at least one of the first and second
lighting units.
The lighting unit assembly according to claim 1 wherein the
exposed surface portion (38,40,42,44) is substantially straight.
The lighting unit assembly according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the
attaching means (30,32) comprises a plurality of intermeshing ribs (30) and

recesses (32) on the first and second modular lighting units.
The lighting unit assembly according to any preceding claim in
combination with a mounting base (24), there further being means (30,32,68,70)

for removably connecting the at least one of the first and second modular lighting
units to the mounting base.
The lighting unit assembly according to claim 4 in combination
with a guide rail (96) to be attached to a support, there being means (100,102)

cooperating between the mounting base (24) and guide rail to allow the mounting
base to be maintained in a plurality of different positions relative to the guide rail.
The lighting unit assembly according to claim 5 in combination
with a support for the guide rail, said support comprising one of an on- and off-road

vehicle.
The lighting unit assembly according to claim 4 wherein the
mounting base includes means (106) for attaching the mounting base to a support

and further including levelling means (82) for adjusting the attitude of the 
mounting base relative to a support for the mounting base.
The lighting unit assembly according to any preceding claim
wherein the exposed surface of the peripheral wall (14) defines a diamond shape.
The lighting unit assembly according to any preceding claim
wherein the first and second lighting units (10) have substantially the same shape,

the peripheral wall (14) of both of the first and second lighting units is defined at
least partially by an exposed surface portion that is flat and angled relative to

horizontal with the at least one of the first and second lighting units in the first
position and the other of the first and second lighting units attached to the one of

the first and second lighting units and the at least one of the first and second
lighting units has a first orientation so that with the surface portions of the first

and second lighting units abutted to each other the other of the first and second
lighting units is arranged in a second orientation substantially the same as the first

orientation.
The lighting unit assembly according to any preceding claim
wherein the attaching means comprises means for removably attaching the at least

one of the first and second modular lighting units to the case of the first and
second modular lighting units.
The lighting unit assembly according to any preceding claim in
combination with a light source and means for mounting the light source to the

case.
The lighting unit assembly according to any preceding claim
wherein the reflector has a diamond shape. 
The lighting assembly according to any preceding claim wherein
said peripheral wall (14) of the at least one modular lighting unit defines a shape

as viewed from the front of the at least one modular lighting unit that is other than
one of a rectangle and square with at least one of the first and second lighting

units in the first position.
A lighting unit assembly comprising:

   a plurality of modular lighting units (10) including a first and a second
modular lighting unit each having:

   a case (12) having a front and back and a peripheral wall (14) extending
around a light chamber (16):


a reflector (22) in said light chamber for directing light from a source
forwardly from said case;
first means for mounting at least one of the first and second lighting units
to a mounting base (24) in a first position such that with the at least one of the

first and second lighting units in the first position a fore-and-aft line associated
with the at least one of the first and second lighting units is horizontally oriented,
wherein the peripheral wall (14) on the at least one of the first and second
lighting units is defined at least partially by an exposed surface (38,40,42,44) and

with at least one of the first and second lighting units in the first position the
exposed surface thereof has a portion that is other than a flat surface extending

either fully horizontally or fully vertically; and means on the exposed surface
portion of the at least one of the first and second lighting units and on the other

first and second modular lighting units for attaching the first and second modular
lighting units to each other, 
wherein there are second means (30,32) on the exposed surface of the at
least one of the first and second modular lighting units for attaching 
a third one
of the plurality of modular lighting units to the at least one of the first and second

modular lighting units, there further being means other than the at least one of the
first and second modular lighting units for attaching the third modular lighting

unit to the other of the first and second modular lighting units.
The modular lighting unit according to claim 14 wherein at least
one of a) the means for attaching the exposed surface portion of the first modular

lighting unit to the second modular lighting unit and b) the second attaching
means comprises a plurality of cooperating ribs and recesses.
The modular lighting unit according to claim 14 including means
for attaching only two of the three modular lighting units to a support therefor.
The lighting unit assembly according to claim 14 including a
fourth modular lighting unit and means on the fourth modular lighting unit for

attaching the fourth modular lighting unit to at least two of the other modular
lighting units.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
