<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0646187</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
NON-CHROMATED OXIDE COATING FOR ALUMINUM SUBSTRATES
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>C23C2256	C23C2205	C23C2268	C23C2266	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>C23C	C23C	C23C	C23C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>C23C22	C23C22	C23C22	C23C22	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
(A) A process for forming a cobalt conversion coating on a metal substrate, thereby imparting corrosion resistance and paint adhesion properties. The invention was developed as a replacement for the prior art chromic acid process. The process includes the steps of: (a) providing a cobalt conversion solution comprising an aqueous solution containing a soluble cobalt-III hexavalent complex, the concentration of the cobalt-III hexavalent complex being from about 0.01 mole per liter of solution to the solubility limit of the cobalt-III hexavalent complex; and (b) contacting the substrate with the solution for a sufficient amount of time, whereby the cobalt conversion coating is formed. The substrate may be aluminum or aluminum alloy, as well as Cd plated, Zn plated, Zn-Ni plated, and steel. The cobalt-III hexavalent complex may be present in the form of Mem(Co(R)6)n, wherein Me is Na, Li, K, Ca, Zn, Mg, or Mn, and wherein m is 2 or 3, n is 1 or 2, and R is a carboxylate having from 1 to 5 C atoms. (B) A chemical conversion coating solution for producing the cobalt conversion coating on a metal substrate, the solution including an aqueous solution containing a soluble cobalt-III hexavalent complex, the concentration of the cobalt-III hexavalent complex being from about 0.01 mole per liter of solution to the solubility limit of the cobalt-III hexavalent complex. (C) A coated article exhibiting acceptable corrosion resistance and paint adhesion properties, the article including: (a) a metal substrate; and (b) a cobalt conversion coating formed on the substrate, the cobalt conversion coating including aluminum oxide Al2O3 as the largest volume percent, and cobalt oxides CoO, Co2O3, and Co3O4.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOEING CO
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
THE BOEING COMPANY
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHRIEVER MATTHIAS P
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SCHRIEVER, MATTHIAS, P.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This environmental-quality invention is in the field of chemical conversion
coatings formed on metal substrates, for example, on aluminum substrates. More
particularly, one aspect of the invention is a new type of oxide coating (which I refer
to as a "cobalt conversion coating") which is chemically formed on metal substrates.
The invention enhances the quality of the environment of mankind by contributing to
the maintenance of air and water quality.In general, chemical conversion coatings are formed chemically by causing the
surface of the metal to be "converted" into a tightly adherent coating, all or part of
which consists of an oxidized form of the substrate metal. Chemical conversion
coatings can provide high corrosion resistance as well as strong bonding affinity for
paint. The industrial application of paint (organic finishes) to metals generally 
requires the use of a chemical conversion coating,
particularly when the performance demands are high.Although aluminum protects itself against
corrosion by forming a natural oxide coating, the
protection is not complete. In the presence of moisture
and electrolytes, aluminum alloys, particularly of the
high-copper 2000-series aluminum alloys, such as alloy
2024-T3, corrode much more rapidly than pure aluminum.In general, there are two types of processes
for treating aluminum to form a beneficial conversion
coating. The first is by anodic oxidation (anodization)
in which the aluminum component is immersed in a chemical
bath, such as a chromic or sulfuric acid bath, and an
electric current is passed through the aluminum component
and the chemical bath. The resulting conversion coating
on the surface of the aluminum component offers
resistance to corrosion and a bonding surface for organic
finishes.The second type of process is by chemically
producing a conversion coating, which is commonly
referred to as a chemical conversion coating, by
subjecting the aluminum component to a chemical solution,
such as a chromic acid solution, but without using an
electric current in the process. The chemical solution
may be applied by immersion application, by manual
application, or by spray application. The resulting
conversion coating on the surface of the aluminum
component offers resistance to corrosion and a bonding
surface for organic finishes. The present invention
relates to this second type of process for producing
chemical conversion coatings. The chemical solution may
be applied by immersion application, by various types of
manual application, or by spray
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A process for forming an oxide film cobalt
conversion coating on a substrate, wherein said substrate

is aluminum or aluminum alloy, said process comprising
the steps of:


(a) providing an oxide film forming cobalt
conversion solution comprising an aqueous reaction

solution comprising a soluble cobalt-III hexacoordinated
complex, where said cobalt-III hexacoordinated complex is

present in the form of Me
m
[Co(R)
6
]
n
, wherein Me is one or
more selected from the group consisting of Na, Li, K, 
Ca,
Zn, Mg and Mn, and wherein m is 2 or 3, n is 1 or 2, and

R is a carboxylate having from 1 to 5 C atoms, the
concentration of said cobalt-III hexacoordinated complex

being from about 0.01 mole per liter of said aqueous
reaction solution up to the saturation limit of said

cobalt-III hexacoordinated complex; and
(b) contacting said substrate with said aqueous
reaction solution for a sufficient amount of time to

oxidize the surface of said substrate, whereby said oxide
film cobalt conversion coating is formed, wherein said

aqueous reaction solution has a pH of about 5.0 to 9.0.
The process of claim 1 wherein an alkyl
fluoride or fluorocarbon wetting agent is added to said

aqueous reaction solution in the amount required to
produce a liquid surface tension of 0.03 N/m to 0.04 N/m

(30 to 40 dynes per centimeter).
The process of claims 1 or 2, wherein R is
acetate.
The process of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein the
concentration of said cobalt-III hexavalent complex is

from about 0.04 mole per liter of solution up to about
0.15 mole per liter of solution.
The process according to any of the claims
1-4, wherein said cobalt conversion solution is provided

by reacting a cobalt-II salt with a metal carboxylate
having from 1 to 5 carbon atoms.
The process of claim 5, wherein the
concentration of said cobalt-II salt is from about 0.04

mole per liter of final solution up to about 0.15 mole
per liter of final solution, and the concentration of

metal carboxylate is from about 0.03 to 2.5 mole per
liter of final solution.
The process of claims 5 or 6, wherein said
cobalt-II salt is a cobalt-II salt which has a minimum

solubility of about 0.01 moles of cobalt-II salt per
liter of water at 20°C (68°F).
The process according to any of the claims
5-7, wherein said cobalt-II salt is cobalt acetate.
The process of claim 5, wherein said cobalt
conversion solution is prepared by a bath makeup sequence

comprising: 

(a) dissolving said metal carboxylate salt,
and
(b) then adding said cobalt-II salt.
The process of claim 1, wherein said cobalt
conversion solution has a pH of about 5.0 to 9.0.
The process of claim 1, wherein said cobalt
conversion solution has a temperature of about 20°C to

71.1°C (68°F to 160°F).
The process of claim 1, wherein said
substrate is contacted with said cobalt conversion

solution for a time of about 3 minutes to 60 minutes.
The process of claim 1, wherein a
fluorinated wetting agent is added to said cobalt

conversion solution to assist in the formation of said
cobalt conversion coating on said substrate.
The process of claim 13, wherein said
wetting agent is selected from the group comprising alkyl

fluoride, fluorocarbons, CaF
2
, MgF
2
, and mixtures thereof.
The process of claim 13, wherein said
wetting agent is added in the amount required to produce

a liquid surface tension of 0.03 to 0.04 N/m (30 to 40 dynes per
centimeter).
The process of claim 13, wherein MgF
2
, CaF
2

or mixtures thereof are added to said solution in an
amount ranging from 2 to 4 grams per liter of final

solution.
The process of claim 1, wherein said
substrate is aluminum, aluminum alloy, magnesium,

magnesium alloy, Cd plated substrate or a Zn-Ni plated
substrate.
An article produced by the process of claim
1.
A chemical conversion coating solution for
producing an oxide film cobalt conversion coating on a

metal substrate, said solution comprising an aqueous
reaction solution comprising a soluble cobalt-III

hexacoordinated complex present in the form of Me
m
[Co(R)
6
]
n

wherein Me is one or more selected from the group 
consisting of Na, Li, K, Ca, Zn, Mg and Mn, and wherein m

is 2 or 3, n is 1 or 2, and R is a carboxylate having
from 1 to 5 C atoms, the concentration of said cobalt-III

hexacoordinated complex being from about 0.01 mole per
liter of solution to the saturation limit of said cobalt-III

hexacoordinated complex, the aqueous reaction
solution having a pH of about 5.0 to 9.0.
The solution of claim 19, wherein R is
acetate.
The solution of claim 19, wherein said
soluble cobalt-III hexacoordinated complex is a soluble

cobalt-III carboxylate complex obtainable by reacting a
cobalt-II salt with a metal carboxylate salt wherein the

Metal Me is defined in claim 19 having from 1 to 5 C
atoms.
The solution of claim 21, wherein the
concentration of said cobalt-II salt is from about 0.01

mole per liter of final solution up to the saturation
limit of the cobalt-II salt employed, and the

concentration of said metal carboxylate salt is from
about 0.03 to 2.5 mole per liter of final solution.
The solution of claim 21, wherein said
cobalt-II is a cobalt-II salt is a cobalt-II salt which

has a minimum solubility of about 0.01 mole of cobalt-II
salt per liter of water at 20°C (68°F).
The solution of claim 21, wherein said
cobalt-II salt is cobalt acetate.
The solution of claim 21, wherein said
metal carboxylate is a metal acetate.
The solution of claim 21, wherein said
cobalt conversion solution is prepared by a bath makeup

sequence comprising:

(a) dissolving said metal carboxylate; and
(b) then adding said cobalt-II salt.
Use of the solution of claim 19, for
producing an oxide film cobalt conversion coating on a

metal substrate, wherein said solution has a pH of about
5.0 to 9.0 
Use of the solution of claim 19 for producing an oxide film cobalt conversion coating or a metal substrate, wherein said
solution has a temperature of about 20°C to 71.7°C (68°F

to about 160°F)
Use of the solution according to claim 19
for producing an oxide film cobalt conversion coating on

a metal substrate, wherein said substrate is aluminum,
aluminum alloy, magnesium, magnesium alloy, Cd plated

substrate or a Zn-Ni plated substrate.
The solution of claim 19, comprising a
fluorinated wetting agent added to said cobalt conversion

solution to assist in the formation of said cobalt
conversion coating on said substrate.
The solution of claim 30, wherein said
wetting agent is selected from the group comprising

alkyl fluoride, fluorocarbons, CaF
2
, MgF
2
, and mixtures
thereof.
The solution of claim 30, wherein said
wetting agent is added in the amount required to produce

a liquid surface tension of 0.03 to 0.04 N/m (30 to 40 dynes per
centimeter).
The solution of claim 30, wherein MgF
2
, CaF
2

or mixtures thereof are added to said solution in an
amount ranging from 2 to 4 grams per liter
 of final
solution.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
