<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0628157</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
PIPETTE CALIBRATION SYSTEM
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B01L302	G01F2500	G01N2131	G01F1700	G01N2131	B01L302	G01F2500	G01F1700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B01L	G01F	G01N	G01F	G01N	B01L	G01F	G01F	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B01L3	G01F25	G01N21	G01F17	G01N21	B01L3	G01F25	G01F17	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARTEL INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
ARTEL, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURTIS RICHARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUNDELL ANN E
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
CURTIS, RICHARD, H.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
RUNDELL, ANN, E.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a system for
accurately determining the volume of a vessel such
as a laboratory pipette and, more particularly, to
methods and apparatus for determining the volume of
a pipette using a photometer.A pipette is typically used in laboratories for
measuring and transferring small volumes of
liquids. When the pipette volume must be known
accurately, it is necessary to calibrate the volume
of the pipette. A number of prior art techniques
are known for volume calibration of pipettes.In a prior art gravimetric technique, water is
dispensed from a pipette being calibrated onto a
sensitive balance. The water is weighed and the
volume is calculated based on the weight of the
water. Although this technique can provide accurate
measurement of pipette volume, it is relatively
expensive and complex when performed properly. For
small volume pipettes, the required balance is
relatively expensive. Furthermore, the accuracy is
sensitive to evaporation of the water, the
temperature of the water, the ambient barometric
pressure, static electricity, vibration and ambient
air movement. In a prior art colormetric technique for
calibration of pipette volume, a cuvette is provided
with a predetermined volume of water or other
solvent. A liquid containing a single dye is
transferred from a pipette being calibrated into the
cuvette and mixed. The cuvette is then positioned
in the spectrophotometer and the absorbance of the
liquid is measured. The volume of the pipette is
calculated from the absorbance of the liquid in the
cuvette. This technique is subject to inaccuracies,
including optical variations and temperature
variations. Typically, one aliquot of dye solution
is added to the water in the cuvette and a
measurement is taken. Then, the liquid in the
cuvette is discarded and the same process is
repeated several times to insure repeatability.
This process is relatively inaccurate and time
consuming. In particular, the variation in
pathlength between each cuvette leads to
inaccuracies, as well as the variation in pathlength
when an individual cuvette is repositioned in the
photometer between readings.In a third prior art technique, the pipette
being calibrated is used to transfer an acid
solution into a container. Then a mechanical
burette is used to add a base solution ccntaining an
indicator dye to the container. The indictor dye 
changes color when the concentration of acid equals
the concentration of base. At this point, the
volume of base added is read from the mechanical
burette. This technique is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method for determining the volume of a
vessel using a photometer, comprising the steps of:


a) positioning a container in a photometer,
said container holding a reference solution

having maximum absorbance at a first wavelength;
b) measuring the absorbance of said container
at said first wavelength and at a second

wavelength;
c) calculating the optical pathlength of said
container at said second wavelength from the

measured absorbances at said first and second
wavelengths;
d) introducing an aliquot of a sample solution
into said container from a vessel to be

calibrated, said sample solution having maximum
absorbance at said second wavelength, and mixing

said sample solution with said reference
solution to form a mixture; 
e) measuring the absorbance of said mixture in
said container at said second wavelength; and
f) calculating the volume of the aliquot from
the absorbance of said mixture and the optical

pathlength of said container, the volume of said
aliquot representing the volume of the vessel.
A method as defined in claim 1 further
including repeating steps d) through f) to provide

multiple measurements of the volume of the vessel
without emptying said container or moving said

container from its position in said photometer.
A method as defined in claim wherein the
step of positioning a container holding a reference

solution includes using a reference solution
comprising copper sulfate dissolved in a buffer,

said reference solution having maximum absorbance at
about 730 nm.
A method as defined in claim 3 wherein the
step of introducing an aliquot of sample solution

includes using a sample solution comprising Acid Red
1 dissolved in a buffer, said sample solution having

maximum absorbance at about 520 nm. 
A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the
step of calculating the optical pathlength includes

correcting the optical pathlength for zero offset
representative of a difference between the

absorbance of said container at said first
wavelength and the absorbance of said container at

said second wavelength.
A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the
step of calculating the optical pathlength includes

correcting the optical pathlength for a difference
between the pathlength of said container at said

first wavelength and the pathlength of said
container at said second wavelength.
A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the
step of calculating the volume includes calculating

the volume using Beer's law and correcting the
calculated volume for deviations from Beer's law.
A method as defined in claim 1 further
including the step of measuring the ambient

temperature and wherein the step of calculating the
volume includes correcting the measured absorbance

of said mixture for a difference between the
absorbance of said mixture at the measured ambient

temperature and the absorbance of said mixture at a
reference temperature. 
A method as defined in claim 1 further
including the step of measuring the ambient

temperature and wherein the step of calculating the
volume includes correcting the calculated volume for

a difference between the volume at the measured
ambient temperature and the volume at a reference

temperature.
A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said
vessel comprises a pipette. 
A system for determining the volume of a
vessel, comprising:


a photometer;
a container holding a predetermined volume
of a reference solution having maximum

absorbance at a first wavelength positioned in
said photometer ;
said photometer including means for
measuring the absorbance of said container

holding a reference solution at said first
wavelength and at a second wavelength;
means for calculating the optical
pathlength of said container at said second

wavelength from the measured absorbances at said
first and second wavelengths;
said photometer including means for mixing
said reference solution with an aliquot of

a sample solution having maximum absorbance at said second
wavelength and transferred to said container with a vessel to be

calibrated to form a mixture, and means for measuring the
absorbance of said mixture at said second wavelength; and
means for calculating the volume of the aliquot from the
measured absorbance of said mixture and the optical

pathlength of said container, the volume of said aliquot
representing the volume of said vessel.
A system as defined in claim 11, wherein
the container has the capacity to hold multiple

transfers of aliquots.
A system as defined in claim 11, wherein
the calculating means can make volume calculations

based on multiple transfers of aliquots.
A system as defined in claim 11 wherein
said means for calculating the optical pathlength

includes means for correcting the optical pathlength
for zero offset representative of a difference

between the absorbance of said container at said
first wavelength and the absorbance of said

container at said second wavelength.
A system as defined in claim llwherein
said means for calculating the 
optical pathlength
includes means for correcting the optical pathlength

for a difference between the pathlength of said
container at said first wavelength and the

pathlength of said container at said second
wavelength.
A system as defined in claim 11 wherein
said means for calculating the volume includes means

for calculating the volume using Beer's law and
means fcr correcting the calculated volume for

deviations from Beer's law. 
A system as defined in claim 11 further
including means for measuring the ambient

temperature and wherein said means for calculating
the volume includes means for correcting the

measured absorbance of said mixture for a difference
between the absorbance of said mixture at the

measured ambient temperature and the absorbance of
said mixture at a reference temperature.
A system as defined in claim 11 further
including means for measuring the ambient

temperature and wherein said means for calculating
the volume includes means for correcting the

calculated volume for a difference between the
volume at the measured ambient temperature and the

volume at a reference temperature.
A system as defined in claim 11 wherein
said reference solution comprises copper sulfate

dissolved in a buffer, said reference solution
having maximum absorbance at about 730 nm.
A system as defined in claim 19 wherein the
sample solution comprises Acid Red 1 dissolved in a

buffer, said sample solution having maximum
absorbance at about 520 nm. 
A system as defined in claim 11 wherein said
vessel comprises a pipette.
A method for measuring the optical
pathlength of a container to be used for absorbance

measurements at a predetermined wavelength,
comprising the steps of:


positioning a container in a photometer
said container holding a reference solution

having maximum absorbance at a first wavelength
that is different from the predetermined

wavelength;
- measuring the absorbance of said container
at said first wavelength and at said

predetermined wavelength;
calculating the optical pathlength of said
container at said predetermined wavelength from

the measured absorbances at said first
wavelength and said predetermined wavelength;
adding a sample solution to the container
and making at least one absorbence measurement

of the sample solution in the container at a
predetermined wavelength; and
removing the container from the photometer
and subsequently positioning another container

in the photometer and repeating the above-defined
steps.
A method as defined in claim 22 wherein the
step of calculating the optical pathlength includes

correcting the optical pathlength for zero offset
representative of a difference between the

absorbance of said container at said first
wavelength and the absorbance of said container at

said predetermined wavelength.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
