<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0616817</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Catheter and manifold assembly and method of manufacture thereof.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61M514	A61M514	A61M2500	A61M2500	A61M2510	A61M2510	A61M2902	A61M2902	A61M3900	A61M3900	B29C6508	B29C6508	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	A61M	B29C	B29C	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61M5	A61M5	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M25	A61M29	A61M29	A61M39	A61M39	B29C65	B29C65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A manifold comprising a manifold body (20) having a 
longitudinal passage (22) and proximal and distal port 

openings (26,28). The distal port opening (28) is secured 
by molding to an inflation tube (18) that defines an 

inflation lumen. An obliquely extending inflation leg (30) 
has an inflation passage (32) extending from a balloon 

inflation port (34) at the end of the leg into communication 
wi
th the inflation tube lumen (18). A plug cap (50) having 
a longitudinal through bore (54) is secured within the 

proximal port opening (26). An inner guidewire tube (16) is 
coaxially positioned within the outer tube (18) and extends 

into the longitudinal passage of the manifold body (20). 
The tube is secured by molding to the plug cap (50). A 

flexible polymer strain relief jacket (40) is molded over 
the distal portion of the manifold body (20). A portion of 

the strain relief jacket (40) tapers inward and extends over 
the outer tube (18) distally of the distal port opening (28) 

to allow bending and flexing of the tubes adjacent the 
manifold distal end without kinking of the tubes. The 

strain relief jacket (40) is preferably molded over a 
majority of the surface of the manifold body (20) and a 

majority of the surface of the inflation leg (30). 

 
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BARD INC C R
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
C.R. BARD, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOURNE IV GEORGE W
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACKEY JOHN J
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINTYRE JOHN T
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SELLERS JAMES S
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
BOURNE IV, GEORGE W.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MACKEY, JOHN J.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MCINTYRE, JON T.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
SELLERS, JAMES S.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a catheter manifold assembly and 
more particularly, to an overmolded angioplasty catheter 
manifold assembly having a flexible polymer strain relief 
molded over the distal portion of a manifold body through 
which inflation and guidewire tubes extend so as to allow 
bending and flexing of the tubes adjacent the manifold 
distal end without kinking of the tubes. In angioplasty procedures, a catheter having an inflatable 
balloon is guided through arteries to a stenosis. In most 
conventional balloon catheters used in angioplasty, the 
inflatable balloon is positioned at the distal end of the 
catheter. A manifold, sometimes referred to as a 
"bifurcate" or "trifurcate", is positioned at the proximal 
end of the catheter. A cardiologist uses the manifold for 
manipulating the catheter, receiving a guidewire, connecting 
the balloon to a controllable source of inflation pressure, 
connecting the manifold to luer fittings, and controlling 
inflation of the balloon via inflation-deflation devices 
connected to the manifold. In a typical balloon catheter, an outer inflation tube is  
 
positioned coaxially around an inner guidewire tube. Both 
tubes extend substantially the length of the catheter, 
defining an annular inflation lumen between the two tubes 
and a guidewire lumen within the inner tube. At their 
proximal end, the tubes connect to a manifold body having an 
obliquely extending inflation leg. The inflation leg has an 
inflation passage extending from a balloon inflation port at 
the proximal end of the leg into communication with the 
inflation tube lumen. In many designs, the guidewire is 
inserted through the proximal port opening of the manifold, 
into the inner tube, and through the balloon positioned at 
the distal end of the catheter. A conventional inflation-deflation 
device connects to the inflation leg. In one known prior art manifold, the manifold is molded out 
of a Lexan body having metal luer locks held in a skived 
tube with adhesive. In use, the metal luers tended to crack 
the Lexan body when it was torqued, such as when connected 
to inflation devices, Y-bodies, or luer locks. Also, the 
adhesives used for securing the tubes and manifold body 
together tended to weaken or break, resulting in "cross-talk", 
i.e. the undesirable fluid flow between the different 
lumens and tubes. In another known manifold, two "legs" are 
heat-sealed with a shrink tube to form a manifold housing. 
This structure, however, is complex to manufacture, does not 
provide
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A catheter manifold assembly characterised by a 
manifold body (20) of unitary construction having a proximal 

end, a distal end, an outer surface, and a longitudinal 
through passage (22) defining a distal port (28) at said 

distal end, a proximal port (26) at said proximal end and a 
manifold inner surface; an elongated first catheter element 

(18) having a proximal portion disposed within said manifold 
longitudinal passage and bonded to the inner surface of said 

manifold body, there being thermoplastic bond portion 
between said first catheter element (16) and said manifold 

body (20), the first catheter element extending distally 
beyond the distal port (28) of the manifold body and having 

a longitudinal lumen; an elongated second catheter element 
(16) disposed in said manifold body longitudinal passage and 

extending distally beyond the distal port of the manifold 
body, said second catheter element having a proximal end 

bonded to the inner surface of the manifold body, there 
being a thermoplastic bond portion between said manifold 

body and said second catheter element; and a flexible 
polymer tubular strain relief jacket (40) molded around the 

outer surface of said manifold body and having a distal 
portion extending distally beyond the distal end of said 

manifold body, said distal portion of the strain relief 
jacket being molded around said first and second catheter 

 
elements. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that 
said first and second catheter elements (16,18) are coaxial 

with each other. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 
characterised in that the strain relief jacket (40) extends 

over a majority of the outer surface of said manifold body 
(20). 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim 
characterised in that said manifold body (20) further 

includes an obliquely extending leg (30) having an outer 
surface, an interior passage (32) and a proximal end having 

a leg port (34) communicating with said leg passage and 
first catheter lumen and wherein said strain relief jacket 

(40) extends over a majority of the outer surface of said 
manifold leg. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim 
characterised in that said distal portion of the strain 

relief jacket (40) includes a plurality of concentric ribs 
(44). 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim 
 

characterised in that outer surface of the distal end of 
said manifold body tapers distally and wherein said distal 

portion of said strain relief jacket tapers distally. 
An assembly according to any preceding claim 
characterised in that said strain relief jacket (50) is 

formed from a block copolymer of polystyrene segments in a 
matrix of polybutadiene. 
An assembly as claimed in any of claims 1-6 
characterised in that said strain relief jacket (40) is 

formed from a block copolymer of polystyrene segments in a 
matrix of polyisoprene. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim 
characterised in that said strain relief jacket (40) is 

formed from an elastomeric plastic material having a 
hardness ranging from about 50 to about 100 on the Shore A 

scale. 
An assembly as claimed in any preceding claim 
characterised in that said strain relief jacket (40) is 

formed from an elastomeric foam material. 
An assembly according to claim 2 wherein said first 
catheter element (18) is an inflation tube and said second 

 
catheter element is a guidewire tube (16) having a lumen for 

receiving a guidewire. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 11 characterised by a 
plug cap (50) having a distal portion (52) disposed through 

the proximal port (26) of said manifold body (20) and in the 
through passage (22) of said manifold body, and a shoulder 

portion (58) bonded to the proximal end of said manifold 
body (20), said plug cap (50) further including a bore (54) 

defining an interior surface of said plug cap, the proximal 
end of said guidewire tube (16) being received in said plug 

cap bore and bonded to the interior surface of said plug 
cap. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 12 characterised in 
that said strain relief jacket (40) extends over a majority 

of the outer surface of said manifold body (20) and said 
inflation leg (30). 
A catheter manifold assembly characterised by a 
manifold body (20) of unitary construction having a proximal 

end, a distal end, an outer surface and a longitudinal 
through passage (22) defining a distal port (28) at said 

distal end, a proximal port (26) at said proximal end and a 
manifold inner surface, said manifold body further including 

an obliquely extending inflation leg (30) having an 
 

inflation passage (32) communicating with said longitudinal 
through passage (22) and a proximal end having an inflation 

port (32); an inflation tube (18) having a proximal portion 
disposed within said manifold longitudinal passage (22) and 

bonded to the inner surface of said manifold body (20), the 
inflation tube extending distally beyond the distal port 

(28) of the manifold body (20) and having a lumen 
communicating with the inflation port of said manifold body; 

a plug member (50) having a distal end, a proximal end and 
a bore extending from said plug distal end to said plug 

proximal end, the plug distal end being received through 
said manifold proximal port and said manifold through 

passage, said plug member including a shoulder portion (58) 
bonded to the proximal end of said manifold body (20); a 

guidewire tube (16) disposed coaxially within said inflation 
tube (18) in said manifold body longitudinal passage and 

extending distally beyond the distal port of the manifold 
body, said guidewire tube having a proximal end bonded to 

the inner surface of said plug member; and a flexible 
polymer tubular strain relief jacket (40) bonded around the 

outer surface of said manifold body (20) and having a distal 
portion extending distally beyond the distal end of said 

manifold body, said distal portion of the strain relief 
jacket (40) being bonded around a portion of said inflation 

tube (18) extending distally being the distal port of the 
manifold body (20). 
An assembly as claimed in claim 14 characterised in 
that said strain relief jacket (40) is formed from a block 

copolymer of polystyrene segments in a matrix of 
polybutadiene. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 14 characterised in 
that said strain relief jacket (40) is formed from a block 

copolymer of polystyrene segments in a matrix of 
polyisoprene. 
An assembly as claimed in any of claims 14-16 
characterised in that the strain relief jacket (40) has an 

outer surface having a plurality of concentric ribs. 
An assembly as claimed in any of claims 14-17 
characterised in that the strain relief jacket (40) is made 

from an elastomeric foam material. 
A catheter manifold assembly characterised by a 
manifold body (220) of unitary construction having a 

proximal end, a distal end, an outer surface and a 
longitudinal through passage (223) defining a distal port 

(226) at said distal end, a proximal port (227) at said 
proximal end and a manifold inner surface, said manifold 

body (220) further including a first obliquely extending leg 
(224) having a through passage (225) communicating with said 

 
manifold body longitudinal through passage (223) and a 

proximal end first port (225a) and a second obliquely 
extending leg (228) having a through passage (229) 

communicating with the manifold body longitudinal passage 
(223) and a proximal end having a second port (229a); a 

first elongated tubular catheter element (241) having a 
proximal portion disposed within said manifold longitudinal 

passage and bonded to the inner surface of said manifold 
body, the first catheter element (241) extending distally 

beyond the distal port of the manifold body and having a 
lumen (247) communicating with the first port (225a) of said 

manifold body; a second elongated tubular catheter element 
(243) disposed in said manifold body longitudinal passage 

and extending distally beyond the distal port of the 
manifold body, said second elongated catheter element (243) 

having a proximal end bonded to the manifold body inner 
surface, said second catheter element (243) having a lumen 

communicating with the through passage of said second leg 
(228); a plug member (260) having a distal end (261), a 

proximal end (262) and a bore (263) defining a plug inner 
surface, the plug distal end being received through said 

manifold proximal port and said manifold through passage, 
said plug member including a shoulder (264) portion bonded 

to the proximal end (221) of said manifold body; a third 
elongated catheter element (245) coaxially disposed within 

said second catheter element (243), said third catheter 
 

element being received in said plug bore and bonded to the 
plug inner surface and extending beyond the distal port of 

the manifold body; and a flexible polymer tubular strain 
relief jacket (230) secured around the outer surface of said 

manifold body and having a distal portion extending distally 
beyond the distal end of said manifold body, said distal 

portion of the strain relief jacket (40) being secured 
around a portion of said first and second catheter elements 

disposed distally of said distal port of said manifold body. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 19 characterised in 
that said third catheter element (245) has a lumen 

communicating with said plug bore. 
An assembly as claimed in claim 19 characterised in 
that said third catheter element (245) is a guidewire. 
A method of forming a catheter manifold assembly 
comprising the steps of: 

providing an elongated catheter member having a proximal end 
and a distal end, said catheter member including first and 

second tubular portions each having a proximal end, said 
first tubular portion defining a first catheter lumen, said 

second tubular portion defining a second catheter lumen; 
molding a manifold body onto the proximal end of said 

catheter member, said manifold body having a proximal end, 
 

a distal end and longitudinal through passage defining a 
distal port, a proximal port, and a manifold outer surface, 

the proximal end of said catheter member being disposed 
within the longitudinal passage of said manifold body, with 

the proximal ends of said catheter tubular members being 
bonded to the inner surface of said manifold body as a 

result of said molding of said manifold body onto said 
catheter member, sa
id manifold body further including an 
obliquely extending leg having a leg lumen defining a leg 

port in communication with said first catheter lumen, said 
catheter member extending distally beyond the distal port of 

said manifold body; and 
molding a flexible polymer strain relief around the outer 

surface of said manifold body and around a portion of said 
catheter member distal of the distal port of said manifold 

body so as to bond said strain relief to said manifold body 
and said catheter member and provide a flexible distal 

strain relief portion disposed distally to said manifold 
body distal port. 
A method of forming a catheter manifold assembly 
comprising the steps of: 

providing a first elongated catheter member having a 
proximal end and a distal end, and defining a first catheter 

lumen; 
molding a manifold body onto the proximal end of said first 

 
catheter member, said manifold body having a proximal end, 

a distal end and longitudinal through passage defining a 
distal port, a proximal port, and a manifold inner surface, 

the proximal end of said first catheter member being 
disposed within the longitudinal passage of said manifold 

body, so as to bond the proximal end of said first catheter 
member to the inner surface of said manifold body, said 

manifold body further including an obliquely extending leg 
having a leg lumen defining a proximal leg port in 

communication with said first catheter lumen, said first 
catheter member extending distally beyond the distal port of 

said manifold body; 
molding a flexible polymer strain relief around the outer 

surface of said manifold body and around a portion of said 
first catheter member distal of the distal port of said 

manifold body so as to bond said strain relief to said 
manifold body and said first catheter member and provide a 

flexible distal strain relief portion disposed distal of 
said manifold body distal port; 

providing a second elongated catheter member having a 
proximal end, a distal end and defining a second catheter 

lumen; 
molding a plug cap member onto the proximal end of said 

second catheter member, said plug cap member having a distal 
portion, a proximal portion, and a plug bore defining an 

inner plug surface, the proximal end of said second catheter 
 

member being received in the distal portion of the plug cap 
through the plug bore and bonded to the inner surface of 

said plug; 
inserting the distal end of said second catheter member 

through said manifold body proximal port, said longitudinal 
passage and distally out the manifold body distal port such 

that the distal portion of said plug member is received in 
said manifold body longitudinal passage; and 

bonding said plug member to the proximal end of said 
manifold body. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said plug member 
includes a shoulder portion and wherein said step of bonding 

the plug member to the manifold body comprises the step of 
bonding the plug shoulder portion to the proximal end of the 

manifold body. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said insertion 
step further comprises inserting said second catheter member 

into the proximal end of said first catheter member and the 
first lumen defined by said first catheter member such that 

said first and second catheter members are coaxial with one 
another. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said strain 
relief is molded over a majority of the outer surface of 

 
said manifold body. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said strain 
relief is molded over a majority of the outer surface of 

said leg member. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said step of 
molding the strain relief further comprises the step of 

molding concentric ribs onto the portion of the strain 
relief extending distally beyond the distal port of the 

manifold body. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said strain 
relief is formed from a block copolymer composed of 

polystyrene segments in a matrix of polybutadiene. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said strain 
relief is formed from a block copolymer composed of 

polystyrene segments in a matrix of polyisoprene. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said strain 
relief is formed from an elastomeric plastic material having 

a hardness ranging from 50 to 100 on the Shore A scale. 
A method according to claim 23 wherein said manifold 
body is molded from a material formed by mixing a 

 
comparatively high density polyethylene and a dimensionally 

stable filler. 
A method according to claim 24 wherein the plug 
shoulder portion is ultrasonically welded to the proximal 

end of the manifold body. 
A method according to claim 32 wherein said filler 
glass spheres comprise glass spheres from about 9 to about 

13 microns in size. 
A method according to claim 33 wherein said glass 
spheres comprise about 10% to about 30% by weight of the 

polyethylene. 
A method of forming a catheter manifold assembly 
comprising the steps of: 

providing a first elongated catheter member having a 
proximal end and a distal end, said first catheter member 

including first and second tubular portions each having a 
proximal end and a distal end, said first tubular portion 

defining a first catheter lumen, said second tubular portion 
defining a second catheter lumen; 

molding a manifold body onto the proximal end of said first 
catheter member, said manifold body having a proximal end, 

a distal end and longitudinal through passage defining a 
 

distal port, a proximal port, and a manifold outer surface, 
the proximal end of said first catheter member being 

disposed within the longitudinal passage of said manifold 
body so as to bond the proximal ends of said first catheter 

tubular members to the inner surface of said manifold body, 
said manifold body further including an obliquely extending 

leg having a leg lumen defining a leg port in communication 
with said first catheter lumen, said first catheter member 

extending distally beyond the distal port of said manifold 
body; 

providing a second elongated catheter member having a 
proximal end and a distal end; 

molding a flexible polymer strain relief jacket around the 
outer surface of said manifold body and around a portion of 

said first catheter member distal of the distal port of said 
manifold body so as to bond said strain relief jacket to 

said manifold body and said first catheter member and 
provide a flexible distal strain relief portion disposed 

distal of said manifold body distal port; 
molding a plug cap member onto the proximal end of said 

second catheter member, said plug cap member having a distal 
portion, a proximal portion, and a plug bore defining an 

inner plug surface, the proximal end of said second catheter 
member being received in the distal portion of the plug cap 

through the plug bore and bonded to the inner surface of 
said plug;

 
inserting the distal end of said second catheter member 

through said manifold body proximal port said longitudinal 
passage and distally out the manifold body distal port such 

that the distal portion of said plug member is received in 
said manifold body longitudinal passage; and 

bonding said plug member to the proximal end of said 
manifold body. 
A method according to claim 36 wherein said plug member 
includes a shoulder portion and wherein said step of bonding 

the plug member to the manifold body comprises the step of 
bonding the plug shoulder portion to the proximal e
nd of the 
manifold body. 
A method according to claim 36 wherein said insertion 
step further comprises the step of inserting said second 

catheter member into the proximal end of the second tubular 
portion of said first catheter member and the first lumen 

defined by the second tubular portion said first catheter 
member such that said second catheter member and the second 

tubular portion of said first catheter member are coaxial 
with one another. 
A method according to claim 38 wherein said second 
catheter member is a guidewire tube having a lumen for 

receiving a guidewire. 
A method according to claim 39 wherein said second 
catheter member is a guidewire. 
A method according to claim 36 wherein said step of 
molding said manifold body includes molding a second leg 

unitary with said manifold body, said second leg having an 
outer surface, a leg lumen and a proximal leg port, said leg 

lumen and leg port of said second leg communicating with 
said second catheter lumen. 
A method according to claim 36 wherein said strain 
relief jacket is molded over a majority of the outer surface 

of said manifold body. 
A method according to claim 36 wherein said strain 
relief jacket is molded over a majority of the outer surface 

of said leg member. 
A method according to claim 36 wherein said step of 
molding the strain relief jacket further comprises the step 

of molding concentric ribs onto the portion of the strain 
relief jacket extending distally beyond the distal port of 

the manifold body. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
