<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0610797</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Floating type brake disk assembly
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16D6512	F16D6512	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16D	F16D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16D65	F16D65	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A floating type brake disc assembly (1) has a hub (2) and an annular disc (3) which is 
concentrically disposed around the hub (2). The hub (2) and the disc (3) have plural sets 

of connecting dents (6, 7) each set being opposingly provided in a connecting portion of 
the hub (2) and the disc (3). A hollow pin (8) which has a flange (10) on one end is 

inserted into each set of the connecting dents (6, 7) such that the hub (2) and the disc 
(3) are connected together while allowing for a slight floating movement between the 

two members. The hollow pin (8) has a thick-wall tube portion (11) which lies next to 
the flange (10) and is adapted to be inserted into each set of the connecting dents (6, 7) 

and a thin-wall tube portion (12) which has an outer diameter smaller than that of the 
thick-wall tube portion (11) and is provided next to the thick-wall portion (11) away 

from the flange (10). The thin-wall tube portion (12) is caulked with its outer periphery 
(16a) bending towards one side surface of the connecting portion (5) to form a caulked 

flange (16) such that the outer periphery (16a) holds the above-described one side 
surface of the connecting portion (5). 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to a floating type
brake disk assembly which is used for braking vehicles or
the like and which can be thermally expanded freely when a
disc is heated to a high temperature due to a friction
heat at the time of braking.A conventional hollow pin to be used for connecting
a disc to a hub in a manner slightly displaceable relative
to each other in the axial direction has the construction
as shown in Japanese Published Examined Utility Model
Registration Application 40347/1989. The construction is
as shown in Fig. 11 in which reference mark "a" denotes a
hub, b denotes a disc and c denotes a pin. The pin c has
a flange d, a stepped portion e and a small-diameter
portion f. After the pin c has been inserted into a pair
of connecting dents or recesses which are provided in a
connecting portion g of the hub "a" and the disc b, a
coned disc spring h and a fixing washer i are fitted onto
the small-diameter portion f. The coned disc spring h is
held via the fixing washer i by a caulked portion f' which
is formed by caulking an end of the small-diameter 
portion. Both side surfaces of the hub "a" and of the
disc b are thus held in a pinching manner by the coned
disc spring h and the flange d. A torque is transmitted
by the pin c and the clattering in the axial direction is
prevented by the coned disc spring h.As the coned disc spring h, there are two types as
described in the above-described Japanese Utility Model
Registration Application. One of them is as shown in Fig.
12(a). The same or substantially the same parts are
affixed with the same marks as used hereinabove. The
coned disc spring h is of a simple truncated cone and is
inserted or placed into the dents which extend over the
hub "a" and the annular disc b. The coned disc spring h
is further fitted onto a pin j having a stepped portion j1
and a small-diameter portion j2 and is urged or pressed by
a washer i which is held in position on the stepped
portion j1 by caulking.However, this type of construction has the following
disadvantage as shown in Fig. 12(b). Namely, the coned
disc spring h is likely to be deviated or moved off the
center at the time of assembling, and is therefore stepped
onto the stepped portion j1. If the pin j is caulked in
this condition, as shown in Fig. 12(c), the coned disc
spring h may contact the hub "a" but not the disc b and,
consequently, elasticity cannot be worked or operated on
the disc b. The other type of coned disc spring k is provided,
as shown in Fig. 13, with a bottom portion (or a top
por
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A floating type brake disc assembly comprising:

a hub (2);
an annular disc (3) which is concentrically disposed around said hub (2), said hub (2)
and said disc (3) having plural sets of connecting dents (6, 7) each set of which is

opposingly provided in a connecting portion (5) of said hub (2) and said disc (3); and
a hollow pin (8) which has a flange (10) on one end thereof and is inserted into each
set of said connecting dents (6, 7) such that said hub (2) and said disc (3) are connected

together while allowing for a slight floating movement therebetween;
wherein said hollow pin (8) has a thick-wall tube portion (11) which lies next to said
flange (10) and is adapted to be inserted into each set of said connecting dents (6, 7)

and a thin-wall tube portion (12) which has an outer diameter smaller than that of said
thick-wall tube portion (11) and is provided next to said thick-wall tube portion (11)

away from said flange (10); and
wherein said thin-wall tube portion (12) is caulked into an arc in cross-section with its outer periphery (16a) bending
towards one side surface of said connecting portion (5) to form a caulked flange (16 )

such that said outer periphery (16a) holds said one side surface of said connecting

portion (5).
A floating type brake disc assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a coned
disc spring (15) which is fitted onto said thick-wall tube portion (11) so as to press an

opposite side surface of said connecting portion (5).
A floating type brake disc assembly according to claim 1, wherein that side surface
of said outer periphery (16a) of said caulked flange (16) which pressingly contacts said

one side surface of said connecting portion (5) is arcuate.
A floating type brake disc assembly according to claim 2, further comprising a
protection washer (18) which is interposed between said coned disc spring (15) and said

opposite side surface of said connecting portion (5). 
A floating type brake disc assembly according to claim 2, further comprising a
protection washer (18) which is interposed between said caulked flange (16) and said

one side surface of said connecting portion (5).
A floating type brake disc assembly comprising:

a hub (2);
an annular disc (3) which is disposed around said hub (2), said hub (2) and said
annular disc (3) having plural sets of connecting dents (6, 7);
a pin (20) which has a shaft portion (20a) on one side along said pin (20) and a flange
(20b) provided on one end of said shaft portion (20a), said pin (20) being adapted to be

inserted into each set of said connecting dents (6, 7); and
a coned disc spring (15) and a washer (21) which are mounted on an opposite end of
said shaft portion (20a), whereby said hub (2) and said disc (3) are held together in a

pinched manner, when assembled, by said flange (20b), said coned disc spring (15) and
said washer (21);

wherein

a length of said shaft portion (20a) is set larger than a sum of a thickness (T) of
said hub (2) or said disc (3) and a height (H) of said coned disc spring (15) under no-load

condition; and wherein
said washer (21) has an annular projection (21a) projecting towards said coned disc
spring (15), an inner diameter of said annular projection (21a) being larger than an outer

diameter of said shaft portion (20a), said washer (21) being fixedly seated, when
assembled, onto an axially outer end of said opposite end of said shaft portion (20a)

such that said annular projection presses said coned disc spring (15).
A floating type brake disc assembly according to claim 6,
 
   wherein

   said spring (15) is disposed on the side of said flange (20b) of said pin (20).
A floating type brake disc assembly according to claim 6 or 7, wherein a protection
washer (18) is interposed between said spring (15) and said side surface of said hub (2)

and said disc (3), respectively.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
