<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0622556</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Close fitting low friction assembly of a metal member and a polymer composite member
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F16H2524	F16C3304	F16C3320	F16H2524	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F16H	F16C	F16C	F16H	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F16H25	F16C33	F16C33	F16H25	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An assembly of a self-lubricating polymer composite 
member movably joined to a metal member of at least one metal, 

metal alloy or metal mixture has a metal member with a wear-resistant, 
porous surface layer impregnated with a self-lubricating 

compound, and the polymer composite member 
contacts the metal member with low clearance. A method for 

producing an assembly of a polymer composite member movably 
joined with low clearance to a metal member includes hardening 

a shapable polymer composite material in clasping engagement 
with a porous surface layer of a metal member, the porous 

surface layer having been impregnated with a self-lubricating 
compound. The hardened polymer composite member is then moved 

along the impregnated surface layer of the metal member after 
coating the surface with a lapping compound until a 

predetermined low clearance is achieved between the polymer 
composite member and the metal member. 


</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAPHITECH INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
GRAPHITECH, INC.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL LINCOLN F DR
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
VOGEL, LINCOLN F., DR.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates generally to
combinations of machine parts adapted for movable joinder with
low friction and small clearance, and more specifically to a
motion-transmitting combination comprising a metal member and
a polymer composite member adapted for movable joinder with
low friction and low clearance, and to methods of manufacture
of motion-transmitting combinations. An assembly in accordance with the preamble of claim 1 and a method in accordance with the preamble of claim 20 are disclosed in US-A-3 081 644. Futher it is known from DE-A-2 101 262 to provide an impregnated porous sintered body, which slides with respect to a polymeric sleeve with e.g. a lubricant as filler. An anodized porous layer filled with PTFE is known from NL-A-6 805 392.Further known methods of fabricating closely fitting, low
friction, low wear machine parts include the steps of casting
a self-lubricating composite material against a mating part.
For example, a journal bearing can be fabricated by casting an
epoxy containing a dry lubricant such as graphite against a
polished shaft which has been coated with a parting compound
for facilitating separation of the parts following hardening
of the epoxy/lubricant mixture. After the epoxy has cured
into a hard solid, the bearing can be broken loose from the
shaft and worked with a lapping compound so that it passes
freely over the shaft but has a very narrow clearance. When
the shaft and bearing are washed free of the lapping compound,
the resulting couple displays low friction and low wear rates.The friction and wear of the bearing can be reduced
still further by applying a dry lubricant coating to the
shaft, usually by spraying and baking. Despite the reduction
of friction and wear attained through application of the dry
lubricant coating to the shaft, however, serious disadvantages
attend its use. If the dry lubricant coating is applied
following the lapping operation, the clearance of the two
mated parts is changed. The resulting fit will either be too
tight or too overlapped to provide allowance for the dry
lubricant coating after it is applied. Alternatively, if the
dry lubricant coating is applied prior to the lapping step,
most of the coating will be worn away by the abrasive lapping 
compound so that its friction-and wear-reducing effect
is diminished or removed.According to one aspect of the present invention
there is provided a motion-transmitting assembly
comprising a metal member and a polymer composite
member, the polymer composite member being mounted
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A motion-transmitting assembly comprising a
metal member (14, 21, 31) and a polymer composite

member (18, 26, 35), the polymer composite member being
mounted in relatively movable clasping engagement with

a surface portion of the metal member, wherein

the metal member (14, 21, 31) has a self-lubricating
surface comprising a first self-lubricating

compound,
the polymer composite member (18, 26, 35) is a
self-lubricating polymer composite comprising a

thermosetting, thermoplastic, or
thermoset/thermoplastic polymer and a second self-lubricating

compound, the polymer composite member
being shaped in contact with the surface of the metal member, hardened in situ and encased in a metal shell (10, 24, 34), and
wherein there is a low clearance between the metal
member (14, 21, 31) and the polymer composite member

(18, 26, 35), characterized in that
the self-lubricating surface of the metal member (14, 21, 31) is a wear-resistant self-lubricating
surface (22, 32) consisting of a porous metal

oxide layer or a porous electrolyzed metal layer and the
first self-lubricating compound impregnated into

the pores of the metal oxide or electrolyzed metal
layer.
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the low clearance is between
about 2.5 µm (0.0001 inch) and about 100 µm (0.004

inch).
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the first self-lubricating
compound comprises graphite, intercalated graphite,

molybdenum disulfide, tungsten disulfide, a
perhaloolefin, silver oxide, lead oxide, cadmium oxide,

zinc oxide, or a mixture thereof.
An assembly according to claim 3,

characterized in that the first self-lubricating 
compound comprises a perhaloolefin.
An assembly according to claim 4,

characterized in that the perhaloolefin is
polytetrafluoroethylene.
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the polymer composite member
is a bearing (26, 35).
An assembly according to claim 6,
characterized in that the bearing is a sliding bearing.
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the metal member is a rod (14)
having external screw threads and the polymer member is

a nut member (18) having internal screw threads.
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the polymer member is a bushing
(35).
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the metal member is a shaft (31).
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the metal member is a load-bearing
member (21).
An assembly according to claim 11,

characterized in that the load bearing member (21) is a
rail or track.
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the polymer is thermosetting and
is an epoxy resin, an allyl ester, an amino polymer, a

phenolic, a polyester, a polyimide, a polyurethane, a
silicone, or a mixture thereof.
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the polymer is about 30-99
percent by weight of the self-lubricating polymer

composite (18, 26, 35).
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the polymer is about 70-80
percent by weight of the self-lubricating polymer 

composite (18, 26, 35).
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the second self-lubricating
compound is about 1-70 percent by weight of the self-lubricating

polymer composite (18, 26, 35).
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the second self-lubricating
compound is about 20-30 percent by weight of the self-lubricating

polymer composite (18, 26, 35).
An assembly according to claim 1,

characterized in that the metal of the metal member
(14, 21, 31) is aluminium, chromium, copper, iron,

titanium, nickel, tungsten, vanadium, zinc, zirconium,
or an alloy or mixture thereof.
An assembly combination according to claim 1,

characterized in that the porosity of the porous
surface of the metal member (14, 21, 31) is about 1-35

percent by volume.
A method for producing an assembly comprising
a polymer composite member (18, 26, 35) movably joined

to a metal member (14, 21, 31), the method comprising
the steps of:


(a) providing the metal member (14, 21,31);
(b) providing a first self-lubricating compound
on the metal member (14, 21, 31) to form a self-lubricating

surface;
(c) contacting the self-lubricating surface of
the metal member (14, 21, 31) with a shapable mixture

of a polymer and a second self-lubricating compound; and
(d) hardening the shapable mixture to form the
polymer composite member (18, 26, 35),

   characterized in that the first self-lubricating
compound is provided on the metal member (14, 21, 31)

by creating a wear-resistant, porous surface layer (22,32) on
the metal member, and impregnating the wear-resistant,

porous surface layer of the metal member with the first self-lubricating 
compound, and in that the polymer composite

member (18, 26, 35) is lapped against the metal member
to produce a predetermined low clearance between the cast

polymer composite member and the metal member (14, 21,
31).
A method according to claim 20, characterized
in that the wear-resistant, porous surface of the metal

member (14, 21, 31) comprises a metal oxide layer.
A method according to claim 20, characterized
in that the wear-resistant, porous surface layer of the

metal member (14, 21, 31) is created by anodizing the metal member.
A method according to claim 20, characterized
in that the wear-resistant, porous surface layer of the

metal member (14, 21, 31) comprises a coating of
chromium or a coating of zinc phosphate.
A method according to claim 20, characterized
in that the shapable mixture is hardened at a

temperature of about 300°F to about 400°F.
A method according to claim 20, characterized
in that the shapable mixture is hardened by application

of infrared, convective, or conductive heat.
A method according to claim 20, characterized
in that the shapable mixture is hardened by a chemical

reaction at or moderately above about abient
temperature.
A method according to claim 20, characterized
in that the polymer composite member

(18, 26, 35) is lapped against the metal member (14, 21, 31) with a
lapping compound.
A method according to claim 27, further
comprising a step of removing the lapping compound by

washing with a solvent.
A method according to claim 20, further
comprising a step of applying a coating of a fluid

lubricant to the metal member (14, 21, 31) and the

polymer composite member (18, 26, 35).
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
