<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0625096</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
IMAGE ENHANCEMENT
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B41M122	B41M312	B41M100	B41M314	G03G800	G03G2104	G03G700	B32B3810	B41M312	B41M700	G03G800	G03G2104	G03G700	B41M700	B32B3810	G03H118	G03H118	B42D1510	B41M314	B42D1510	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B41M	B41M	B41M	B41M	G03G	G03G	G03G	B32B	B41M	B41M	G03G	G03G	G03G	B41M	B32B	G03H	G03H	B42D	B41M	B42D	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B41M1	B41M3	B41M1	B41M3	G03G8	G03G21	G03G7	B32B38	B41M3	B41M7	G03G8	G03G21	G03G7	B41M7	B32B38	G03H1	G03H1	B42D15	B41M3	B42D15	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method of enhancing an image (11) provided by a thermoplastic marking material on a substrate (4) which material can be thermally activated to take on adhesive properties. The method comprises bringing a transfer medium (7) into contact with the substrate (4) carrying the marking material, the transfer medium including a carrier (3) and a transferrable layer (15, 16), the transferrable layer being positioned in use between the carrier and the substrate; thermally activating the adhesive property of the marking material; and separating the carrier (13) and substrate (4) whereby areas of the transferrable layer containing the activated marking material remain on the marking material, characterised in that the transferrable layer exhibits or generates a visible pattern.
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The invention relates to a method of enhancing an
image provided by a thermoplastic marking material on a
substrate, particularly with a view to establishing the
authenticity of the substrate, which material can be
activated to take on adhesive properties. Such images are
commonly formed using a dry toner of the type used in
electrostatic, laser printers or electrostatic photocopying
machines.Modern laser printing machines enable a wide variety
of toned images to be produced. The use of heat fusible
dry toner for printing is widespread. Such dry toner may
be used to form the images on paper which are created by an
electrostatic, laser printer controlled for example by word
processing, database, spreadsheet or graphical software.
The images may be in the form of letter or numerical
characters, symbols, graphical compositions or pictorial
compositions. For example an image in the form of a
signature may be scanned into the controlling computer and
held in its data set. That data set may be merged with
textual data and the composite printed on an electrostatic
laser printer. The signature thereby output is a
facsimile formed in dry toner. Such laser printers may be
employed in the manufacture of identity cards in which
identification details are applied to security printed base
stock, and other personalised security printed items such
as passports, visas, and items such as tickets.Office photocopiers nowadays generally employ dry
toner as the imaging medium. Such xerographic
reproductions are often formed with black dry toner and
this photocopied printing is very difficult to distinguish
from that on any laser printed original document.Xerographic, dot image colour copiers are becoming
increasingly available. These have the capability of
creating realistic full colour facsimiles of the original.
Full colour reproductions are created by electronically
scanning and colour separating the colour components of the
original document or artwork and thereafter recreating the 
perception of the original colours by the sequential
imagewise deposition of yellow, magenta and cyan coloured
heat fusible toners, with usually a final black toner tint.Apart from office copying purposes the use of coloured
toner printing is employed for lithographic print proofing
purposes. Electrostatic deposition of toner may also be
used in the printing stations of certain facsimile
transmission machines.High speed personalised image printing methods are
also available. Here toner is deposited under electronic
control on cheques and the
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A method of enhancing an image provided by a
thermoplastic marking material on a substrate which

material can be thermally activated to take on adhesive
properties, the method comprising bringing a transfer

medium into contact with the substrate carrying the marking
material, the transfer medium including a carrier and a

transferable layer, the transferable layer being positioned
in use between the carrier and the substrate; thermally

activating the adhesive property of the marking material;
and separating the carrier and substrate whereby areas of

the transferable layer contacting the activated marking
material remain on the marking material, characterised in

that the transferable layer exhibits or generates a visible
pattern having a repeat.
A method according to claim 1, wherein the
marking material defines a security image.
A method according to claim 2, wherein the
substrate comprises a security document, the marking

material defining a personalised image characteristic of
the holder.
A method according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein
the substrate defines a security document chosen from

visas, passports, licences, cheques, identity cards,
plastic cards, bank notes, tickets, bonds, share

certificates, vouchers, passes, permits, electrostatic
photocopies, electrostatic laser printed materials, brand

authentication labels, serial numbering slips, quality
control certificates, bills of lading and other shipping

documentation, legal documents and tamper evident labels.
A method according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the visible pattern is an optically

variable pattern.
A method according to claim 5, wherein the
optically variable pattern is an holographic pattern.
A method according to claim 6, wherein the
holographic pattern is chosen from a plain generic 

diffraction grating, a mosaic of abutting diffraction
gratings, a two dimensional graphical pattern or a multiple

two dimensional pattern, an hologram of an object
exhibiting continuous three dimensional depth, a

stereohologram, or a multiplexed hologram.
A method according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the transferable layer comprises an

embossed surface coated, at least partially, with a
metallic film.
A method according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the transferred pattern has a repeat which

extends over a number of portions of the underlying image
defined by the marking material.
A method according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the image defined by the marking material

comprises one or more of fine line work indicia,
alphanumeric patterns, bar codes, symbols, logos, graphical

designs, geometric figures, vector generated ray and line
patterns and the like.
A method according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the marking material comprises a printing

ink or dry toner.
A method according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the adhesive property of the marking

material is activated while the transfer medium contacts
the substrate.
A method according to any of the preceding
claims, wherein the substrate is chosen from paper, rag

paper, surfaced finished papers including baryta surfaced
papers, resin coated papers, synthetic papers including

non-woven and spun bonded papers, lacquer coated papers,
plastic films, metallised plastic films, plastic laminated

films, plastic-paper laminates, metallic foils, and
metallic sheets.
A document carrying an image provided by a
thermoplastic marking material on a substrate, which

material can be thermally activated to take on adhesive 
properties, the image having been enhanced by a method

according to any of the preceding claims.
A document according to claim 14, wherein a toner
image has been provided by laser printing or xerographic

copying.
A document according to claim 14 or claim 15,
when dependent on any of claims 5 to 7, wherein the

transferable layer of the transfer medium used to enhance
the image included an optically variable pattern.
A document according to any of claims 14 to 16,
when dependent on claim 2, wherein the image is a security

image.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
