<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0635986</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Apparatus and method for digitized video system
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G09F1912	G09F1916	H04N574	G02B2608	G09F937	G09F937	H04N931	G09G334	G02B2608	H04N574	H04N931	G09F1918	G09G334	G09G320	G09G320	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G09F	G09F	H04N	G02B	G09F	G09F	H04N	G09G	G02B	H04N	H04N	G09F	G09G	G09G	G09G	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G09F19	G09F19	H04N5	G02B26	G09F9	G09F9	H04N9	G09G3	G02B26	H04N5	H04N9	G09F19	G09G3	G09G3	G09G3	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A visual display system having a spatial light modulator with individually 
and simultaneously controllable elements. Each element 

capable of producing an individual light beam directed toward a display 
surface. A source of random polarity light is utilized to direct 

light onto the modulator. Each element is operated at 
a rate higher than a critical flicker frequency of the 

human eye. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to apparatus and methods for manufacturing
digitized video systems and integrated circuits and devices
therefor.The present invention is useful in the field of graphics and video
display systems such as displays for computer systems, terminals and
televisions. Recently there has occurred a large demand for larger
and/or higher resolution viewing surfaces than can be provided by
conventional video display devices such as cathode ray tubes (CRTs)
or liquid crystal displays (LCDs). This has been driven by consumer
demands for larger televisions (TVs) and by the need for large audience
viewing of either shows or computer generated screens in conferences.LCDs, which are used for small computer systems and terminals,
especially for laptop and portable computers, use individual liquid
crystal cells for each pixel on the LCD. LCDs are temperature sensitive,
difficult to produce in large sizes, slow in changing state, and
require external light sources for viewing.To overcome the size limitation of LCDs, there have been attempts
to construct projection systems using an LCD as a spatial light modulator
(SLM). Unfortunately, several problems still remain. The LCD
is inherently slow and thus a rapidly changing image will "smear." The
resolution of the LCD is restricted by the drive complexity. Further,
the drive complexity also requires that the size of the LCD will generally
be proportionally related to the resolution. This means that the
projection optics will have to be large and correspondingly expensive
for a high-resolution system. Another problem is that the light transmitted
through (or reflected from) the LCD will be polarized. This 
may result in non-linear perception of brightness from the center of
vision to the periphery.The most popular display system is the CRT. In a cathode ray
tube, a scanning electron beam having a varying current density, is
scanned across a light emitting phosphor screen. This light emitting
phosphor screen is bombarded by the electron beam and produces
light in relation to the magnitude of the current density of the electron
beam. These may also be used in a direct view or projection mode.
However, these suffer from various disadvantages. The first of these
is cost.The higher cost is dictated by the difficulties in constructing large
display tubes (at present there are 45 inch tubes being manufactured).
Another reason for the cost is the huge amount of raw materials (in
particular the glass) required. This translates to a very heavy display
that is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A variable luminosity visual display system (75)
comprising:


a light source (10,61,216,218,220,312) for generating
visible or non-visible light along an optical path;
a spatial light modulator (15,56,242,316,616,617,410)
located in said optical path, said spatial light modulator

having a plurality of individually controllable elements
(17,58,246); and
a remote surface (2,51,178,256,320) on which a visible
display is produced, each of the elements of said spatial light

modulator having a first state for allowing an associated
portion (3,52) of the light to impinge on said remote surface

and a second state for preventing said associated portion of the
light from impinging on said remote surface,

characterised in that the display system comprises control
means for so switching each element between the first and second

states in a time period less than the critical flicker frequency
of the human eye as to produce a desired display luminosity for

each controllable element,
and in that the control means is arranged for producing the
desired intensity on the remote surface by controlling the ratio

of the times each element spends in its states.
A system according to claim 1, comprising means for
temporally modulating the intensity of the light incident on the

elements, and wherein the control means is further arranged for
producing the desired intensity on the remote surface by

controlling the points in time at which each element is in the
first said state.
A system according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
elements are controllable between said first and second states a

plurality of times in said time period.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein
said spatial light modulator includes a deformable mirror device

(DMD) (16,412).
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein
said spatial light modulator includes a light valve.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein
said spatial light modulator includes:


said controllable elements as an array of individual
display cells; at least two memory cells (454,455,456)

associated with each display cell;
a first decoder (422) for addressing a memory cell in each
of a plurality of display cells for storing information therein;

and
a second decoder (424) for addressing substantially all of
said display cells to display an image.
A system according to claim 6, wherein each memory
cell includes at least two components.
A system according to claim 7, wherein one component
is a transistor.
A system according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein one
component is a capacitor.
A system according to claim 7, wherein both components
are transistors.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the
light source comprises a laser (61,216,218,220).
A system according to claim 11, wherein the laser
produces a light beam in the non-visible spectrum.
A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the
light source comprises a plurality of beams of different

frequencies being ordered in a sequence in the time period for
providing colour luminosity variance.
A system according to claim 13, wherein the light
source comprises a plurality of lasers (216,218,220). 
A system according to claim 13, wherein said light
source comprises a plurality of light generators, each light

generator being operative to generate one of said light beams,
each light generator being associated with a light shutter, and

each said light shutter being operative synchronously for
generating said light beams in said sequence.
A system according to claim 13, wherein said light
source comprises a light generator for generating white light

and a colour wheel; said colour wheel including a plurality of
filters; and said colour wheel being rotatable wherein said

white light is caused to be filtered into said light beams due
to rotation of said colour wheel.
A method of displaying an image comprising the steps
of:


generating light along an optical path; and
providing
a spatial light modulator having a plurality of individually

controllable
optical elements on said path to cause the

production of the image to be displayed on a remote surface;

characterised in that the method comprises
so switching each said element individually between a
first transferring state and second non-transferring state, and

between said second state and said first state, within a time
period less than the critical flicker frequency of the human

eye, as to produce a desired display intensity at each
corresponding pixel of said image, wherein the ratio of the

times each element spends in its states is controlled.
A method according to claim 17, comprising temporally
modulating the intensity of the light incident on the elements,

and wherein the points in time at which each element is in the
first said state are controlled.
A method according to claim 17 or claim 18, wherein
said step of controlling includes actuating a deformable mirror

device.
A method according to claim 17 or claim 18, wherein
said step of controlling includes actuating the light valve.
A method according to any one of claims 17 to 20,
wherein the generating light step comprises generating a

plurality of light beams each centered about different
frequencies, and ordering the light beams in a sequence during

said time period, thereby controlling the colour luminosity
variance.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
