<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0640817</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Torque sensor using magnetostrictive alloy and method of manufacturing the same
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01L310	H01F112	H01F1153	H01L4112	G01L310	H01L4100	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01L	H01F	H01F	H01L	G01L	H01L	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01L3	H01F1	H01F1	H01L41	G01L3	H01L41	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A torque sensor including a magnetostrictive alloy ribbon 
(2) having plural rows of plural hole groups (2a, 2b) arranged 

longitudinally in the direction at a required angle to the shaft, 
and the magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) is glued to the surface 

of the shaft (1), and means for detecting magnetic change (3a,3b) 
are arranged around the magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) in 

order to detect torque. 

</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
This invention relates to a torque sensor which comprises
magnetostrictive alloy ribbon and which can be used for noncontact
detection. This invention also relates to a torque
sensor which can be used for the purposes of e.g. detecting
rotary operation force of a vehicle's (especially
electromobile's) steering wheel, detecting torque of a machine to
take up synthetic fiber, or detecting viscosity of materials.
This invention also relates to a method of manufacturing the
torque sensor.Torque sensors made from amorphous magnetic alloy having
magnetostriction, or Fe-based alloy having magnetostriction, have
been known. For example,
JP-A-3-26339 discloses a torque sensor which has a
metal shaft whereon an amorphous magnetostrictive alloy ribbon
sensitive to stress is glued. Elongated slits are formed in the
amorphous magnetostrictive alloy ribbon of the torque sensor.
The angles of the slits are +45° and -45° to the shaft
longitudinally, when the magnetostrictive alloy ribbon adheres to
the shaft's surface. Fig. 10 shows an amorphous magnetostrictive
alloy ribbon 21 by the prior art. The letters in the figure are
described as follows: a'=35.8mm (i'=1mm, h'=1mm) long, b'=25.0mm 
(c'=10.5mm, d'=10.5mm, e'=1mm, f'=2mm, g'=1mm) wide. The width
of slit s is 0.3mm. The repetition pitch (spacing between the
two slits) t is 2.0mm. The angle of the slits (ε) is 45°.
Length a' is circumferential in use for the torque sensor.
The slits are used to detect the torque's direction. Coil means
are arranged outside of the amorphous magnetostrictive alloy
ribbon in order to detect magnetic property. By the application
of torque to the shaft, tensile and compression stresses are
generated at +45° and -45° longitudinally to the shaft's surface.
This results in changes in magnetic property of
the slits at +45° and -45° on the amorphous magnetostrictive
alloy ribbon. The difference of the changes in magnetic property
is detected by coil means, thus the direction and magnitude of
the torque is detected.Manufacturing methods of such a torque sensor are explained
below:
   forming by force an amorphous plate cylindrically and gluing
it; or
   forming an amorphous plate cylindrically by annealing to
adjust almost the diameter of the shaft, and then gluing it.In the former method, a flat metal ribbon is formed
cylindrically and glued. Thereby, plural rows of slits formed
on the metal ribbon might be distorted when bent, which is one of
the causes of unevenness or damage to the metal ribbon. In the 
latter method, a metal ribbon is
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A torque sensor comprising a shaft (1) and means for detecting magnetic change (3a, 3b), characterized by a magnetostrictive alloy
ribbon (2) fixed on the surface of said shaft (1), said means for detecting

magnetic change being arranged outside said magnetostrictive alloy
ribbon (2), wherein said magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) has plural

rows of plural holes disposed at a required angle with respect to the shaft longitudinally, and said rows of holes being arranged longitudinally with respect to said
shaft (1).
A torque sensor according to claim 1, wherein the
magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) is formed cylindrically so that the

longitudinal direction is substantially vertical, and is capable
of withstanding a load of 10g or more uniformly applied on top of

the ribbon (2).
A torque sensor according to claim 1, wherein the
magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) is formed cylindrically so that the

longitudinal direction is substantially vertical, and is capable
of withstanding a load of 80g or more uniformly applied on top of

the ribbon (2).
A torque sensor according to claim 1, 2, or 3 wherein the
holes (2a,2b) are from 2 to 5mm long and from 0.1 to 2mm wide.
A torque sensor according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
holes (2a,2b) form lines, a spacing between adjacent holes in the same

line is from 0.1 to 1mm, and a spacing between adjacent hole
lines is from 0.5 to 5 mm.
A torque sensor according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein plural 
hole lines are arranged obliquely in two directions to the shaft (1)

longitudinally.
A torque sensor according to claim 6, wherein the
oblique directions are substantially +45° and -45°.
A torque sensor according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein said
holes have a curved shape.
A torque sensor according to claim 8, wherein the
curved shape is selected from the group consisting of a circle,

an ellipse and an oval.
A torque sensor according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
magnetostrictive metal ribbon (2) comprises amorphous

magnetostrictive alloy.
A torque sensor according to claim 10, wherein the
amorphous magnetostrictive alloy is at least one alloy selected

from the group consisting of Fe-Cr-Si-B-based, Fe-Nb-Si-B-based,
Fe-V-Si-B-based, Fe-Co-Si-B-based, Fe-W-Si-B-based, Fe-Ni-Cr-Si-B-based,

Fe-Ni-Nb-B-based, and Fe-Ni-Mo-B-based alloy.
A torque sensor according to claim 10, wherein the
amorphous magnetostrictive alloy is Fe
75
Cr
4
Si
12.5
B
8.5
.
A torque sensor according to any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the
means for detecting magnetic change (3a,3b) are coils.
A torque sensor according to any of claims 1 to 13, wherein
unevenness of output voltage is 10% or less per full-scale of

torque (100kgfcm), when torque is 0kgfcm. 
A torque sensor according to any of claims 1 to 14, wherein the
characteristics show substantially a straight line when

represented graphically.
A method of manufacturing a torque sensor which has

a magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) fixed to a surface of a shaft (1),
and means for detecting magnetic change (3a,3b) arranged outside said

ribbon, comprising the steps of:

etching a magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) to form plural
rows of plural holes (2a, 2b) disposed at a required angle with respect to the shaft longitudinally, and said rows of holes being arranged longitudinally with respect to said shaft ;
winding the magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) on a cylindrical
inner structure (4) whose diameter is substantially equal to the

diameter of the shaft (1);
placing the magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) and the inner
structure (4) inside a cylindrical outer structure (5) which is hollow; and
curling the magnetostrictive alloy ribbon (2) by annealing.
A method of manufacturing a torque sensor according
to claim 16 wherein the annealing temperature ranges from 350°C

to 600°C.
A method of manufacturing a torque sensor according
to claim 16 or 17, wherein the annealing atmosphere is at least a non-oxidizing

atmosphere selected from the group consisting of an
inert atmosphere and a depressurized atmosphere.
A method of manufacturing a torque sensor according
to claim 18, wherein the depressurized atmosphere ranges from 1 

torr to 1×10
-6
 torr.
A method of manufacturing a torque sensor according
to claim 18 or 19, wherein the inert atmosphere is at least one gas

selected from the group consisting of Ar, He, Ne, N
2
, and CO.
A method according to any of claims 16 to 20,

   wherein the inner structure (4) is made of a material
having a high coefficient of thermal expansion while the outer

structure (5) is made of a material having a low coefficient of
thermal expansion.
A method according to any of claims 16 to 21,

   wherein the distance between the inner structure (4) and
the outer structure (5) is from 10 to 500µm.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
