<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0629246</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
CONSTRUCTION OF MICROELECTRODE ARRAYS
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>G01N27403	G01N27403	G01N2730	G01N2730	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>G01N	G01N	G01N	G01N	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	G01N27	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YSI INC
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
YSI INCORPORATED
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU HUAN PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
WU, HUAN, PING
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
The present invention relates to microelectrodes and a corresponding microelectrode 
array for use in electrochemical analysis, wherein said microelectrode array includes a 
conductive minigrid and means for mounting said minigrid, wherein further said minigrid has 
a plurality of filaments woven together, wherein at least a part of said filaments extends 
horizontally and is disposed essentially parallel to a measuring surface. A corresponding microelectrode and microelectrode array is known from US-A-3,160,577. The afore mentioned document discloses an electrode which comprises a mesh of fine 
steel wires pressed together into a cold welded grid wherein this grid is pressed partly into a 
larger mesh of steel wires. The whole electrode is cadmium plated to a small thickness 
wherein the openings of the grid are sufficiently large to admit gases to be measured. The 
electrode is mounted on the rim of a sleeve which in turn is press fitted into a cup wherein 
the periphery of the electrode is surrounded by the upper edge of the cup and fitted thereto. In modern electrochemistry, microelectrodes have been recognized for their special 
properties. In particular, the high massflux at the electrode surface, steady-state current due 
to three-dimensional diffusion, low cell time constant and low ohmic potential drop properties 
have made them very attractive for use in electroanalytical chemistry. The major disadvantage 
in using microelectrodes in electrochemistry is the low current level available therefrom. For 
example, a microdisk electrode having a 10 micrometer diameter will give a steady-state 
current of only 1.5 nanoamps in a solution of 1 mM Fe(CN)6-3. Currents at these levels are vulnerable to interferences of electrical noise and accordingly 
require sophisticated measuring instrumentation. This vulnerability can be overcome by 
the use of microelectrode arrays which maintain the special properties of microelectrodes, but 
provide an increase in attainable current level. There have been several attempts to make various kinds of microelectrode arrays. 
Most of these attempts have compromised the feature of steady-state current. 
The failure of most of the attempts to obtain a steady-state current comes from the 
fact that either the individual electrodes themselves exhibit only virtual steady-state current 
because of their size, such as microband electrodes, or the disks are randomly dispersed with 
separations therebetween that are too small causing current shielding. There have been attempts
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
A microelectrode array (32) for use in electrochemical analysis including a conductive 
minigrid (14) and means (12) for mounting said minigrid (14), 


said minigrid (14) having a plurality of filaments (24, 26) woven together 
at least a part of said plurality of filaments (26) extending horizontally and 
parallel to a measuring surface (28), 
 
   characterized in that 


said means (12) for mounting said minigrid (14) defines said measuring surface 
(28), 
another part of said plurality of filaments being vertical filaments (26), which 
are disposed essentially perpendicular to said measuring surface (28), and 
said minigrid (14) has a measuring end located adjacent said measuring surface 
(28) such that said measuring end of said minigrid (14) forms an array of discrete 

conductive surfaces (30) defined by exposed end portions of said vertical filaments 
(26) of said minigrid (14). 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein said array is linear. 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein said array is rectangular. 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein said array is circular or multicircular. 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein said minigrid has a filament 
density of approximately 10 to 1000 filaments per 2,54 cm (inch). 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein the ratio of the spacing of said 
vertical filaments to the width of said vertical filaments in said minigrid is greater than 

7. 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein said vertical and horizontal 
filaments of said minigrid are metal wires. 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein said vertical filaments have a 
maximum width dimension greater than 1 µm but less than 20 µm.  

 
The microelectrode array according to claim 1 wherein the spacing between said 
horizontal filaments is greater than the spacing between said vertical filaments. 
A microelectrode comprizing a microelectrode array according to any of the preceeding 
claims characterized in that encasing means (12, 16) are provided for encasing 

said minigrid (14) and said mounting means (12), wherein said minigrid (14) is located 
between said mounting means and said encasing means (12, 16). 
The microelectrode according to claim 10 wherein each measuring end is located 
adjacent to said measuring surface to define a plurality of discrete conductive surfaces.  

 
The microelectrode according to claim 10 
wherein said encasing means defines a surface which is 

coplanar with said measuring surface. 
The microelectrode according to claim 12 
wherein said measuring ends of said vertical filaments 

are coplanar with said measuring surface and define an 
array of microdisk electrodes. 
The microelectrode according to claim 13 
wherein said array of microdisk electrodes is linear. 
The microelectrode according to claim 13 
wherein said array of microdisk electrodes is 

rectangular. 
The microelectrode according to claim 13 
wherein said array of microdisk electrodes is circular or 

multicircular. 
The microelectrode according to claim 10 
wherein said minigrid has approximately 90 filaments per 

inch. 
The microelectrode according to claim 10 
wherein the ratio of the spacing of said filaments to the 

width of said filaments in said minigrid is approximately 
14. 
The microelectrode according to claim 10 
wherein said vertical and horizontal filaments of said 

minigrid are metal wires. 
The microelectrode according to claim 10 
wherein said vertical and horizontal filaments have a 

maximum width dimension greater than 1 µm but less than 
20 µm.  

 
Microelectrode according to any of the claims 10 to 20, and comprising: 

a cylinder formed of a precast eletro-inactive material, said cylinder having a 
substantially planar end defining a measuring surface, said minigrid extending around 

said precast cylinder and having a measuring end located adjacent to said measuring 
surface and a coupling end distal from said mearuring surface, said measuring end 

defining a circular array of discrete contact surfaces, 
a conductive wire for receiving the electrical signal from said minigrid, 
means for coupling said conductive wire to said coupling end of said minigrid; 
and 
an encasing layer of electro-inactive material encasing said minigrid and said 
cylinder, said encasing layer extending from said measuring surface toward said 

coupling end of said minigrid. 
The electrode according to claim 21 wherein said electro-inactive material of said 
cylinder and said encasing layer are both formed of an epoxy material. 
A method of making a microelectrode comprising the steps of: 

providing a precast cylinder of electro-inactive material; 
providing a minigrid formed of vertical and horizontal conductive filaments; 
attaching said minigrid to said cylinder with said horizontal filaments extending 
around said cylinder and said vertical filaments extending parallel to a longitudinal axis 

of said cylinder; 
forming a molded layer of eletro-inactive material around said cylinder and said 
minigrid; and polishing an end portion of said cylinder and said molded layer to expose 

said vertical filaments whereby a plurality of discrete contact surfaces are formed 
defining an array of microdisk electrodes. 
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
