<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0641217</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
AMYLASE-ELECTROLYTE ORAL REHYDRATION METHOD AND APPARATUS.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>A61K3170	A61K3170	A61K31715	A61K31715	A61K3618	A61K3618	A61K3843	A61K3847	A61P100	A61P100	C12P1900	C12P1914	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61K	A61P	A61P	C12P	C12P	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K31	A61K36	A61K36	A61K38	A61K38	A61P1	A61P1	C12P19	C12P19	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOATWRIGHT DOYLE W
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEBENTHAL EMANUEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
BOATWRIGHT, DOYLE, W.
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
LEBENTHAL, EMANUEL
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEBENTHAL EMANUEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
LEBENTHAL, EMANUEL
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 zW_π-ASE-EI_ECTROLYTE ORAL REHYDRATIONMETHOD AND APPARATUSThis invention relates to methods and compositions for treating diarrhea.More particularly, the invention relates to a process which effectively replaces fluid lost by a child in stools due to diarrhea and which effectively decreases stool volume. Chronic diarrhea, and the dehydration, malnutrition, vitamin deficiencies, and weakened immune system which accompany chronic diarrhea are the main causes of infant mortality and morbidity. One-third of the deaths in children younger than five (5) years of age are associated with diarrhea, and worldwide the disease kills about four million (4,000,000) children each year.Oral rehydration therapy can prevent death from fluid loss and is especially effective when administered at the earliest stage of any diarrhea illness. The standard oral rehydration solution (SORS) consists of 3.5 grams sodium chloride, 2.5 grams sodium bicarbonate (90 mEq/L sodium) , 1.5 grams potassium chloride, and 20 grams glucose dissolved in one liter of water. One important disadvantage to SORS is its apparent lack of efficacy in reducing diarrhea. SORS replaces fluid lost in stools but does not decrease stool volume and may even increase it. If chronic diarrhea continues, a child can die a slow and horrible death due to the malnutrition, vitamin deficiencies, and weakened immune system which accompany the diarrhea, even while the child is receiving SORS.Further, in many developing countries, supplies of SORS are limited so that a child may only receive the benefits of a few feedings before the SORS is no longer available. 

 Accordingly, it would be highly desirable to provide an improved method and composition which would replace fluids lost during diarrhea while significantly reducing the volume of the stool produced by an infant with diarrhea.Therefore, it is a principal object of the invention to provide an improved method and composition which would replace electrolytes lost during diarrhea, reduce the volume of stool produced by a child with diarrhea, and likely save the lives of many children throughout the world.Briefly, I have discovered a process for treating in a child chronic diarrhea, along with the dehydration, malnutrition and intestinal mucosal injury attendant the chronic diarrhea. The process includes the steps of boiling in water a source of complex carbohydrates (C6Hιo°5)χ selected from the class consisting of potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca root, corn, wheat, rice, oats, barley, and beans to form an aqueous
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
Claims
1. A process for treating in an infant under six (6) months of age acute watery diarrhea and the dehydration, malnutrition and intestinal mucosal injury attendant to the chronic diarrhea, comprising of the steps of
(a) boiling in water a source of complex carbohydrates
(
c
6
H
10
°
5
)x selected from the class consisting of potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca root, corn, wheat, rice oats, barley, and beans to form an aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates removed from said source during boiling; said aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates having a selected osmolarity; (b) subjecting said aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates to action by at least one reactant in the class comprising heat, acids, and enzymes to
(i) hydrolyze said complex carbohydrates and produce water soluble dextrorotatory polysaccharides, (ii) increase the osmolarity of said solution to a value between about 200 and 300 mOSm per liter of one (1) calorie per cubic centimeter of food, and
(iii) produce a pH of said solution in the range of 1 to 9;
(c) subsequent to the completion of step (b), administer said aqueous solution of dextrorotatory polysaccharides to the stomach of the infant; and,
(d) when said solution passes from the stomach of the infant to the small intestine of the infant, combine in the small intestine glucoamylase with said solution. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein:
(a) said source of complete carbohydrates is wheat; and,
(b) in step (b) said complex carbohydrates are 


 subjected to action by heat to hydrolyze said carbohydrates.
3. The process of Claim 1 wherein:
(a) said source of complex carbohydrates is potato; and,
(b) in step (b) said complex carbohydrates are subjected to action by acid to hydrolyze said carbohydrates.
4. The process of Claim 1 wherein: (a) said source of complex carbohydrates is comprised of beans; and, (b) in step (b) said complex carbohydrates are subjected to action by diastase to hydrolyze said carbohydrates. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein:
(a) said source of complex carbohydrates is comprised of rice; and,
(b) in step (a) said complex carbohydrates are subjected to action by alpha amylase to form dextrins.
6. A process for treating in a child acute watery diarrhea and the dehydration, malnutrition and intestinal mucosal injury attendant to the chronic diarrhea, comprising of the steps of (a) boiling in water a source of complex carbohydrates
(
c
6
H
10
°
5
)x selected from the class consisting of potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca root, corn, wheat, rice, oats, barley, and beans to form an aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates removed from said source during boiling; said aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates having a selected osmolarity;
(b) subjecting said aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates to action by at least one reactant in the class comprising heat, acids, and enzymes to
(i) hydrolyze said complex carbohydrates and produce water soluble dextrorotatory 


 polysaccharides, (ii) increase the osmolarity of said solution to a value between about 200 and 300, and (iii) produce a pH of said solution in the range of 1 to 9; and,
(c) subsequent to the completion of step (b), administer said solution to the stomach of the child. 7. The process of Claim 6 wherein: (a) said source of complete carbohydrates is wheat; and, (b) in step (b) said complex carbohydrates are subjected to action by heat to hydrolyze said carbohydrates. 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein:
(a) said source of complex carbohydrates is potato; and,
(b) in step (b) said complex carbohydrates are subjected to action by acid to hydrolyze said carbohydrates.
9. The process of Claim 8 wherein:
(a) said source of complex carbohydrates is comprised of beans; and,
(b) in step (b) said complex carbohydrates are subjected to action by diastase to hydrolyze said carbohydrates.
10. The process of Claim 9 wherein:
(a) said source of complex carbohydrates is comprised of rice; and, (b) in step (a) said complex carbohydrates are subjected to action by alpha amylase to form dextrins.
11. The process of Claim 5 wherein said osmolarity of said aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates acted on by said amylase is less than the osmolarity of a one (1) liter aqueous solution of
(a) 3.5 grams of sodium chloride;
(b) 2.5 grams of sodium bicarbonate (90 mEq/L sodium); 


 (c) 1.5 grams of potassium chloride, and,
(d) 20 grams of glucose.
12. The process of Claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of dextrorotatory polysaccharides incudes NaCl. 13. The process of Claims 12 wherein the concentration of NaCl in said aqueous solution of dextrorotatory polysaccharides is 2000 to 5000 parts per million.
14. The process of Claim 11 wherein said aqueous solution of dextrorotatory polysaccharides includes 200 to 400 parts per million Ca.
15. The process of Claim 11 wherein said amylase and at least one (1) electrolyte are added in dry form to said aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates.
16. The process of Claim 15 wherein said electrolyte includes sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride.
17. The process of Claim 15 wherein said dry amylase and electrolyte are in a sealed storage packet which is opened to add said dry amylase and electrolyte to said aqueous solution of complex carbohydrates.
18. The process of Claim 17 wherein said packet is concealable on the person.
19. The process of Claim 18 wherein said complex carbohydrates comprise water soluble and insoluble starches and said polysaccharides comprise dextrin.
20. The process of Claim 15 wherein said complex carbohydrates comprise water soluble and insoluble starches and said polysaccharides comprise dextrins.
21. The process of Claim 20 wherein said glucoamylase is produced by the small intestine of said infant.
22. The process of Claim 19 wherein said glucoamylase is produced by the small intestine of said infant. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
