<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0627677</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
Control signal transmission to a vehicle with crash sensing switches
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>B60T722	B61C1300	B61C1304	B60T722	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>B60T	B61C	B61C	B60T	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>B60T7	B61C13	B61C13	B60T7	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
A method is disclosed for using an obstacle detecting device which is provided in the case of an automatic conveying vehicle, for use as an input device for feeding a multiplicity of predetermined control codes to a control system of the vehicle. Each code relates to a predetermined vehicle behaviour which is controlled by the control system. An unambiguous set of such codes is disclosed for the beginning of a forward movement, the beginning of a backward movement and the stopping of the vehicle. In addition, the set includes a number of codes which are specified exclusively for the servicing staff. These codes occur only very improbably during normal operation of the vehicle. 
<
IMAGE
>
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELELIFT GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
TELELIFT GMBH
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TYLER TOMMY N
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
TYLER, TOMMY N.
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<CLAIMS>
A process for the control of a vehicle (100) within a
conveyor system, comprising the following steps:


the activation of an obstacle detector device on the vehicle and
thereby the production of a plurality of pre-determined codes;
the correlation of the codes with a pre-determined behavioural
action of the vehicle;
the execution of the pre-determined behavioural action of the
vehicle in relation to the codes,

characterised in that

the identification of the codes is effected with the aid of a
particular pre-determined sequence of time-referenced releases

and depressions of a bumper switch;
and that control signals dependent upon the identified codes are
emitted in order to execute the pre-determined behavioural action

of the vehicle.
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the
obstacle detector device comprises at least one front obstacle

detector and one rear obstacle detector.
A process according to claim 2, characterised in that at
least one of the front obstacle detectors and one of the rear

obstacle detectors is a bumper switch.
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the
obstacle detector device is contact-sensitive.
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the
identification step includes a manual activation of the obstacle

detector device for the input of the codes.
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the
correlation step includes the determining of a particular

movement of the vehicle.
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the
codes include a pre-determined sequence of transitions of the 

obstacle detector device whereby each transition is one of the
following: (a) changing of the obstacle detector device from the

detecting of an obstacle to a non-detection of an obstacle, and
(b) changing of the obstacle detector device from a non-detecting

of an obstacle to a detection of an obstacle.
A process according to claim 7, characterised in that the
identification step includes a detection of the pre-determined

sequence of transitions of the obstacle detector device which
derive from the input of the codes.
A process according to claim 7, characterised in that the
correlation step includes an identification of the pre-determined

sequence of transitions of the obstacle detector device.
A process according to claim 1, characterised in that the
identification step includes a step for the reception of the

codes from a front part of the obstacle detector device when the
vehicle is essentially moving forwards, and for the reception of

codes from a rear part of the obstacle detector device when the
vehicle is essentially moving backwards.
A process according to claim 1, in which the execution steps
include:


a first step by means of which the vehicle ceases to respond to
at least one code; a second step whereby the vehicle moves itself

backwards.
A process according to claim 11, characterised in that the
first step includes the provision of at least one visual

indication signal and one audio indication signal that the
vehicle is ignoring the code.
A process according to claim 11, wherein the code is a
backup-code.
A process according to claim 11, wherein the second step is
implemented when the vehicle stops and the input of the code is

effected using the rear part of the obstacle detector device. 
A process according to claim 1, wherein a first code is
identified from a plurality of codes and the plurality of codes

furthermore includes at least a second code which comprises no
pre-determined time delay.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the execution step
produces at least one or several of the following behavioural

actions of the vehicle:

(a) the vehicle stops in its forward movement;
(b) the vehicle starts its forward movement;
(c) the vehicle commences a movement backwards;
(d) the vehicle stops its backward movement.
A process according to claim 15, wherein each code of a
plurality of codes includes a pre-determined sequence of

transitions of the obstacle detector device.
A process according to claim 17, wherein a plurality of codes
includes at least one code the pre-determined sequence of which

comprises a pre-determined time delay between two consecutive
transitions.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the identification
step includes the monitoring of the time in reference to the

input of the code.
A process according to claim 19, wherein the correlation step
depends on the amount of time which has been monitored.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the identification
step includes the counting of the changes, in reference to the

switch, which occur when the input of the code into the obstacle
detector device is effected.
A process according to claim 21, wherein the number of
changes, in reference to the switch, which are counted is greater

than 1. 
A device for the control of a vehicle (100) within a conveyor
system, with


an obstacle detector device (112, 116) which is provided on the
vehicle for the production of a plurality of pre-determined codes

which are correlated with a particular behavioural action of the
vehicle,
a de-coding device for the identification of the pre-determined

behavioural action which is correlated to the pre-determined
codes, whereby the de-coding device uses signals which are

correlated with the pre-determined codes and which are emitted
from the obstacle detector device,
and a drive device which responds to the output from the de-coding
device for the execution of the pre-determined behavioural

action correlated to the codes,

characterised in that

the de-coding device for the identification of the pre-determined
behavioural action of the vehicle is arranged in such a way that

the identification of the codes is established with the aid of a
particular and pre-determined sequence of time-referenced

releases and depressions of the bumper switch,
and that control signals dependent upon the identified code are
emitted in order to execute the pre-determined behavioural action

of the vehicle.
A device according to claim 23, wherein each transition of
the pre-determined sequence includes one of the following

transitions of the detector device: (a) from the detection of an
obstacle to a non-detection of an obstacle and (b) from the non-detection

of an obstacle to a detection of an obstacle.
A device according to claim 23, wherein the input of the
codes is essentially effected manually.
A device according to claim 23, wherein the pre-determined
time delay is shorter than any time delay associated with an

unintentional input of the pre-determined sequence.
A device according to claim 23, wherein the obstacle detector
device is contact-sensitive. 
A device according to claim 23, wherein the codes are used
for:


causing the vehicle not to continue responding to at least one
initial pre-determined code of a plurality of codes;
causing the vehicle to move itself in a direction which is other
than the forward direction.
A device according to claim 23, wherein the de-coding device
includes a transition detector device for the detection of the

transitions of the obstacle detector device.
A device according to claim 23, wherein the de-coding device
includes a time-indicating device for measuring the predetermined

time delay.
</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
