<DOC>
<DOCNO>EP-0615577</DOCNO> 
<TEXT>
<INVENTION-TITLE>
ROTATING PISTON DIESEL ENGINE.
</INVENTION-TITLE>
<CLASSIFICATIONS>F02B300	F02B306	F02B5700	F02B5700	</CLASSIFICATIONS>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>F02B	F02B	F02B	F02B	</CLASSIFICATIONS-THIRD>
<CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>F02B3	F02B3	F02B57	F02B57	</CLASSIFICATIONS-FOURTH>
<ABSTRACT>
An internal combustion engine (20) has a plurality of pistons (106) reciprocating within cylinders (34) and means to translate the reciprocating motion of said pistons into rotary motion. As the cylinders (34) rotate in an engine cavity (49) about a drive shaft (24), head ends (104) of the cylinders (34) cyclically pass stationary fuel injection means (28) and a stationary exhaust aperture (30) located rotationally downstream from the fuel injection means (28). Each cylinder (34) includes a cylinder wall having an air intake port (130) provided therein. The air intake port (130) is provided on a rotationally leading portion of a peripheral portion of the cylinder wall. The air intake port (130) of the cylinder is opened after alignment with the exhaust port (30) has commenced but before the piston (106) in a chamber (34) reaches its extreme point of travel. As the air intake port (130) is thusly opened, ambient air from the engine cavity (49) is forced into the air intake port (130) by rotational motion of the cylinder (34).
</ABSTRACT>
<APPLICANTS>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MORGAN EDWARD H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
<APPLICANT-NAME>
MORGAN EDWARD H
</APPLICANT-NAME>
</APPLICANTS>
<INVENTORS>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN EDWARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
<INVENTOR-NAME>
MORGAN EDWARD H
</INVENTOR-NAME>
</INVENTORS>
<DESCRIPTION>
 ROTATING PISTON DIESEL ENGINEBACKGROUND1. FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention pertains to internal combustion engines and methods of operating the same, particularly to rotating piston diesel engines.2. PRIOR ART AND OTHER CONSIDERATIONSInternal combustion engines generally have a plurality of pistons reciprocating within cylinders. In one type of rotary engine, the cylinders are typically confined in a cylinder block which is rotated internally in an engine block about a drive shaft. A head end of the cylinders becomes cyclically aligned a fuel injecting or igniting device and an exhaust port. Such a rotary engine further has means for translating the reciprocating motion of said pistons into rotary motion. This motion translating means can be a device such as "wobble" plate (also known as a "swash" plate) .Examples of rotary engines of the type described above are provided in the following United States Patents: Rohs 3,939,809; Rohs 3,899,880; Jarvinen 2,556,585; Airas 3,654,906; Balzer 3,212,483; Balzer 3,007,462; Long 3,970,055; Welch 4,169,436; Neuland 2,329,480; Donaldson 3,034,490; Vasilantone 4,307,695; Poole 3,587,538; Kristiansen 4,157,079; Lacy 4,523,546; Schramm 4,497,284; Dunstan 4,366,786; Asaga 3,945,359;Cummings 3,528,394; Schriwer 4,622,885; Skuava 4,779,579; Londo 3,695,237; Watts 4,620,475; and, Wahlmark 4,624,175. 

 In order to facilitate combustion, rotary engines of the type described above must also have means for introducing air into the cylinders. In this regard, for some rotary engines intake ports have, been provided on a peripheral surface of a cylinder wall. In the prior art, these intake ports cyclically register with further air ports or an air manifold provided in the engine block in which the cylinders rotate. In order to provide sufficient pressure to force air through the engine block and into the aligned air intake ports of the cylinders, blower motors or turbo chargers are provided. The blower motors and/or turbo chargers are generally powered by the internal combustion engine itself.Unfortunately, high pressure blower motors and turbo chargers as required in the prior art considerably drain the horsepower of the engine, often exacting up to 15 or 20 horsepower. Additionally, the inclusion of a separate piece of equipment such as a blower motor or turbo charger increases the weight of the engine and hence of the vehicle. Consequently, the efficiency of the engine is undesirably diminished.In view of the foregoing, it is an object of this invention to provide an
</DESCRIPTION>
<CLAIMS>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. In an two-stroke cycle, internal combustion engine of the type having a plurality of pistons reciprocating within cylinders and having means to translate the reciprocating motion of said pistons into rotary motion, wherein the improvement comprises: at least two cylinders, said cylinders having a head end and a cylinder wall which defines an interior in which a piston reciprocates; means for rotating said cylinders about an axis; stationary fuel injection means for injecting fuel into the head end of said cylinders as said cylinders rotate past said fuel injection means; a stationary exhaust port located rotationally downstream from said fuel injection means for exhausting gas from the head end of said cylinders; and a plurality of air intake ports, at least one for each cylinder, each port being located through the cylinder wall in a rotationally leading portion of a peripheral wall of said cylinders whereby the rotational motion of the cylinder tends to force air into the interior of the cylinder.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said intake ports are located in a rotationally leading half circumference of a peripheral wall of said cylinders.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said cylinders rotate about a drive shaft but axes of pistons in said cylinders are not parallel to the drive shaft. 


4. An internal combustion engine comprising: a rotating drive shaft for rotating in a direction of rotation, said drive shaft having an axis of rotation; a fixed reference plate having fuel injection means mounted thereon and an exhaust aperture formed therein; a rotating plate mounted on said rotating drive shaft and being in substantially abutting relationship with said reference plate; an oil pan mounted on said rotating shaft, said oil pan being spaced apart from said rotating plate along said axis of rotation for defining a cavity between said oil pan and said rotating plate; a cylinder assembly mounted on said rotating plate and disposed in said cavity between said oil pan and said rotating plate, said cylinder assembly including: a peripheral cylinder wall for defining a cylindrical volume, said cylinder wall having a first end and a second end, said cylinder wall first end being connected to said rotating plate and said cylinder wall second end being connected to said oil pan; an intake port provided on a leading peripheral portion of said cylinder wall intermediate said first end and said second end; a combustion chamber proximate said first end of said cylinder wall, said combustion chamber having an opening in said rotating plate with said opening being alignable upon rotation of said rotating plate with said fuel injection means and said exhaust aperture provided in said reference plate; and, piston means responsive to combustion in said combustion chamber for reciprocating in said cylindrical volume and thereby covering and uncovering said intake port; and, means housed in said oil pan and connected to 


 said piston means and to said rotating drive shaft for translating the reciprocating motion of said piston means into rotational motion of said rotating drive shaft.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said intake port is located in a rotationally leading portion of said peripheral cylinders wall.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said cylinder assembly rotates about said drive shaft but an axis of saidon means is not parallel to the drive shaft.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein one of the plates has concentric circular seals provided thereon whereby positions of alignment of said combustion chamber with said fuel injection means and with said exhaust port occur between the concentric seals.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said concentric seals are provided on said reference plate.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said combustion chamber has an opening surrounded by a combustion chamber seal, the combustion chamber seal being situated between said concentric circular seals.
10. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein a cam on said drive shaft controls the injection of said fuel injection means.
11. A method for scavenging combustion gases from the cylinders of a two-stroke cycle, internal combustion engine, said method comprising: opening an exhaust port at a head end of said cylinder before the piston within said cylinder reaches its extreme point of travel away from said cylinder head end; 


 rotating said cylinder in a cavity having a substantially unconfined atmosphere; opening an air entry port after said exhaust port has been opened but before said piston reaches its extreme point of travel, said air entry port being provided in a wall of said cylinder, said air entry port being located on a rotationally leading peripheral portion of said cylinder wall; and, causing the rotational motion of said cylinder to force air into said air intake port and to flush exhaust gases out of said cyinder through said exhaust port. 

</CLAIMS>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
